[{"Title":"''She must die, die, DIE! ","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"114 out of 153 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria has been acclaimed as director Dario Argento's masterpiece. And it certainly is. The plot is fairly simple. American ballet student Susy Banyon (Jessica Harper) travels to Germany to attend an exclusive ballet school. Once there, she discovers that there is more going on within than just dance instruction. Although the school's directress, Madame Blanc (Joan Bennett) welcomes her warmly, she is unsettled by her aide, Nazified teacher Miss Tanner (Alida Valli), as well as several mysterious student disappearances. When her new friend Sara (Stefania Casini) is the latest to vanish, Susy begins her own investigation of the academy. Filmed in bright, lurid Technicolor, and accompanied by a thundering soundtrack by Goblin, Suspiria is a nightmare-come-to-life. The performances of Harper, Bennett and especially Valli (like Bennett, a major star of the Golden Age) are solid, as is the unrelentingly creepy atmosphere. Also on display are two especially gruesome murders which happen near the beginning of the film. Argento later said that he modeled the look of the film directly on Walt Disney's Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs and, indeed the similarities are apparent. Suspiria may not always make perfect sense plot wise, but it's a thrilling roller-coaster ride through what may very well be Hell. Suspiria ranks as one of the best Italian-made horror films of all time. "},{"Title":"The most horrifying use of color to date.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"100 out of 146 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What sets Dario Argento apart from many of his contemporaries is his success with visual imagery.  In a style where sudden visual shocks are used to thrill the audience, Argento creates elaborate deaths which cannot be quickly forgotten.  The highly involved double-murder towards the beginning of the film still remains one of the most memorable scenes in horror history, standing next to the Psycho shower scene in pure sensory input. And in a technique so powefully employed here and here alone, Argento sets scene after scene aglow with color, using it to express the mood in ways only the subconscious can fully appreciate.  All around, this is an excellent addition to the genre of horror cinema, one of the most expressive films to ever plunge a knife into the psyche of its viewers.  "},{"Title":"Red Blood Drips","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"77 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Argento's best known film is probably his most expressive. This is a gem to look at with all it's lush Italian colors seeping out like a blood covered canvas. If you are looking for a horror film for intellectuals, this isn't it, but if you want something that will definitely impress you, you've found it. It concerns an old dance company in Freiburg Germany that is headed up by an old witch matriarch who leads the coven in diabolical methods. An unsuspecting student, played wonderfully by Jessica Harper, finds herself piecing together a mystery when she arrives at the school in one of the most enigmatic and beautiful commencements of a film to date. Argento has music, colors, and sounds reverberate like an opera for our eyes to dazzle. He scares us with the rain, the closing of an automatic airport door, and loose tree branches that resemble evil lurking beings. This is one powerful moment. From then on, subtle hints are explored, the supernatural, science, one's faith. Never can we guess what is truly hiding at the academy. One scene of the dance students in the hall is superbly done with loud music, hideous heckling demonic shrieks and strange appearances, this is fantastic eye candy!   "},{"Title":"Artistic Nightmare","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"91 out of 135 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A German ballet school for girls is the setting for mysterious deaths, in this 1977 horror story, written and directed by Dario Argento.  Suspiria is a visually stunning film.The images contain objects we recognize, like people, buildings, and interior decor.  But the objects seem vaguely menacing, and less real than surreal, as though they symbolize ideas, repressed desires, or subconscious fears.  The vivid, rich colors, strange camera angles, deep shadows, and bright light piercing through darkness, all contribute to the impression that the viewer is trapped in someone else's nightmare.One haunting segment of the film takes place in a huge, and strangely empty, public square, at night.  A blind man and his German shepherd dog stand in the middle of the square, surrounded by imposing buildings of neo-classical architectural style.  Some professional reviewers of this film have suggested that the public square is a veiled reference to Hitler and Nazism.  Indeed, one could argue that the film's subtext is an indictment of fascism.Suspiria is not for everyone.  It is unsettling, and at times grisly.  The plot is weak, and plot elements are not really explained.  The acting is largely irrelevant.  And while the background music is suitably gothic, it is also frantic and monotonous.The best approach to this art-house film is to ignore the superficial plot, and focus instead on the fabulous cinematography, and the gothic images as conceptual metaphors. "},{"Title":"The most beautiful horror film ever","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"51 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento's crowning achievement in stylish film-making.Suspiria is the most beautiful horror film ever made. Every single frame of this film is expertly lit and colorful. With this technique Argento manages to create an almost unbearable amount of tension and the extremely brutal and bloody murder sequences look so good one can only admire their beauty. The music score by Goblin is one of the most effective score ever to grace a horror movie.The story concerns an American ballet student who discovers that a coven of witches run the school as bodies begin piling up. Not much of a story here, but that's really not the main thing. Style and atmosphere is the main course here, and it's execution is completely flawless. Acting and dubbing are okay and the dialogue is a bit stiff. But these are minor flaws in an operatic horror ride one is not likely to forget that easily.So sit yourself down, turn out the light, and watch this movie in surround sound, 'cause the music alone will totally give you the creeps. "},{"Title":"Superb horror film","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"53 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Susie Bannon (Jessica Harper) goes to a dance academy in Germany to study. It turns out its run by a witches coven and they'll kill anybody who threatens them...That's about it for plot. There IS a plot but it jumps all over the place...but it doesn't matter. This movie is fascinating just to look at and hear it. The settings are truly bizarre and done in eye-popping color. They're complimented by the excellent use of color and lighting. Also the group Goblin contributes to it a downright terrifying and LOUD score which really starts to work on you. The murder scenes are graphic--VERY graphic. The opening double murder is shocking and bloody. There are many great sequences that you just look at in wonder HOW this was done. My favorite is when Sarah (Stefania Casini) is being stalked through the academy late at night by an unseen evil force.Director Dario Argento has made a true masterpiece of horror. Its short on plot but the visuals and music more than make up for any of its drawbacks. The acting is good--especially by Joan Bennett (obviously enjoying herself) and Alida Valli who just LOOKS scary...especially those teeth of hers. Harper is also very good considering she was acting opposite people who didn't speak English! The poor dubbing is a little distracting but this is still a horror masterpiece. A must-see. TRY to see it in a theatre. "},{"Title":"Amazing Colors with Intense Murders","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"47 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria(1977) is given its cult status in the USA partialy due to the extreme usage of colors.  The colors in Suspiria(1977) gives it an artful flavor that makes the movie beautiful to watch.  Argento uses the colors of blue, green, red, and yellow in an unique manner.  The director uses the old technicolor technique that was in use during the 1950s.  This aspect gives the movie a fairy tale appearence.In the first 20 minutes, Dario Argento wanted to build up suspense and tension that was normally reserved for the climax of a film.  The main character and story are built up in good fashion.  The shoots of Suzy Bannion inside the taxi cab gives the viewer a feeling of claustrophobia and dread.  The image and music in the opening moments add high voltage suspense to the film's pounding intensity level.  The shots through the woods are fabulously done.The double murder sequence is one of the most bloody scenes in modern horror films.  It still retains its shock value after twenty four years. This one sequence makes any murder scene in a teen horror film today look tame. The only murder sequence from an Argento film to match this in its brutality is the arm removal scene in Tenebre(1982).  The murder of the first victim is extremely violent and yet stylishly filmed.Dario Argento owes his debt in making Suspiria to the early animations of Walt Disney and the art of Jean Cocteau.  The main source of influence is the Disney film of Snow White & the Seven Dwarfs.  The Snow White film would influence many Italian horror movie makers because of the impression it made on them as a child.  The story of Suspiria(1977) was to originally take place in a children's school.  This was changed because of the possible controversies this would cause in the film community of Italy.In filming the murder scenes, the director wanted to pump them with intense horror that wouldn't let up.  He wanted to create scenes of fear that would be carried by its gory visuals and ear pounding music.  The murder scenes in the motion picture are given their own personal style. On doing this film and these murder scenes, Argento has said(Fear is a 370 degree centigrade body temperature.  With Suspiria I wanted 400 degrees).  The murder sequences are one of the main things that make the film a gem of a horror movie.Suspiria(1977) adds some movie lore to witchcraft mythology.  The movie looks at the mythology of witches and witchcraft with keen interest.  Its one of the best films on the subject of witches.  Argento was fascinated by the subject of witches and used that fascination to make Suspiria(1977). Another source of influence is a section from the Thomas De Quincey's drug induced fantasy essay, Confessions of an Opium Eater called Suspiria De Profundis.Daria Nicolodi gives an important contribution in co writing the screenplay. Suspiria is the only film where Daria Nicolodi had creative imput on an Argento flick.  Part of the film was inspired by Nicolodi telling Argento about her Grandmother's experiences at a finishing school where black magic was practriced during the late hours of the night.  Daria Nicolodi was to play Sara, Suzy's friend but got injured during shooting.  The story is there to give structure to the visuals & music.The death of Daniel, the blind piano player is set up with suspense.  The scene takes an unexpected turn when he is attacked by his own dog.  This is because the scene at its opening points to him being killed by a witch. Dario Argento along with cameraman Luciano Tovoli uses complex camera movement to make this scene work.  This scene must have impressed Lucio Fulci when he saw the film that he would play homage to it in The Beyond(1981).There has been a great debate among Argento fans on whether Deep Red(1975) or Suspiria(1977) is the director's masterpiece.  Some see Suspiria(1977) as the masterpiece in the film cannon of Dario Argento.  Others regard Deep Red(1975) as his true masterpiece.  In my opinion, Tenebre(1982) is the masterpiece of Dario Argento because its complete in motifs that were seen in his films up to that point.  Deep Red(1975) and Suspiria(1977) are Argento's top horror films of the 1970s.I find it intriging that Suzy and Sara resemble sisters and have names that begin with the letter S.  Suspiria was influenced by an obscure horror pic called La Residencia/The Finishing School(1968).  Supiria contains a tinge of the giallo genre with a scene in the opening moments.  The Goblin gives out another amazing soundtrack following their excellent score for Profondo Rosso.  Luciano Tovoli does a fantastic job as the cinematographer in showcasing the nightmarish world of Suspiria(1977). "},{"Title":"The Masterpiece of Dario Argento","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"55 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In a stormy night, the American dancer Suzy Bannion (Jessica Harper) arrives in Freiburg coming from New York to join a famous and expensive ballet school for a three years training. On the next morning, she is informed by the direction of the school that a student she met leaving the place on the previous night was violently murdered and the police is investigating the crime. She becomes friend of another student, Sara (Stefania Casinia), and she realizes that the house is indeed a coven of evil and destructive witches led by the powerful Helena Markus, the Black Queen, who has a tremendous talent for doing evil. It took me twenty-eight years to have the chance of watching Suspiria. This masterpiece of Dario Argento has never been released on VHS in Brazil, and only a couple of months ago a new Brazilian distributor released this magnificent double DVD, recorded on DTS and having lots of extras, including a documentary about Dario Argento. Suspiria is outstanding, and has exceeded my best expectations the story is excellent, its atmosphere recalls a nightmare, with the amazing use of strong colors and the soundtrack from the Italian band Goblin is very scary. The cult actress Jessica Harper has another great performance and her character Suzy seems to be trapped in a nightmare. I certainly include Suspiria among my favorite horror movies and I only regret the time I have missed without having the chance of watching this stunning work of one of my favorite directors. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) SuspiriaNote On 08 July 2013, I saw this movie again. "},{"Title":"Argento at his best!","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"40 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is generally regarded as Dario Argento's best work and it's not hard to see why. Argento's direction adds a lot of atmosphere to the movie, particularly in the way he uses lights and color. There's a genuinely creepy mood through the whole film that doesn't let up. Special mention should be given to the excellent score by Goblin, which really adds a lot to the film and helps set the mood in all the right places. Suspiria definitely earns its place as one the finest horror movies ever. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of the horror genre","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"49 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen hundreds of horror films (including all of Argento's work), and *Suspiria* is my unequivocal favorite. It is not a perfect film, but it comes closer than any other film in the genre. Everything until the last few minutes is masterfully orchestrated, combining skillful direction with chilling cinematography, not to mention a score that ties my stomach into knots every time I hear so much as a snip of its odd techno-funk beat. Unfortunately, the voice of the witch at the end turns masterful horror into overriding cheese, making the tagline ring all too true there is *nothing* more terrifying on film than the first ninety minutes, but the last few fall somewhat short of genius.That fact notwithstanding, *Suspiria* is a fine example of how horror movies should be made, and I sincerely hope that any director or screenwriter contemplating a horror film first sits down to watch this one so they can be reminded that the horror genre properly contains a good deal more than the simple-minded slasher flick that has become all-too-typical in American theaters. After all, no less a filmmaker than Wes Craven seems to have followed this advice, and it allowed him to move from such pitiful efforts as *A Nightmare on Elm Street* to *Scream*, the first (and thus far only) classic horror film of the 90's. "}{"Title":"Bad luck isn't brought by broken mirrors, but by broken minds","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suzy Banyon decided to perfect her ballet studies in the most famous school of dance in Europe. She chose the celebrated academy of Freeborge. One day, at nine in the morning, she left Kennedy airport, New York, and arrived in Germany at 1040 p.m. local time. Those are the opening lines of Suspiria, as spoken by the narrator. Those lines are the beginning of a must see experience for all horror fans... period.Dario Argento has to be one of the most talented directors in Italian film history. He was influenced by some of the greatest directors in cinema including Alfred Hitchcock. Dario Argento did it all with Suspria. Suspria breaks all the barriers. Not only is it completely nightmarish and bazaar, but it uses different colors of light in a brilliant, chilling way. Suspiria has some of the most memorable scenes in history, whether it be the first shocking murder, the dog biting the man's neck, or the very good ending which will have your eyes glued to the screen. One of the most nightmarish aspects of Suspiria is the over-the-top creepy music that it offers. When Goblin performs music for a movie, that should be instant indication that the movie will be very tense experience. The tension and suspense in Suspiria is built up by the music.Gore hounds will not be disappointed by Suspiria. Keep in mind, I said won't be disappointed not be impressed. Suspiria has enough gore to be realalistic, but not enough to impress. However, people who watch Suspiria shouldn't watch it for the gore, they should watch it for the haunting atmosphere and tension.Suspiria was shot in Italy, therefore, if you are watching the movie in an English language you will find that it is dubbed. This may very well be the only reason I found the dialoge in Suspiria to be fairly average. The dubbed audio didn't fit very well, but it isn't beyond terrible.The only con of Suspiria is the fact that it seems to be dragged out. However, this hardly hurts the film in anyway, and is almost unnoticeable to first time viewers. The first time I viewed Suspiria will be a experience I will not forget.I highly recommend Suspiria to every euro-horror fan out there. It is very nightmarish, creepy, suspenseful, nightmarish, terrifying... Did I mention nightmarish?For weekly reviews of horror movies, check out my youtube channel horrorreviews123 "},{"Title":"If you like horror movies with either intense psychological or gory scares, avoid this movie","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"25 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I forced myself to finish this movie because most of the reviews on this site were very positive, but the stupidity of the script, the bad acting, and the slowness of the plot made it almost unbearable.If you like horror movies with either intense psychological or gory scares (e.g. The Others, The Shinning, A Nightmare on Elm Street, Evil Dead, Dawn of the Dead, Hostel, Saw), I wouldn't recommend this movie.My only positive comments are the aesthetically pleasing settings and the main musical theme, which is not bad for a 1970s movie (although it's heavily overused to the point of becoming an annoyance).In my opinion this movie has almost no entertainment value and is a waste of time. I was compelled to write this review, since most of the other reviews are positive. Hopefully, some people with tastes similar to mine will save some time and money by avoiding this overrated flick. "},{"Title":"Which Witch is (You Know the Rest)...","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"35 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If the story weren't so blatantly ridiculous, subtle as an elephant sitting in the middle of a dining room and overdone, SUSPIRIA might as well be another by-the-numbers horror movie with carefully placed shocks and a final revelation where the Final Girl either emerges triumphant from her ordeal or succumbs to her fate.For a movie categorized as Italian Giallo, there is actually very little extreme scenes of gore as in other films of this genre. If anything, Dario Argento art directs this movie within an inch of its life, to a point where it actually succeeds to separate itself from its horror roots and begins to open itself to a perverse fairy tale. The first fifteen minutes of the movie are one of the most tense moments of mounting horror I have seen in a while (despite the horrible dialogue and the bad dubbing, courtesy of what seems to be the norm of Italian movies of the period). Its setup, consisting of Jessica Harper's character, Susie Bannion, arriving at the school of dance that she is to attend in the middle of a storm. (Why she doesn't take the storm as a signal that maybe this might not be the ideal place for her is anyone's guess.) A girl, Pat Hingle, runs out screaming into the night and winds up at the neighboring dorm where a friend takes her in, but soon later she meets a grisly fate in a fantastic sequence that has become a classic all its own.What's shocking is not the absolute terror that reaches this early pitch in SUSPIRIA (compressing the horror which happens in PSYCHO by half an hour and setting the stage to the events which follow even when in retrospect they make little sense) it's the way it's set up. Instead of going for dark, moody colors or the more modern technique of filtering a sickly green or sepia or blue color to enhance elements of dread, instead of utilizing a dark-ambient theme with the occasional crashing violin, Argento decides to flood the scene in an orgy of color, rapid editing, and its unsettling, feverish Goblin score reminiscent of Tubular Bells with more primeval howls and drums, which escalate until they're practically reverberating all over the film. This is stunning, beautiful horror, a fable gone to the extreme perverse, technique over substance taken to its maximum level. SUSPIRIA is, quite simply, one of the best horror films ever made, and despite its age, it does not show it and proves that the oldest tricks in the book still work perfectly well. Watch it and enjoy, for this is a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Argento's Masterpiece and What Italian Horror Should Be","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A young American woman join a ballet school in Germany. Rumors are circulating that the school is the secret coven of the great witch Helena Markos. As girls from the school die off violently one by one, this rumor seems more and more plausible.Although only one Argento film is listed in the Internet Movie Database's Top 50 horror films (Deep Red), Suspiria is the one widely considered his classic. After seeing it, I'm not the least surprised (until now, I was only familiar with his new material -- Jennifer and Pelts). The rich colors of this film, the surreality of it and the moving soundtrack (with a theme more haunting than even Jaws). While the film is now dated, anyone who doesn't mind a film with lower picture quality should enjoy this movie.The tagline reads, The Only Thing More Terrifying Than The Last 12 Minutes Of This Film Are The First 92. I'm not really sure what that's supposed to mean -- they are implying the end is boring compared to the rest of the film? Actually, the whole movie is quite good. Some parts are slower, and there is a lot of character development, but this is by no means a bad thing. When the murders happen, they really happen -- with the first girl being dragged through a window, stabbed repeatedly, and then hung after she was already quite dead.Udo Kier makes a cameo here, though his part is much smaller than I would have liked (I barely was able to see his dazzling blue eyes). The lead actress (Jessica Harper, I think her name is) was amazing, but everyone else was just ordinary. Yet, this worked well... I wasn't distracted by stars and really got into the film itself.Seeing a Dario Argento film is especially pleasant after recently watching Lucio Fulci's City of the Living Dead. With all due respect to Fulci, the Italian horror master is Argento. Fulci drags, his film quality is atrocious, and although he loves gore as much as anyone, doesn't deliver the way Argento does. I really look forward to watching Argento's Inferno in the near future.I am recommending this film. You have gore, a good plot, a great soundtrack... and it's a classic you really ought to be familiar with if you're a horror fan. If you enjoyed Lucky McGee's recent film The Woods, I think you'll enjoy this. The movies are very different but have some similar central plot themes. I love both films quite a little bit, though in a different way. Pick this one up. "},{"Title":"This is stylized horror perfected","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Prepare yourself for an unforgettable experience as you watch this film. Argento is the premier artist in the medium of death scenes. That is not to mention his blazing genius with cinematography. I'm not going to argue about whether or not this Argento's best work, but it is a must see for anyone who likes dementia, gore, or technical masterpieces. This movie wallows in the boarding school horror cliche, but makes it work. I mean, the film is set in a school that was founded for the study of dance AND the occult sciences. The Goblins produce some of the scariest music ever and this is probably their best work. I can watch this movie over and over.  "},{"Title":"The one that started it all...for me at least.","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is, without a doubt, the film that is single-handedly responsible for getting me into Italian horror movies and exploitation films; for horror movies in general really. This is the first great horror film I ever saw.My original viewing took place back in 1994, where, as a young lad on the path to a world full of glorious gore and brilliant giallo, I stumbled upon the world of a director named Dario Argento. I snagged an issue of FANGORIA from a local bookstore and I was fascinated by the images shown in pictorial form in that magazine. I got pumped up. I searched for this movie, the most famous of Dario's films, and I was able to find an old copy on VHS. This was before it was released in any good form on DVD.I remember the first time I watched it being completely shocked by the first murder scene, where the girl is hung. Then, the camera pans down to the floor where another one was struck by falling glass through the mouth...I was hooked.The colors and the splendor with which Argento paints the picture that is the setting of Suspiria should be on every painter's palette. The way he uses lights is amazing, especially for the time of Suspiria's release.To call him the 'Italian Hitchcock' is a little misleading; Argento brings something totally different to the table than Alfred ever did he updated the shock factor. And, unlike so many disgusting films that come out nowadays, he managed to keep it beautiful at the same time. Suspiria is the perfect introduction to this legendary horror director. If you're anything like me, you will crave more. And more. 10 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"All Of Them Witches","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of Dario Argento's finest, as well as his first film to deal with the supernatural, Suspiria maintains its cult following for good reason. Illogical and dreamlike, it's filmed in rich red, blue and green hues, and the elliptical story is punctuated with several extremely gory (if technically unconvincing) murders.Jessica Harper is ideal in her role of Susie Banyon, an American ballet student who arrives at a German academy just as a series of bizarre events are beginning to unfold. A student is murdered on the night Susie arrives, and Susie actually holds a few fleeting clues after her brief contact with the victim. Soon she is at odds with the weird instructors at the school, and a new friend named Sarah plants the idea that the school may harbor some supernatural forces. Sure enough, Susie comes to discover that the teachers at the academy are nothing less than a coven of malevolent witches, with one notoriously wicked witch as their leader.What works about Suspiria may not work for some viewers. There is no logical story here, just a series of events that provide a framework for the movie's sense of style. The opulent set design is great to look at, and Argento places his emphasis on the atmosphere, combining his color schemes with fancy camerwork and a really strange soundtrack. Some of the sets are Gothic, others have a weird sort of pop art quality. Rooms have windows in nonsensical places, one victim falls into an improbably-placed bushel of razor wire, another is stalked by the camera as it swoops down on him like a huge bird. Susie is wide-eyed as she moves through her strange adventure, which leads her to hidden doorways, secret rooms, and half-remembered fragments of words. It's not necessarily terrifying, but some of the murders may make you cringe, and you might get caught up in the otherworldly qualities of the movie.To the uninitiated, Suspiria will delight and/or annoy you with it's strangeness. For those familiar with the language of Argento, Suspiria represents some of his best work. His ideas are innovative here, even if the story is a little vague, and it's easy to appreciate the vision that he must have had while making this movie. Fans of scary movies might recognize the influence of Suspiria on other movies they've seen, and that's because no matter what you think of it, it's definitely unique. "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing from beginning to end!","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen many horror films in my life, but none as mesmerizing from beginning to end like Suspiria!!  Once the film starts, I can't take my eyes away!  It's intense all the way through.  I don't want to miss a beat. It's not so much what the film is about, but how it was done.  With the freaky music score and visuals, it keeps you on the edge of your seat.  Unlike the slasher films where it's all about blood and body count, Suspiria captures the viewer with so much more.  Of course, it has its gore, but it's of a different style.  You want to squirm, but you want to watch and are intrigued by what is happening and why it's happening.  Argento uses little details that make all the difference.  I've watched it several times, and each time I discover something I didn't notice before.  The only negative thing I'd say about Suspiria is poor dialogue and also the fact that it gives false information about what witchcraft is (obviously due to misconception by the writers).  Aside from that, Suspiria is an excellent film!!  A truly horrifying horror film!!  I highly recommend it to anyone who wants to see a true horror film.  One without corny Freddy Krueger-type jokes. A film that's actually scary!! "},{"Title":"Argento's best, scariest and most visually stunning film","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After another viewing of what is considered Dario Argento's greatest film, I can honestly see why. Last week I finally got around to seeing his latest (and last in the Mothers series), Mother of Tears, and although it was still great, it did not have the same flair that Suspiria still has. Distinctly European, Suspiria opens as if it were a giallo (much like his previous films The Bird with the Crystal Plumage or Deep Red) - with a series of spectacular murders stages with an odd beauty. However, Argento switches from black-gloved human killers to supernatural forces and black magic. Unfortunately, American ballet student Suzy Banyon (Jessica Harper) has to discover this when she arrives in Germany to attend a prestigious dance academy.Suspiria carries with it many of Argento's trademarks, in particular, his relentless tracking shots are beautiful and often haunting. This is accompanied by long-time collaborators Goblin, who give us a chilling, almost overbearing score which suits the Gothic feel of the movie. The cinematography is typically amazing, with an abundance of birds-eye-view shots and views of large buildings. In particular, a scene where a blind pianist enters a large square surrounded by imposing buildings of neo-classical architectural style is scary as well as great to look at.Accompanying all this is a unique use of colours, especially bright red, green and blue. This use of lighting occurs at random and seemingly silly scenes, but in fact adds an enormous amount of atmosphere and gives a sense of mysticism to the story. On the story, for an Argento film it is quite good (to contradict what others have said). It may be simple, but it unfolds at an even and logical pace only to slightly falter with a rushed ending. Furthermore, the acting is nowhere near award worthy (except Harper, Udo Kier and Joan Bennett as a nasty witch) but in no way detracts from the quality. Lastly (but certainly not least) are the outrageous death scenes which have garnered a lot of attention. Primarily, the opening double murder sequence, in which a young girl is stabbed to death (exposing her heart) and proceeds to crash through a glass ceiling, which mutilates the her friend below her. Interestingly, there are only three more deaths in the film and they are spaced quite far apart. Of course, these are all explicit and involve a lot of blood.Suspiria stands out even among the best of its form for the sheer intensity of the experience of watching - and hearing - it. From beginning to end, this is a nightmarish, hallucinatory fairytale with grotesque murders, a blaring score and beautiful imagery. A true horror film and a huge achievement in cinema, Dario Argento's Suspiria is deserving of all its praise.5/5 "},{"Title":"Thats 90 minutes of life I'll never get back.","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"20 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Firstly, I would like to say that I love film, classic and contemporary from all over the world, Horror is possibly my favourite genre. Secondly, thanks to all the pretentious film buffs that have listed Suspiria in any top 100 list, I appreciate that this is your opinion but you are wrong. This movie comes close to one of the worst I have ever sat through, one with little or no redeeming features.Argento's much acclaimed use of colour is pointless and clumsy, the soundtrack distracts the viewer from any potential suspense and his choice of effects is poor at best. An example of this is the overly graphic stabbing scene, Hitchcock taught us years earlier that you don't need to show what the mind can create for itself. Also why even use the chubby bat prop when the mere suggestion of a bat would have been more frightening. The script is poor and the plot line thin, if this movie had used a sense of irony it would still be bad but could have been funny.In conclusion, I would advise any movie lover to avoid Suspiria as you would any Steven Seagal film, your time will be better spent elsewhere.Here are some alternative titles you should tryThe Shining - Stanley Kubrick 1980 The Vanishing - George Sluizer 1988Ringu - Hideo Nakata 1998 Psycho - Alfred Hitchcock 1960 Rosemary's Baby - Roman Polanski 1968That is all. "}{"Title":"Dismally Wretched !!","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"27 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As an absolute avid horror movie fan/buff, I had been directed to this movie over and over. This is one of the most highly praised (if not THE most highly praised) European horror movie of all time. Whenever anyone asks, What horror movies are good? What should I see? this movie is invariably in the elitist list. Its use of light and color is, indeed, a true study of cinematic technique and style. So what?! The one good idea Argento had (the imagery) was simply not enough to cover for the total lack of script, acting talent, meaningful dialog, horrible direction of these actresses, and the downright cheese-filled all-out crap&#150;fest that is Suspira.SPOILERS ABOUNDIn the first death scene, the acting was the most puerile trash I've ever witnessed (and I've SEEN Killer Klowns from Outer Space). These girls did not die well, prettily, or with grace. In fact, they didn't die with talent, either. The death scenes were nothing but an indication to me that this should have been the death of the movie. There simply aren't words for how horribly these girls portrayed their parts. Honestly, if the red-head had actually fallen that far with a cord attached around her neck, the weight of her body would have popped her head off her neck, rather than the sloppy inane banality we were given.Inane banality actually sums up the entirety of this movie. I cannot believe how highly recommended this trite piece of garbage is in the horror field. This was actually much, MUCH worse than I Still Know What You Did Last Summer,which was a total waste of my time. A friend, who watched this garbage with me observed, You know, Fiend? Aside from no one being naked, this really reminds me of a porno. Okay, hence the exploitation feel of this film. I don't care. How could I possibly care? The atmosphere everyone raves about just came off as a really bad porn and nothing more. Nothing could have saved this film from Argento's lack of talent but a really good remake. Hopefully, they won't make the mistake of assuming that this was, in any way, to be considered artsy. The acting quality is nonexistent and the screen play should have been exorcised and then buried in about 7 tons of salt, if you ask me. Even the ballerinas were inept. I've seen better down at the local play house.Most of the players and the director being Italian is a far cry from making this art. European does not equate art. Sorry, but um...no. This is rubbish. Nothing but unadulterated crap. The effects are laughable and there was not one redeeming performance in this whole venture. All I've accomplished in watching this garbage is the wasting of 95-98 minutes. I should've taken a nap, instead. The time would have been put to much better use.The musical score sounded like something that a two-year-old crackhead relentlessly banged out on the kitchen pots and pans in an epileptic seizure to rival the mother of all epileptic fits. The sound effects were distracting rather than complementary; cutting in and out at the worst possible moments, and coming off like some irritating noise an eight year old was making in the back seat of the car to annoy his dork brother. Refuse to be one of those mindless sheep who follow the herd. Don't allow yourself to be dragged into the whole mindset that because it's Argento, it's genius. That's just NOT the case, as Suspira MORE than proves. This is the most dismally wretched act of cinematic micturition ever to be committed to film, and I've seen some real stinkers in my time. If you waste your time on seeing this so-called movie after reading this, you've no one to blame but yourself. It scarcely rates a 1.2/10 on the B scale. That does not register anywhere on the A scale, I assure you.the Fiend . "},{"Title":"If this is Argento's best, I would hate to see his worst!","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"29 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was forced to watch this film during a film analysis lecture at university, and there are three words I think perfectly sum this film up What the hell?? Where do I begin? There was a plot line yes, but the execution was so diabolical a 5 year old could have written the screen-play.The acting was beyond reprehensible, stiff and wooden through-out, the main protagonist needs some serious acting lessons before being considered for another lead role.Every single one of the killings looked blatantly obvious that is was a dummy, the scene with the guide dog killing it's owner, and the girl falling into the barbed wire were probably the best death scenes and that is only because the audience isn't subjected to tomato ketchup blood straight away.All in all, if there was ever going to be a cure for insomnia, this is it! "},{"Title":"So bad that it makes me angry...","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"42 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Like many others, I had been turned on to this movie by the numerous glowing reviews out there (and I had read lots of reviews of this thing). So I was really psyched to find it used on DVD one day. I bought it sight unseen and damnit if I didn't feel really ripped off.  It lacked dramatic tension, ambiance, and even the pop-up scares and gore that even mediocre horror has. Notice that even the positive reviews mentioned that it lacked in plot and didn't directly scare the viewer, but the visuals and atmosphere more than made up for that. In truth it's all bad. Many horror fans would agree that you can forgo an air-tight plot if other things keep the film moving, but Suspiria has very little going for it. And has anyone stopped to think that if Argento succeeded in creating a rich, haunting atmosphere, then why shouldn't the movie be scary?Even with an art house lens, it's amateurish. I give it points for good sets and costumes. Beyond that, many of the scenes are uninteresting (visually AND story-wise) and totally unrelated to each other, i.e it doesn't make sense and it's paced badly! Its witch mythology is nonsensical, and there is no story motivation. Why does a devious underground witches' coven open a dance school? And why do they ritualistically drug one oblivious dancer and not the others? What's the point of the maggots? Why is a shiny spoon supposed to be scary? Too many nagging questions. Somehow there is little action, story, or character development in the numerous scenes of this film. Suspiria takes itself way to seriously to get past these holes, or even make the movie fun or interesting. Plus, the chilling light effects are literally reminiscent of the comic book murder scenes in Creepshow (go Adrienne!). `Creative and unique' my ass! I found the camera work dull and lacking in intensity. Even cheesy, no-budget Evil Dead (which we all love of course) had creative/unusual cinematography. Suspiria's also not very gory (was that magenta Tempra paint?) which I can appreciate, except that the few killing scenes are just lame and go on too long. The meandering killers seem pretty bored and lackadaisical, actually making it seem unbelievable that the victims are so scared. Horror should be about intensity and passion, and Suspiria is all wrong.If you like creepiness with interesting shots/lighting with slow development and not too much blood, try Repulsion or even Alien.  There are a million creepier, more atmospheric, and more interesting films just in the sub genre of B-horror. Good old Night of the Living Dead! To recap story, pacing, and visuals are a bust and there isn't gore to hold the attention of splatter fans. I won't even mention the beloved soundtrack. Okay, I will. It was generally inappropriate for the scenes and the band regularly struck disruptive power chords, hissed and screeched when absolutely nothing was happening. Why?! I forced myself to watch it again the next day to prove that I hadn't wasted my money. I returned it that afternoon. "},{"Title":"Dancing with the Stars","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" American ballet student Jessica Harper (as Suzy Banyon) goes to study at a European dance academy, where grizzly murders and hungry maggots reign supreme. The Tanz Academy is fronted by elegant Joan Bennett (as Madame Blanc), with stern Alida Valli (Miss Tanner) well-suited, as head teacher. Chief among the young leotard set is Ms. Harper's relatively long-lived pal, lovely Stefania Casini (as Sara). As hair-raising events continue, Harper begins to suspect a coven of witches may have infested the dance Academy.The storytelling part of Suspiria is relatively weak, with events unintentionally serving to lesson the dramatic impact of the horror. The superb opening scenes, for example, are never really improved upon. Interesting characters are underdeveloped, and should have been more cleverly woven into the plot. Despite its haphazard script, and some obvious budget restraints, director Dario Argento's Suspiria remains an excellent film.Mr. Argento's innovative, imaginative direction is the film's greatest strength. His cutting edge camera sense is often striking; and, the color photography, with Luciano Tovoli, is illuminating. The sharp soundtrack music, by the appropriately named Goblin band, is reminiscent of Mike Oldfield's Tubular Bells. Ms. Bennett and Ms. Valli are a treat. The usually underutilized Bennett is especially noteworthy, in her only post-Dark Shadows feature film appearance.Bennett accepted the project on the strength of the director's reputation, and a chance to visit Rome. When Suspiria appeared in the USA, she received some unwarranted poor notices, and professed dissatisfaction with the film's violent content. Still, Bennett was Saturn Award-nominated as 1978's Best Supporting Actress for her work. Bennett duplicitously gives the Madame Blanc character just the right amount of respectability, or class; she keeps her Academy dancers enrolled, and helps hold the slim story together.******* Suspiria (1977) Dario Argento ~ Jessica Harper, Joan Bennett, Alida Valli "},{"Title":"If you love horror films and haven't seen this, see it NOW!","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A lot has been written about Dario Argento's watershed horror film Suspiria.  Yes, it doesn't make a lot of sense in spots, the acting is variable, and the dubbing is worse, but, trust me, you'll never see a horror film quite like this one.  It is an experience with a capital E.  Argento is one of world cinema's greatest directors and every frame of this amazing film proves that point in spades.  The first ten minutes are so breathtaking--thrilling, enthralling, and scary--that you'll wonder how he can top them.  Well, he doesn't, but you'll love this film anyway.  It has painterly compositions, extraordinary use of color cinematography, and a loud, creepy, and innovative soundtrack.  The new Anchor Bay Entertainment three-disc DVD set of this film is absolutely terrific.  Get it now.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Horrendously bad","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Please do not take the positive reviews of this film seriously. Anyone who thinks this film is worth watching is living on a different planet. I love well made horror films and was inspired to watch this by all the gushing reviews. I think I managed to sit through about 20 mins of this mess. The acting was wooden, the plot disjointed and confusing. The jarring soundtrack did not fit with what was happening and just became a ghastly annoyance. I don't understand why everyone goes on about the use of colour..everything just looked garish and completely unrealistic. The whole thing came across as if a child had put it all together. I've watched more believable and more sophisticated hammer house of horror episodes! This film should never be on any top films list. Awful, just awful. "},{"Title":"Never Fall into a Room Full of Barbwire! It Hurts!","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What's considered as Argento's ultimate masterpiece by his admirers turns out to be just what all of his pubescent and exploitative schlock movies are a succession of more or less well-handled gruesome killings with only the barest necessities of storytelling to link them. Acting, dialogue, narrative it's all quite intolerable.But this time, even Argento's few strengths have mostly deserted him the whodunit puzzling of his giallo plots - as stupid as they are - is sorely missed, the murders are boring (except for one doggy moment) and the finale is a howler.On the plus side, there's great location atmosphere, some nice shots, lots of Technicolor window-dressing and another effective Goblin soundtrack.3 out of 10 experts on witchcraft who bear a striking resemblance to Pepe Nietnagel's Dr. Knrz "},{"Title":"A Big Disappointment","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is (in my opinion), the most over-rated horror movie ever. It has some amazing music, and the set is fantastic, but the music is always playing, and it is always the same music. It is really slow, for example at the beginning they follow the car for like 5 minutes on the way to the academy, and there is no talking (just music). There are many, many other times when they do the same sort of thing. It is so far in the movie where you actually get to see the witches too. The special effects are absolutely terrible ( so terrible I felt embarrassed that I even picked that movie out ). I wasn't expecting the effects to be amazing of course, and I love lots of movies with bad effects, but this was so bad that I couldn't just try and not notice that they were bad, because it was impossible to miss. So if you want to watch a good old classic horror movie, watch The Exorcist or The Omen or The Evil Dead, or anything else. But if extremely slow, boring movies that focus mostly on music, and terrible effects sounds like something you might enjoy, then you should still give it a try. It must have a good rating for a reason.2/10 "},{"Title":"this is a classic?","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" longest 98 minutes of my life getting thru this. Totally expected to be blown away. Instead, tedium kicked in within the first 10 minutes. Maybe it's because I've seen many other movies that were better and more recent, maybe this is dated, don't know or care. Just thought this sucked. I've only seen one other Argento film and it wasn't too good either. Give me Bava or Fulci any day. This had a big kill scene at the beginning, and then lots of colorful sets and bad acting, a vague plot, and quite frankly, by the time it was over, I didn't care.I'd actually purchased this and it was the biggest disappointment I'd ever had in buying a DVD. "},{"Title":"Nice soundtrack, awful movie","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well the music is nice, it creates atmosphere. The use of colors is nice, as well. And some of the shots were interesting (like when you're prepared to see the blind man get killed by someone, and it's the dog that does it). But all throughout the movie, they will increase tension, preparing you for... nothing! There is no logic whatsoever. Who's the assassin? Why is he/she doing this? Why do the witches need a dance school as a cover? I mean, if they're witches, they surely must have some other means of being... err... inconspicuous. And of course, the big catch of the film footsteps. If they really didn't want to be heard, couldn't they simply _remove_ their shoes? Or fly, or teleport, or whatever? Also, the direction is pretentious and heavy-handed. "}{"Title":"Hypnotically Beautiful But Weak In Plot","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1977 SUSPIRIA was considered an extremely violent film; in the wake of the slasher genre, however, the violence involved seems less horrific than you might expect. What continues to work, however, is the look with which director Argento endows the film, particularly in regard to the set designs, camera set-ups, and use of color. Visually speaking, this is an amazingly beautiful film, with Art Nouveau designs, deceptively simple cinematography, and washes of intensely artificial color that dazzle with intensity. Even in the midst of its horrors it is almost impossible to take your eyes from the screen, such is its strange beauty.The cast is equally odd. Leads Jessica Harper and Stefania Casini are very typical of 1970s ingenues, but they each have a quality that sets them slightly apart from the young actresses of the time. Barbara Magnolfi makes an impression as Olga, one of the school's students, as does Susanna Javicoli as a harsh instructor. Even Udo Kier, cult star of Andy Warhol's FRANKENSTEIN and Dracula puts in an appearance. But oddest of all is Hollywood's Joan Bennett, who gives a truly flawless turn as the seemingly lady-like and ultra-respectable Madame Blanc.Less successful is the story itself, which is so slight as to be almost incidental. Young dancer Suzy Bannion (Jessica Harper) has enrolled in a famous Italian ballet school--and upon her arrival finds another student fleeing the school in hysterics, a student who is not long after murdered in a horrifically brutal way. Odd incidents follow, and when Suzy's classmate and friend Sara (Stefania Casini) goes missing, Suzy begins to piece together the truth.Another flaw, at least to my mind, is the soundtrack. While it has been widely admired, I can think of few film soundtracks that are quite as heavy-handed in their dynamics as SUSPIRIA. That aside, and while the film has considerable creepiness, it isn't frightening per se. In the final analysis, this is a film which I think is best seen by cult connoisseurs--and even they are more likely to admire than to flatly like it.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"An Acquired Taste but I loved it","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The plot A cute American student (Harper) gets more than ballet slippers and tap dancing when she attends a reputed European ballet school to perfect her skills. To her dismay, folks around her start dropping like flies and she eventually uncovers a spooky coven of witches. I must say that Suspiria is defiantly an acquired taste and is probably one of the most weirdest movies I have ever seen. Written by the brilliant Dario Argento who've brought such classics as Demons to our lives comes up with this fairy tale gone bad but shot beautifully, it's definitely one of those movies you'll never forget and the reason why I say it's an acquired taste is that not everyone gets this movie, because it's different, like I watched this movie with some of my friends and they thought it was to artsy and made no sense, but I definitely gets it. Also to add to this movie is the bloody and gory kills which are creative and suspenseful, the opening scene in particular is one of the movie's highlights, extremely brutal and you can really feel the pain as does the barbed wire scene which made me cringe along the flesh ripping, a silt throat, a stab in the neck and lots of bright red blood. I also appreciated the artistic flavor that Argento injected into his human slaughter via a use of bright red blood that looked more like finger paint than plasma. It worked for me.I think that Suspiria has stood the test of time over the years and even by todays standards it's still haunting yet mesmerising with plot turns and a real sense of mystery, a strong female lead and scary ass witches. It seems a pity that these days none of the horror movies that come out has this sense of style they all seem to be about the directer just spending loads of dosh on special effects and actors instead off perfecting a good story line.Jessica Harper (Suzy) was brilliant as the lead displaying strengh and vulnerability that made her outstanding, Stephani Casini (Sara) did fine as the lovable friend. Joan Bennet's (Madame Blanc) classy and somewhat cold presence gave the part the right type of feel. A young Udo Kier (Dr. Mandel) did OK with his small role. Alida Valli (Miss Tanner) gave a chilling performance.The directing and use of the colours clearly took my breath away and moved me and all the scenes such as the running in the woods while it's raining scene, the hallway magic spell scene scene, the red lighted curtain and of course the final scene were all classic a;ON with the haunting and moving music score.All in all just watch this movie it's a brilliant horror masterpiece which will hopefully will never get remade into some sub standard Hollywood tripe such as Psycho Remake and The Hitcher remake both were an insult to the memory of the original films. All that's left to say is that this movie's just simply brilliant and a true turning point in horror cinema and please nobody remake this masterpiece because that would be an insult. "},{"Title":"Italian Horror Masterpiece By The Master Himself - Dario Argento","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is one of Argento's best films ever. It also ranks high in my personal best horror films ever. The story is about Suzy, an American girl who travels to Germany to study ballet, and begins to realize that something isn't quite right with the Academy. Come to find out the Academy is run by a coven of witches, and all hell is gonna break loose.Very atmospheric and genuinely chilling, with great usage of color and sound - Suspiria is a true classic, not to be missed by anyone who considers themselves a horror-fan. The only issue I have at all with this film is the amateurish special effects at the end that really date the picture - but this can be overlooked for the fact that it is such a good film otherwise, and was also shot in 1977. Do yourself a favor and pick this one up if you haven't already... Highly Recommended 9/10 "},{"Title":"Primary colors don't save a bad film.","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento's Suspiria has been on my to watch-list for several years, and I finally saw it yesterday.It tries desperately to be artistic, but to no good. It does have some fancy use of colors, and the photography is okay. But nothing, NOTHING, can save this film from the horrendous acting, the dumb dialog, the boring characters and the lame effects. Plus it seems Argento himself was either too busy with the color schemes to actually direct, or he was absent, mentally or otherwise. Goblins music is the only thing that keeps it from sinking completely to the bottom of Horrible Bad Movies.I rank it side by side with Jaws The Revenge, except this isn't even funny once.If it only had a self-mocking attitude, it might have been entertaining. But no, it takes itself too serious to be taken serious, so to speak.And any good director would have trimmed down the screen-time of a fake bat as soon as it becomes obvious it is plain silly looking. "},{"Title":"Awful Awful Movie","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is horrendously bad. It does have a cult following, apparently, but one must assume that the cult following is *because* this movie is so bad. Plot holes galore, editing that makes no sense, story sub-plots that begin but never complete, a murder at the beginning which is confusing due to the construction of the movie -- I could go on and on, but this story and film is a complete mess. It's worse than anything Roger Corman has ever made. Just because this film director is from Italy doesn't mean it's art. Yes, the film is dated as well (it's from the '70s), but this criticism is not based on that. If you want to watch a horror film and have a bunch of laughs at the movie's expense, this is the one. Just drink or get high first to enhance your experience. "},{"Title":"stay away","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Only Thing More Terrifying Than The Last 12 Minutes Of This Film Are The First 92. is right, this movie sucked! My brother and I have heard about this film for years on the web and chatrooms. Everyone was like, oh get this film, it is unbelievable. Apparently the were either smoking some good herb while watching this film, or saw some other version that I can't rent.This is about a girl that goes to a dance school in germany and weird things start to happen and people start to die while she is there. That is the one sentence plot summary and believe me that that is the entire story.Why did this movie suck so bad you ask? You can see the jump scenes coming from a mile away, the blood is so fake you can smell the paint, the acting isn't all that great, and the gore scenes aren't gory.The only thing that is scary about this film is the sound track. Those of you that have been to Halloween Horror Night at Universal Studios in Florida will recognize it right off the bat. It is the same music they play when you enter the park to start your night. The sound track bought back alot of kewl memories and it was really chilling to hear Zombie's original version.In conclusion, only watch this film if someone else flips the tab for it. Don't go hunting around for it, believe me it isn't worth the effort to find.Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Ballet Academy Disaster","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is so bad it makes you wonder what the movie company executives had in their coffee when they decided to release this pile of crap.You soon realize this movie is moving slower than a tortoise on dry land, which completely ruins the suspense. Sure, the final minutes in the basement are OK, but there's no excuse for the tortoise film making up until that moment.And what's the deal with the music. They build up suspense in all the wrong places. She arrives at the airport in the beginning of the movie and the music suggests that there's something really terrible about to happen but this is just the beginning of several anticlimaxes. "},{"Title":"Suckspiria","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie a few minutes ago AND IT IS PURE CRAP.  BELIEVE ME. This is one of the most boring movies I have seen in my whole life.  Argentos' Demons is a whole lot better than this one.  This tagline should be theres nothing more BORING than the last 10 minutes, except the first 90!!!! Don't rent this movie expecting a masterpiece, or even a good film, rent it if you want something to fall asleep too.  The music also gets annoying, its the same tune played over, and over, and over until you just wanna yank the tape out and kick it across the room!  The color is just plain weird, not as great as everyone says it is.  Its just red or green the whole time.  The end sucks most of all, although I shouldn't have expected more...How this movie got such a great rating, I will never know, or understand!  My rating is 2 out of 10.  DON'T CHECK IT OUT........... "},{"Title":"Boring..... what else? .....boring..... and boring, plus the worst film music I have ever heard","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"20 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After reading some of the stellar reviews here, I sat in front of TV, and boy, was I disappointed... How can something so bad have such good reviews and a total score of 7,4 ?Just some points- Acting Mediocre at best, with some moments of the most wooden performance I have seen in my life. No, scratch that - the most let's pretend very hard that whatever is happening is scary acting I have seen in my life.- Storyline My 13-year-old daughter writes more convincing stories than this. Come on, people, something like this is supposed to be a masterpiece of art? According to some reviewers, yes... But the story is so obvious and simple, I was able to tell the ending after first fifteen minutes into the movie. Should that be a plus in any movie? I do not think so.- Symbolism and surrealism Please tell me, where is any originality in it? This movie was shot in 1977 for god's sake!!! Anything shown here was derived from other work, and other movies. And, what's probably more important, it is so far-fetched it feels simply showy and nothing else.- Music The most pretentious part of all. Some said the score was the strongest part of the film. For me it was just trying to insert tension and fear in places the picture failed to do it. Music was artificial and forced to the point I had to mute the TV in some places in order to be able to continue watching the film.- Gory parts Well, for 1977 they are not that bad. Make-up is decent, dead people look dead, although colors are overdone (which is probably intended).- Scare factor None whatsoever. Sorry. Forget it. Not for me.OVERALL Boring..... what else? .....boring..... and boring plus the worst film music I have ever heard.For me 1 of 10. "},{"Title":"The only thing more terrifying than the last 10 minutes of this film is realizing you wasted the first 90","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"27 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can not begin to fathom why so many pretentious film buffs have decided to write their college thesis on this drivel.  I was almost sucked in to buying this garbage sight unseen based on the reviews.  Thank all that is holy that my boyfriend stopped me and suggested I rent it first.  If this is the Citizen Kane of Italian cinema I pray I never have the misfortune to stumble upon the Smokey and the Bandit 3. This movie was so ridiculously laughable I can't help but wonder if all these glowing reviews were written by poor souls who had the misfortune of buying this piece of crap and are now trying to unload them on Ebay. For those who truly enjoyed this movie may I suggest another work you will probably find mesmerizing and scary...Manos the Hands of Fate.  "}{"Title":"Art-House Horror.","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is in my opinion not Argento's greatest movie, but it is a horror masterpiece and one of the greatest horror movies ever made. It left me in shock and awe. It has got one of the best tension build-ups ever put on film and some very artistic, not to say operatic violence that functions as mini-climaxes after each build up of tension. It even has a few shocks that made me jump a bit and made my heart skip a beat. In one of the beginning scenes with Goblin's famous (or maybe notorious?) music, it builds up such an intense tension that my whole body got tense. I am in no way in bad shape, but I could feel my stomach aching a teeny, tiny bit after the movie. It was astonishing. It took me whole 15 minutes to get over the shock of the first 10 minutes of the movie. I mean, I have seen all of Dario Argento's thriller and horror movies from 1970 to 1990, I just didn't think he would start 'Suspiria' that way. Which is good! I understand that not everybody thinks 'Suspiria' is a horror masterpiece, some have called it noisy trash, some will say it's too slow, some complain about the lack of explanation to elements of the movie (like the maggots scene), some will also complain the script is bad since it doesn't spoon feed its audience with the answers. But that is how Argento makes movies, that is why I love his movies. He leaves certain things unexplained, which is great for a movie geek like me. I like to analyze and occupy my mind with movies I love, it helps me relax. But I gotta say, big names have mentioned 'Suspiria' as one of the all time greatest and one of the scariest horror movies ever made (For example John Carpenter and Alice Cooper).Anyway, the noisy soundtrack is supposed to unsettle its audience and not embrace them. It is supposed to psyche us out, make us tense and make us beg to make it stop. In my opinion, although with some quite simple music it is quite effective. I didn't expect to get that much tension from the movie and its music. Which was a horrifyingly awesome surprise. This is by the way an atmospheric horror movie, so don't expect slasher killings. This is like a child's nightmare, a fairy tale but for adults. By the way, the script is actually well-thought out unlike what many people might think. Argento spends a lot of energy writing his scripts, but he never really get recognition for that since many audience members call his scripts bad because he doesn't spoon feed his audience. Unlike many American and Blockbuster movies. That's what makes movies like 'Suspiria' great. It is not only a horror movie with a director who does what he wants, it is an Art-House horror movie with beautiful cinematography and beautiful colors and an operatic violence, that quite simply leaves me in awe. (Don't think that I enjoy violence, I am actually disgusted by it but my unhealthy fascination with it is bigger) Also it is like a fairy tale, but for adults. If you take away the grizzly murders, it does in some ways remind of 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs', even some of Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tales. Which I absolutely love. It is a good way for me to stay away from mainstream, blockbuster movies which I don't find exciting. I give the movie 10/10 "},{"Title":"Tell me Suzy, do you know anything about witches...?","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is one of the undisputed classics of horror cinema, and certainly one of the very best horror movies ever to come out of Europe. Argento will probably always be a divisive figure. For all of his talents as a stylist, all of his movies (as much as I love them) are let down by tired pacing, ludicrous plots, hackneyed dialogue and pathetic characterisations. In short, if you're looking for cerebral, rather than purely visceral, look elsewhere.The main reason Suspiria was and still is able to stand out from the rest of Argento's oeuvre is that, for the first time, his focus was on the supernatural, rather than on some implausible and clumsily conceived murder mystery. The dialogue is still hammy and the characters &#x96; especially the woeful lead, Jessica Harper, who has about as much charisma as my grandmother's socks &#x96; are all pretty slender (pun intended), but the plot actually moves along well and the supernatural undercurrent gives Argento completely free reign to indulge his visualistic flair like never before (or since). Subtle it is not, but it sure is effective. The colour palette is gorgeous and the production design (note the height of the door handles) is eerily effective in setting the demented fairy-tale-gone-wrong tone. The death set pieces are among the best Argento devised (I cannot look at razor wire without wincing), their strength, as with all Argento deaths, being the fact that they're so connectible to the type of pain we can all imagine and we all dread. And, of course, there's the now-classic Goblin score which, however bombastically it is sometimes deployed, takes the tension up ten-fold.We can only hope that the long-circulated rumours of a remake remain unfounded. "},{"Title":"A Technicolor Nightmare","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is murderous Douglas Sirk, classy Lucio Fulci, and incomprehensible to the one-thousandth power. It is the closest thing the movies have ever come to capturing a nightmare on the screen. With its blaring, screechy progressive rock soundtrack (courtesy of the spine chewing Goblins), overwhelmingly (and nauseatingly) Technicolor set design, and convoluted stalk-and-slashes, Suspiria is unlike anything the horror genre has ever offered, for better or worse. I cannot say watching the film is a particular enjoyable experience; but yet again, being scared is not something most seek out when they want to have a good time. Tell me were you ever really comfortable the first time you watched Halloween?I probably shouldn't be name-dropping Halloween willy-nilly; Suspiria is much more ambitious, and certainly much more excruciating to the eye. It's simultaneously offensive and luxurious to our sensitive pupils; the film drenches itself in the color palette of a Crayola based pop art painting, but the lack of realism in the atmosphere supplements its mystifying horror. As much as we attempt to throw our logic around in the visually combative mixture, it's impossible to truly understand what's really going on. There's something about witches and secret societies and Irises that lead to hidden hallways, but how can you focus on the plot when Dario Argento, bless his artfully messed-up heart, throws around red paint, rooms filled with barbed-wire, possessed German Shepherds, and maggot showers like its no big deal? Suspiria is comprised of the stuff your worst dreams are made of. It's not frightening in the traditional sense (i.e sitting at the edge of your seat, jumping when a cat is suddenly thrown at the camera). Imagine laying on your couch peacefully; you blink, and suddenly, you find yourself falling off a cliff. Just because something doesn't make sense doesn't mean it isn't terrifying.With the wide-eyed power of a final girl, Jessica Harper plays Suzy Bannion, an American dancer staying in Europe after being accepted into a prestigious ballet school. Her arrival is anything but welcoming; she enters the country during an explosive thunderstorm, and, when at the entrance of the academy, is not greeted by a well-meaning headmistress but a trembling girl, mumbling something about irises and secrets like she's mouthing her very last words. Most would know something is afoot, especially considering that that very same girl dies a mind- numbingly grisly death later that night; but Suzy, excited by the opportunities in her horizon, doesn't let an unfortunate death get in her way. But one can only ignore murder for so long. Slowly but surely, students and staff who even think about questioning the strict teachers drop like gutted flies. Surrounding the deaths are even more bizarre events, coming in the forms of poisoned food, spiteful bats, and yes, even maggot showers. Soon, Suzy discovers that her school is not suffering from a case of eccentricity but rather something &#x85; supernatural, you might say.Horror directors are usually annoyingly bent out of shape when it comes to their movies. It's as if they feel bad for frightening us, offering an apology in the form of a long-winded explanation as to why all the crazy events we recently witnessed happened and why the villains are so damn villainous. But Suspiria is vague, putting our brains in a blender of hallucinogens and then pushing us out onto a busy street. Argento wants nothing more than to terrify us, and that's that. He's done his homework, fondling a fish-eye lens and a passion for claustrophobic camera angles. The film is both vast and inescapable the dance academy seems to be endless in its rooms, like a country of evil; but don't expect to stumble across an exit door anytime soon.When I say Suspiria is terrifying, I'm not putting it lightly. This is one of the scariest -and goriest - films to ever headline a mainstream cinema screen. It isn't any less shocking than it was 38 years ago, and, despite its pitiful dubbing, is awe-inspiringly aggressive. The colors slap you, and so does, well ... everything. Read more reviews at petersonreviews.com "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and colorfully shot supernatural slasher film","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have been waiting for the right time for my first viewing of Dario Argento's fan favorite Suspiria. When this Halloween Extravaganza came up I took at as the opportunity to finally sit down the the film. I had only heard praises of the film. I personally wanted to go in cold. When a movie is hyped up I hate being let down. It has happened to me in a few of the last movie viewings. I stayed away from reviews and the like. I know that this movie has been out since '77 but I will do heavy research. Going in cold was the best idea I had with this film. Jessica Harper stars as Suzy Bannion a newcomer to a prestigious ballet school where some grisly murders have occurred. As Suzy gets accustomed to the life at the school she realizes that there is more than meets the eye with the school and it's employees. I know the movie has been out long enough for there to be no need for a spoiler alert. But I wouldn't want to spoil any of the story because there is a slight twist ending. It fits very well with the story as a whole. Argento has done an excellent job of drowning this film in dread. From the opening to the credits there is an unease that grows slowly. The vivid look of the film doesn't help that unease go away. The use of color is apparent. It's an odd choice but works very well. The film feels much darker than sometimes what's on screen. But when it gets violent it gets ugly. There are some inventive shots on display for a film like this. More so than many films in this genre, this film has style for a slasher. It makes sense coming from who it was made by and the time period it was release. The body count is low but when someone dies on screen the aftermath is gory. It brings even more to the dread of the film. You just have no idea how or who are going to get it. When they do, it's not pretty. The soundtrack from Goblin is fantastic. It's an electronic score that takes a bit of getting use to but is put to great use in the film. It's especially effective during scene building tension. It's one of those soundtracks that's so good in a movie with a lesser caliber filmmaker it would have taken over the film.The performances are okay at best. For a film like this is more about the atmosphere, the setting, the soundtrack and the gore. They serve their characters well enough to keep the film moving. The story may start off thin but there is a deep back story that is revealed as the film goes on. I would love to see what happen to some of these characters to see how they got where they are. This is another one of those scary movies where you just don't trust kids. There was always something sinister about children in the 70's. Dario Argento created a fantastic film that help promote the slasher genre and the supernatural genre for years to come. There are plenty of films that this one has influenced. It is a hard balance when tackling two genres in one film but this one rides the line well. "},{"Title":"He's really ugly, isn't he? Don't be afraid to say so.","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" American Suzy Bannion (Jessica Harper) arrives at a ballet school in Germany and finds things are creepy as hell right from the start as someone is killing teachers and students. Suzy starts looking into the school's past and discovers it is home to a coven of witches. I'm not the biggest Dario Argento fan but I do enjoy some of his films. None more so than this atmospheric and frightening nightmare brought to life. There's an otherworldly fairy tale quality about it all. Argento uses lighting and color to create some very spooky visuals. The music score, by prog rock band Goblin, is insanely effective at building tension. There's a lot of violence but it's skillfully crafted. On the downside, the story doesn't always make sense and the performances are a little silly. Heavy on style but it's got plenty of scares, too. This is a really good one to watch late at night in a darkened room. "},{"Title":"Red and blue","Date":"26 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Worth revisiting after the likes of Giallo and Il Cartaio to remember who Argento used to be, Suspiria is dazzling, self-confident, the work of a master of horror at the top of his game.A chilling supernatural tale focused on a haunted dance academy in Freiburg, Suspiria oozes style. Fluid camera movements and an expressionistic use of red and blue colour palettes propel a serviceable script. Doomed victims roam around maze-like locations stalked by a roving, voyeuristic camera and are dispatched in canny set-pieces. Jessica Harper plays the delicate protagonist (who, in one of Argento's trademark tropes, struggles to remember a crucial sensory detail), while an astutely cast Alida Valli uses her piercing stare to unsettling effect.8/10 "},{"Title":"Nearly Perfect","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This creepy thriller is undoubtedly one of the better horror films to come out of the '70s. Argento found the perfect heroine in Jessica Harper, who plays the role of an emotionally detached American at a German ballet school. The emotional detachment that she portrays in her character adds significantly to the mood of the film. Argento also uses color for setting mood brilliantly, much in the same style as Kubrik, though not with quite with the subtleness as Kubrik used color in his films. The acting of the rest of the cast is satisfactory at best, with the exception of the first two victims who shouldn't have been given any dialogue in the film. 3/5 stars for low grade acting and poor special effects. But mood, atmosphere, and suspense, the foundations of any good horror, get a solid 5/5 stars. "},{"Title":"A genuinely frightening film, one of Argento's best!!!!!","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     This masterpiece of Gothic horror starts on a dark and stormy night at a dance academy in Germany where American girl Susy Banyon(Jessica Harper) has enrolled as a student. Before Susy can even step foot in the door, her fellow students are being viciously attacked and murdered. One mysterious and terrifying event follows the other before it is revealed that the dark and evil place is actually a sanctuary for a practicing group of witches. Don't let the sometimes stupid plot fool you, this is one of the most horrifying films ever made. Like the great Mario Bava before him, director Dario Argento's marvellous camerawork and impeccable visual sense rides over the incomprehensible plot of the film. Jessica Harper(PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE, SHOCK TREATMENT) is an appealing and sympathetic heroine, and Joan Bennett(of DARK SHADOWS fame) is used well as an ageing, but still very beautiful former dance teacher who is the primary leader of the witches. Horror enthusiests and Argento fans alike simply must not miss this one!!!!! BEWARE, there are two versions of this film available. A 92-minute R-rated version, and a 97-minute unrated version which features several minutes worth of more graphic gore, though both versions are quite violent. "},{"Title":"Suspense is the word.","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It is rare in this day and age for a film to work its way under one's skin, but this is exactly what you can expect from Suspiria.  I imagine that the title is some form of an Italian translation of suspense, and you couldn't pick one more apt  the movie makes Alfred Hitchcock seem downright boring! Here we have a young American dancer joining a prestigious ballet school in Germany, who comes to discover that things are not right at her new digs. There are hints of witchcraft, but unfortunately this is dealt with only on the most esoteric level, and the menace manifests itself mostly in the more pedestrian form of a knife-wielding slasher.  But a more evil presence lurking is the insidious film score, that truly takes on the role of unseen stalker and lends a sense of surreal terror to the proceedings.  And director Dario Argento enhances this with his inspired direction, along with the creepy cinematography.  Add to this some great viceral, but not disgusting, gore scenes and you have the makings of a truly great horror film.           "},{"Title":"It's Like The Thread Of Ariadne ...","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suzy Banyon is a young American who travels to Germany to study at a famous dance school, Frieburg Tanz Akademie. On the night Suzy arrives however, one of the students is brutally murdered and a friend, Sara, has some terrible suspicions about the teachers ...Some great movies are intellectual experiences (12 Angry Man), some are emotional experiences (One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest), but my favourites are almost always sensory experiences - movies that are about nothing but image and sound. Suspiria is an amazing movie in this regard; an all-out assault on your eyes and your ears, with stunning direction, amazing use of colour, eye-popping sets and an incredible soundtrack. Prior to this, Argento made crime thrillers with tones of horror - with this film however it's as if he cut loose all ties to reality and went insane with artistic excess, to incredible effect. The film pulsates with life (the title literally means breathing), bleeding out glorious reds, blues and greens (it was deliberately printed using the old 3-strip Technicolor process) and the score by synth-rock band The Goblins screeches you into submission; it sounds like a bunch of lunatics growling and hitting anything they could lay to hand in the recording studio. Argento lifts the whole movie into a unique fairy-tale horror universe with the simplest of shots (rain rushing down a drain, clothes on a washing-line, an empty square) and Luciano Tovoli's photography is outstandingly inventive throughout. There's a rear-tracking shot in a swimming-pool, a crane shot that hides behind a lightbulb, a moment where the camera drinks a glass of wine and countless other astonishing tricks which combine to create the most incredible fear effect. To some extent the cast play second fiddle to the wild imagery, but there are several great performances. Harper is unforgettable in the lead, a cult classic performance if ever there was, wandering bewildered through the action (I love confused performances, like Theresa Russell in Track 29 or Jason Statham in Snatch). Valli and Bennett (both of whom were great beauties in the youth) are wonderful as the horrible old crones, Casini is terrific as the doomed Sara, and Magnolfi and Kier have great little roles. Detractors of this type of movie always pontificate on plot illogic or silly moments (Looking for Sarah ? She's disappeared ! is one of my favourite lines), thereby missing the complete entire point of the experience - cinema isn't reality, there are no rules and the wilder the ride the more fun to be had. I only wish more filmmakers had the courage and the technical ingenuity to make such as a sensational and audacious film. Written by Argento and actress Daria Nicolodi (who is in several of his other movies, but not this one). One of the scariest, creepiest, most original horror films ever made, with an unforgettable score; an absolute must-see for all lovers of pure cinema. "}{"Title":"Dario Argento embraces fantasy and creates his first horror masterpiece (SPOILERS)","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Once the success of Deep Red (Profondo Rosso) had catapulted Italian filmmaker Dario Argento to the top of his profession, it must have seemed like there were no limits to the possibilities for his follow-up film. And here is where the true authorship of Suspiria becomes a gray area.Daria Nicolodi, who played the female lead in Deep Red, had begun an affair with Argento, which would result in one child (a daughter, Asia Argento, who would grow up to become a successful actress and filmmaker) and a volatile romance/creative collaboration. According to Nicolodi, it was she who encouraged Argento to break out of the murder mystery mold and move into horror fantasy. Furthermore, she claims that Suspiria's story, of a German dance academy awash in black magic, was inspired by true-life tales told to her by her grandmother. In the end, Nicolodi came away with a screen writing credit, but only after fighting Argento tooth and nail over the credit.Of what there is no doubt is that the fanciful premise of Suspiria inspired Argento to new peaks of visual creativity. Using a special process to print the film in Golden Age of Hollywood Technicolor, Argento and cinematographer Luciano Tovoli splash their canvas in primary colors of such richness that the viewer can almost taste them. The over-the-top camera movements and editing from Deep Red were taken even further over-the-top in Suspiria, into a dimension of pure cinematic delirium. The gore which had been mostly implied in Deep Red now splashed all over the screen.Scoring their second Argento film (the first being Deep Red), Italian rock band Goblin provide the icing on the cake, with an eerily childlike refrain segueing seamlessly into brutal percussion, chants, and Claudio Simonetti's sheer keyboard madness.Even Argento's worst flaws as a filmmaker -- bad acting and lack of plot -- actually work in this fantasy context. Jessica Harper and Stefania Cassini make two-dimensional yet likable heroines, while Alida Valli and Golden Age of Hollywood icon Joan Bennett gleefully chew the scenery as the villainesses. And where Deep Red blurred the lines between reality and nightmare, Suspiria brazenly flies into a world nothing like the one we live in.Argento has feted the classic Disney cartoon Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs as Suspiria's main forebear, but I think Suspiria could be more accurately described as a psychotic funhouse-mirror reflection of The Wizard of Oz. Argento made a few more good films (and one more great one) after Suspiria, but his unique cinematic vision was never clearer than it was here. Perhaps if Argento had been more willing to give Nicolodi proper credit, then Argento might not have peaked so early? "},{"Title":"Suzy, like Alice has fallen down a very dark hole into a wonderland of witches.","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is a movie I had heard about now and again over the course of many years, first from my oldest brother or overhearing a conversation my brother's friends had many years ago in the late 70s.The film came out when I was just five years old and all I could gleam at the time was a near comic book mystery, a profound imagery that wild and surreal fantasy that a child creates.Upon finally watching the movie I knew immediately I would have to write a review for the website.Suspiria is a movie based around an old Dance Academy that is run by a darkly magical coven of witches. Suspiria immediately sets a scene and puts one in the story with a genius one rarely sees in film these days if ever. It is a lost art contained in the works of Hitchcock, Argento, Kurosawa, Tsuruta, and few other brilliant and rare directors whose memory lives on in their films. One gets an overall feel from the film that is reminiscent of Edgar Allen Poe.Suspiria is a terrifically magical film because it takes risks that you will never see in movies in today's desensitized age. It does not try to spell things out for you. In this way it's a mystery unfolding, a subtle, intelligent madness of color and sound and ideas.We are drawn deeper into the plot. It's not about the ending, it's about the journey.Incidentally, I love how all the rooms are painted with Escher designs. The walls around the staircase appear papered in a Curelean blue of crushed velvet, hallways draped in red embroidered silk.Suspiria unfolds as the imagination comes tumbling off the screen with all the color and music and emotion of a good book.You never see this kind of attention given to a film anymore, this amount of passion for the art of film coupled with so much skill. It's slow at times, but it's this careful manipulation of vantage and timing that makes the movie so brilliant.One feels the water, feels the mouth breathe words, feels the terrible events unfold each moment. Films like these aren't made anymore but should be studied closely, and savored.Though not particularly a scary film Suspiria is a work of art and makes you feel like you are in the shoes of the lead character, taking the journey with her in this macabre and haunting tale in a world that is all Argento. "},{"Title":"Magnificent  Giallo with imaginatively staged murders by the master of horror, the great Dario Argento","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An American newcomer called Suzy (Jessica Harper , hired after her debut in Brian De Palma's Phantom of Paradise 1974) arriving in Europe during a storm , she goes to a fancy ballet academy run by Miss Tanner (Alida Valli) and Madame Blanc (final film of Joan Bennett) ; later on , she becomes involved into grisly murders . As there happens several murders with bloody and creepy executions . Meanwhile, the series killer goes on a real massacre on various unfortunate victims in a string of loathing murders . Suzy gradually comes to realize that the school is a front for something far more sinister and supernatural amidst a series of gruesome killings . Slowly more people are found dead and she deals with a psychologist (Udo Kier), expert on witchery . As Suzy investigates the strange killings committed by a mad murderous running amok and with numerous suspects .Suspiria is a nice Giallo full of heinous killings , suspense and bizarre intrigue . Dario Argento's great success is compelling directed with startling visual content and rich color palette . This stylish movie is plenty of thrills , scary happenings , high body-count and strange color with phenomenal results . From the beginning with the frightening atmosphere-laden credit titles as well as opening to finish taking place merciless terror and relentless horror , all of them assaulting the audience . This is a classic slasher where the intrigue , tension , suspense appear threatening and lurking in every room, corridors and luxurious interior and exterior ; including lots of thrills , chills and spills are so fast and classy . Creepy as well as interesting screenplay by Argento and Daria Nicolidi , Dario's wife ; being inspired by book Suspiria De Profundis written by Thomas De Quincey . Thunderstorms and impressively grotesque killings pile up , they are extraordinarily staged . The movie belongs to Italian Giallo genre that was invented by Mario Bava (Black Sabbath) along with Riccardo Freda (Secret of Dr. Hitchcock) , they are the fundamental creators . These Giallo movies are characterized by overblown use of color with shining red blood , ordinary zooms , and utilization of images-shock . Later , it appears maestro Dario Argento with his typically stylish Giallos , he is another essential creator of classic Latin terror films . Argento's over-the-top direction is well crafted , and as always more inclined towards violence and lots of killings . The terror pieces are well created with eye-opening flair-play and contain obscure tracks to the denouement of the script . This is the first part with Inferno (1980) and Mother of tears(2007) of a trilogy of films about the Three Mothers . This genuinely mysterious story is well made and results to be one of the best Giallo with oneiric , effective aesthetic ; it packs baroque over-decoration , lots of gore , guts and twists plots . This is a trademark terror work for the Horrormeister Argento with high tension quotient and equally high suspense by means of an ever-fluid camera that achieves colorful shots . Noteworthy for intelligent edition work that tightens the mystery , glimmer use of color by awesome cameraman Luciano Tovoli and distinctive utilization of stylized images . Being the first Italian film to make use of the then newly invented Steadicam . Sometimes weak screenplay is enhanced by nice but gory special effects . Screeching musical score by Goblin with stereophonic whispers combining to fortissimo soundtrack , heavy-breathing blasts in stereo adding help achieve incredible ghastly moments and including hard rock all dissociation . The voice heard whispering on the bizarre soundtrack by Goblin is that of Goblin band member Claudio Simonetti , it is just gibberish . Even director Dario Argento composed the creepy music with the band Goblin and played it at full blast on set to unnerve the actors and elicit a truly scared performance . The motion picture shot over four months was originally directed by Dario Argento, at his best , he is one of those film-makers who set off simple for frightening us to death . His films display a sharp eye for the bizarre and he usually abandons plot mechanics to provide a bravura display of his technical skill . Argento often uses a particular trademark  Murder victim crashes through window and characters recall clues from memory . His period of biggest hits were the 70s when he directed the animals trilogy  Four flies over gray velvet , The cat of nine tails , Bird with the crystal plumage . They are always riveting to watch , after that , he directed Suspiria, Inferno , Tenebre and of course Deep red . In 1995 Argento made a comeback to the horror genre with La Sindrome Di Stendhal (1996) and then by another version of The phantom of the Opera (1998) both of which starred by his daughter Asia Argento . Most recently, Argento directed a number of 'giallo' mystery thrillers which include Insomnio (2001), Il Cartaio (2004), and Ti Piace Hitchcock? (2005), as well as two creepy , supernatural-themed episodes of the USA TV cable anthology series Masters of Horror . This bloody fun plenty of graphic gore and weirdness may not be for all tastes , but to be liked for Argento connoisseurs especially , as he relentlessly assaults his audience , you will feel real panic . "},{"Title":"A breath taking thrill ride","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I give the movie Suspiria a 10 out of 10! The music (which is done by the band Goblin) really sets the mood throughout this epic master piece of cinema! This movie, truly delivers in that it's overall atmosphere is Dark, Creepy, and leaves you wondering what's going to happen next. The story is very well written, and the characters are believable in their various roles. This movie, is more for the Horror fan not seeking tons of Gore, but for the Horror fan looking to be spooked on a Psychological realm. The movie easily, with it's atmosphere, music, and overall dark imagery can easily send even the most brave and or tough Horror fan to have a slight tingle down their spine. Thus, I give Suspiria my brand of excellence! ~Dave, the Horror Cowboy "},{"Title":"Breath-taking, jaw-dropping chills","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Typically I am not a fan of the occult or supernatural in movies. 'The Exorcist' and 'The Omen' made me titter and I'm really far too rational. The fact then that Argento makes Suspiria scary for me is a testament to his incredible genius. I do not use the latter word lightly. It is very rare that you see a truly cinematic masterpiece, as opposed to theatre on film. The art direction is simply unparalleled, I can't think of anything with as much visual wow factor from first viewing except maybe John Woo's 'Hardboiled'.This is truly a case of the master surpassing the pupil, Argento taking on Bava's style and transcending him. The colour photography and set design in this movie, makes 'Blood and Black Lace' (Bava - 1964) look like a novice's entry into the canon. I'm not typically a fan of Grand Guignol, 'Suspiria' is a different matter, the concept, atmosphere and camera-work in the murder scenes make for acutely affecting and terribly beautiful tragedy.I liked the mystery element of the story, which really makes Suspiria a kind of giallo crossover (did you work out what 'irises' meant before Suzy Bannion?). Argento utilizes the macguffin extremely well, and has learnt many lessons in suspense from Hitchcock (outdoing him in my opinion).The artwork to be found in the movie, from the Escher wallpaper (and several other wallpapers), to the mural in the dance academy, the stained glass skylight, makes almost every still from the movie worthy of reproduction. I certainly intend investing in artwork from this movie. One senses that Argento does over-egg to an extent, the buffoonish extras in the dance academy (Alida Valli hams it too much for one), the occasionally (only very occasionally) garish photography and over-the-top set design (I didn't like the staircase in the academy at all), come close to making the movie a folie de grandeur. However for the most part Argento's virtuosity is so extremely evident that the movie holds the audience rapt in its spell. If you aren't truly terrified by this movie... you haven't a pulse.Last but not least, the sound track by Goblin, in collaboration with Argento himself, is equalled in horror history only by that of Kubrick's 'The Shining'. "},{"Title":"Terrifying","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is without a doubt the scariest movie I have ever seen. ***SPOILER***The plot is a relatively straight-forward one we follow a young girl (Jessica Harper) who travels to a German dance academy, only to find that all is not as it seems - it is run by a coven of witches.***END OF SPOILER***However, its simplicity should not put you off - as with most Argento films, the plot is just there to tie the amazing visuals and creepy music together. From start to finish, SUSPIRIA retains a genuinely scary atmosphere and several moments are unbearably tense.Argento masterfully draws the attention of the viewer from the very first scene to the last and leaves them in an almost hypnotic state. Many may try, but few succeed, and this one certainly belongs in the latter category.Rating 10/10. For horror fans, this is a must-see! "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films of all time! ***** out of 5","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the 'Once Upon A Time in the West' of horror movies. It's beautiful, breathtaking, haunting, and even delivers the gory goods.You don't really get films like this nowadays. It's all about trying to make people jump and the majority of the horror films these days feature an unrealistic looking cast and overly CGI death sequences. Blah to that I say.Suspiria still stands out as how horror films truly should be done. Dario Argento's visual style is absolutely unprecedented. Everything is lit with the most bizarre and bright colors you've ever seen. The blood is much brighter than real life and this just adds to the surrealism which most Italian horror films thrive off of.Sure things often don't make much sense, but it's supposed to be that way. When things are too coherent or too literal it isn't quite as nightmarish. This is widely known for being a horror classic but I have noticed that younger people who have seen it for the first time just don't seem to 'get it'. Unfortunately they might feel a horror film is supposed to follow a certain step by step linear form that has become staple in horror films today.I suggest if you are viewing this for the first time that you get a feel of what Italian horror films are all about. Mood, atmosphere, music, sound, surrealism. All of these elements for films like these are often more important than logic.After just watching it I am surprised to say that there is only one minor problem I have with the film and that's towards the beginning when the two girls get in a fuss with one another. It's the 'names that begin with an 'S'' scene and the two get in each others faces. It seems kind of out of place in the film but it does induce something of a chuckle.Aside from that everything is perfect in mine eyes.The music by Goblin is disturbing. The themes throughout the film will forever stick in your mind. The camera work here is superb. It's one of the best looking films you'll ever see. The actors and actresses that played the school teachers are truly creepy. Down to the little boy in a suit and knee socks.Quite possibly the best Italian horror flick ever made and definitely a top 10 horror film for me.WITCH! "},{"Title":"A masterful horror classic!","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Superior, highly stylish Italian horror from director Dario Argento is his finest work, and the most sheerly beautiful horror film ever made!Young American girl travels to Germany to attend a dance academy, but after a series of horrific events she begins to believe the academy is hiding a dark secret.Director Argento has long been known for his stylish, unique direction and Suspiria may just be his greatest achievement as a director! Argento makes bold use of lighting, color, sound effects, and inventive cinematography to give this film a strange but one of a kind visual appeal. The films unique sets add to the odd unusual visuals as well. The story of the film is simple and the plot thin, but Italian films are all about style over substance and its Argento's flamboyant style that uplifts this film.Suspiria builds to extremely intense suspense at times and packs plenty of shocks along the way.The opening sequences feature one of the most terrifying murders in cinematic history! As with Argento's other films, and Italian horror in general, there is plenty of gore in this film. All the more adding to the frightening effect of the film is the awesome, but eerie score by the band Goblin. The Suspiria score is so original and wild that it is perhaps Goblin's best work!The cast is excellent as well. The charming Jessica Harper makes for a likable lead, her performance is pitch-perfect. Stefania Casini is good as a fellow student and friend to Harper. Alida Valli is great as a menacing teacher and Joan Bennett perfect as the school director.Suspiria is must-see horror for genre fans. It is a horror film that excels on every level and deserves its standing as a true genre classic!**** out of **** "},{"Title":"Beautiful Technicolor Nightmare (minor spoiler)","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I LOVE THIS MOVIE. But this film must be viewed from a proper perspective to be appreciated. It is not a film that concerns itself with realism, dialogue or even a particularly cohesive storyline. It instead relies on the emotions that it evokes through color and sound. Much like our dreams, backgrounds and timelines shift.The film has a lot of expressionist tones to it and draws the viewer into its non-reality. The people that wrote bad reviews on this site were citing inconsistencies and irregularities in the story. They just don't get it. We all know that hands don't really appear out of nowhere to pull someone through a third story window. A prime example of Argento's avoidance of reality is when Suzy spills her wine down the bathroom sink. It doesn't look like wine....but it doesn't look like blood either. It looks like red fluorescent paint.This is not due to bad film making; it reinforces the artificiality of the world Suzy has immersed herself in. We are so concerned with the primary action, like the stabbing scene, we don't even notice that the victim (who was in an apartment room) is now being stabbed against a steel grating. Argento's use of color further solidifies his expressionist style. His colors are coordinated in a psychological manner. The scenes are drenched in color which is not only artificial, but helps disturb the viewer's desire for reason. Even something as innocuous as a toilet becomes evil when saturated in blood-red hues.If taken at face value, Suspiria is an OK horror movie. But because of its hallucinatory nature, along with an incredible and relentless soundtrack, it is truly something special. It is a fairytale like Argento describes. But it is also takes place in the dreamworld, which is why Suzy approaches everything very wide-eyed instead of running from the school from the beginning.This is a film that appreciates with repeated viewings. The color palate and the set designs alone make this film worthwhile. The star of the movie is the Dance Academy itself. I am heartbroken that a remake is in the works. This may be the scariest aspect of this film. Why can't anybody ever walk away from something special?? Odds are that it will be an overblown abomination, much like what befell the classic The Haunting. I truly hope that Suspiria does not become Hollywoodized and mar the beauty and legacy of the original.  "},{"Title":"HUGE disappointment","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie sucks. Really, really sucks. It is not scary. It makes very little sense. It is pretentious, and pretentious does not work when making a scary movie. I just watched this on a big screen, in scope and dolby, because the theatre where I work is about to play it. The big screen did not help it. This is simply a bad, bad movie. "}{"Title":"It's scary,stylish & different it's suspira","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is one of the best in the world & it's really different from anything else I ve seen before.This is a must-see for anyone!This is Dario Agento's finest work ever.I ve never seen somthing as special and unique as this.     "},{"Title":"What????","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am, in fact, a great lover of horror films and actively search out new horror experiences. Sometimes they are rewarding, often they are not. Like many other films of less pedigree I did not find Suspiria to be particularly rewarding. I had, through various sources, heard about the exceptional artistic craftsmanship of Dario Argento's films and so I eagerly sought them out. I eventually saw both Suspiria and equally unimpressive Creepers (the U.S. cut of Phenomena). I sat through Suspiria and attempted to swallow the wafer-thin plot and cardboard performances. (Note to filmmakers If you don't speak English and 95% of your cast doesn't either...pick another language.), only to await an incredibly predictable and poorly executed climax. (Though not as laughable as aforementioned Creepers.) The camera work, although satisfactory, is hardly groundbreaking (Interested parties check its predecessor Blood and Black Lace). I am truly astounded by the adoration this film receives. Aside from a few flourishing moments the rest of the movie was lackluster and it seems like the main character eventually just trips into the finale.Perhaps I'm lacking in the historical context of 1977 cinema to understand why this film is supposed to stand out. Though considering its contemporaries counted Star Wars, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, and Eraserhead I'm still baffled. Suspiria would hardly scare a 10 year old at a slumber party let alone someone old enough buy a ticket for it at a movie theatre. Be wary humble viewers, there are worse films in the world but why try to find them? "},{"Title":"Deco/Nouveau Terror","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To date there has not been a film so overwhelmingly beautiful in its use of both existing and specially produced deco and nouveau sets and design -- and only a genius such as Argento could properly light these edifices with the colors to trap them into the dream-like trance of a true classic, abiding, flawless horror film. There is not a moment of this film which is not dripping with artistic excellence, and yet it never lets go of the traditionally macabre, dank, seedy and vile undercurrent in most Italian horror. Susperia is like a lilly floating in putrefied blood. Without question, one of the greatest achievements in horror to date. "},{"Title":"original and artistic!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have never before finished watching a movie, just sitting there with my mouth hanging wide open like I did after viewing Suspiria.  The beginning of the movie is completely gripping with an originally gruesome double murder. The plot is rather hard to follow at times, but throughout the entire movie I could not wait to find out who or what the directress really was.  Some of the most original death scenes I've ever seen were in Suspiria, (two words metal coils).  This was the first movie I've ever walked away from completely enthralled by the artistic aspects.  I have never seen more artistically effective camera angles, and Argento's use of color is purely an amazing work of art.  I highly recommend this movie, if anything, because of the incredibly camera work and lighting.  This movie is gripping and gruesome, but you won't regret seeing it! "},{"Title":"Scariest film ever made!!!!Dario Argento-Legend!!!","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" At his peak, Dario Argento was an absolute master director. He is one of the reasons why I love horror movies.Suspiria is, in the immortal words I heard years ago,'a candy coated nightmare'.This is a film where normal rules of filmaking,such as acting and story,don't apply.reading other comments, this is obviously a point that others can't get past.Atmosphere is what Suspiria is all about. I love the way that Argento plays with rhythm in the film. As a viewer, you are waiting and expecting something to happen.The beautiful and scariest thing about the film is that when they do, you are completely jolted.This is a film that will indeed mess with your head if you let it.To me, this film captures perfectly that feeling of being scared, and being completely unable to identify why you are scared and what is scaring you.Argento achieves this in numerous ways. His masterstroke is the score by Goblin.Very simple, almost like a nursery rhyme, but has the power to set your teeth on edge.Almost as powerful is his use of primary colours throughout the film.Horror movies never look like this.I feel that Argento has been categorised as merely a director of horror movies. His style and sense of craft go much furthur than that.It's people like Dario Argento that remind me why I love cinema as much as I do.The highest recommendation of Suspiria came from my wife a few years ago.On a Saturday morning, I introduced her to the film. About 40 minutes in, she cuddles up to me and says,I'm scared!.This from a girl who laughed her way through the original Exorcist!Can't get much more of a recommendation than that!!! "},{"Title":"A beautiful horror","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It takes a strong stomach to watch Dario Argento films. If you are particularly squeamish, then skip his other films and watch this one. It is gruesome, yes, the violence starts very early on, but worth it for it is the most stunning looking horror film. It is an art nouveau nightmare masterpiece. It is obvious that the main focus for Argento was the look of the film. It is saturated in colour, there is much stained glass, opulent early 20th century decor, in fact even the walls are painted with beautiful art nouveau friezes and the set dressed better than the actors.While the setting is glorious, the story does not suffer for lack of attention. Argento does not like to give much away in terms of plot or exposition, he paces it rather slowly and leaves the audience hanging for the next clue to the mystery. The basic plot is as follows a young American girl, arrives in Germany to study ballet and dance at a rather sinister academy. Horrible things occur and she is drawn into the goings on.This is the first of a trilogy of movies, the third still yet to see the light of day. Inferno was the second of the trilogy, but I found this to be the superior movie. Let's hope the third is worth the wait, it has been 24 years since the last installment. Even if you don't view Suspiria as the first of a trilogy, it is a film that easily stands alone.Argento's Giallo films (the precursor to the slasher genre) are very confronting in their depictions of violent death. It is truly gruesome, but beautiful at the same time. Argento's talent is in framing the violence, the pacing of it, the underscoring of it. Take for example the first sequence of violence in the film it is set in a large art nouveau apartment building, framed along darkness, with only lurid red light illuminating the proceedings, until it finishes on a stained glass dome. The violence is depicted in close up, the only wide shots being the interior of this beautiful apartment building. Only when the carnage is over does the camera pan out from the victim to reveal the aftermath of the carnage. The music score is very percussive and frantic, with screams and strange vocal noises every present. It is unnerving, as is the opening Suspiria theme. Listening to the soundtrack (by Italian prog rock band Goblin and Dario Argento) by itself, with no visuals is enough to scare you witless. This is nightmare layered on nightmare. Every cinematic element is designed to scare you and it does.If you are going to watch this film, track down a copy that has not been hacked to pieces by the 70's censors. This shouldn't be too hard anymore, the recent DVD releases of his films promise that they are the uncut original versions as Argento intended. Argento has always had troubles with censors around the world, and it is wonderful that they are finally getting a viewing in their entirety, proper pacing and all. If you are a horror fan and have not seen this film, I guarantee you will develop a real appreciation for the Giallo genre. If you are not a horror fan, watch it anyway as it is masterful visual film making. Either way just see it, it's worth it.9/10 "},{"Title":"Garbage!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie arrived at my place of business on DVD and it was something I had never heard of,  so I instantly ran to the web site and began to research it.  I must applaud most of the people who have reviewed this film via this web site,  and say that they warned me, but I didn't listen.  I did resist the temptation of buying this on DVD. I ran to a local video store and rented it and whew was it bad!! I found it almost impossible to follow.  80% of the movie is focused on the main actress and her dance recitals.  In a few words not my cup of tea you could say. The opening sequence is ok much better then the BORE that is the rest of this movie.  Save your money guys this one is a MAJOR DUD!! "},{"Title":"Dario Argento's hallucinogenic nightmare!","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From the moment it starts, Suspiria's dazzling array of colours, potent musical score and inspired direction assure you that you're not in for merely another horror film - and the film certainly doesn't disappoint! Aside from the follow up; the severely underrated Inferno, there really isn't another film like this one. Suspiria is often described as 'an all out assault on the senses', and while descriptions like this are often misguided and pretentious; that is not the case here. The pumping soundtrack courtesy of director Dario Argento's house band 'Goblin' interacts brilliantly with the colour scheme (borrowed from Walt Disney!) and the hallucinogenic chain of events to make a film that has a profound impact on an aesthetic level. Suspiria is definitely lacking in substance - but when the style element is so brilliantly done, who needs substance? The plot is like a modern day fairytale, and it follows a young girl by the name of Suzy Bannion, who travels to a German dance academy. From the moment she arrives, it soon becomes apparent that all is not quite right with the academy, and it isn't long before she's plunged into a world of witchcraft and murder, and decides to escape the academy.Suspiria is famous for it's gratuitous murder scenes, and, like the rest of the film - they don't disappoint. In fact, there is only three murder sequences in the film; the first being the one that attracts the most attention. Dario Argento directs as two girls are murdered simultaneously, and while the effects can be a little hokey, there's enough bright crimson blood to please any horror fan. The other two death sequences are extremely well orchestrated, and show great imagination. We get treated to a girl falling into a pit of barbed wire (...not everything here makes complete sense) and, best of all, a man eating dog! One that thing that Suspiria often receives criticism for is the fact that its plot is rather incoherent. This is a criticism that bears some weight, but I don't really see it as a flaw for the film. Suspiria isn't about plot details or making sense - it's a film that bypasses that stuff in favour of style and atmosphere, and it's these things that are always more important in a horror film. What Dario Argento and his co-writer (and girlfriend) Daria Nicoladia have done is cut out the less important elements and just given the audience what they turned up for. How can you criticise that? Suspiria is often mistaken for a slasher, and it receives a lot of criticism from people who have made this mistake. The murder scenes are few if you go into this film expecting a slasher, but it cannot be criticised for this because it isn't. Suspiria is hard to file into a certain genre or sub-genre; it's not quite Giallo, there's not enough witchcraft for it to be considered a witchcraft film, and it's certainly not a slasher; so since there's nothing else quite like it, I guess the film is in a category somewhere all on it's own. Dario Argento is often passed off as merely a splatter film director, but this couldn't be further from the truth. Argento movies get better with each viewing, and this is because repeated viewings enable to audience to fully appreciate the major talent that Dario Argento is. However, while his use of the camera is top notch; his ability to pull great performances out of his cast isn't. A few performers have turned in good performances in Argento films, but most don't and it seems that Argento doesn't care too much about acting in his films. Saying that, I don't care too much about it either.Suspiria is often regarded as Dario Argento's finest work, and it may well be. It's not my favourite Argento film; but it's up there, and when it comes to importance in the history of film, nothing else that the man ever made even comes close. Every horror fan needs to see the likes of The Exorcist and The Texas Chain Saw Massacre before they're a true fan; and Suspiria is certainly a member of that illusive list also. Consider that a high recommendation. "},{"Title":"This movie was awful.","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The tagline should read, The only thing more awful than the first 92 minutes is that there's 12 minutes more.  This American student who is in a ballet school in Romania is doped unconscious every night without noticing. Then when her friend, the girl next door, disappears one day after unsuccessfully trying to wake sleeping beauty up the heroine decides to see what's going on.  Try leaving during the day next time. "},{"Title":"Disapointing","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"25 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie for the first time.  I must say that i found Suspiria to be nothing but a crashing bore.  I don't see what all the fuss is about.  The movie itself is very eerie and suspenseful, and there are some gory murders but that's about it.  I like horror movies which are shocking and the opening murders were a bit shocking but i felt that Suspiria had nothing else to offer, there certainly wasn't any excitement like other Argento movies such as Phenomena and Demons.  During the rest of the movie i was struggling to stay awake and i wanted to just turn it off, i knew it wasn't going to get any better. The movie also relies heavily on creepy music, this works because you may never forget that music for the rest of you life.  However the music seems to get louder and louder until you lose your consentration on the movie and it feels like your watching a music video. Something diffrent this movie offers is the use of colours, which is probably why most of the movie was shot in the dark, to make the colours stand out.  I found this to be annoying and hard to watch. I consider Suspiria to be a creepy drama rather than a horror movie.  If you like movies which stand out as being diffrent, then you may enjoy this. If your looking for gore, theres just not enough of it to hold your interest. If your looking for thrills and excitement, look elsewhere because you won't find it here. "}{"Title":"Not bad, but a bit of a letdown","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was a bit let down by this film. Perhaps my expectations were too high, but considering that many regard this as one of the masterpieces of horror I guess I was expecting more.I can see why this is considered a horror classic to an extent. It has an undeniably unique look and a hallucinatory, dream-like feel. The soundtrack is also absolutely fantastic and fits the mood of the film perfectly with very eerie chanting/growling voices coupled with frenetic drumming and an almost carnival-style melody. There are also some pretty neat and memorable scenes, particularly towards the beginning of the film with the first murder.Sadly, for me the film never quite materialized into something great after an opening that impressed me a lot. It definitely has its moments with some nice horror scenes here and there, but ultimately I didn't think there was much pay-off and the film ends pretty abruptly after a decidedly brief climactic encounter. The plot itself left a bit to be desired as well. I know this a horror film, but I couldn't help but be a little disappointed by the 10 minute exposition dump midway through the film where random experts essentially explain the plot to our main character. This is the cheapest trick in the book and it felt very clunky, and it also robbed the film of some of its mystery. Is it really necessary to have an expert tell us that witchcraft and magic are real when the film has been establishing that visually for us? Why write it into the script in such a generic way?The experience of watching the film was a bit unpleasant as well due to a very odd aspect ratio and very, very poor audio quality (and not much better video quality). I truly hope there is a better transfer out there for purchase than the one I received through Netflix, because it is truly terrible and even though I didn't love the film, it definitely deserves a better quality release because the visuals are often very good.Overall I did enjoy the film for the unique visuals, dream-like quality and excellent soundtrack, but I couldn't help feeling a bit underwhelmed when the credits abruptly rolled. "},{"Title":"Do NOT believe the hype and the cult following ..... It is AWFUL!","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pimpin gets Dario Argento drunk on Old Monk rum and records his statementsArgento Yes. I confess. It is a piece of crap. Lol, I cannot believe the cult following this film has received over the years. 7.5 on 10 on IMDb. What a joke! Me and Nicolodi couldn't write a scene to save our lives. The jokes are puerile. The characters are just caricatures. No wait. Worse than caricatures. There is nothing in there. We did not even know how to develop the characters. And those sets. HAAHHAHAHAHA! I always feel like vomiting when I see that peacock with multi colored feathers in the final scenes. The whole film is a study in bad taste. That mirror with bulbs around it. And that golden staircase. HAHAHHAHAHA! It must have been the gaudiest Ballet school in Germany. And the music. Jesus Christ! Goblin! What was I thinking? That awful music with all that muted screaming and growling. I composed some of it myself. I should have got Morricone or something. The acting was terrible too. Jessica Harper is no leading lady. I should have got someone sexier. But there is one scene, that I like Pimpin. When Suzy Bannon visits the school for the second time, she enters a very small and claustrophobic room full of semi nude ballet girls who are dressing up. You can't deny that scene was pretty hot!Best Regards, Pimpin.(1/10) "},{"Title":"A beautiful nightmare","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Story- The story is simple, and most definitely not the film's strongest aspect. I believe it's left very basic, as to allow more exploration into the deeper and more intriguing aspects. That's not to say it's bad- it's just simplistic in nature. However, it does take somewhat of a turn later in the film (a twist, so to speak), and while it was no jaw dropper, it did surprise me, and made way for a great ending. Characters- The characters, like the story, are very basic. Again, not bad, just simple. They were all very interesting, with distinct personalities, but nothing special (nor stereotypical). The main protagonist (like most horror protagonists) was most likely created for the audience to project themselves onto, and ponder your reaction in their situation.Performances- The performances aren't excellent, and some of them are even a bit wooden. However, this may have been Argento's intention, seeing how it definitely adds to the surrealistic atmosphere. That being said, when emotion needed to be expressed, it was, and very well done.Atmosphere/Tone/Imagery- This movie's atmosphere is absolutely outstanding. It's like a beautiful nightmare, while surrealistic and suspenseful, it's also colorful and amazing to look at. It truly is one of a kind, and coupled with beautiful cinematography and imagery, it's completely unforgettable. It's essentially visual poetry, with a lot of visual storytelling. Some scenes are absolutely beautiful to look at, while also repulsive, which is an achievement that takes pure genius to accomplish. Argento's use of bright colors offsetting the extremely dark storyline was absolutely brilliant. Some of the imagery was beautifully terrifying and surreal. The tone was consistently unnerving, and suspenseful. I could just go on- but I won't due to the 1000 word limit.To conclude, Suspira is one of my favorite movies of all time. It's beautiful, with transcending cinematography and imagery, while also having a surreal, nightmarish atmosphere. The two qualities offset each other so well, that it creates visual poetry, and a cinematic masterpiece. "},{"Title":"More than just eye candy","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I luckily stumbled upon Suspiria, which I now consider to be an overlooked cult classic. Another gem from my favourite movie era, the 70's. The movie has obviously aged technically, the plot is quite linear, the script is simple and the characters are rather flat. My biggest issue was the often poor audio quality which made it hard to understand the dialogue while it was being overpowered by the background sound. Despite all that, Suspiria isn't the movie that is going to be praised for it's gore but rather for its build-up and visual appeal. The vibrant color scheme creates a unique and surreal atmosphere. The stylish mood is only enhanced by an impressive score composed by the progressive rock band Goblin. Overall, Suspiria is more than just eye candy and I'm pretty sure that it would've been one of my favourite movies ever when it came out. "},{"Title":"not worth watching","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I wanted to see this movie because I love ballet. The summary sounded interesting so I thought I'd give it a chance, even though it's horror and from the 70ties (both bad signs).Well I've rarely seen ballet been portrayed so poorly. Really this is not how a dance school works even if it is run by witches. Where do I start? Why does this girl even want to study there? It's inconceivable that you don't bring your own shoes to class. Why does she receive a costume but everyone in class is wearing a different outfit? No one ties their hair for class? The dancing is terrible and pointless. Everyone is doing their own exercise at the same time? In short it's not worth your time if you are interested in dance movies. Otherwise the plot is illogical but predictable at the same time. The interesting scenes are not worked out, the boring scenes just take forever. The acting is poor, the scary scenes aren't scary and the gory scenes are only funny because of the poor special effects. The music is really loud and jarring. The theme music just plays over and over. In contrast the dialogue is on a much lower volume so you can hardly understand what they're saying - oh yeah also because of the fake German accents. I read here this is a classic. I did notice the scenes all lighted with different bright colours, I suppose it comes across as very artistic. It is also very obvious and makes the movie even more dated than it already is. So, in short, you could give this movie a chance but I predict you will feel cheated of 98 minutes of your life. "},{"Title":"School's Out. Class in Session.","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria (1977) Dir Dario Argento / Cast Jessica Harper, Stefania Casini, Flavio Bucci, Alida Valli, Joan Bennett Effective creepy thriller that inhabits our minds the moment the eerie Goblins score hits. Jessica Harper plays Suzy Bannion who arrives in Munich, Germany on a stormy evening. She cabs from the airport to the ballet academy but is refused entry. Beforehand she was met with a distressed female who flees through the forest. This results is a graphic yet chillingly effective double murder to open the film. Director Dario Argento makes great use of colour in all its exquisite captivating nature. Previous to this he made a another slasher called Deep Red. His screenplay comes to an abrupt halt in its third act as it does in Deep Red, leaving the need for possible explanation. Harper is an innocent as Suzy who is drugged to the point of passing out while dancing. She is warned by Sarah, played by Stefania Casini who speaks of witches and eventually finds herself stranded within a room floored heavily with razor wire. One major weakness is the obvious guilty gazes of the faculty. Instructor Miss Tanner is an overbearing less interesting version of Nurse Ratched or Miss Togar. Joan Bennett is even less interesting as Madame Blanc. Flavio Bucci as blind pianist Daniel is effective but meets a gruesome end via his seeing eye dog. Theme regards the reality of cults and the hopes of escaping in tact. Score 8  / 10 "},{"Title":"watch it for Dario Argento's directing.","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I give this movie a 7 out of 10 based mostly on Dario Argento's amazing directing skills. The rest of the movie was not as amazing. Yes, the deaths were elaborate and visually stunning, but other elements of the film weren't as good as they should have been. Some of the acting and writing was A for effort. The story didn't feel like it was going anywhere until the movie was almost over. I realize that there are two movies after this one, but I don't feel compelled to watch them. Disappointed because Dario Argento's talent was not put to use in the best movie. I do recommend watching it just for how beautiful it is. The use of color is incredible. It was a well directed and beautiful horror film. "},{"Title":"Great Atmosphere, Poor Storytelling","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is a movie very well received by critics and many audiences and is actually considered by some to be one of the greatest horror/gore movies of all time. And I will give the movie a lot of credit because of the amazing atmosphere it creates. Dario Argento achieves this through an incredible combination of unusual lighting and disturbing music (that is really catchy by the way) and it draws the viewer into the movie and makes it a very interesting visual experience. However, the movie does suffer from many things that downgrade the experience for me. I am talking about the incoherent story, the dumb dialogue and the stuff that happens that makes no sense whatsoever. Like in the beginning of the movie when the first girl dies, she looks out the window and sees some cat-like eyes and someone starts strangling her, apparently flying or something cause her window wasn't in the first floor. Also a major problem is that some of the situations the characters get in are very poorly developed. I will say the dancers are pretty hot, though. Many plot points that I believe needed to be explained in the end, weren't, like who exactly killed everyone? And how did they possess the dog to kill the blind dude? I know it is kind of implied but I think they should have done a better job at developing these ideas.In the end I thought Suspiria had an amazing theme and very well done lighting that created a creepy atmosphere throughout, but because of the stupid, unreasonable dialogue and incoherent storytelling, Suspiria is barely a satisfying experience. "},{"Title":"They don't make 'em like they used to...","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...and some people may say 'Thank goodness for that.' Some people might, but not me. Suspiria has a lot going for it. It also has a lot of negatives about it. In fact, it may even be one of those rarest of films which actually might benefit from a modern day remake.It's about a young American girl who enrols in a ballet school in Europe. Unfortunately, the school is run by witches (and not even the nice Nicole Kidman types from Bewitched).The good the film is spectacular to watch, simply because of the use of rich and vibrant colours in every scene. If ever a movie had 'a look' then this is it.The bad the acting. It's dubbed. And when was the last time you watched a film with Oscar-winning performances that had been dubbed? The acting is pretty bad.The indifferent the musical score. If you like electro (and possibly have seen Dawn of the Dead 1979) you may be familiar with the band The Goblins. Well, they outdo their previous work with a truly loud score. It's supposed to make you jump and create tension. Personally, I liked it, but I've read plenty of negative comments saying how it was too loud, distracting and even made people have to turn the volume up and down all the way through the film.There is gore - low budget stuff though and if you like your horror slow burning and colourful, you might get something out of this. "},{"Title":"Gruesome masterpiece from a true horror legend","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is usually considered to be an ideal starting point if you want to discover Dario Argento, but to me it's actually one of his least accessible movies. Something like Deep Red gives you much more familiar territory to work with, there's a serial killer on the loose and in the end we discover who it is simple story, fairly simple execution. Suspiria on the other hand is different, because it relies much more on style. Storywise there isn't that much going on, it has a certain supernatural mystery aspect to it but you figure it out very quickly. The entire strength of the movie is not the solution of the mystery or the (rather weak) climax in the third act, it's all in how unsettling every single scene is. There's never a moment of relief, even in scenes where our main character is completely safe you still don't feel at ease. Argento has the talent to make something out of nothing, to scare you without giving you something concrete to be scared of. The screenplay to Suspiria is far from brilliant, but Argento's fantastic directorial choices make this a true classic. "}{"Title":"Weird, But Creepy Film!","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento's 1977 horror film stars Jessica Harper, Stefania Casini, Eva Axen, Flavio Bucci, and Udo Kier. This takes place in Germany and focuses on young, American girl, Suzy (Harper) who attends a ballet academy. Soon, strange things occur around her when some students are murdered and she learns witchcraft may be involved. Axen plays the first victim, Pat, Casini plays Suzy's roommate, Sara, Bucci plays Daniel, a blind pianist and Kier (Blade) appears briefly as psychologist, Mandel. This is a weird, but creepy film, Harper is great in it and I like the use of colors similar in Roger Corman's films & George Romero's Creepshow. If you like horror, give this a try. "},{"Title":"This is still a great horror film!","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm only twenty years old so I never had the chance to see the great horror films of the 80's, 70's etc.. That being said I've been wanting to see Suspiria for a while, I was excited to finally see it. The thing that surprised me most was the death scenes, while this film was more character driven and didn't rely on terror and violence there are still a few violent scenes, and they're done amazingly, probably the bloodiest deaths I've scene in a 70's movie. But more then that this film has a fantastic score, brilliant sets that add to the eeriness, the acting does not disappoint either. It's a really surreal and darkly beautiful movie. It's hard to find anything wrong with this movie, though I did find the ending to be a bit underwhelming. But it's still a must see horror classic! "},{"Title":"Stunning images, remarkable scenes, strange plot.","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One thing about surreal films is that they have the right to not make sense. The obscure has always caught man's attention. What remains unexplained interests us. One can criticize Suspiria's plot, but he must have in mind that the film has a passport to be this way.Suspiria is one of the most gorgeous films I've ever seen. It has stunning images accompanied by a ravishing soundtrack. It is indeed a spectacle for the eyes.I've felt that Suspiria was greatly influenced by Louis Malle's Black Moon. An innocent girl in a mysterious place with strange people and events in the surroundings. Even the way the characters sound are similar a strange accent desynchronized with the mouth movements. Also, the Old Lady played by Therese Giehse reminds Miss Tanner in certain aspects. I have also felt that Suspiria had a great deal of influence on Kubrick's The Shining.A strange fact occurred to me when I watched Suspiria. Shortly after the scene in which a bat flies into the room and attacks Suzy, a bat entered the room in which I was watching the film, flew around for a few seconds and then left through the window. The film suddenly became far more interesting to me after that. "},{"Title":"Really good","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have seen movies one before, it's been very long and I did forget how good it was. After first 5- 10 mins of the movie, I was hooked, I love the every moment of those scenes. There had grear eerie feel to them, with the way was shot and the music kinda of help in some part. The eyes were creepy as well and very good decent bloody deaths at the start of the movie. The rest of the movie was also so really good with decent effect throughout the the movie. Some of deaths were feel, it kind of had omen vibe to it way and acting was really good but not great There so music did annoy at the time, I don't think match those scenes if that that make sense. I wish there more after the ending, I don't it the movie ends soon as the story ends. Wanted to bit more of aftermath.7 OUT OF 10 "},{"Title":"Suspiria - Suspense undisclosed","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Certainly not the scariest movie but still Argento's scariest and second best to 'Profondo Rosso'. The BGM is good as usual but still more mysterious. Very straight forward screenplay with a weak and predictive plot. The acting is satisfactory and characterization is too shallow. Other elements of DA's like pretty young women getting murdered, scenes with blood streams and characteristic suspense music are positives of the movie. It suffers from various pitfalls that include the ballet dances missed details. It is a movie to watch alone on a stormy or a rainy night yet still be warned of bloody ultra- violence. "},{"Title":"Hell is behind that door","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The other Godmother of High School Horrors, but unlike Carrie, this doesn't hold back until breaking point. Suspiria lets rip from the very start and never, ever lets up.The first five minutes alone are a masterpiece of scene-setting to a pounding score from his in-house band, Italian prog-rockers Goblin, director Dario Argento piles scare upon scare, horror upon horror, until the devastating denouement. And only then does the film properly begin, as beautiful young ballet students in a school run by evil witches are dispatched in ingeniously wicked ways - throats slashed or torn to pieces by razor wire.Rightly regarded as a baroque, over-the-top classic, and one of the most visually stunning, it's like being frightened to death in an art gallery. "},{"Title":"Very good Dario Argento horror....","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thought that Suspiria was a very god horror film by Dario Argento. A young American dancer travels to Europe to join a famous ballet school. As she arrives at the ballet, the camera turns to another young woman, who appears to be running from the school. She returns to her apartment where she is gruesomely murdered by a horrible creature. Meanwhile, the young American is trying to settle in at the ballet school, but hears strange noises and is troubled by bizarre occurrences. She eventually discovers that the school is actually of a coven of witches. This film had a great atmosphere about it,and a real psychological feel to it which made it a very good film. "},{"Title":"More like a fairytale, than a film","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria's reviews are usually similar on its positive and negative parts alike. This is a ''visually stunning'' horror film with great atmosphere and amazing colors, widely considered as Dario Argento's best achievement. At the same time, the performances are ''wooden'' and its plot is ''weak''.I like to think of this film more as an experience than as a standard movie with normal actors and a typical script, mainly because it is one of my favorite films. Had I judged it with my usual criteria, I'd have found flaws almost everywhere in the plot and the actors' lines; instead I chose to be let into the fairytale, drifted away by the blue, the red and the yellow paints and eventually lost in its beautiful maze. It's not important that initially there seems to be no princess, no mirrors and no evil stepmothers, only brutal murders and cheesy dialog; it's still a fairytale and they're all there, you'll discover them if you liked fairy tales as a child and if you let yourself into the atmosphere. A masterpiece of film history, independent of genre, an eerie feeling in your hearts and a stylish wonder within an utterly bizarre movie that resembles no other.My vote is 10. "},{"Title":"That unforgettable little song&#x85;","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" SUSPIRIA is a classic for sure. It's claimed to be a masterpiece. I agree that it's one of the best movies of the Italian director Dario Argento but it has the same kind of features I use to dislike in Argento's works clichd horror scenes and some bad acting. Nevertheless it's a movie that dwells in our mind for a long time. But what is really unforgettable in this movie &#x96; and certainly made the difference to turn it into a cult movie &#x96; is that sinister melodic little song, performed by The Goblin, and the intensity of the red in some scenes, as it would signify a blood bath in a symbolic way. In fact it's this symbolism allied to some surreal scenarios that give a different and mystic atmosphere to SUSPIRIA. It has some scenes, especially in the beginning and at the end which are very well shot, with great camera details, nice lights (red mostly) and the sinister sounds I did refer, which combined create a fantastic surreal ambiance. About the horror scenes, especially the gore ones, I assume they were greatly done at the time, but I think they are too dated nowadays; and to a viewer that is used to the modern special effects I think they lose their original shocking impact&#x85; Anyway, SUSPIRIA is generally considered as a cult movie, and I certainly agree with that! "},{"Title":"So flawed yet so delightfully creepy","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It really amazes me how they managed to squeeze so much out of so little. Let's get the facts straight here, there's quite a lot here that simply doesn't help this movie one bit. For starters, better scripts have been seen out there, the acting is certainly nothing to write home about, the fake blood looks extra cheap and the list could go on and on.But then there's the stuff they got right. There's literally only a handful of killings throughout as the low body count meant they could elaborate more on every single one of the gore scenes. That means the old 'get stupid character do stupid things and do away with them in the next scene' routine is nowhere to be found in this giallo classic. Argento's direction is nothing short of superb and to top it all off, there's that haunting score, easily one of the best I've come across in the genre and possibly this movie's single greatest asset. "}{"Title":"The Italian Master of Suspense At His Peak...","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The basic problem with so many movies that try to deliver on both gore and suspense is that they always give you too much of one, and not enough of the other. So when you see a lot of tired imitators, it's always refreshing to see a movie that somehow gets it right. And if you've seen movies like DRESSED TO KILL, HALLOWEEN and BLACK Christmas, you can thank your lucky stars that the filmmakers behind those gems were actually giving up props to the man who definitely knows how to get it right...Master of the 'gialli' genre, Dario Argento. His previous work on classics such as BIRD WITH THE CRYSTAL PLUMAGE, FOUR FLIES ON GREY VELVET and CAT O 'NINE TAILS were just red-splattered dress rehearsals for his masterpiece, SUSPIRIA, Part One of his unparalleled Three Mothers Trilogy.Suzy Bannion (PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE'S Jessica Harper) comes from America to a big, brooding dance school in Bavaria to study ballet. What she soon discovers is that the only piece she needs to familiarize herself with is the danse macabre...literally. She unwittingly begins to discover clues and signs that indicate that the school is being run by a coven of witches, bent on resurrecting one of the Three Mothers, three powerful witches from what was thought to be merely a fairy tale. But there's absolutely nothing fairy-tale about the first couple of deaths that occur within the initial fifteen minutes of the movie, which depicts one of the most spectacular murder sequences in horror movie history (and that includes PSYCHO.) The rich, vibrant use of color, (inspired allegedly by Disney's SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS), imprints itself on the senses in a way that doubles the sensory overload, provided by the shocks and the pounding, nerve-jangling score composed and performed by art-rock group Goblin, (the first of their many collaborations with Argento). Where most films are content to pile one shock-and-gore-sequence on top of another, Argento paces the audience by allowing the scenario to ebb and flow, ratcheting up the tension and suspense so that you almost can't wait to see what's coming next, and if it can possibly top the mind-bending terror that preceded it, (which in this case, it does.)Even with the clumsy dub job, (not surprising for films of this period), Jessica Harper and the mostly Italian cast deliver average-to-very good performances. But what you're really neck- deep in SUSPIRIA for is the style and the atmosphere, and Dario does not disappoint.If you've been jaded by one too many red-dyed Karo-syrup splatterfests, treat yourself to SUSPIRIA, one of the true originals. Even if you've already seen it, but not in a while. "},{"Title":"You have just watched&#133;Suspiria","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the characters summed up Suspiria quite concisely at the start of the film. She said, It's all so absurd, so fantastic. I can't think of a better way to begin a description. Sure the gore factor is fake and overkill, the horrible dub job is laughable, and the story is just a jumbled mess that gets loosely tied together by a witch subplot with fifteen minutes left, but there is a lot to like here. The absurdity works for it by creating a dreamlike state and journey through an otherworldly German dance school. Its fantastical elements lend a way to become absorbed in its lush settings, helping allow us to forget the incoherence of it all. The cinematography is quite stunning at times and the use of color and light just magnificent. Add in a killer synth soudtrack from the Goblins and you have some very unsettling stuff. Can one appreciate a film for its artistic merits despite its crude script and performances? I say yes.With a plot concerning an American girl coming to Germany in order to be educated at a prestigious dance academy only to find money-hungry women and grisly murders, you can expect over-the-top craziness. When the darkness between two Greek inspired monuments can cause a dog to bite a man's jugular and kill him and a girl can jump out a window to safety only to fall into a pit of barbed wire, there are no rules. Writer/director Dario Argento seems to have used his fantasy theme as an excuse to show he can creatively kill off characters without being held realistically responsible. The occult plays a huge role in the film and all the weird deaths are easily linked together as events caused by an evil force emanating from the coven of witches that occupy and run the school. Dark magic has no bounds and it will inhabit whatever necessary to inflict the desired action. Whether it the wind, a yellowed snakelike eyed creature outside a window, an otherwise benign seeing eye dog, or one's own body, anything can become a vehicle for homicide.The end of the film really delves into the nightmare/dream state set forth from the start, making it remind me a lot of Twin Peaks and Lynch's Black Lodge with the Red Room. Every architectural setting utilized in the film seems to be a labyrinthine puzzle box to explore. Our lead Suzy eventually finds herself searching through the passageways and hallways in order to finally get some answers to what is happening around her. Turn the purple iris, open the door that holds the living dead, count the footsteps of the instructors to gauge where it is they are going&#151;Suzy is strong willed and sets her mind without faltering. She will not be stopped or scared away from finding out the truth.Played with just the right mix of navet and power, Jessica Harper does an admirable job holding the film up. Her Suzy is caught in the middle of a struggle against dissenters at the school. No one can just leave because once they glimpse the truth, they know too much. She is drugged nightly, manipulated into staying at the school, and constantly experiencing death and disappearance of those around her. Effective as the innocent waif, she also makes her horror movie clich actions appear thought out and possible due to her curiosity rather than stupid and plot progressing like most horror. She opens a door because she wants to, not because that's what we expect in the canon. The rest of the acting is effective, but unfortunately the performances that stick out are because of the horrible over-dubbing. Udo Kier, Mr. Thick German Accent himself, is dubbed over with flawless speech devoid of any accent. You could tell me that it's actually him dubbing his own lines, but I will not believe it. And then there is Rudolf Schndler as his professor colleague; his words are so off track from his mouth movements that I wouldn't be surprised if he was speaking a different language in the visuals. I guess it's all part of the charm and cult quality people have come to love.I will, however, completely praise the artistic merits on display. The set designs are sumptuous and extremely ornate. Each room is painted with a unique pattern and bright, bold colors. Whether an organic, flowery motif or geometrically sharp angles, the camera always tends to settle for at least a brief moment to show off the work. The apartment building that becomes the setting for our first murder is gaudy to perfection with its symmetrical design and colored overhead window. Even the shards of glass sticking out from a woman's body have a sense of beauty to them. But, it is the use of light that truly warrants accolades. The use of red is very prevalent, the connotation to blood an obvious connection, and the light and shadow working along with it helps set the mood with the loud, jarring soundtrack. Composition is carefully planned and through close-ups we are treated to some stunning visuals. The long depth of focus shots are my favorite, between the shot of a maid and the headmistress's nephew shrouded in bright light reflected from a knife to the view of the entranceway as we await Miss Tanner to walk through storming into the rehearsal room, nothing compares to the absolute first sequence. Commencing with Suzy in white against the crowds' sea of red, her approach to the exit is filled with the overpowering score as the camera cuts sharply to her face before the foreboding cut back to the door as its opened, letting the storm brewing outside to be shown. All the safety and security of her once simple life is about to be subjected to the tempest that will threaten to consume her. "},{"Title":"An atmospheric horror film with beautiful cinematography and a memorable score","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first thing you notice when starting Dario Argentno's 1977 cult horror film is the haunting music played over the opening credits. The main theme of the film (performed by Goblin, an Italian rock band) is, for me, one of the more memorable horror themes. Up there with the likes of Halloween and Jaws, it's simple yet effective at the same time. The plot of the film is also quite simple. It's about a 20 year old American dancer (Suzy Banyon played by Jessica Harper) who travels to Europe to enlist in a famous ballet academy. Once there, strange things start happening such as the murder of one of the girls on the night of Suzy's arrival. This leads Suzy on an expedition to uncover the mystery behind these strange occurrences which may even include the supernatural. The plot may seem unoriginal, and maybe it is, but whatever the script is lacking it is made up for by the beautiful cinematography. One of the last films to be shot on three-strip Technicolor, vivid colors are used in nearly every scene. This gives the film a look of its own and adds to the creepy atmosphere. Recommended to any horror fan and any doubters who say horror films can't be art.7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"It is as if Fellini had made a horror film.","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What a visual treat. From the photography, to the framing of the images and the art direction, this film is stunning to look at. Even the actors are perfectly cast for their bizarre features that fit the role. It is as if Fellini had made a horror film. Raise the volume and you would be disappointed in what it has to offer. The only saving grace in the sound department is the soundtrack by, Zombie. You could label the music as a piece of industrial experimental horror music! The script itself is a convoluted muddled piece of childish gibberish nonsense. But don't let that get in the way of the spectacular visionary brilliance of Dario Agento and his crew. "},{"Title":"The Atmosphere makes the movie","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The basic plot of this movie is that an American ballet student goes to a prestigious ballet school. Upon arriving during a storm she sees a student dash out mumbling mostly incoherent words. After wards she is refused entrance and she goes home. It then cuts to the girl who ran away and goes through her death sequence. Afterwards the girl arrives at the school the next day. Over the course of the weeks, weird occurrences start to happen as members of the school are mysteriously killed. It all leads up to the point at which the American girl decides to see where the staff goes at night, Once she finds the secret out she kills the mastermind and leaves the school, which erupts into flames.If you're looking for a horror movie to scare the crap out of you...don't look here. This is more of those movies that create suspense to get it's point across. If you get into the atmosphere and mystery of the movie, you will find a very enjoyable experience, but if you want your gore, and people popping out from nowhere, look somewhere else. This movie fits in the suspense genre more than horror. The ending is predictable and pretty badly done. Overall it's pretty good, but considering the crap that Hollywood is producing, I'd like to see something like this done a bit better and more often. "},{"Title":"A must-see for horror fans","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Alternately chilling and comical, this is easily one of Argento's best.The story itself is basically a paint by numbers of horror movies before it, involving an American girl in Germany studying ballet, but what really sets it apart is the atmosphere. In Argento's earlier movies, he used a lot of darkness to achieve tension. However, Suspiria takes a different approach, displaying vivid colors to heighten the terror.The score, as usual in Argento undertakings, is done by the Goblins. Personally, I felt that Deep Red was ruined because of their contributions, but this time they pleasantly surprised me. The music managed to fit in rather than stick out here.Truly enjoying this movie is a matter of forgiving the dialogue and plot and simply appreciating the artistic accomplishments of a horror movie that proves to be as beautiful as it is scary. "},{"Title":"Do you know anything about witches?","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the things that strike you immediately about Dario Argento's Suspiria is the richness of the color. The reddest reds, the bluest blues, even the black and white is pure. Against this backdrop of color the redness of the blood shows brilliantly.And, there will be blood. A double-murder starts it flowing in the beginning of the film, and a zombie at the end is dripping it as you are constantly terrified throughout. The maggots were the most disgusting thing I have seen and I have never seen them used like this before.The music was outstanding and the sound was terrifying. This film didn't need any special effects magic, the sound and music made it the most creepy thing imaginable.Alida Valli is the most evil thing I can imagine. I can't wait to see her in Inferno. "},{"Title":"7 out of 10","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Terrifying film about an American student that enrolls at a European ballet academy that is plagued by a series of grizzly murders and it looks like she is next. To make things worse, it appears the faculty is a coven of witches. Colorful, expertly structured horror film is a triumpth of direction and score and that opening and ending is amongst the best in horror cinema history.... now if only they had worked on the script a little bit more. Well anyways Jessica Harper and Joan Bennett both turn in good performances. Not to mention a good script and the ending is like wow! Rent it or buy it, if you must. Because you won't feel safe in the dark again!Unrated for Extreme Graphic Violence. "},{"Title":"The word la will never be immaculate again!","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Yes, there is a song in this movie where an ominous voice sings, La la la, in hushed tones. It's so...silly. It's sad. The scariest thing about this movie is the second of the two songs that plays over and over in the movie. It's just plain creepy with it's repetitive thumping noises and brassy crescendo. The movie itself is dull, the coven plot, kinda boring, but it comes alive when that second song starts up and people start getting killed in the most eye-popping ways. Dario Argento is like Lucio Fulci with a sense of style. This is another one of those brightly colored and bloody foreign films that is merely an exorcise in style. "},{"Title":"The Visuals Make This Film Scary.","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A young American woman travels to Europe to attend a school for dancing. When she begins to notice creepy images and sounds around the buildings she soon discovers that there is dark evil behind the walls.Dario Argento is known as the Master of the Macabre. He has a very devoted cult following and granted he should. Argento has an impressive eye for colour and a great ear for music in his films to give them the uneasy feel of something eerie. Even though Suspiria is deemed his best work, it fails to keep the creep factor and shock value one would expect from the hands of Argento, and becomes a film that is more artistic then scary.Argento basically disregards the plot and decides to focus on colours and music to scare his audience. He does this beautifully, Suspiria is one of the few horror films that uses colour to it's advantage. The reds, blues and greens used in the film fit perfectly for each scene and turns them into a visual nightmare. Argento takes these scenes up a notch by adding eerie music, that blends with the colour scheme and go down in history as some of the scariest scenes in horror cinema.Suspiria opens with one of the most brutal deaths ever filmed on screen. A poor woman running away from her nightmares is stabbed, hung, stabbed again, ripped open and her heart stabbed, yet again. It is truly brutal and will stay in your mind well after the film is finished. The film has a hard time trying to continue it's shock and entertainment value after that scene though. Aside from two mediocre scenes that involve a dog's bite to the jugular and a room full of barbed wires, Suspiria falls victim to it's own success.You may be wondering why with all this beautiful work done on this film did I not enjoy it? Well, I did to an extent. It is a beautiful film and it is filmed very well from a director that knows exactly what he wanted to do. The only problem is that the film, with all it's artistic merit is boring. Yes, it is boring. When you want a horror film about witches and demons, you want something to keep you either on the edge of your seat or hiding behind a blanket. Other then the opening death scene the film is just a film to respect, not fear. I respect this film, I hold it in high regard for it's technical achievements, but for entertainment value, Suspiria fails to keep my attention. Suspiria is Argento's high point film, it is his best, but it's not at the same time.If you're a fan of Argento and appreciate his style, or a style like his, this film will astound you, you'll be in for a treat. If you want to see one of the most brutal deaths filmed for the screen, watch the beginning, then turn it off. Suspiria is an overrated film that is getting acknowledgements in the areas that it shouldn't. "}{"Title":"Has problems, but very intense atmosphere.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've read many of the negative reviews here and I have to agree with many of the criticisms (it doesn't make any sense, some of the scenes seem incomprehensible, it's implausable, the dubbing is bad, etc.)However despite that, I have to say this is a good horror film..simply for the fact that there are some very eerie sequences in it (which right away puts it above any horror film made today). In fact can anyone even name a recent horror movie that they were even remotely scared by??The main strengths of the film are it's production design (after The Shining this is the best looking horror film I've ever seen). The lighting it very well done with the bathing of scenes in red, green and orange. Goblin's score is outstanding with the synthesizer and the wierd chanting. This would actually be the perfect movie for a Halloween party, people can laugh at it and be disturbed by it at the same time. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Interesting Film","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  On the whole, I thought that this was a good film.  The storyline, while fantastic, held together and had its own internal logic. Suzy Bannion is a new pupil at a dance school in Germany with rather peculiar staff.  A series of bizarre murders take place and Suzy sets out to find out what's going on, with the aid of a friend of one of the dead girls. She is horrified by what she discovers.......The acting was good (although the dubbing was not always the greatest) and it was shot very well - predominantly dark and brooding to emphasise the evil that was at work.  I also particularly liked the use of red, blue and green filters.  Presumably there is some great symbolic meaning to this, but other than the red heralding the occasional gore that was to follow, I'm afraid that I have singularly failed to see what this might be.Suzy's vulnerability, and the fact that the majority of the action happens within the dance school should have helped to maintain the tension, as the rather bizarre murders begin to take place.  The gestapo like teachers were suitably horrid.  However, the music which was presumably meant to heighten the fear and lead us up to the grizly climax just began to grate after a while.  This meant that, despite the fact that I scare quite easily (I didn't like the scarab beetles in the Mummy, for example) I wasn't actually terribly frightened.At only just over one and a half hours in length, though, it is well worth a watch as it certainly does not outstay its welcome.  Good, eerie entertainment.  If you enjoyed this, then I would recommend 'Don't Look Now' - an equally eerie (and slightly superior) horror thriller from the same era. "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A young American dancer travels to Europe to join a famous ballet school. As she arrives, the camera turns to another young woman, who appears to be fleeing from the school. She returns to her apartment where she is gruesomely murdered by a hideous creature. Meanwhile, the young American is trying to settle in at the ballet school, but hears strange noises and is troubled by bizarre occurrences. She eventually discovers that the school is merely a front for a much more sinister organisation. Excellent film, scary throught, well-acted, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The only thing more terrifying than the last 12 minutes of this film are the first 92.","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   Horror films were banned in Italy until the 1950s with the release of Hammer's DRACULA. Until then, the closest thing the Italian audience had seen to terrifying was Walt Disney's SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS. Directors like Mario Bava and Dario Argento saw SNOW WHITE and were inspired by it during their own ventures into terror. Bur Argento never came close to showing his love for SNOW WHITE more than in 1977 with the release of SUSPIRIA. When seen today, it's no wonder that SUSPIRIA remains one of the two Argento titles to have a successful theatrical run in North America (his debut BIRD WITH A CRYSTAL PLUMAGE grossed to the #1 spot). Suzie Bannion (Jessica Harper from PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE) is a young American ballerina who arrives in Germany to join a famous ballet school. The same dark stormy night she arrives, a mysterious girl (Eva Axen) is murdered (in one of the most shocking murder scenes ever shot) and many other strange events start happening at the academy. What is going on? This is the question that Suzie, her friend Sarah, (Stefania Casadini) and the audience will be left asking during the 98 minutes of SUSPIRIA (notice the mathematical mistake at the tagline) and like most of Italian horror, it lacks a logic narrative. We know there is something weird involving witchcraft in this school and we know Joan Bennet is behind it (when Joan Bennet runs your school, you know there is something wrong) but a logical explanation is never given, for the better. The film's tagline is referring to the first 15 minutes, which indeed are horrifying as hell. The image of the hanged blood-soaked Eva Axen remained in the mind Wes Craven, who would pay tribute to it in the opening of SCREAM, (1996) but he didn't come even close.   This is one visual masterpiece that uses the story as a backseat to the breathtaking cinematography by Luciano Trovoli, (MURDER BY NUMBERS)the haunting musical score by Goblin, (DAWN OF THE DEAD) and the dark nightmarish situations from Dario Argento. SUSPIRIA is indeed one of the better photographed films from the 20th century. This is one of those rare occasions that you could choose a random shot and hang it in a museum. Before shooting the movie, Trovolini and Argento carefully studied SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS in order to give SUSPIRIA a fairy tale atmosphere. Jessica Harper's large eyes and skin make her one heir apparent to Snow White herself. Either the the dance academy's red hallways, or the dark blue shadows attic, or the futuristic daylight scene with amazing architecture (early shades of Argento's TENEBRE). Trovoli's camera is always up to interesting moves, like the tracking shot of Alida Valli's feet as she walks to a crate. Argento and his wife Daria Nicolodi (who was supposed to play Suzy before Harper snatched the role) scripted SUSPIRIA based on Thomas De Quincey's drug induced essay Suspiria de Profundis as well real life events that happened to Nicolodi's grandmother. The great Udo Kier goes further with that on his important scene in the film I believe that bad luck doesn't come from broken mirrors, but from broken minds. The script of SUSPIRIA is far from bad, but it is hardly remarkable and the artificial sounding dubbing limit the actors to express themselves visually like the silent film era (Harper, with her expressive Bette Davis eyes, is the true standout). But the technical elements like music, cinematography, and direction make SUSPIRIA the dark fairy tale that SNOW WHITE A TALE OF TERROR (1997) should have been. From the once upon a time narration to the explosive finale, it could be easily translated to a children's storybook. A Halloween storybook that is.  (4.5/5)   "},{"Title":"Freaky man, Freaky!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I viewed this Argento flick with little or no previous knowledge of it.  I've heard many people say it was a must see for all horror fans. Guess what, they were right.  While not the most terrifying movie, it certainly is atmospheric and Argento delivers a directing coup.Bottom Line  7/10 - Great Ending!! "},{"Title":"Unique","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria is in a league of its own.  Dario Argento truly has the artistic directing skill to  make environments look scary with use of vivid colors and different camera angles.  I  love how the movie uses dark reds and greens to accentuate the rooms. The architecture of the dance academy is impressive on its own.  I have never been to  Europe but I would love to see the building designs if there are anything like they were  in the movie.The special effects, for todays standard, are pretty outdated but I can easily see how this  would be so scary in the late 70s.  Most horror movies today (especially produced by  American Hollywood) just slap the evil demon together with CGI effects and don't  actually use any skill in creating scary moments.7/10 for horror genre.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Old School Gothic Horror","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If I had seen this in 1977, I would have completely freaked out.The SFX are dated, which in this day and age detracts from the horror, but the suspense is top notch, created by the excellent cinematography, sets, and the music.The suspense is long and drawn out.  In a lesser film, this would be tedious.  But in this film, feeling it build as the camera floats through the menacing sets (fans of M C Escher will delight to familiar motifs on the walls), your eye distracted by the eerie and ever changing lighting schemes, and your ears riveted to the unsettling score, it works.No cheap thrills here.  There are elements here from Kubrick's The Shining and from Hitchcock's Psycho.  But it has very little in common with anything from Tobe Hooper or George Romero.  Some will find it one of the scariest films ever, and some will lose patience with the pacing.  But if you know what Gothic Horror is, and you like your Poe and your old European tales of evil among us, then this is a must-see. "},{"Title":"One very bizarre fairy tale!","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dario Argento is hard for me to figure out. In this movie he has a fairly good cast, great visuals, and some of the most brutal murder scenes ever. While I really like this movie, I'm still not sure how I feel about Dario. He's really hit or miss in his style. Suspiria is great but if you see it and love it, don't rush out and buy his whole catalog expecting more films of this caliber.The whole movie is highly stylized, and the visual feeling he creates are stunning. A lot of red and blue lighting keeps the atmosphere going, and give it that world of witches feel. Some of the dialogue is really cheesy, but you should know going into an Italian horror movie that there are some concessions that have to be made in order to truly appreciate it.I go back and watch this one frequently, and I would recommend it to all serious horror fans. Casual fans should stay away though due to its extremely graphic content. If you like this one and want to see what else Argento can do, see 'Tenebrae' and 'Deep Red'. Most of his others are for completists only.One final thing I will say about Dario is that, while a lot of his catalog is trash, he's way more talented than most of his counterparts such as Lucio Fulci.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Psychedelic naive Horror !!","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Horror is one of my favourite genres and European horror is some of the most atmospheric and explicit horror in the world. Films such as Tenebrae and Contamination had me hooked from my early teens with there stylish direction and over the top gore! I didn't see Suspiria for years until it was released uncut on video in the UK in the 90s. Like many others who have commentated here the film didn't quite live up to my imagination's renderings of this 'Holy Grail' of Fantasy / Horror. It didn't help that the video was fairly washed out and that VHS is generally not a good medium for all that bold colour. However, I saw it by chance on Channel 4 last night and the cleaned up print made me realise what a work of art Suspiria is. Beautiful and inventive camera work and cinematography. Suspiria is an assault on the senses and probably works best after a little wacky backy if you're that way inclined - watching it on LSD may warp your mind forever so maybe best not go for that approach!!!My main concern with Suspiria and many other Euro Horrors is it's attitude to Occult matters. The witches are portrayed as fairy tale evil doers and so called 'Occult experts' in the film turn up to warn our heroine of the evils of witchcraft. Argento states that he has undertaken Occult rearch for his films but also states that he doesn't believe in Witches !!! This suggests that he doesn't understand the reality of Witchcraft at all and has a simplistic (possibly catholic) view of the Occult and alternative religions. So if you are a witch, be prepared to be appalled at the bad rap you get in this movie ! Well, that's my little rant on the subject - just had to get it off my chest.Besides all that - get the DVD - roll a fat one - and have your head twisted with some of the finest Cinematography ever to grace a Horror movie !!!! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of horror","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria is a truly great movie.  One of the things that makes it so wonderful is the haunting music done by the band Goblin.  It's downright hard to listen to their music at night in the dark.  With music like that Suspiria is likely to be the scariest movie you will ever hear, except for maybe Eraserhead (best sound ever).  The first and last are the downright scariest but there are others inbetween that will still scare you.  Despite the fact that the movie is slow after the first murder it's still not so slow that it diverts your attention and bores.  Jessica Harper may not be the greatest actress in the world but she is beautiful along with some other girls in the movie.  The first murder in the movie is known as the most brutal ever put to film and I agree.  That still is not to say this movie uses only gore to scare you.  It uses music, imagery, story, etc.  All the killings are not just regular slasher murders.  They're all rather creative.  A barbwire murder and possession of a dog are two creative murder methods.  The Romanian guy looks as creepy as hell.  There really isn't much more to say except rent if you are a horror buff but if the kind of horror movies you consider to be the best are ones like Scream avoid this one until you become a fan of cult horror, and can stand a low-budget flick made in the 1970's.      "}{"Title":"There is no doubt","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am tired of reading people putting this film down . It is a film ..... If you have not seen it in a theatre then you are not getting the full experience . It was also released in 4 track magnetic stereo and what a sound mix it has. It is all very well seeing it it in your own home . Imagine in a theatre on a gigantic screen with sound assaulting you from everywhere . Then there is no doubt this is one of the great horror films.Philo .    "},{"Title":"A fine work.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria is one of Italian horror director Dario Argento's finest achievements. It is extremely effective in terms of creepiness and scares! The simple story holds so much thanks to a fabulous director. The basic story is that an American dancer arrives in Europe to begin classes at a famous ballet school, but ends up uncovering a witches coven. The opening is terrifying and one of the best examples of mood in a film. The score by Goblin is amazing. When it's played in the movie, your flesh just crawls. Everyone knows by now that Argento favors style over substance, so if you like great scripts, dialogue, and acting, keep away! But this movie has so much style that it completely makes up for the lack of substance. The film astounds you and works to scare the daylights out of you psychologically. The music, the sets, the violence...it's all pounded in and really gets to you. The film looks dreamy thanks to an old Technicolor process that adds surreal tones and effective colors, giving it a dreamlike, fairy tale look. It works. There are many complaints about plot holes and lack of sense...it was all on purpose. None of that matters, this is all a nightmare, and like real nightmares, nothing makes sense. This is better than anything that overrated Hitchcock could do. I would definitely recommend this, but keep in mind it is not for everyone. If anyone hates movies that don't have a lot to them, they'll hate this. It's simple, direct, and VERY effective. A masterpiece in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Moody masterpiece","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria has garnered a set of mixed reviews on IMDB, but the film worked for me. Argento's use of color, musical score, lighting and camera movement combine to create a moody masterpiece.  The four or five scenes of violence each deliver something unusual and memorable.  Jessica Harper is hauntingly beautiful as the American student in unfamiliar surroundings.   There were several moments that will stay with me - the opening murders, the blind pianist's death, even a simple scene like Jessica Harper standing in a downpour and asking the taxi driver for help with her bags - and not receiving any response or help at all, thus creating a sense of detachment.Yes, there are indeed some unexplained aspects of the storyline, say, instances where the motivation of the coven is unclear. But why insist that everything be clear? We're dealing with the supernatural not with an Agatha Christie murder mystery.Suspiria does some things extremely well and delivers a cinematic experience that is top rank.  I gave it 9/10. "},{"Title":"Barbed wire","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Since Psycho, I hadnt seen anything that made it unable for me to sleep for at least 2 months. Never before did I experience such a fear after seeing a horror film. The attacking dog scene, the frenzied music,and the barbed wire scene make it all into the most violent of horror films I know. However, the visuals are indeed stunning and the acting is subdued so the psychological effect is thousand times bigger. A masterpiece,indeed. "},{"Title":"Effective","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The film has some hammy acting, and often the editing does a poor job of establishing fundamental narrative details, but this is a strong piece of over-the-top Dario Argento style. Convoluted gore, ugly images like the infestation of maggots, a colour palette of harsh, extreme primary colours and the pounding score of ghoulish Italian rock do a good job of keeping us arrested and impressed. Perhaps not the classic that its hardened fans make out, but surely worth a look. "},{"Title":"Marvelous and stylish","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The premise of director Dario Argento's Suspiria is pedestrian (a renown Italian dance academy may actually be the cover for a coven of witches), but his approach to the material is anything but. On the contrary, this 1977 horror film is a feast for the senses. The imaginative sets are lit in eye-popping blues, reds and greens, lending the film a garish and nightmarish quality. Meanwhile, Goblin's legendary score pounds in the background, keeping viewers perpetually on edge. Although the story takes a backseat to style, Suspiria manages to surprise with several disturbing and effective set pieces. Highly recommended for horror enthusiasts and those who are curious about Italian horror cinema. "},{"Title":"Argento's finest film","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Argento's finest film,that combines all his eccentric filmaking skills and delivers a dazzling,visually stunning horror,that for once has an almost coherent plot.Jessica Harper is his best ever lead actress,as an innocent abroad embroiled in a world of black magic.Having the film set all in one place helps,and the dance school is a great location.Apart from Harper the acting is variable,ranging from fair to bloody awful,but its Argento's set pieces that impress the most.The vicious double murder at the beginning is stunning,and is typical Argento.Also good is the rain of maggots in the school,the room full of steel wire,the night spent in the gym,and the final confrontation between Harper and the ancient witch.The film looks great thanks to the use of a special film stock that make the images onsceen literally bleed colour.Also good is the music by Goblin,who have created a very effective score which is the icing on the cake for Argento's stylish and brauva masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Review #9","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, now I understand why people think this is a great movie and I hope to think the same thing when I can get a hold of the DVD.But for now all I have is the uncut EP video. The picture quality wasn't very good and hurt the creepiness of movie.Okay, onto the real review. The director does an utterly amazing job. The working of deep reds and dark blues make it feel like an acid trip the music is completely terrifying and isn't your stereotypical horror music.The problem I have is the acting. The leads are good but the supporting cast blows. And the version I have has some very bad vocal dubbing, it is almost as bad as watching a movie from Japan. So, it was creepy out and I was entertained, so I give it a 7 out of 10 and maybe more when I get the DVD. Also, the ending wasn't all that great, the evil one seemed just too cheesy. "},{"Title":"One of the 100 best","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a classic horror film. With a visual style all of it's own. A great story line, and wonderful gore this is by far one of the best horror films ever made. But you can say that about almost any Argento film. "},{"Title":"Argento's Brilliant Atmosphere Vastly Improves a Simple Plot","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  	Dario Argento's Suspiria is regarded by many as a horror classic, and others as mindless drivel.  Having recently watched it, I've found that the film itself is rather simple, but is regarded as a classic because the brilliant atmosphere created by the direction and score is able to add suspense and character to what would otherwise be a bland, standard film.	The plot is surprisingly plain, perhaps because it's been rehashed many times before and since.  I usually don't prefer to do plot summary in my reviews, but Suspiria can be summed up in one sentence a new girl at a renowned dance school discovers that strange supernatural murders are occurring that appear to be related to her teachers and headmasters.  Perhaps the other reason this plot is so simple nowadays is that the concept of an occult evil occurring unknowingly under one's nose at a place with any fame, is ludicrous in light of today's tabloid media.  Although the plot should be and is for the most part executed well, there are still one or two holes, but there are also a lot of scenes that just seem really funny.  Not to mention occasionally the dubbing becomes a little too obvious.	That being said, the film is still intriguing because all of its other aspects are beautiful.  Argento presents the audience with his trademark macabre shots; although not very gory, killings and bodies are presented at viewpoints that are noticeably different than in American cinema (some still look cheesy because of their age, but others, such as the eyes in the window shot near the beginning, are very effective).   Argento is also brilliant at warping the concept of light as safe and good; light is usually only shown as a predecessor to something terrible, making it seem rather evil.  Argento's effective use of darkness is at first distracting, but once adjusted to it adds incredibly to the sense of evil in the atmosphere.	The other piece that adds greatly to the film's eerie atmosphere is the score.  Composed by the band Goblin, it's one of the best soundtracks to ever grace horror cinema, and even cinema in general.  It gives Argento's imagery an even more haunting dream-like impression, and, similar to John Carpenter's famous Halloween theme, never fails to bring tension to a scene.	What Suspiria lacks plot wise in originality, it makes up for with style, and instead of style over substance, the style works with and greatly improves upon its little substance.  Unfortunately, that style isn't readily appreciated by mainstream fans; even for those who do appreciate it, after over 25 years it's beginning to show signs of wearing thin (e.g. the scenes that are unintentionally funny).  However, Argento is still looked upon favorably as a Euro-horror innovator in the art-house/horror circles, however, and seeing Suspiria, one of his more well-known pictures, it's obvious why.  "}{"Title":"Unique Horror","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved watching this film, the lighting, setting and music are so expressive, and make the story a joy to watch unfold. Sure , there are a few dodgy elements, lame blood effects, and a profoundly un-scary dog attack. But the film is much more about atmosphere and sensation than believability. See it late at night with the lights turned low and the sound way up. "},{"Title":"Flawed but worth seeing","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Having heard such mixed things about Suspiria, I was actually somewhat pleasantly surprised.  My main interest in seeing the movie was because of Joan Bennett and Alida Valli.The sets are quite marvelous and the opening sequence appropriately gripping.  I can't say that I was scared by the film.  The maggot sequence was actually pretty funny.  One minute they're dropping all over the place and the next there's poor Joan Bennett (I read somewhere that she did the film so she could go abroad) in her best finishing school posture and accent explaining away the problem. Don't get me wrong, but there are some genuinely creepy bits.  The scene with Jessica Harper walking down the hall and seeing the old woman and the little boy and then her dance class with the sadistic Alida Valli character was unnerving.The script needed some work.  It is, as others have said, a very dreamlike/nightmarish film, but I need some sort of narrative cohesion in my movies. I also have to agree with the reviewer here who questioned the whole sleep apnea thing.The acting is . . . uneven.  Jessica Harper does fairly well as the young woman who's come to the dancing school and discovers there's much more going on.  I'm not sure what to say about Bennett and Valli.  I've seen it suggested that their performances were supposed to be like that--why, I don't know--but it would be to their credit if that were the case, because both of them gave much better performances in their careers.  Still, glad I saw it and I will probably watch it again. "},{"Title":"This is why Dario Argento is the master of horror!","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  We know Dario Argento from 'Profondo Rosso', 'Demoni' and 'La Chiesa'. He is a masterful person who's direction and writing has inspired many great other people to work in the film industry. This movie named 'Suspiria' has scared the hell out of me everytime I watched it! The manic set pieces, the direction and the suspense. Its too good! A girl goes to join a ballet school and finds strange occurances. After 10 minutes of the movie, 2 people are brutally killed creatively with some terrifying suspense. The bizarre music by 'Goblin' is different with everything from hissing and wailing. The direction for the scenes is creative and unique. There is a huge open air park, a blind man and his dog, they get the feeling they are being watched, a pigeon is the only thing there. We get to see this through the pigeons eyes. It's dark and scary with a big build up of horrible music to some climax. Suddenly it goes quiet and for no reason at all, the blind mans dog pounces at him and devours his neck. Tearing through the flesh in graphic detail like a roast pork. This is suspense at its best and Argento wears his direction with pride. If you see an Argento movie, see 'Suspiria'.  "},{"Title":"A nightmare for the waking world","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dario Argento redefined horror in 1977 with his masterpiece Suspiria. This is the Citizen Kane of Italian cinema. A Brother's Grimm Fairy Tale of immensely nightmarish proportions. Driven by a cataleptic internal logic Suspiria has the inherent structure of madness. In such a creation a large suspension of disbelief is needed. From the first moment our heroine (Suzy Banyon) is taken from the real world on the darkest and stormiest night of them all and left in the middle of a German forest at an all girls Dance Academy. From the outset Suzy is thrust into an increasingly malevolent environment. Although her character is for the most part bathed in ignorance of her situation (and impending peril), she does manage to piece together the haunting and supernatural secret of the Dance Academy.The uses of sets, props, music and most importantly color, play a much more narrative role than the dialogue. Some of the characters are anonymous and exist for little reason, much like the guy wearing sandals in front of you at the grocery store.The score to Suspiria was actually created before production began on the film. Argento would play this music on set during filming to create a darker atmosphere for the talent. His use of savage bodily intrusions is oddly offset by the stunning photography. Suspiria is the last film ever to be shot on three strip technicolor. A process where three separate negatives, each one sensitive to only one wavelength of light (red, green, blue) are exposed at once. This is the same process used for such films as Gone With the Wind and the brief color interlude in Chaney's Phantom of the Opera. It creates a very surreal and super saturated color effect. This combined with a classically inspired, yet very renaissance picture composition leaves an image that is unlike any recent addition in the horror genre.This film is not for everyone. Good, who wants them in our club anyway? I've waited for this DVD for years. Turn the lights out, crank the stereo to eleven, grab your woman and hold on. They don't make them like this anymore.  "},{"Title":"This film is gorgeous","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Some have said the acting sucks, the effects are crap and the editing is bad. Whatever, the bottom line is that Suspiria is one of those films that influenced tonnes of people, but of course never got the recognition it deserved. It's the only Argento film I've seen, and it completely blew me away. When a film has so much to offer in terms of originality (set design, lighting, camera angles, etc) then it's worth sitting through so-called bad acting. Who cares that some of the dialogue seemed stilted? You think Scream or Armageddon was filled with believable situations and dialogue?Suspiria IS creepy, and it doesn't need to be obvious, like way too many horror movies are these days. The scene at the beginning with the taxi driving through the forest sets the tone. You know this is not going to be a typical horror film. And it just gets better and better. I walked away from Suspiria thinking I just went to the coolest art gallery in the world.It's so easy for us to accept the big movies, and all the redundancy and staleness of them, since these are the movies that fill the giant multiplexes. But when you see a film like Suspiria, you know you're viewing something totally unique, and no matter how much you may want to criticize it, you must be able to appreciate Argento's vision and realize Suspiria's importance.   "},{"Title":"Psychedelic masterpiece","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Thunder and lightning, flamboyant colors, an awesome set-design plus the strong and pounding score make this one of the finest works of Dario Argento. An overall psychedelic experience that will stay with you for the rest of your movie-life. Many claim this to be the best of his efforts, and I don't think they're necessarily wrong.Once again Dario shows that he's a pure genius in creating tension and atmosphere. This time around a girl from the U.S arrives in Germany to stay at a famous ballet-school, intentionally to improve her skills. Very soon grisly murders occur and the trails of unbound evil lead to the very gloomy, mansion-like boarding school, which may accommodate not only harmless ballet-dancers.              Many critics point out, that Dario Argento generally doesn't offer much beyond the undoubtedly visual greatness and rich atmosphere of his movies, like credible characters and a strong narration. They simply forget that his movies are all about pictures and sound, they're aesthetic statements in the first place. Everything else has to serve the main intention. I think we have enough movies out there, failing in terms of showing believable characters and catching the viewer with a complex yet coherent story, even though they're made intentionally for that purpose. Argento concentrates on what he does best - and succeeds. Highly recommended.  Rating 8/10                 "},{"Title":"Mostly good but falls down in places","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Argento (the director of Suspiria) is like a cross between David Lynch and Ed Wood. Well perhaps that's unfair because this film rarely hits any real lows but when it does its unfortunately laughable. Other scenes are terrific. I liked the whole premise of Suspiria - its logic is the logic of a nightmare. The film is ripe for a remake and David Lynch is the man. He'd certainly sort out the film's weakest point - the ending. Trouble is he would probably ditch the film's Goblin soundtrack. This is a cross between a nursery rhyme and Black Sabbath and, I think, the film's most powerful element (although I know some people found it annoying). "},{"Title":"give a chance...was chopped to pieces on initial release","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i recently saw the dvd of suspiria. i had seen a videotape version a few years ago. i can completely understand, after having seen what poor treatment this film received from its distributor upon initial release in america, that someone would watch it and think it is a complete piece of crap. i can, for instance, remember argento's bravura crane shot, where the camera tracks over the bldg, was simply cut...excised...the whole middle of the shot. not to mention hot, distrorted audio, a grainy, washed out print, and other inncocuous and choppy edits. this is the kind of treatment given to a film considered one of europe's finesy horror fiolms.i would encvourage anyone who has seen it in what appears to be this excised form to give it another chance. having recently seen it again on dvd, i was impressed by the print, which emphasizes both argento's brilliant camerawork, use of the anamorphic frame, and the dazzling, vivid color. while american audiences may find the somehat melodramatic performances, spotty dubbing, and slightly askew narrative a bit distracting, there are moments of pure genius in the film. some scenes, while a bit dated, are startling i their ability to frighten someone who, like myself, is pretty jaded when it comes to this genre. all in all, if you can qllow yourself to enter the slightly askew, dreamlike world of this film, you will be richly rewarded... "},{"Title":"a psychadelic symphony of colours and feelings","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the best films I have ever watched. Dario Argento proves to us that Europeans can also make excellent horror films, if not better than Hollywood productions. This film is more about an assault of the subconscious by methods impressionism. I do not agree that this is a gorey film or that it is very bloody, because it isn't. The feeling of terror is transmitted to the viewer by the appropriate athmosphere - the red color, the color of evil.  "},{"Title":"an absolute masterpiece of both surrealism and horror","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  anyone who sees this film as 'overrated' or 'hyped' methinks must be a dull and unimaginative person to say the least.  probably the best horror movie to come out of the 70's, which was a horror movie renaissance of sorts, argento's brainchild is nothing less than unbelievably atmospheric and unspeakably terrifying, and is much more than mere eye candy. susy banyon (an admittedly one dimensional and boring character) is accepted to a prestigious dance academy in a foreign country, and from the beginning to the end this movie will totally hypnotize the movie viewer with even a little bit of aesthetic sensibility.  argento is what we might call an italian surrealist, passionately affirming the world of the imagination with his illustrious and fascinating works of absolute genius. disdainful of tiresome and prosaic 'realism', it is true that argento places the emphasis more on style than on plot, but unlike his misguided critics i feel that this works to his favor as oppposed to his detriment.  the only weakness in suspiria is the plot and even this is only weak CONCEPTUALLY, because it works beautifully when actually used.  argento may not be the cream of the crop as far as depicting the mundane part of life goes, but he is nonetheless infinitely superior to anyone who canhe identifies with and lives in the extraordinary and mystical and wants us to do the same.  a masterpiece.   "}{"Title":"As good as it gets.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Holding out to see the top of Italian horror?  Here it is.  See why Dario Argento is considered a modern horror master.   From beginning to end, he creates a disturbing mood, which will last long after the final frame.  The story has since been ripped off countless times, but never pulled off quite so well.  Yes, bad dubbing can be a distraction, but stick with it.  Stick with uncut versions, as the edited versions tend to be choppy.   And as a warning, Italian horror is for those with strong stomachs only. "},{"Title":"Gory Italian classic sets the precedent","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The ultimate European horror film, Suspiria is one of those pictures where everything comes together perfectly. It contains the most brilliant use of color I've ever had the pleasure of seeing; lurid yellows, blues, greens, and blood reds gush from the screen at every turn, and they're magnificently applied to bizarre Gothic-modern sets and decor. Luciano Tovoli's lens glides over everything like an otherworldly specter as Goblin's electronic rock score chimes, pants, and crashes away on the soundtrack. The result makes you tense up even when nothing important is happening on screen...or is it?But even as the build-up puts you on the edge of your seat, the shocks immediately shove you right off. The murders are thoroughly sadistic yet beautifully presented and are never quite what you would expect. And they don't occur just when you think they will, allowing you to partially exhale before choking on it. Like a true maestro, Dario Argento lets you off the hook for a brief split-second before ramming it deep into your flesh.Wide-eyed Jessica Harper, resembling a beautiful china doll, is perfect as delicate heroine Susy Banyon. Stefania Casini is memorable as her sexy friend. Alida Valli makes a great dominatrix, and Dark Shadows' Joan Bennet, clad in a succession of Walt Disney birthday cakes, is ornately imposing as the stuffy administrator. Every facet comes together fantastically, resulting in a hellish fairy tale brimming with hallucinatory panic and suffocating tension. This pulsating chunk of raw terror is the ultimate testament to Argento's talent. I first saw it years ago on the Sci-Fi Channel, and even in a butchered-for-TV state, it scared the living hell out of me. Truly astounding, Suspiria is horror that like you've never experienced it before. "},{"Title":"Suspense!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was a pretty intense movie.  It was the third Argento movie I've seen, the first two were TRAUMA and PHANTOM OF THE OPERA, which I've been told are quite different from his other movies.  If this is a standard Argento film, he is a genius...this movie is filled with brilliant colors that really would enhance the movie if it was possible to obtain a new version with enhanced colors.  Suspiria is also FILLED with suspense.  Some of the scenes are very edge-of-your-seat.  The acting is great, and of course the directing is superb.  Despite what some think, this is not a gorefest, although there are some bloody scenes.  This is just a really good horror movie, and I encourage everyone to rent it.  It is a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Surreal Nightmare Masterpiece","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" `The only thing more terrifying than the last ten minutes of this film are the first 90'.   The tagline for Suspiria, one of the most acclaimed films of cult Italian director Dario Argento, is no idle claim, as it's one of the scariest films you are likely to see. The story, for what it's worth, deals with Suzy Bannion (the doe-eyed Jessica Harper), an American who travels to study at the celebrated Freiburg Dance Academy in Germany, only to find that something evil lurks behind it's walls.  Argento sets his film deep in the heart of Europe, the world of Dracula & Frankenstein, & he draws on old-fashioned horror tales like these for a full-on slice of Grand-Guignol mayhem.  It's Hansel & Gretel on acid.  Argento & cinematographer Luciano Tovoli bathe the startlingly designed sets with a ravishing succession of deep reds & blues, creating a hallucinatory atmosphere like a twisted nightmare world.  Adding to this feel is the maniacally screaming score by Argento & rock group Goblin, with it's weird moans, load thrashes, distorted cries of `Witch!', & habit of starting & stopping suddenly. We see the hairy arms of a killer (Argento himself), but his identity is irrelevant, & Argento also uses animal attacks (including maggots, & a bat) to supreme effect. Ultimately, the fear is not of a mere slasher, but some nameless dread, a sense of all-pervading evil.  This is the closest anyone has got yet to a filmed nightmare. But what of the flaws, then.  Those wanting realism, strong plotting & strong characterisation will be disappointed, although the lack of these actually adds to the unique feel of the film.  To not let yourself be drawn into Argento's nightmare world is like laughing, an easy way out for the weak & cowardly.  It could be accused of misogyny, but Argento merely places in danger those (teenage girls, a blind man) that society traditionally tells us are more in need of protection.  He seems to be asking us more to be shocked & horrified by what happens than to enjoy their pain.  There's no identification with the killer.  The biggest flaw is the climax.  At the end of some of the most nerve-wracking suspense sequences ever filmed, the final face-off is over too quickly & is slightly unsatisfying.  However, the rest of the film is so strong, it barely matters.  Afraid?  You will be.  "},{"Title":"A Fairytale Come To Life.","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SUSPIRIA is widely regarded as a masterpiece of the Horror Genre. Many say it is the greatest Italian Horror Movie ever. These people need to lay of the cough syrup, i'm worried about them! SUSPIRIA may be a classic piece of Neo-Gothic Surrealism and the career defining work of the wayward firebrand DARIO ARGENTO, but it is not in my book a classic horror film. SUSPIRIA is one of the most incoherent films I have ever witnessed, at times it is impossible to tell who is being slaughtered and why. The dubbing is awful and the vulgar colour schemes with which ARGENTO is always obsessed get annoying. At it's best SUSPIRIA has the atmosphere of a fairytale come to life and has a wonderfully jolting soundtrack. However it seemed to me that the plot has been made up or improvised as it goes along. I preferred the semi-follow up INFERNO which is even more vulgar and incoherent! In conclusion SUSPIRIA is in no way a poor film, it is a surrealist masterpiece worthy of praise, it just didn't really do anything for me. My rating - 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria is one of the scariest movies I've ever seen. I just watched it aboot 10 minutes ago with a friend, and he told me afterwards that he was trembling through the whole thing. Argento is a genius, and this film is a masterpiece. If you're a serious fan of horror or films in general, Suspiria is a must. "},{"Title":"Dario Argento at his most terrifying.","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" How do I describe the Dario Argento classic Suspiria? Yes,it is a horror movie that has been in existence for nearly a quarter of a century and it is considered one of the most frightening films of the seventies.We deal with the forces of the supernatural involving some of the most spookiest scenes that even had me sleeping with the lights on.The film stars Jessica Harper.In the film,she plays a young woman from New York who arrives at a European ballet academy to pursue her dreams of being a dancer.The school is actually a haven for witches that terrorize the school and our main character must now face the forces of evil.The film is slow moving but the tension builds slowly causing the fear to take hold of the viewer.Dario Argento releases the fear in this film with it's eerie score and it's production design.The cinematography is very effective.Suspiria was suppose to be a trilogy on The Three Mothers.But after the second installment Inferno didn't do so well,He felt it was not a good idea.Suspiria is a classic horror film and I think it stands out as Dario Argento's best work. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After seeing so many lousy films, I was ecstatic to find one I can rave about. I mean, I'm a horror fanatic, but there's so many that wouldn't scare a 2-year-old. I was reluctant to rent this because of just that, but went ahead when I saw Jessica Harper listed as the star. Though she doesn't sing in this, she's still fantastic and has that doll-like essence about her.Aside from the the story and acting, it has a haunting, dreamlike atomosphere. The chilling music-box soundtrack and the beautiful Art Nouveau sets are hypnotic. (I was tickled to see illustrations by the great Aubrey Beardsley in the background!) It's just spellbinding! You get a sense of being drugged like the main character is.You won't be disappointed! It is a creepy masterpiece of the macabre. Be warned, it's not for the faint of heart. Though no splatterfest, it gets very gory in the death scenes. Other than the typical depiction of us witches as all evil, I have no complaints about this film. "},{"Title":"Wow....","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I absolutely adore this film. Dario Argento is my favorite director EVER! This is my favorite of his films, but Deep Red and Tenebrae come pretty close. The story concerns a young ballet dancer named Susy who arrives at the exclusive Tanz Akademie in Frieburg, Germany. The night she arrives, two students are brutally murdered by an unseen assailant. More attacks and killings as well as strange happenings occur, including maggot and bat attacks, things that go bump in the night, and a pianist that, well...you'll see. Plus, let's not forget what poor Sara goes through. An outstanding film. You can feel this movie. The pounding music (Goblin rocks!), the flashing colors, the gushing blood, the screams, the atmosphere (I just love the school, and the spooky Black Forest). This is just an awesome, awesome clever film. I can't say enough about it. Even though some parts of it are unclear and do not make too much sense, this has got to be one of the best horror films of all time. Keep up the good work Dario. "},{"Title":"Among my top five horror films of all time, this garish, booming, and bleeding picture sheds a light on fear you're proabably never experienced before.","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You can sink into the colors in this film.  The woods are stained and reddish-brown, long hallways are lit with ice cube blues, and the blood is red as dead roses.  In addition to the rich color texture and production design, the music by Goblin is some of the scariest music you will ever hear.  It sounds like a chorus of cackling old ladies with a dash of ominous avant-garde rock thrown in for good measure. Plus, along with lush colors and organic haunted-house music, you get some brilliantly savage murders.  Some of these set pieces are beyond murders. One girl is chased into a room with a floor made out of...well, just see it.  The opening double murder is so flashy, agressive, loud, and feverish that I get a tear in my eye when I'm watching it.  Who is Suspiria?  It's kind of unclear.  So what!  It's a cool name, and there's wicked old witches who teach ballet and maggots and mute servants who are seven feet tall and artsy photography and this butch ballet teacher with a rad German accent and this cool scene with a blind guy and what could be a winged demon-thing, or his imagination.  This is one vicious and classy piece of escapist cinema.  "}{"Title":"Very interesting","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria was the type of movie that left alot to the imagination. The attention to detail in this movie is very apparent and the scenes themselves are filled with style. A young ballet dancer joins a ballet school in Europe and soon learns it is a place of evil. The gore is minimum but there are some very gruesome scenes in the movie. I think the only thing that holds me back from calling Suspiria a masterpiece is the acting, and that fact that no one character stood out in the movie. You would expect with such great detail from Argento, that he would have the actors to back up the movie, but that is unfortunately the only thing that held this film back. Nontheless a really great horror flick. "},{"Title":"Stunning!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A true masterpiece of style over substance.  Great visuals and a chilling score add more to the overall atmosphere of terror than what actually occurs on screen.  Not that there aren't some terrifying things to be seen.  After a brutal opening, the film settles down to mostly scenes of implied horror.  Simple conversations are done in a foreboding manner and there is such an emphasis on primary colors that you are on edge, throughout the film.  The climatic scene is a bit disappointing; but the film is in a horror class, all its own.  See the widescreen version, ONLY.  Recommended! "},{"Title":"Expressionist Horror","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria creates a unique otherworldly atmosphere, and its murder set pieces are among the most beautifully grotesque in horror film.  If you're looking for plot and character, try renting something else. Like most Italian genre fare it's strengths are the visuals and mood, and the heights of pure form reached are amazing.Incredible use of color, tight editing, and a genuinely frightening score by Goblin.     Highly recommended to even the most casual of horror fans. Just put your rational mind to rest for an hour and a half, turn out the lights, and get ready to be shocked.   "},{"Title":"Cut to ribbons","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Like all of Argento's work, Suspiria is a stylish, atmospheric thriller. Sadly, most prints I have viewed seem to have been edited into an incoherent mess, and the soundtrack is thick and somewhat scratchy, making the dialogue difficult to follow.(MILD SPOILER AHEAD)Nevertheless, this is well worth seeing, even with the sound and editing problems. Argento's trademark shocks - such as a leap into a room filled with barbed wire - leave an impression on the viewer. The relentless musical score adds to the claustrophobic feel of the film, and the shadowy cinematography enhances the feeling of immediate danger.All in all, a nice rental for a stormy afternoon. "},{"Title":"Not great for being normal, great for being different","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A very original horror movie, but not in terms of plot, acting, or screenplay.  As far as plot is concerned, it has been done before and better.  However, watching Suspiria is like being in almost another world. The settings and colors are fantastic, the music is cold and creepy(the best to any horror movie that I have seen), and the camera work makes it all seem like a bad dream.  Totally different from Argento's Deep Red(the only other great movie he did, although all the others are very good) in terms that this is supernatural, that one is more human.  I would recomend this more to people who liked A Clockwork Orange than to someone who liked Scream although it does resemble the Shinning in some aspects as well.  More gore than his other outings means that it is not for all tastes.  One astounding fact to this movie there is no middle ground to it, people either love it or hate it.  I would recomend it for someone who is looking for something different in a horror movie at least you will apreciate Argento's very cool settings, but don't judge it on your first viewing. "},{"Title":"Didn't Get It","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sorry to the Suspiria faithful out there, but this film didn't do it for me. I didn't find it to be the least bit scary.  The music was so overbearing it ruined the suspense.  The sets are great, but they are overlit to the point where there is little visual mystery or the sense of the unknown in the visual style.  I guess I felt the film was way too stylized and artificial to truly be frightening.  Nothing seemed the least bit real or natural, and for something to be truly frightening to me it needs to have more of a natural visual style (more like Nicolas Roeg's DON'T LOOK NOW or Polanski's REPULSION, which are really only semi-horror films, but are creepy as hell).  This film always felt like a movie set, like it was on a sound stage.  Anyway, I want to check out more Argento films to see if he's done something else that really might give me the chills. "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria is probably one of Dario Argento's best films. It has all the things he likes to introduce into every movie he writes or directs insects, killer, witches. The environment in which the film is set is scary. The music is horrifying all by itself.There's only one problem with this film the cheesy dialogue. I have seen that problem with many Argento films. Maybe they are messed up by translations. Who knows? Watch the movie and pay attention to some of the dialogues, and you will see what I mean.Other than that, this movie is perfect.  "},{"Title":"Curiosity killed the cat","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Young dancer transfers to a prestigious European ballet school with a new history of strange occult practices and grisly deaths. She struggles to discover the truth behind a series of oddities while taking on a slight illness. One of the most confusing films ever made. This picks up a lot of different beginnings that it never finishes. Never explains itself or the direction it's headed in. It merely relies on the irritatingly dark colored lights and heavily shrill squeals of music. The only film in history where the beginning is as puzzling as the ending. "},{"Title":"Good Lord ...SCARY STUFF","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I never heard of this movie until someone told me it was one of the scariest flicks ever . It was . The use of lighting and music adds to the eerie feeling you get when you watch it . The first 5 minutes will haunt you for the rest of the film . I had a couple friends over to watch it and they were scared as well . It also is very gory . But not cheesie gory , scary gory . The score that goes along with it is searing . You will be scared ... "},{"Title":"Argento's Best","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Easily Dario Argento's best film to date. With it's blend of suspense and explicit ultra-violence, this is a real treat for fans of his earlier works, such as the sublime Deep Red, aka Profondo Rosso. There is a great widescreen print of this floating around, and I highly recommend you check it out, because it is easily the best print available. "}{"Title":"A flawed masterpiece","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just saw Suspiria for the first time last night, and I was extremely impressed.  Every shot is beautifully photographed, all the sets are great to look at, and it's well paced enough that you can really get caught up in the suspense of what's going on.  But what about that music?Almost everyone who commented on this movie praised the music, but I felt that it ruined many key scenes.  Sure, it's creepy music that lets you know that something tense is going on, but that's not necessary in this film at all.  Example  There's a scene where someone is being chased through a large building, and she manages to put a latched door between herself and the killer.  As she searches for a way out of the room, the killer attempts to lift the latch using a straight razor, causing a bone-chilling scraping noise.  This would have been one of the best scenes I have ever seen in a movie if all you could hear were the girl's struggles and that scraping. But no, there's this horrible music blaring so loudly that you can think of nothing else.  This happens all too frequently in the film, where the characters are in total silence, trying to listen to something like footsteps or snoring, which you couldn't possibly hear while watching it because of the music.  Abominable.   "},{"Title":"Dario Argento's finest film","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Confession time this is one of the most frightening movies ever made. At least for yours truly. Without a doubt this is Argento' s finest, even better than PROFONDO ROSSO. Everything here in the film, from the actors to the direction, the colours, the music, everything has only one task Scare you to death. And this is accomplished quite easily! SUSPIRIA contains some of the most frightening  and violent death scenes ever. I remember watching the movie for the first time in the '80s when I was a wee lad thinking THEY CAN'T DO THAT while, actually,well,they just did.. Quite a few sleepless nights over this. In short, if you're a horror movie buff, you have to watch this movie. Then you'll be hooked forever.. Truly, really, they don't make'em like this anymore. Rating8 "},{"Title":"Probably the best horror ever made...","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Now this film is scary. I can imagine watching this at the cinema must have been amazing. This is real, no-holds barred horror, the kind that goes one step further into darkness and ends up being better than all the rest. Dario Argento knows how to shake up an audience, and he pulls off some brilliant sequences. Most horror films don't really scare me, but Suspiria did the trick. Yes, it is really, really nasty in parts, so watch out, and even those with a strong stomach should be warned of the sheer intensity of this film, which is enough to give you bad dreams. Probably the best serious horror ever made. Beware! "},{"Title":"Good and in some instances great","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Most people who comment on this movie rate it is great. The use of lighting and color was superior. Any student of horror films should watch this movie to learn how it is done.  The suspense factor is very high. I thought it leaned a little bit to much toward cheesy slasher effects. It's not that I don't like bloody slasher scenes, it's just that if they are going to be used they better be really good. The best aspect of the film was the music. I was really suprised to hear how aggressive the music was. It was used to enhance the suspense and drama. The best part about it was that it doesn't sound dated. I think it was ahead of it's time considering the date of 1977. It could be heard today and not sound old. All in all I would recommend this film to any fan of suspense and horror. "},{"Title":"Brilliant horror film","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Few horror films create as effective of an atmosphere of menace as this one.  I can't watch it at night.Dario Argento entered a new phase of his career as a horror filmmaker with this film.  Up to this point, Argento had made four giallo films, and the obscure comedy The Five Days of Milan (which is a real devil to find in the United States).  For those not in the know, the Giallo is a peculiarly Italian brand of violent murder mystery, which Dario Argento specializes in.  Giallo is the Italian word for yellow, and pulp novels in Italy have yellow covers.  Argento's previous giallo films had a touch of the surreal to be sure, but with Suspiria, Argento's work enters the realm of the hallucinogenic.Argento re-teams with Goblin, who provided the unique synth-rock score for Deep Red, with spectacular results.  The pounding, relentless music sets the tone for the film perfectly.  Brilliant cinematography by Luciano Tovoli (who would re-team with Argento in 1982 on Tenebre) and an unusual cinematographic process in which the old three-strip Technicolor process was used give the film a very unusual, interesting look awash in bright primary colors.  The opening scene of the film is one of the best I've ever seen.  Very few people can beat Argento at staging interesting murders. "},{"Title":"Nice visuals and disturbing sound effects.","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was very unique. I really liked the cinematography in this film; there is a lot of symbolism going on there. Suspiria is visually aesthetic and the sound effects were disturbing to say the least. Although sometimes, they tended to over-use the sound effects a bit, I still liked this film a lot.Very unique atmosphere, like no other horror movie I've ever seen. Weird characters and setting. I was VERY VERY surprised that this movie was made in 1977!! Was there ever a remake of this film? Usually movies made in the 70's have this really dated psychedelic soundtrack but Suspiria doesn't (Phantasm comes to mind, but I still love it).  The Suspiria soundtrack has really stood the test of time.  There's not a whole lot going on in the plot, but the films visuals should keep most horror fans entertained. I wasn't really ever scared watching it but I loved the visuals. Nice Film!!Bravo!!! Dario Argento!!!           "},{"Title":"Turn out the lights... and get ready to Scream...","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WOW what a movie! I just got through watching this movie (because it was rated the #17th scariest movie by Entertainment Magazine) and it was good... very scary movie.... Its been a while since I have jumped and yelled out loud at a movie... It felt good...The crafty use of bringing out the color in this movie is a deffinate key elimate... the only problem I had with this movie was the end... dont get me wrong, it was scary and tense... but with a beginning like that... it seems only fair that you must live up to it... which in this case didn't happen...But with the very hitchcockish vasion, this movie deffinately gains ground in horror movie history and will keep you looking over you shoulder the whole way through..... "},{"Title":"terror still with me after all these years","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw the film as a student when it was first released and it stood out in comparison with the slasher movies which were two a penny at that time. Two scenes remain vividly in my memory. The first is the excruciating sequence near the end with the piano wire. The second is the eerie scene in the town square when I expected the gargoyles to come to life,then had difficulty remaining in my seat when the guide dog turned on his master.I have never plucked up the courage to view the film again!!! "},{"Title":"A truly inspired piece of work","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I tuned into Suspira on cable because I heard Alida Valli, from The Third Man, was in it, and I was curious to see how she'd aged twenty-eight years after that film.I did not expect the film to be so good!  I don't think a IMDb summary can fully convey how much style, wit, and imagination went into Suspiria, but let me say this  any horror director who makes a film after seeing this has NO excuse for lack of imagination.  Suspiria threw down the gauntlet in 1977, and I don't believe I've seen anything afterwards that even dared to match it.Bram Stoker's Dracula, frame for frame, was a better film, but it can't be labeled as JUST a horror film, as it was also a fantasy/soft-core porn/period film.  The same goes for Herzog's remake of Nosferatu (horror film / rare successful exercise in style), William Friedkin's The Exorcist (horror film / literary adaptation intended for Academy Award consideration), Robert Wise's The Haunting (horror film / psychodrama and character study), and George Romero's Dawn of the Dead (horror film / social satire / comedy).  Suspiria, just a good, wholesome, highly imaginative, stylized, stay-up- late-if-you-dare scary movie, is the best of its kind.  "},{"Title":"Argento's best!","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of Dario Argento's best movies if not his best! A young woman goes to a Russian ballet school and discovers it's run by a coven of witches. The direction is excellent, as is the pounding Goblin music. Recommended! "}{"Title":"The best horror film there is, in my book.","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  That might sound a little strange, since I'm in total agreement with Leonard Maltin. He called it short on logic but long on style. The first time I saw this film (at a drive-in!),I felt that Mr. Argento had perfected the capture of a nightmare on film. I didn't even mind the plot inconsistencies. Suspiria is haunting and so brilliantly eerie, I can't watch the videotape alone with the lights off! (Yes, the European cut is the only one to see.) Goblin's soundtrack, by the way, is their masterpiece. Hats off to Dario Argento! I've since learned that 'nightmare on film' is his forte -- but the first is still the best, in my humble opinion. "},{"Title":"Stylish Horror Flick","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is really a well made, stylish, horror/black comedy, a definite cut above the usual. Incredible set design, weird music, atmosphere. Intentionally funny at times, I'm sure, yet very creepy. I've only seen the cut TV version of this, this is has a few very grotesque scenes, but most isn't too bad, just weird. I hear the full version on video is much worse.   "},{"Title":"Good film but for totally different reason","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I read so many good reviews about Suspiria that it is one of the best horror flicks, then I thought I should give it a try. I watched the film, and it was good. But it was very far from scary. It was kind of a scary films for kids, just like the colorful nightmares we think of kids.Sometimes it was funny too. Actually I found this film funnier, thus rated it highly. For me it was more comical than horror. The dialogues make little sense, acting is so so. but, the background score was awesome. It was very catchy and really keeps you hooked.Dario Argento also used colors brilliantly in this film. The color of blood (looks totally fake, but dome deliberately I reckon), to the color of mansion where the dance academy is, that really captivates you.I found this film great for being funny and weird, but not for horror. So, I give this film 8/10.She must die, die die HaHa.. "},{"Title":"Third time was the charm...","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first time I saw SUSPIRIA, at a walk-in theater, there weren't very many people in the audience; this went a long way toward making the movie seem even more creepy than it actually was (as did the fact that I was just a kid). The second time around, it was playing on a double bill at the drive-in and I was so engrossed in the VERY creepy scene where the blind piano player is ripped apart by his own seeing-eye dog that, when my mother stepped up to my window in the dark, I showered myself with popcorn and soda pop. Ah, the memories... Just the other day, I rented the movie again and sat down to watch it for the first time in decades. It did NOT disappoint. (Nor did it EVER disappoint me I even wrote a letter to FAMOUS MONSTERS OF FILMLAND in which I praised the film.) The first thing I noticed this last time around was that the veined, pulsing title (courtesy of the Chiodo brothers) of the earlier two versions was gone. But not to worry the memorable Goblin soundtrack is still intact, as are the eerie noises, screams and whispers that tend to raise the hair on the back of the neck. From the beautifully atmospheric opening sequence to the Fall of the House of Escher ending, SUSPIRIA is must-see filmmaking. It's Bava-esque in its look and feel and it COULD be argued that Style trumps Substance (it's ultimately a rather simple story that's nonetheless beautifully visualized, a la Nicholas Roeg's DON'T LOOK NOW), but so what? Movies are primarily a VISUAL medium, anyway- and, visually, SUSPIRIA is still stunning (even more so now than when I saw it as a kid, because now I can better appreciate what went into the film). Like other supernatural classics like BURN, WITCH, BURN! and even George Romero's SEASON OF THE WITCH (the latter a slow-moving but well-acted version of BURN, WITCH, BURN!, if you ask me), SUSPIRIA works as a fairy tale well-told. (On one episode of THE CINEFILES on YouTube, host Edwin Samuelson tries in vain to defend Argento as a filmmaker against two of his co-hosts. Rest assured, Mr. Samuelson you are not alone in your appreciation of Dario Argento.) "},{"Title":"One of the All-Time Horror Classics","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From the bright colors that almost seem to bleed off the screen to the expert direction and pounding electronic score, Suspiria is without doubt one of the true masterpieces of horror, up there with Night of the Living Dead, the Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Rosemary's Baby. It has the feel and aesthetic of a nightmare, meaning the images may not always make sense but they are frightening nonetheless. Argento's career went into real decline over the past two decades, but if he only made this one film he would rightly still be called a great artist. Best seen on the big screen or at least a large-screen television so the images better come alive. Even non horror fans can appreciate the great look and sound of the film. "},{"Title":"The only thing more terrifying than the last 5 minutes of this film are the first 90!","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From the opening moments, Suspiria makes the viewers aware that it's not-your-average horror film but something completely different in both presentation & execution. The unsettling score that opens the film instantly creates an atmosphere of tension, uncertainty & terror and from then on, the film makes its audience notice almost every single element from cinematography, characters, performances, visuals & production design, each carried out in a very bizarre manner.Suspiria follows Suzy Bannion; an American ballet student from New York who arrives in Germany to enroll in a prestigious dance academy in Freiburg. On the night of her arrival, she sees a frightened young girl fleeing from the academy despite the heavy thundershowers & is found brutally murdered the next day. She soon befriends with another student who was the deceased girl's friend & with her help, she finally uncovers the dark secret about the academy.The film has a very eccentric feel & looks like a high-budget B-grade horror (or maybe it is exactly that in the first place). The production design makes strong use of bright, vibrant colours in almost every scene & cinematography emphasizes them in explicit detail. Performances are way over-the-top & exaggerated like one can expect in Italian horrors of the 70s. And same goes with the violence n gore present in the film.But if I've to mention the strengths of Suspiria, then it would be its stylistic visual flair, creepy ambiance, impressive sound design & absolutely terrifying score. The direction by Dario Argento is pretty good & it still remains one of his most admired work. On an overall scale, Suspiria is a very bizarre, very glossy & very nonsensical cinema with a perplexing narrative about witches & witchcraft that'll either leave you very amused or highly frustrated. "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings on the film itself but the use of colour and set design is outstanding","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is a film that is regarded as one of the best horror films of all time. I can see why many would say this but I myself wouldn't even rank it in my top 100. Suspiria has very poor acting and dubbing, a lacklustre storyline, and a very bad ending. So why did I rate the film an 8/10? That would be because of three things. Firstly, the absolutely AMAZING score by Goblin. 100% in the top 5 best horror movie scores of all time. This score for me is perhaps the most chilling I've ever heard. Secondly the vibrant and invigorating colour pallet. The colour red is used in such a masterful way here that the story, characters, script and acting all do not even matter anymore. All that matters is scanning the astounding set design and those bright, bright reds. Thirdly the lighting and camera work are great as well. These three aspects are key in creating one of the greatest horror atmospheres in the history of cinema. The atmosphere of this film is what makes it a classic. It definitely deserves horror classic status but definitely not Argento's best work. I would honestly prefer the sequel to Suspiria, Inferno. The verdict 8/10, a masterpiece in atmosphere, colour and sound. Nothing else though.. "},{"Title":"Something that i hadn't seen before.","Date":"1 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie about six years ago and still i haven't forgotten it so it must be special in many ways.It made an impact on me somehow with its scenes of cruel violence and nightmarish atmosphere throughout the film. It's completely dream-like with colourful palette that has never been seen before and maybe nothing like this has ever been made even up to this day.Even today it doesn't seem to have aged much at all although having seen many Italian movies in this genre it is beginning to seem quite tame.It's an art movie, like a painting. This is how horror should be like, something that draws the complete attention up until the credits show up on the screen and the viewer is just relieved that it's over. That's exactly how a horror movie should impact and if it does not do that, then it's not much of a horror.Coherent plot? Nope, but still i don't think that it's watched for its plot anyway. Plot has never been the strongest point in movies directed by Argento or even in Italian giallo and horror genre. "},{"Title":"Uh...a plot might have helped.","Date":"25 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For years I heard that Suspiria was not only one of the best horror movies ever, but was a solid movie. I heard that it was Dario Argento's masterpiece. I figured I would give it a shot since I hadn't seen anything by Argento ever. After watching it, I am shocked that anyone could give it anything higher than a 5/10.To me, a good movie combines several elements good camera-work, good acting and, of course, a good plot. Good camera-work...check. Good acting...maybe for a horror movie.Plot? I won't give anything away (although there really isn't much to give away on this one)...but the plot in this movie is simply nonexistent. Doesn't plot matter when reviewing a movie? If you care that a movie makes even a stab (no pun intended) at having a decent plot, be forewarned...this movie sucks in that aspect. "},{"Title":"Suspiria Gore+Atmosphere=A Masterpiece!","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From the mind of Italian horror maestro Dario Argento, director of Phenomena, Deep Red, and Tenebre, comes his most famous work, 1977's Suspiria, a wonderful horror film that is unique, scary, and absolutely gore-ific! Jessica Harper stars as Suzy Bannyon, an American ballet student who has come to Europe to study at the greatest dance school in the area. But right from the start, nothing of good nature is going on and Suzy becomes more vulnerable to the ominous environment in which she has entered. And while strange things happen in the school, outside, people involved are horrifically murdered. Who or what is the culprit of these eerie occurrences? And will Suzy find out what is going on? Suspiria's plot is a little bit hard to follow. At one time are we are we given a hint as to what is going on, but it doesn't matter. This movie is scary! Not only is the film extremely creepy and filled with BOO! scares, but it shows what Dario Argento is known best for his uncontrollable use of on-screen gore! Argento's murder sequences are a cut above most slasher movies because all of Argento's characters die in creative and surprisingly beautiful ways. Each kill is filmed with lavish colors ranging from blue to orange in the background. And the blood that flows is so red. And all of the murders are shameless and right in your face, always making the viewer extremely on edge.Even though it gains points for being gore-gous, as director Eli Roth describes, Suspiria is a lot more than just a slasher movie. It's quite frightening. A lot of the movie is shot in the dark, and Argento constantly makes sure that you're never far away from a good BOO! The movie is deeply atmospheric, almost like a very mature fairy tale. We are thrown into a nightmare that leaves you on the edge of your seat. People get very uncomfortable while watching Suspiria, just like I did when I first saw it.Jessica Harper is very good as Suzy. She shows a sign of vulnerability that is believable and sympathetic. The rest of the cast also give jobs well-done, especially Stefania Casini as Sarah, Joan Bennett as Madame Blanc and Alida Valli as Ms. Tanner.Dario Argento has said that he got the inspiration from Suspiria from Walt Disney's Snow White and The Seven Dwarfs, and it shows. Alan Jones has called the film a Walt Disney-style horror movie. Only Walt Disney would never be this ferociously creepy. The first time I saw Suspiria, I was very entertained and creeped out, and that reaction remains the same each time I watched it. It's a classic horror movie that deserves the status, and I recommend it to all horror fans. A must! The only thing more terrifying than the last 12 minutes of this film are the first 92! "}{"Title":"Wow...","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is, simply put, one of the greatest horror films ever made. Considering the heavy gore, it may not be everyone's cup of tea. However, if you are half as interested in film as I am, you own it to yourself. See this movie.The film deals with an American ballet student, named Suzy Bannion, who enrolls into a strange German dance academy. There, she learns of the death of Pat Hingle. Pat was viciously killed during Suzy's arrival in the midst of a grisly storm. Soon, more and more people soon begin to disappear at the hands of an unknown, malevolent force...Minus a bogus storyline and some lackluster acting, this film is visually stunning. And, at the risk of sounding like a sicko, its murder set pieces are gorgeous and exhilarating. The sets are rich, the cinematography is sharp, the score is astounding, and the atmosphere is right on the mark. This is how horror movies should be. Shocking. Beautiful. Vicious. Dream-like. Awe-inspiring. "},{"Title":"The first tale in the three witches trilogy.","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Though I did enjoy this movie, I do go against the majority in liking Inferno the best of the three movies. I just like the kills better, there is more supernatural going ons in that movie too and it does not get as silly as Mother of Tears sometimes did. This movie though has the easiest plot to follow and is the most understandable of the three. Its conclusion is also better than Inferno as that movie had a conclusion that just came out of nowhere and ended rather abruptly. This movie has the setting of a ballet school and the plot has people being murdered mysteriously. The scenes in this movie are all very well done, having color schemes that make the ordinary look more menacing and really setting a dark and atmospheric tone. Not all scenes are like this as there are some outdoor scenes as the heroine of the movie tries to piece things together and figure out what is going on at the school. The ending is quite good, it too is a bit abrupt like the one found in Inferno, however it makes more sense and you can follow what is going on better in this movie. A bit dreamlike is this movie, but not so much as Inferno and both of these two films trump Mother of Tears in the dreamlike quality of film as that film seems to rely on some rather cheap tricks like the ghost mother and it really pales in comparison to these two films as far as atmosphere. It probably has the best kills though so really each has something to offer. "},{"Title":"Dario Argento's Horror Manual","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A young woman travels to Germany to attend a famous ballet school. On the night she arrives, a student flees in the middle of a storm and then dies in the goriest, weirdest, most colorful (and also absurd) manner. It's an interesting start which encapsulates everything about the movie logic goes out the window the moment the first victim goes too; the colors and art direction are just marvellous, everything is shot in hazy hues of red and green, reminding one of a dream; and the murders are all very elaborate and violent.Dario Argento is clearly not concerned with realism here; one can easily find a surrealist undercurrent in this movie. More importantly, he's truly devoted to the mechanics of horror. Up until the '70s horror movies used to be just movies, I guess, trying to uphold the same production values that dramas did. Just look at The Exorcist or Don't Look Now for examples.Argento is already a precursor of the cheap slasher genre which will dominate horror after the '70s. And yet he's one step above crap like Friday the 13th. I have a feeling Argento is more concerned with how to create suspense and induce fear than good dialogue or good acting. He knows how to set up a disturbing scene, and how to kill a person unpredictably there's a murder of a blind man in this movie which just caught me by surprise by its simplicity. Not just that, he knows how to create a feeling of dread, of suggesting horrors around the corner or behind a horror. There's something masterful about his combination of sound, colors and camera movements that makes this movie strangely artistic.This neglect of characterization and story and emphasis on style end up making Suspiria a movie worth watching, especially for anyone interested in learning how to create horror. More than a movie, this is a manual. "},{"Title":"Suspiria","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw an image or two from this horror film from Italy, and it featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, so I wasn't going to miss it. Basically young American dancer Suzy Bannion (Jessica Harper) travels to Germany to attend a famous ballet school. After arriving she sees a young woman appearing to be fleeing, and unknown to anyone, she is gruesomely murdered by a hideous creature, and her friend is impaled. Suzy meanwhile is trying to settle at the school, but hears strange noises and is seeing things. Later, she discovers there is more to the murder than most think, there is talk of witches and stuff, and it turns out that all teachers are exactly that. Also starring Joan Bennett as Madame Blanc, Alida Valli as Miss Tanner, Udo Kier as Dr. Frank Mandel, Flavio Bucci as Daniel, Stefania Casini as Sara, Miguel Bos as Mark and Rudolf Schndler as Prof. Milius. The opening scenes of violence with the girl stabbed and hung, and her friend impaled grabbed my attention very quickly. The rest of the film (available dubbed) is filled with good pounding music, more moments of violence and an interesting use of bright colours, making it a pretty unforgettable experience. It was number 62 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments. Very good! "},{"Title":"Simply flawless","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There seems to be a never-ending feud between many horror fans regarding 'Suspiria', due to the fact that this film is considered Dario Argento's outstanding masterpiece. Personally, I'm completely against the idea of praising something that you don't actually like, so I respect anyone who thinks that this movie is overrated or even plain awful. My summary is only an opinion, but by no means I intend to make people change their mind or disapprove their concept of this film.'Suspiria' is one of the many Italian horror films that came out during the late 70s and early 80s, that is extremely criticized for having a supposedly questionable plot and denouement. If we compare this movie to some of the other popular films directed by Dario Argento, we're probably going to think that 'Suspiria', is perhaps not as intriguing or well developed, when it comes to the story. To give a few examples of some of the Argento films that are widely considered the actual masterpieces because they offer an intriguing plot, good imagery and well done endings, I would probably name 'The Bird with the Crystal Plumage', 'Deep Red' and 'The Cat o' Nine Tails'. So what is it that we should believe? Nothing! Everyone is entitled to their own opinions and even though I agree with those who claim that 'Suspiria' is Argento's real masterpiece, I would never waste my time trying to convince people that this is true. As a matter of fact, I'll be honest and say that I also believe that 'Suspiria' has a somehow underdeveloped story, but I still regard it as one of the best horror movies in history. The reason is simple in my opinion, you can make something wonderful, without a wonderful plot. This is perhaps one of the most visually enchanting horror movies I have seen so far and I honestly doubt I will ever find another film that can enchant me as much as this one. Everything about 'Suspiria' is beautiful, even the violent deaths. I know this may sound sick and disgusting, but I believe Mr. Argento has the special gift to make beautiful images out of gruesome situations, like murder, for example. From the beginning until the end, this film takes us to a dark dreamland with beautiful contrasting colors, eerie locations and a recurrent unsettling music. The locations are perfect. The ballet school in which the story takes place, seems to be a nonexistent place taken from someone's dream. Indeed, it was revealed once that 'Suspiria' was partly inspired by a dream that Daria Nicolodi once had (Mrs. Nicolodi was the co-writer and Argento's girlfriend at the time). So if the idea was to create a dream-like movie, I would say they did a perfect job. Everything about 'Suspiria' looks surreal and charming. It's a dark fairy tale, in which the characters behave in a childish way, like playing along with the scenario. It is also said that the actresses were initially supposed to be little girls, but fearing that the film could be banned, Argento had to choose older actresses, but he didn't really change much of the dialogs, which I think is genius. Strangely, the characters don't come off as moronic or anything, they simply are strange and childish, but in a good way. The subject of sex, for example, is barely even mentioned, which is something that doesn't happen too often in horror movies with twenty-something year old characters. But regarding the actors who played these characters, I would mostly compliment the work of the late actresses Joan Bennett and Alida Valli. The young cast was simply fine, but no one did a remarkable job. Not even Jessica Harper, who was a bad choice for the lead character, in my opinion. This is probably the only little detail I would criticize about this film. Mrs. Harper pretty much has the same facial expression and tone of voice throughout the entire film, which is not good. On the other hand, like I said before, Mrs. Valli and Mrs. Bennett were flawless as the two bitter old women who run the school with their awful temper and their little psychological tortures against those who stand in their ways. So concluding 'Suspiria' is one of those films that you either love or hate. Both feelings are equally respectable and I can understand why some people don't really appreciate it. But if I have to recommend or 'sell' this movie to someone, I would definitely highlight the dream-like imagery and the creepy music composed by The Goblins, that go perfectly well with what is seen on the screen. Enjoy this dark fairy tale about witches and childish girls. "},{"Title":"pretty good, but a tad over-hyped","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I enjoyed this film. It was not the best film I have ever seen, thats for sure. It was refreshing however, the concept of this film. For once there aren't zombies involved, or the good guy turns out to be the bad guy clichs. The colors he uses are truly unique! I actually think Frank Miller is secretly a fan because of the use of red in argentos movies. The bad things about this movie was that it realistically could have been condensed into 20-30 minutes. As you can imagine the middle was drawn out, and almost boring. There wasn't as much blood as I expected from Argento (blood doesn't make a good movie in my opinion either, but from Argento its what I expect to see). This is another movie I would suggest seeing if its at the local store, if you don't see it and you want an Italian gem, rent City of the Living Dead (and I know many argenta fans will be mad at me for saying that, but its just my opinion). 1 last comment is that this film feels pretty dated, its weird seeing velved walls... "},{"Title":"A one of a kind horror film, Argento was ahead of his time when he made Suspiria","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have heard nothing but good reviews on Suspiria, even an ex of mine to this day just praises this film. This is considered one of the scariest movies of all time, it did come out of the 70's, not to sound silly, just the best horror movies came out of the 1970's, I think the reason why is because the directors had no boundaries, they pushed things to the edge. Suspiria is also praised as Dario Argento's best work, so I finally had the opportunity to see it this morning, I took it. Now, I do think that some of the praises I've read on the IMDb page are a little far fetched, it's more about the gore that shocked people; but I do believe this is a great horror film, the best horror film about witches. The way Suspiria was made is very unique and really stands out with the other horror films of the 70's and the story is a classic haunting tale with Argento's sick twist on it.A young American dancer travels to Europe to join a famous ballet school. As she arrives, the camera turns to another young woman, who appears to be fleeing from the school. She returns to her apartment where she is gruesomely murdered by a hideous creature. Meanwhile, the young American is trying to settle in at the ballet school, but hears strange noises and is troubled by bizarre occurrences. She eventually discovers that the school is merely a front for a much more sinister organization.Suspiria is a great film, I'm very glad that I had the opportunity to see it, I would recommend this to any lover of the horror genre. But I feel that the people who have rated it low haven't given it a fair chance, like the other horror films, they expect something more like the Saw or Hostel films, today's horror genre isn't exactly great, we have had a few gems here and there, but nothing has stood out like the classics. Suspiria's ending scared the heck out of me, Argento had no boundaries, no rules, this is the first big gore film. As cheesy as the blood looks, this film has a certain feel and is a great ghost story. I'm glad I had to the opportunity to watch Suspiria, it's a terrific film, take from it what you bring to it, that's what film loving is all about.9/10 "},{"Title":"Behold, I can speak all languages, for all languages are one within the domain of the heart.","Date":"27 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria, how do I love thee? Melek-I-Taus a.k.a. Taus-Melek and Melek-Tawus, Peacock Angel - a Yezidic angel whose name is another word for the devil of Buddhism. When invoked during conjuring rituals he manifests as a peacock. He is also said to be an angel or demiurge who created Eve from the body of Adam in Forlong's Encyclopedia of Religions. According to the Kurdish Moslem sect of Yezidics in the Upper Mesopotamia (Iraq), Taus-Melek is a fallen archangel, now pardoned, to whom God has committed the government of the world and the management of the transmigration of souls. Melek Tawus is an angel who has fallen from God's grace, and for his repentance, is restored to God's favor. While in hell, Melek Tawus, in seven thousand years filled seven jars with his tears of repentance which extinguished the fires of hell, or at the last judgment will be used to do so. Melek Tawus was banished from the sight of God because he refused to bow down, as asked, before God's creation, Adam. But Yezidis do not identify the fallen angel with a spirit of evil. The act of disobedience has been forgiven by god as a father forgives a wayward son. During the climax of Dario Argento's Suspiria Suzy Banyon (Jessica Harper) is waiting for the awakening of Mater Suspiriorum (The Mother of Sights) from her ghastly slumber. She is standing near the figure of Melek Tawus, black Peacock Angel, Satan himself. Suspiria is so masterful in its submission of colors and so full of symbolism that its praising is a blasphemy. The fallic knife penetrating beating heart lingers fresh in my memory. It haunts me like the red blood dripping walls of Freiburg academy. An absolute opus magnum of Italian horror. "},{"Title":"Ssssssussspiria!","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my favorite horror films of all time. Actually, one of my favorite movies of all time. It is an Italian movie, directed by Dario Argento. It basically follows a woman who goes to ballet school, but there is something wrong, and students begin dying, and strange things begin happening. She must then try to figure out what is happening, and I don't want to totally give away what it is. The most amazing thing about this movie is the imagery, and the lighting. The movie has one of the best uses of colors in the history of film. It is a beautiful film to look at, although at the same time, it can be a vicious film. The plot and writing can be a bit weak at time, but the amazing colors, and amazing sets make up for it. It has some of the coolest murder sequences, and was way ahead of it's time. They don't make movies like this anymore, it is a true masterpiece. And let's not forget the incredible score, the music in the film is haunting, and magnificent. I highly recommend this movie to anyone, it is a favorite of mine. "},{"Title":"Suspiria","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento's films really need to be seen to be believed and this is quite possibly his greatest work. Im not going to give away any pointless plot or story lines because if you need that you really are missing the point. Suspiria is one of the few horror titles i recommend to those not in the know, it ranks very closely alongside Texas chainsaw/night of the living dead/beyond/exorcist as one of the most superbly realised pieces of cinema in horror history. Once you've seen this film you wont bother reviewing it in too much detail either as its not easy to actually write too much about. You do however, need to see Tenebre alongside this and appreciate the timeless Goblin soundtracks for what they are...genius. happy viewing. "}{"Title":"Worth Seeing At Least Once","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The story and performances in this film, are some of B-horrors worst, the cinematography, set design, death sequences, and music however are as unique and inspired as horror films get.Dario Argento films have thin plots which allow his sinister ...(read more)imagination to stage elaborate Giallo death scenes. Giallo is a genre originating out of Italiy, part pulpy mystery, part fantastic horror and crime stories, part erotic thriller, and always ridiculous amounts of violence. The pulps, are yellow books basically, Gaillo means yellow in Italian, which for some reason was cheaper than white paper and used in a lot of pop novels and magazines at the time. This genre has been Dario Argento's modus operendi for nearly thirty years, and though for the most part, his filmography is full of really, not even amusingly, bad films, this is the one that made him famous enough to make people interested in all the others.For me it's the best, the bizarre and operatic soundtrack by The Goblins alone make it worthwhile viewing. The story is about a girl attending a haunted Ballet school in Germany, arriving the same day of a tragic and grisly murder, and uncovering the dark and ancient secret behind it all. A little slow at times, the story is a loose excuse to run wild with macabre ideas that don't need too much explanation. It's also the beginning of a trilogy continuing with Inferno (the less said the better), and ending with last years The Mother Of Tears.Featuring a mix of slashers, killer dogs, witches, bats, and maggots, Suspiria is a horror funhouse and a masterpiece of genre, but a film mostly for fans and horror enthusiasts, those looking for a movie that's actually scary, might want to look elsewhere, those in for a wild operatic pulp horror have found their golden ticket. "},{"Title":"Dario Argento's tour-de-force of in-your-face horror","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sweet innocent American ballet student Suzy Banyon (a strong and sympathetic performance by the lovely Jessica Harper) goes to a fancy European dance academy that's plagued by a series of bizarre events. Suzy investigates the strange happenings and discovers that something sinister is afoot within the bowels of the school. Director Dario Argento, who also co-wrote the deliciously macabre script with then wife Daria Nicolodi, does his usual masterful job of creating and maintaining a very potent and palpable sense of absolute flesh-crawling dread. Moreover, Argento stages several set pieces with his customary bravura flair the breathtakingly brutal opening double murders, maggots falling from the school ceiling, blind pianist Daniel (Flavio Bucci) having his throat torn out by his own seeing eye dog, the especially nasty sequence in which the snoopy Sara (the luscious Stefani Casini) falls into a room full of barbed wire (ouch!), and the bloodcurdling conclusion. Luciano Tovoli's dazzling, gliding, sparkling vibrant cinematography and Goblin's wild, howling, wonderfully freaky and frightening full-bore rockin' score make this film a total sensory feast for the eyes and ears alike (Tovoli's photography in particular is highly impressive with its occasional overhead camera shots and striking use of the color red). Harper shines in the lead role; she brings a winning blend of pluckiness and vulnerability to her part. Joan Bennet lends excellent support as the classy headmaster Madame Blanc and Alida Valli contributes a memorably icy portrayal as stern dance instructor Miss Tanner. Better still, a bevy of beautiful young ladies play the extremely catty and competitive students attending the school. Udo Kier has a brief, but neat cameo as helpful psychiatrist Dr. Frank Mandel. My sole criticism is that the big surprise climactic revelation about the school's big dark secret frankly ain't that startling (it's not a good idea to have someone on the soundtrack repeatedly hiss the word witch over and over again throughout the whole picture!). Essential viewing for horror fans. "},{"Title":"Suspiria","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I finally got around to seeing the cult classic Suspiria and I would say I have mixed feeling about it. There were some genuinely scary moments. The music was creepy and the lighting gave a sinister look to the academy. But some of the special effects are definitely dated and some are even comical. Also I am not a big fan of substituting gore for truly scary moments which Suspiria seems to do at times. The ending came off fairly abrupt and somewhat anticlimactic. Perhaps my expectations were too high going into viewing the movie. Also I watched a dubbed version which made it difficult at times to follow the dialog. I tried to compare Suspira it with other movies around the same time period (1977). Suspiria makes a decent showing and I gave it a 6 out of 10. But I suspect younger horror fans that were raised on slasher movies, CGI, and short attention spans might not be able to get into the movie. "},{"Title":"Not bad luck, but bad minds.  Quintessential Argento","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento is most brilliant at inviting his audience into a world soaked with the savage, bizarre, and somehow plausible while not making a whole lot of logical sense. Suspiria might be one of his masterpieces because he has such a firm control of the medium, but at the same time displays an uncommon enthusiasm for the art of cinema itself. He sticks to what horror fans love (or at least a good chunk of them) the most- skillfully paced and acted and shot and edited and scored and gored-up suspense/kill sequences, and an atmosphere that chills without going into the overboard that we've seen all too much lately in American horror. It's also a film that, unlike some of his others, actually isn't as illogical as possibly expected, mostly due to a good but crucial loophole - the supernatural, which provides a lot of leeway with gaps in logic or questions about motive, springing forth enough surreal imagination to outrank many an inferior Italian horror fright-fest.Jessica Harper stars as a woman who is going to a dance school, but there's something funny going on. Rather, not so funny there's been two brutal deaths in one night, the same night Harper first arrives, where a sadistic killer has taken a frantic woman through the wringer and slain another woman equally frantic on the lower level. There's some foul play going on, with Harper getting drugged up each night and nodding out while the women in charge of the school seem to be up to something. There's another death, a blind man by his own dog, and then Harper's good friend seems to have left without a trace, but is really in the darker recesses of the school itself. What is going on? A coven of witches? A possible bad burial ground somewhere? Maybe more for the former it would seem, right out of legend and folklore and 19th century mythology. It's on! Right away we get here some of the Argento classic style little talk, sharp music from Goblin that is like a mix of a music-box and 70s synth/metal with would-be supervision from John Carpenter. And the cinematography might be the most inventive and dazzling in color and depth and whatnot; I almost imagine Raoul Coutard circa Pierrot le fou was grafted on for the production and injected with a shot of Giallo-vision, and then instructed to provide, in most instances, the kind of measured shocks that have given Hitchcock the reputation he now has. Onward to the plot, if there is much of one, which as well seems to be not as silly as Phenomena or just whacked out like Opera, as there is some very solid line of character going through the proceedings (only a scene where Harper talks to an old expert on witchcraft drags, as any exposition in a genre film might lean toward without the best writing).And in scene after scene, sequence after sequence, Argento solidifies the reputation he has today when he is on top of his game. He's not afraid to go for some of the extra shots of gore or blood that have marked Italian horror the way it is in retrospect, but he's also classy about it. He piles on the artifice, the hyper-stylized lighting, the repetitive and sublimely indicative music, the cuts that seem to indicate little clues and hitting-on-the-head barbs of tension that combined with the performances (which, much like the style, could fit just as well in a super Gothic silent film) makes for a refined sensibility in approaching the genre. It's important to think of this as much, if not more-so, for the art-houses than the grindhouse or even cineplex.Something like this, if by some out-of-left-field chance of getting made today by a filmmaker free only to his desire for what he wants to see, was made to criticize the a genre often with a lack of any artistic depth for cheap, exploitive thrills (Argento was indeed a film critic at one time), and at the same time celebrate certain excesses an auteur can have with genre. How does a crazy movie like Suspiria, which alternates between the harrowing and gross (maggots) and absurd (blind piano player with dog) and even fluffy (dancing scenes) have celebration and joy and the like? If you have to ask, you'll never know. "},{"Title":"Surreal horror movie that has the best opening scenes of any horror movie...EVER!","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I really liked 'Suspiria'. It's a totally other movie than most contemporary horror films, but I have heard that the same director (Argento) has many other similar movies.What I didn't like was the dubbing. Argento let's every cast member speak their native tongue and they dubbed it over in English later. This makes for some comical situations in intense moments. The main cast members (protagonists and antagonists) did all speak English as native language, but for some reason they had to dub their own dialogue later anyway. The lip sync on the main character is quite okay, the rest is not.Now about the movie itself. The story is quite stupid (though optimists may label it 'minimalistic' p) and the end is horrible. Horrormovies shouldn't have anticlimaxes, the tension build up was good but then it just disappoints.Suspiria relies on tension and mood for 99% of it's entertainment worth. The plot is pretty irrelevant. And the acting was luckily not important since it wasn't very good at all.Argento really uses VERY theatrical music (which I didn't like but it does create a certain appropriate effect) and he drenches the screen in vibrant primary colors, with scenes dominated by great pools of reds, blues, yellows and greens. This provides for a very special effect and I really dug it. It's an inspired fever dream of a horror movie,surreal and very stylish.I'll end with the best Suspiria has the best opening scenes of any horror film I've ever seen. It's beautiful, thrilling, haunting, intense, disgusting...all in a couple of minutes scenes. Of course I'm not talking about the first scene, but the scenes when the main character arrives at the academy.Furthermore, there are three additional scenes that are simply superb the scene with the blind man on the empty square (BRILLIANT!), the scene with the roommate (where the lights go out -)) and the scene with the red lights in the sleeping quarters.In conclusion I have a love-hate relationship with horror films and I do too with this film. I love the intensity and the cinematography, but hate the theatricality, bad acting and the overdose of gore (the bloody heart makes me cringe).9/10 for half the movie (the night scenes LOL) , 4/10 for the other half (the day scenes dancing lessons and witchcraft plot *yuck*). Makes for a 6.5/10 average.You might be surprised that this movie that I rated 6.5 is on the number 10 spot in my all time best horror movie list... "},{"Title":"Suspiria is an average film","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I found the film a rather run of the mill horror film. Compared to a film like dishon, Suspiria is little more than a somewhat spooky witch tale. I did not find the directing very compelling and thought that the movie was somewhat garbled in its plot. It really rather reminded me of the films I saw as a kid in which you waited with baited breath (knowing what was going to happen) for somebody to jump out from behind a door.I believe that William Castle had some films about witches that were just as loud, not as much Technicolor perhaps, but, probably as effective. All and all I would call this a very average film. I know that this is counter to the general reviews and that is what scares me. "},{"Title":"Argento's garish slice of Gothic gore... an experiment in pure-visual film-making.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For some, Suspiria is Dario Argento's greatest film... and why not? It has a strong atmosphere right from the start, with that drifting use of the camera, staccato use of montage and that pounding, over-the-top prog-rock score from Italian band Goblin. It's certainly a continuation of the style developed in his first film, The Bird With The Crystal Plumage, and nurtured right the way through to his ultimate masterpiece (in my opinion at least), Deep Red. As with that film, the use of colour and wide-screen composition here is ecstatic and heavily indebted to Hitchcock's Vertigo, with those red walls, ethereal white lights, with softer hues of blue contrasting from those sinister, adjacent rooms. As a result, Suspiria could be considered the most beautiful horror film ever made, although; it's not necessarily a horror film at all... that's to say that the film doesn't really make you jump out of your seat with a number of well-timed, well-thought out scares, with most horror films these days really going for the cheap contrast between a lengthy passage of silence and then, a jolting burst of loud noise.Instead, Suspiria is more of a lingering film, presenting us with images and situations that we keep stored in the back of our minds until the time we find ourselves walking alone through a park at night, or making our way up the stairs in our own house, moving past a darkened room, which could hide an unseen foe. As with a lot of Argento, the plot is slight, with some seeing his films as nothing more than an excuse to kill women in elaborate, over-the-top ways... however, for me, there is always something to hold our interest in the story, or some other way of interpreting the plot that makes it of interest to those wanting repeated viewings. For example, some fans see the film as a dream-play, with the whole thing taking place within the lead character's imagination, which could, I suppose, explain the film's dreamlike style and inconsistent changes within the tone and momentum of the plot. It might also better explain the ending, which has always been a little problematic for me... an opinion shared by a few other people on various websites scattered around the net.The film seems like it's building to something epic, but it never really gets there, instead climaxing with a question mark, as opposed to a full stop. Of course, there's also the quasi-sequel Inferno, which some consider to be greater than Suspiria itself, but I haven't seen it for years... then, there's also the fact that the two films were supposed to be part of a loose-trilogy of works subtitled 'The Three Mothers', though, at the time of writing, Argento has yet to deliver the third and final part. Perhaps when this absent third film appears, we'll be able to appreciate Suspiria and Inferno in a whole new light... well, perhaps? What does impress about Suspiria, regardless of the ending, is the creation of it's own world and a completely foreboding atmosphere, with Argento taking the idea of stylistic abstraction to new heights, creating a gaudy, larger-than-life, Technicolor fantasia that owes as much to Disney and the brothers Grimm, as it does to Hitchcock and Mario Bava.There are probably some elements of Freud scattered amongst the fairytale symbolism and allusions to occult horror too, with the notions of youth and womanhood, and the idea of the mother as hinted at in the proposed trilogy's subtitle, though these are just personal inflections on the plot thought out by myself. Like all Argento, the film can be taken at face value, as an over-the-top, slightly silly, slightly camp little occult thriller with pretensions at depth, or, as with Deep Red and, in particular, Tenebrae, you can choose to read deeper meanings into the characters and the overall plot. Argento has said in many interviews since the release of Suspiria that the film was influenced by a trip through the Austria and Swiss boarders with his co-writer/then-partner, Daria Nicolodi, on which he became obsessed with the Austrian-born Rudolf Steiner, whose notorious Waldorf schools had been criticised for allegedly teaching occult practices in the guise of arts-based education. It is this element that acts as the central backbone to the story, with Argento and Nicolodi dispensing with back story and, instead, employing the use of a voice over during the opening credits to fill us in on the background of the central character.Again, this could further the idea of Suspiria as a literal dream/nightmare that the character cannot escape... which would mean that the bludgeoning use of dialog replacement (sadly, a prevalent factor in all post-war Italian cinema) and somewhat over-the-top tone of many of the actors could perhaps make a little more sense in conveying the character's nocturnal state. Of course, as I stated earlier, this is just one of many possible interpretations of the film... at the end of the day, you're enjoyment of the film depends entirely upon how far you're willing to go to buy into Argento's outlandish (and ultimately disappointing) plot... not to mention taking into account how susceptible you are to the overwhelming beauty of his cinematography. It's also perhaps beneficial to the enjoyment of this film if you're familiar with some of the director's other works, in particular his Giallo films, The Bird With The Crystal Plumage, Deep Red, and Terror at the Opera.As it stands, thirty-years on (and about to be remade by Hollywood as a EMO stalk-and-slash love story), Suspiria is a flawed work... somewhat incomplete but still completely unlike any other 'horror' film you're ever likely to see. It has it's own style and it's own little universe and if you choose to immerse yourself in that world and buy into Argento's ideology, you're sure to be rewarded by the film's unique sense of style, elaborate design, and grisly scenes of murder and occult conspiratorial revenge. "},{"Title":"A truly beautiful and powerful horror opus","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The nineteen seventies were a great decade for horror films..and one of the very best was this masterpiece from the king of Italian horror..the legend that is Dario Argento.The story..such as it is...goes like this.A young ballet student Suzy Banyon(Jessica Harper)enrols at a dance school(run by British actress Joan Bennett..in what turned out to be her last film)little knowing,like the rest of students,that this school is really a witches coven...and these witches will stop at nothing to kill every single last student there.It soon becomes clear when you watch Suspiria that writing scripts is not Dario Argentos strongest ability..what is however is his ability to craft a great horror film..With help from the gifted Italian cameraman Luciano Tivoli(who would re team with Argento on his other great film Tenebrae and then go to be D.O.P on such films as Single White Female)he creates some of horrors most incredible moments..from the amazing and very bloody opening 12 minutes to the macabre but astonishing scene featuring one of the students and a room full of barbed wire!!!!.A nod should also go to the movies magnificent score written by Argento and his friends..the band Goblin.In short..Suspiria is one of the most impressive horror films of the past 30 years and a great starting point for anyone who wants to make a great horror film(that and Hitchcocks Psycho).Don't miss it...but don't watch it alone...whatever you do.Stephen's rating ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Argento's masterpiece! A surreal fairy tale that reflects upon femininity and the transference to womanhood.","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Director Dario Argento designed the film not as a categorical horror film, but rather as a surreal fairy tale. Its construction is purposefully unreal and fabricated in order to create a dreamlike, fabled storybook semblance that manifests the perspective of the Suzy, a young girl leaving the security of domesticity for the first time in life. Her child-like innocence becomes juxtaposed with the harshness of reality that she has never encountered before, and as fairy tales did for children, she tries to interpret the unfeeling world while trying to maintain a sense of that said colorful innocence. Indeed, within the film characters are child-like and naive with their world is awash in iridescent luminosity that seems wholly fabricated. The dialogue is simplistic (as if a child was speaking) and the narrative is both uncomplicated and elementary with lapses in logic (as fairy tales often contain). The mystery, however, is potent as if reflects the mystery of a new life that Suzy is encountering. The music is ominous and foreboding, with a palpable dread that mirrors her apprehension in this transitional period within her life. These motifs lie buried just underneath the surface of what falsely appears to be a facile tale of horror. Indeed, it is the presentation of the film itself that is the main focus of the filmmakers as it creates a rich critique of femininity and the transference to womanhood. This is truly one of the most artful horror films ever to be produced. "},{"Title":"A horror masterpiece","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Truly one of the best horror films ever made. It's an incredibly visual, visceral experience, and, if you can overlook the poor dubbing and sometimes over-the-top acting, it can be truly frightening. The story is more than adequate for the type of film this is, but it's really not needed due to the barrage of images that assault the viewer. The excellent use of colour and Argento's brilliant camera work are the main reasons why the visuals work so well, but it's the lesser known stuff - like the distinctly witch-shaped shadows during the dog attack sequence - that really makes the film work. And the music, wow. One of the best soundtracks ever composed, horror or not. Not only is it sufficiently creepy on its own, but it fits perfectly with the images on screen. All in all, a wondrously twisted masterpiece. "}{"Title":"Thrilling!!!Beautiful!!!Amazing!!!","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'd never seen such kinda movies before.I mean horror genre has always been the greatest for me(Omen,Halloween)but this film will drive you to another world.It combines all the staff the horror film mustthrilling suspense,beautiful(it really is),the mystical mood that keeps you sitting unmoved during the whole film.Goblin did fantastic work with soundtrack to complete the film's horror and terror.What's the reason of watching this film full of blood?The reason is that after watching the most of Argento's works you will never get disappointed or fulfilled with negative emotions.Hmmm,strange isn't it?That's where the answer lies.Suspiria is the masterpiece of CINEMA not only horror but the whole art.You do not interested in horror but i bet you'll like this film as it is the most beautiful and frustrating either.Forget all your Texas massacres and Hostels.Sit down and watch this film and you will never forget the adventure into the world of mystery and madness. "},{"Title":"An Inconsistent Hypnosis","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is hard NOT to be knocked back during that first-ever viewing of Suspiria--with its flourishes of style and overwhelming use of color, I became a great admirer of the film after its initial run through my VCR. But, years later, the film simply doesn't click as well as it once did (for me, anyway). I just finished watching it for probably the half-dozenth time, and spent most of my viewing trying to figure out why its impact has diminished so drastically. Suspiria is not a BAD film, but its very virtues almost work against it--as with most of Dario Argento's other films, a plot synopsis is irrelevant; the gore, intricate cinematography, and gore is the point. Yet Suspiria's plot is a muddle (and best left to a one-line description a dance academy run by a coven of witches) that draws away from the aesthetic pleasures of Argento's visual composition every time he dwells on exposition that comes off as confusing (and confused) within the context of the story (co-scripted by Argento and Daria Nicolodi). Unlike his (then-)Italian-horror contemporary, Lucio Fulci, Argento is a far more calculating director; while we can watch Suspiria and have no doubt of a master stylist at work, this attention to aesthetic detail makes the clichd characters and the convoluted story even more apparent, thus causing the intended effect to backfire if there's not a single relatable character on-screen, it becomes that much harder to connect with the material. While certain characters have a quirky appeal (the blind pianist, the butch instructor, the hulking Romanian butler), others--like Sarah (Stefania Casini)--come close to breaking through the saturated colors to earn our sympathy, only to be swept away by Argento's stylistic undertow. While Jessica Harper makes a passable protagonist, her role is limited to being worry-eyed and confused throughout (I know how she felt). Suspiria will forever have a place in the history of horror cinema (my 6 is reflective solely of Argento's style and Goblin's score, which is still impressive today), but in the end, it is like being hypnotized in random bursts over the course of 98 minutes instead of a single unbroken trance that would have truly made it a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A Vivid Dream of a Masterpiece","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film has to be one of the eeriest, mystical and most wonderful ever made. It isn't the kind of horror film that gives you nightmares, rather a film that will give you strange vivid dreams; the kind you don't forget. Whenever I hear the opening score it sends a little reminiscent shiver up my spine from when I first had the opportunity to see it. Suspiria begins with rather an odd story, about a girl arriving in Germany to attend one of the most prestigious dance schools in Europe. We immediately feel her bewilderment at being in a new place as she tries to hail a taxi from the airport entrance. I shouldn't reveal much as I think this film is best viewed when all you have read is the caption on the cover The only thing more terrifying than the last 12 minutes of this film are the first 92, which is true! The biggest achievement in this film, alongside the creepy suspense, is Argento's use of color and set design. The films vivid set pieces and different color themes make it look a strange hallucinogenic daydream. If you consider yourself a horror fan, I suggest you watch this film. This film got me into Giallo and Italian horror, full stop. If you enjoyed this film check out The House With Laughing Windows. Not as good but a brilliant Giallo film in itself. "},{"Title":"See it for Joan's sake","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is fascinating and beautifully done. However, it's really just a 70s Italian horror flick. The main reason to see it is that it's Joan Bennett's last movie. I wonder how they got her to do it. I hope she didn't need the money. She's wonderful as the prim and starchy head mistress of the ballet school. She can certainly pull off horror - just watch a couple of Dark Shadows episodes. Beautiful and talented (and funny) Joan Bennett in her last feature film. That's reason enough for any film lover to see Suspiria. I truly loved the sets and the creepy music but it wasn't the genre which enticed me to see this movie. It was the lure of seeing one of the great legends of the silver screen in her last performance. This film shows clearly that Joan Bennett was a professional and a true star to the end. "},{"Title":"Beautiful in visuals and creepy in depth content. In diabolical deluxe color where available!","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is probably Dario Argento's finest movie to date. It's more than just a Horror movie; it's a terrifying visual experience covered with tension, a creepy atmosphere, beautiful gore, and a chilling score.Suspiria is the perfect mix of elements in order to create a memorable Horror movie. The atmosphere is unsettling and always creepy. There's a feeling of uncertainty and fear throughout the movie that truly makes you feel part of the experience. Many reviewers have mentioned the relevance of the colorful art direction of the movie. I just want to mention that the fore-mentioned art techniques are visually stunning and give a special vibe for the movie. The colors play important roles for the most important events, and helps the viewer understand some situations. I agree that this is among the most beautiful Horror movies ever made; talking about visuals. The perfect combination between colors and dark is brilliant.There's also room for beautiful gore. The first murder sequence is amazing because it's creative, surreal, and very violent. You don't expect a maniac to crash the window and slaughter poor Pat. The reset of the movie has minimal but great gore. The death scenes are overall impressive and are featured through spectacular camera angles. For example, Daniel's death scene is memorable because before the gore happens, visuals take an important role in the scene when the devil's statue makes an appearance and then suddenly disappears before the dog attack. It's a chilling and scary scene. Also, the chilling ending deserves some special recognition for it's rich directing techniques, the great use of colors, and mainly because the high fear factor. The threatening dialogs of the Black Queen, the dead girl who comes to life (who in my opinion inspired the possessed woman from Evil Dead II), the witch's silhouette, the great gore, the make-up... My respects. It's truly one of the most creepy endings in Horror movies history. Argento knows perfectly how to display terror. So there you go, you have a visually stunning Horror movie. It's a visual experience in terror like none other. Believe the hype. The score also plays an important factor in the movie. The chilling music (probably inspired by The Exorcist) and the background taunting from the witch is simply memorable. My only problem with Suspiria are the over the top characters in some scenes that only demonstrate that Argento has preferences over theater acting. For example, the scene where Olga and Sara insult each other looked truly cheesy and didn't go with the movie's atmosphere. Also, Pat's cheap acting in the opening sequence, as another example. I am aware of the script changes that weren't made in order to make the girls look older but still. Also, Daniel's acting was over the top when it wasn't necessary. For some moments it looked like Argento's movie was taking a cheesy direction. I'm glad it didn't. Also, some scenes feature stupid actions from the lead characters. Sometimes Argento does not pay close attention to behavior reality and he isn't able to give it to his characters. But that's just my point of view. Jessica Harper delivers a great performance filled with dramatism and fear. She's great in her role and a delight to watch. The cast is overall very good with veteran actors and actresses and some amateurs. The plot is very simple and easy to follow and that's what makes you care about the main character. Argento is a specialist in displaying hints that lead to important events in his movies. I mean, some scenes seem to be insignificant for the plot but suddenly take special relevance for important scenes in order to take the story to a new level. Also, some minimal details shown in the movie should be taken in consideration because most of them may have relevance to the plot. The plot is very simple and easy to follow but the sub-plots, hints, and bits of strangeness makes it delightfully complicated in a positive way. The story goes likes this  a beautiful ballet dancer from USA named Suzy moves to a prestigious and snobby academy in Germany in order to complete a three years course. From the very beginning she experiences strange situations involving the mature women who run the academy; that includes the sub-director, and the house-mistress. As time passed and getting the aid from a psychologist and expert in witches, she finds out that the Academy is a witch coven lead by the Black Queen. Join Suzy in order to experience one of the most haunting Horror movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Suspiria-can't take my eyes off of it.","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of those films you can't take your eyes off of. The film's sets, in a fancy dance school in Germany, are colorful, gaudy, ornate, detailed and slightly Gothic with dark colored walls and hand painted designs. Sheer curtains with gold and red appliqus create shadows and atmosphere. In contrast are the stark dance rooms where students practice ballet. But the film itself is glossy and vibrant and the opening murders slightly over-the-top. Because the primary actors speak in their native Italian language, the film is dubbed in English with the exception of the voices of Jessica Harper and Joan Bennet. This adds a very odd feel to the film so that it appears and feels very foreign. Basically, the school is run by a modern day coven of witches. The story is intensely played out to a background of techno music by The Goblins that makes one think of the opening sequences of The Hunger. When certain students find out about the secret they are hunted down and killed brutally! If you are fan of mystery & horror films you will love this!! "},{"Title":"Pure horror","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although it has aged quite a bit, this movie is a blueprint to make a horror movie. From the tense buildup to the savage first murder, then the eerie atmosphere to the climatic ending. Tecnicaly the movie is superb, with great camera work, lighting and music. The tension builds superbly and the murder scenes, though few are exquisitely made. True, seeing it now there are some flaws, like the not perfect acting or the really old special effects, but the strengths of the movie truly outweigh them. One of the best elements of the movie is that, in my opinion,is that is is not judgemental as many other genre movies, just a logical (in it's own logic) progression of a simple story. Everybody dies for a single reason and actually makes sense, while the movie does not try to press a point, just shows the events. A must see. "},{"Title":"A Superb and Frightening Film","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Visuals rule in Dario Argento's splendid fever dream of a movie, Suspiria. The plot, which concerns a young American ballerina studying at a European school for dance and slowly discovering that it's run by a coven of witches, crumbles at even the slightest examination. And the film comes to a major anticlimax, and then just abruptly ends, leaving one to ask, Is that it? But everything leading up to the end is so stylishly directed, and much of it truly frightening, that the overall impression is of a remarkable fright film.Doing away with the usual dark, shadowy visual style of the typical horror films, Argento instead takes the opposite approach, and bathes everything in lurid, saturated color. The effect, rather than cheapening or diluting the scares, enhances them, because everything takes on a nightmarish and disorienting quality when there are so many colors and visual textures dominating the frames. He also uses an original score tremendously, rivaling that most memorable of horror film scores, the one John Carpenter created for Halloween. (Notably, Argento wrote the music for his own film as well).There are many sequences in Suspiria that deserve to go down in horror film history the opening sequence, of course, of which much has been said, but equally disturbing are the shower of maggots, the attack of the blind man in the middle of a deserted city square, and the final scene in which Jessica Harper's ballerina character stumbles into the bedroom of the head witch.The only strike against Suspiria is the extent to which it steals from Rosemary's Baby, both in plotting and in visual style. But Argento, while perhaps inspired by Polanski's film, deserves credit for making something completely unique of his own.Grade A "},{"Title":"A technical masterpiece","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is Argento's technical masterpiece.**SPOILERS**American ballerina Suzy Banyon, (Jessica Harper) arrives in Germany to study at the prestigious Tanzakademie Academy. Her first night there, she witnesses two girls in the academy get killed. The head of the academy, Miss Tanner, (Alida Valli) officially welcomes her and shows her to her room, where her roommate, Olga, (Barbara Magnolfi) who tells her about the murders. After a rough start, a series of strange occurrences start happening around the studio. All of them inspire Suzy to do some snooping around the academy. Her investigations brings up evidence that someone at the academy is hiding a dreadful secret, one they will stop at nothing to hide.The Good News This is a classic film. The first thing that most notice is that the movie is simply beautiful to look at. Everything is filmed in shockingly bright colors, and their continual reappearance is refreshing to see. The deep, dark reds and blacks, and the light, fluorescent blues and greens are quite in abundance here, giving the film an almost dream-like atmosphere. The film is journey through the world of dreams, offering many common themes and visions. The constant booming sounds that pop up everywhere in the film continually make the viewer on edge, and drawing them into the story even more. Almost every scene in here has a sound of some sort, and most of the time it comes in at the right moment to jangle the nerves. When it wants to, it can also be as graphic as it wants to. The opening double murder is as graphic and brutal as anything ever filmed, and in terms of opening a movie up, is arguably the greatest opening scene in movie history. It delivers one of the few rare shock jumps and is so creative in it's concept and shocking in it's realization that it has to be seen just solely on this sequence alone. However, unlike other films that start out with a great bang, the film rarely does let up, stopping only for the usual exposition and introduction of characters that are necessary for these films before going right back in into the discovery of the truth at the academy. The greatly hyped closing sequence is rightfully atmospheric and doesn't disappoint at all, especially considering what it's up against. This is a great book-ended film, as it opens and closes on very strong points. There is a decidedly European style to the whole affair as well, mixed in with all the other wonderful attributes to the film as well. From the typical Argento brilliance on the camera to the way of telling a simple story to all the little things inside that can only be found on repeated viewings, this is a European approach to horror in it's most classic sense.The Bad News There is a plain and very harsh truth about the film there's no real jumps in it at all. The film is very beautiful to look at and makes you think, but it doesn't make you jump. It has it's moments of incredible suspense, but this is not a jump tactic. It can be used to set one up, and often times it does try this approach, but it never really delivers the jump that it sets up. The dreamlike atmosphere that it so wonderfully exploits also makes the film simply confusing for first-time viewers. It's purposely done that way, cause as stated before, Argento wants to concentrate on the visual rather than telling a story. What happens is of little consequence. What is important is how it is told, and those who are not used to that can sit through the film wondering what everything is about. It's all symbolically done, and that can be something to first time viewers to get through.The Final Verdict There are a couple things to get around, but make no mistake, this is still a classic entry in the Euro-horror scene and arguably in the genre. This is required viewing by anyone interested in the genre, and Argento and Euro-horror fans will be in heaven with this film.Rated R Graphic Violence "},{"Title":"Argento is a master","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ever since I bought it for $2 on VHS, this has been one of my favourite horror movies. It was the first Italian horror I've seen, and unfortunately is still the only Argento film I've had the pleasure of viewing. If the rest of his film are as brilliant as this however, I'm really missing out! A little tidbit that I've always found interesting about this film is that it was originally written to star children. The producers wouldn't allow this, so Argento cast adults, but did not re-write the script. This really enhances the surreal feel of the film, as many of the lines seemed very out of place coming from women in their 20's.The real strength of the film lies in other ares however. First, the lighting and use of colour. As mentioned, Argento gives the whole film an eerie, dreamlike quality through various devices, but the most obvious and effective is the lighting. Always unnatural and unsettling, it creates a wonderful atmosphere.Add to this the amazing Goblin score and the wonderfully orchestrated deaths, and you have a movie sure to creep out most anyone. Highly recommended.9/10 "}{"Title":"Exquisite visual splendor with forgiving shortcomings","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One could hardly add anything of more substance that wasn't observed with previous comments reflecting a simply exquisite cinematography.Nothing but admiration is how I feel about visual side of this movie.There are couple of other points I wanted to mention, for I believe no one spoke of them earlier.Upon first alert of the lead actress Jessica Harper, I had to again verify by reading her name, just to dismiss my first impressions.She looks stingingly similar to actress Frances O'Connor, exact face structure and physique, for a moment I thought she is a young Frances O'Connor, or even that she changed her name to Frances at later date, strange indeed.I'm rather surprised nobody examined this similarity ) This brings me back to the Jessica Harper, I found inadequate amount of director's preparation of her initial performance.Even after dark introduction to her new academy, from the first scene, she adopted this dissonant and reserved aptitude which remains toward the end of the movie, and the same is certainly dismissing the sense of the dramatic contrast of someone who is about to enter the madness and fear itself.Very sterile and uncharacteristic presence, one I find highly undesirable considering its role , environment and story.She is a ballet dancer, vigor, young, full of life, we should have seen this embodied in beginning of the movie, then all this would create contrast while being in new found state of nightmare at academy. We should have seen this changed, sadly, she enters and departures the story with same and fragile vain expression. Pity.Also, I find rather banal Argento insisted that in this supernatural story, the killings where employed with cold weaponry, making it very prosaic indeed, banal I say considering the promise of the movie as such.Research of witches is also nonexistent, with superb visual splendor should have been complemented with the same amount of witchcraft research.Nevertheless , impressive creation.One you ought to experience for yourself "},{"Title":"One of Dario Argento's finest!","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It was easy to claim ignorance of many of this Italian director's films until a few years ago because it was difficult to find them anywhere in any format let alone in an uncut form. Fortunately, DVD arrived on the scene and eager film fans with dollars to spend inspired numerous companies to start churning out any movie they could get their hands on. It wasn't too long before practically every Argento film arrived on store shelves, many of them in uncut, unrated versions. Unfortunately most viewers have likely never heard of Dario Argento. These days more people know about the director's beautiful daughter Asia than the horror maestro himself. What a shame. Argento's films, at least the ones I have seen, are masterpieces of style injected with truly cringe inducing violence. Out of all of his masterpieces--Deep Red, The Bird With the Crystal Plumage, and Tenebre among them--the one that stands head and shoulders above all others is Suspiria. I recently sat down to watch this after a long period of anticipation. Everything you've seen and heard about it is true; this is Argento's epic masterwork.It doesn't start out that way, though. American Suzy Bannion (Jessica Harper) is a gifted ballerina arriving in Europe to attend a rather elite German dance academy in Freiburg. The opening sequences of the film find young Suzy arriving at the airport, hailing a taxi, and heading out to the school in the pouring rain. O.K., you say to yourself, I've seen horror films open with similar sequences before. And you're right--you have seen movies begin in such a mundane way. Then Argento throws out one of his massively disturbing murder scenes, i.e. a young girl from the academy perishes when a knife plunges into her heart. Again, no big deal, right? Wrong. If you've seen a couple of Argento films you know full well how he displays on screen carnage. It goes on and on in gooey close-up, and the same happens here. The stabbing is so gruesome that even this extremely jaded horror fan cringed repeatedly. I cringe now just recalling the sequence. The killing is a rather inauspicious incident marking the arrival of Suzy, especially since the young ballerina happened to witness a few clues that explain what occurred. Of course, she doesn't know that yet. Nor do we. Argento will remind us of these clues at the horrific denouement.And what a denouement! Stylish, haunting, colorful, and deeply frightening; these are the hallmarks of Suspiria, not only in the conclusion to the film but also in the lead up as well. Everything is weird at this academy, slightly askew in an ominous and vague way. Suzy's fellow students seem oddly aloof, the instructors possess a shrill and vicious temperament that occasionally breaks through their carefully constructed facade, and the building itself oozes menace. Strange noises permeate the floors of the building, footsteps are heard shuffling about late at night, and Suzy soon begins to feel ill. What's going on? Well, it's got something to do with the sort of women we normally associate with pointy hats and broomsticks. Yep, you heard correctly Suzy Bannion walked into a building housing a coven of witches. These are powerful women with an ancient past and a horrific record of murder and mayhem. Suzy's investigations into the bizarre events at the academy will soon find her face to face with these malefic old biddies in a series of hidden rooms that positively reek of evil. Will Bannion triumph over the witches? One thing is for sure--one must be careful with creatures that can kill with the wave of a hand.I could literally provide a scene by scene breakdown of this film without revealing any significant spoilers because Suspiria whizzes by in an anarchic way that defies logical description. It's all about style, really, as Argento beefs up the color schemes to frenzied levels. He also imbues the film with his trademark violence, violence that sees a man's throat torn to shreds, a heart repeatedly perforated with a very sharp knife, and a cruel scene involving a room of barbed wire that one must see to believe. Most importantly, Goblin provides yet another immensely haunting score--an eclectic mix of strings, drums, and disturbing voices--that increases exponentially the sense of impending doom the viewer feels as he or she watches the proceedings. Suspiria even manages to cast veteran actor Udo Kier in the role of a psychiatrist who knows quite a bit of disturbing information about the dance academy. Suspiria is Argento's first and best entry in his venerated Three Mothers trilogy (the third installment has yet to appear), and it's far, far better than its follow-up Inferno, an even more confusing film than this one. Without a doubt, all of Argento's trademark techniques find perfect expression in this tour de force.A big movie requires a big DVD, and you can pick up a three disc Suspiria set that gives us the film in all its colorful glory. We also get a lengthy documentary about the making of the film, production notes, trailers, an entire disc devoted to Goblin's chilly soundtrack, and plenty of other goodies to whittle away the hours. I read recently that someone plans on remaking this film, apparently in an attempt to cash in on audiences willing to see updated versions of Hooper's Texas Chainsaw Massacre, The Exorcist, and several other genre staples. I can't imagine anyone creating a better version of Argento's classic film; it's a movie in a league all its own and should stay that way. "},{"Title":"Colorful, Scary, Artistic Masterpiece.","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is the first Dario Argento film I've seen, but it's quite a beautiful horror film. Not because of the gore or violence, but because of all of the colors, lights, and the eerie music. Suspiria is about an American dancer, Suzy Banyon, who travels to Europe to attend a ballet school in the middle of the woods. While staying there, Suzy makes some new friends, but also begins to notice strange things happening at the school that she can't explain. Then people start to die in really gruesome ways, and it appears that something along the lines of witchcraft is involved.I don't want to spoil it, but this isn't a slasher movie (like it may sound from my brief plot outline). It is more of a supernatural murder-mystery type film. Suspiria really sets a mood and a feeling for it, and the music by Goblin is creepy and unlike anything I've heard before. The score itself is enough to give you the creeps - it's very effective. It has an intense, unique atmosphere too, primarily because of the amazing sets and the vivid colors. The colors used here are great, all kinds of bright pinks, blues, yellows, etc, usually contrasting with bloody murders and gruesome images, resulting in an interesting final product. Not often to do you see such bright tones in horror films, and that makes this film really stand out. The whole movie is very colorful, and is surely eye candy, this even includes the colorful tones of blood used in the movie. There are also some creative and extremely violent murders that will have you wanting to look away from the screen. Good acting from all involved, (Harper leads the film well) and wonderful, surrealistic direction by Argento. The opening scene was very, very gruesome, and sets the tone for the rest of the film, which is peppered with some solid jolts, savage murders, and hallucinatory visuals. And the final 12 minutes are guaranteed to keep you on the edge of your seat - I know that I sure was. I'd recommend this, and if you want to buy it on DVD, get the 3-disc limited edition set, it's the way to go. Trust me, I bought it and it's a lot better than the regular DVD release, it includes the regular film disc with a slew of features, and the 2 additional discs are a documentary and the hair-raising soundtrack CD. They even threw in some collectible stills and a thick booklet. The price is worth owning this classic in such a nice set.Overall, Suspiria is a horror masterpiece with beautiful colors contrasting with brutal carnage, threaded together in a mystery that will hold the viewer's attention the whole way through. It's not often that you find a horror film that is quite so graceful and artistic, and Suspiria is one of the few. Not to mention the score Argento uses, which will draw you in and set an uncomfortable, spooky mood -it's difficult to describe, and almost one of those things you have to see for yourself - granted, it's probably not a movie for everyone. For me though, this stands as one of the best horror films of all time. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A legendary horror movie of the 70's","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The main character of this film, Suzy Bannion (Jessica Harper), is a ballet student who attends a ballet academy in Germany where strange and bizarre killings start to happen. Later on in the film, Suzy starts to discover the horrifying and truth of these killings and why they happen.This movie is definitely a 'must see' for horror fans. It has the best cinematography there's ever been in a horror movie because of its camera work and the bright colours that the film uses which makes the movie stand out very neatly, has a creepy theme song and has one of the best, yet terrifying murder scenes in screen history (which is seen in the start). If you're looking for a good horror movie, this one is strongly recommended. "},{"Title":"Terror in Technicolor","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Really, you shouldn't need me to urge you to see Suspiria; its reputation speaks for itself. Intense, suspenseful, and visually rewarding, Suspiria has carved out a name for itself as the greatest of the Italian shockers, and one of the best horror films of all time. But for the sake of argument, let's presume that some of you may have only just heard of the film, or may actually be interested in what I have to say about it.Suspiria is the story of Suzy Banyon, who arrives at a European ballet academy and is immediately thrust into a series of bizarre and horrific events. Her increasing suspicion of the staff and instructors drive her to discover the cause of a string of gruesome deaths and mysterious disappearances, and eventually she must confront the dark secret behind the founding of the school. The plot twists and turns in a delightfully sadistic fashion, and maintains a high degree of tension throughout the film.But all that takes a back seat to the gorgeous cinematography and superb art direction. Lush, oversaturated colors constantly wash the screen, creating a literal spectrum of emotion, muting themselves only as we approach the final scenes, where their loss only adds to the tension of the climax.Add in a compelling Goblins soundtrack, a heaping handful of Dario Argento's beloved maggots, and two of the most horrifying deaths in cinema history, and you have the makings of a horror classic. If you haven't seen Suspiria, you must, immediately. Just make sure you get a good print - wouldn't want you to miss out on any of that fabulous Technicolor. "},{"Title":"the masterpiece of all time","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this was the first argento film i ever saw and immediately fell deeply in love with it and the director . it is brilliant as is all he has ever done . this film will stay in your memory for life . don't miss the others he has done either . guaranteed to freak you out for life and give you a long wonderful memory of what films are supposed to be like . every film student should study all of his films , but this one should be a must in all film schools .thank you dario. your art will last forever .from a devoted lover of the finer arts . to all who never have seen any of his works , don't wait , see them all as often as you can . "},{"Title":"Eerie Fairy Tale","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is one of the greatest movies of all time. I will admit, I wasn't as crazy about the first time I watched it as I was the second time. You really have to pay attention to understand what's what and who's who. The colors are absolutely beautiful, they remind me a lot of a Walt Disney movie. Suspiria's dream-like sense makes it very suspenseful. I loved how everything was just so random, this is a film that definitely does not follow any rules. I caught this movie on Christmas Eve on the IFC (International film channel), the lead actress Jessica Harper is perfect as Suzy Banyon. She really delivered a lot of innocence to the role. When you watch this film, do not expect anything totally scary. Any horror fan should truly check this out. "},{"Title":"Best Horror Movie Ever","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Maybe I wasn't thinking of a scary movie when I went to see this. Maybe it was the title that mystified me into believing it was just a suspenseful movie. Well, 30 seconds into this thriller and I was having a goosebump attack. Then, 5-10 minutes in and I was actually scared. And I don't scare easily. This is not just about blood and gore, although there's a good share of that. This movie has the finest cinematography, music and sets that draw you into a frighteningly, scary experience. I hate to go into details because I feel it ruins a first view experience. Even talking it up like this will lesson the impact by causing high expectations. Leave it to say this is my all time favorite horror movie! "},{"Title":"Creepy movie, even creepier music","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria, the first in Dario Argento's as yet unfinished trilogy of the Three Mothers saga (With the 3rd FINALLY getting ready to film this year) starts with Suzy Bannion (Jessica Harper) arriving in Freiburg, Germany during a thunderstorm. She is there to attend ballet school at prestigious academy. The first bad sign, other than the raging storm, is that she sees a woman fleeing the school and a voice telling Suzy that she is not welcome. We soon see the fleeing student later being brutally murdered by a mysterious person (You see a pair of haunting eyes glowing through a window at her).Suzy eventually comes back and is welcomed by Miss Tanner (Alida Valli) the instructor, who has a very creepy smile on her face. Madame Blanc (Joan Bennett)seems insistent on Suzy boarding at the academy, even though Suzy doesn't want to. Later, Suzy collapses in class and ends up having to stay anyway, forced to drink wine and eat bland food. Her only friend Sarah (Stefania Casini)tells Suzy about the strange going ons there, including the staff (They supposedly leave the school, but Sarah realizes that they don't)Suzy also seems to be drugged a lot. We also find out that it was Sarah's friend that was fleeing the school and that Sarah herself was warning Suzy to stay away.Suzy soon finds out that the school is actually run by a coven of witches. And Suzy also finds out that she is next on the witches hit list.Argento does a good job with the film. The colors are incredibly vivid and the murders are pretty interesting (The first murder is just brutal). But it is the music that gives the film the real creeps. It's not as violent compared to recent horror films, but it still has the ability to give you a scare or two. "},{"Title":"I just like to call you a witch!","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Better than I had expected. This is one of those films you should show someone who has no idea what it is about because it is so surprising and sinister. When a young American ballet dancer arrives in Rome to attend a famous dance academy she gets more than she bargains for as the academy harbors an ancient and lethal secret. She must discover it's dark history and destroy the evil than resides within it. There is a good plot twist right at the end which explains the first sequence in the movie perfectly. This film is quite violent and gory but it in my opinion does not detract from the plot. You are not quite sure who is doing the dirty deeds so to speak and I still don't know exactly who did them but it is irrelevant. The music is good but did get on my nerves a little which is what it is supposed to do. This is a good horror flick and made it onto several top ten horror lists that are posted on the web including AMC's top 100 scariest moments. Followed by the sequel Inferno. "}{"Title":"Stylish, Eerie, & Visually Stunning","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's been said many times before, but I will say it again This is Dario Argento's masterpiece. Out of Argento's collection of masterful creations, Suspiria is his best and most accomplished film for a number of reasons.First, we have the score. Goblin is at the top of their game here, producing their most energetic, atmospheric score ever. It fits in perfectly with the film, from the opening theme that will send chills down your spine to the pounding beats that accompany Suzy's discovery of the witch. The music draws you in and completely immerses you in the film. It is a soundtrack you won't soon forget.Argento's trademark use of color is also superb. Everywhere you look, bright reds, greens, yellows, and blues jump out at you, pulling you deeper into the film's surreal atmosphere. You'll be totally engulfed, almost hypnotized, by this bombardment of colors. Argento utilizes the colors to reflect what's happening on screen. If someone is being murdered or evil lurks nearby, everything glows red. If it is dark and silent, blue will permeate through the screen. Yellow will gleam brightly if something of importance is going to happen. Green usually signifies something peaceful or benevolent, which is a welcome break from the horrors witnessed so far.The performances from everyone are top-notch, especially Suzy and Madam Blanc. Jessica Harper nails Suzy dead on, expressing deep concern, intense fear, or amazing resilience. She does a remarkable job crafting her character. Everything that happens to her is entirely believable and we are right there with her through the entire frightening ordeal. Joan Bennett is brilliant as Madam Blanc. She establishes herself as a maternal figure early on, making it very easy to trust her. Throughout the entire movie, her honesty and dependability do not falter, as you continue to trust her completely. All of the supporting actors and actresses do a great job, portraying their characters wonderfully.The gore is cringe-worthy and very convincing, especially the brutal murder that starts of the movie. Argento uses the gore to maximize the effectiveness of a scene. Many of the bizarre and wonderfully original murders are memorable and will become etched in your memory. All of Argento's trademarks are here in full effect as well Glass shattering symbolizing the shattering of the character's idyllic worlds, the violence toward women, the extreme zooms, and the very wild camera angles and movements. All of these are used very effectively to create an incredibly creepy and dreadful atmosphere.The plot is very coherent, despite what some people say, and flows nicely. The ending is effective and very disturbing. It may not be very scary, but it is creepy and unsettling. I hope to see the third and final entry in The Three Mothers Trilogy.The Bottom Line An absolutely fantastic horror movie in every respect. One of my top ten movies. "},{"Title":"The ultimate twisted fairy-tale","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Whilst directors like George A Romero, Wes Craven and David Cronenberg were addressing and creating an American nightmare through the horror medium, Dario Argento was doing a similar thing in Europe. It was only natural after his four very successful murder mystery films that Argento would make a full blown entry into the world of horror and the supernatural. Deep Red, although ostensibly a murder mystery had shown Argento's respect and consideration of the codes of the horror genre and with it's very violent death scenes the way was paved. Argento entered a new phase in his career.Suspiria is totally and completely a horror film. A roller coaster ride of fear and terror from start to finish. But a horror film with a particularly European sensibility and outlook. From the opening credits sequence the weird and wonderful primal percussion of the Goblin soundtrack assaults the senses. A soundtrack so original and perfect for the film that it would become very influential within the field. The feeling of uneasiness is with you right from the outset and it never entirely leaves you. Even mundane things like an airport terminal and electronic sliding doors are given a surreal and odd quality. Once outside the airport our heroine Suzy Banyon, played with wide-eyed innocent by Jessica Harper is almost knocked off her feet by the wind and rain, the very elements themselves acting as portents of the brutal violence to come. Through seemingly innocuous and random things such as gushing rivers and a taxi journey Argento has a built an atmosphere of intense dread and fear. Set in the heart of the black forest of Germany Argento plays on aspects of folk lore in much the same way as his US contemporaries were playing on American myths. A Hansel and Gretel like horror that profoundly disturbs due to its child-like nature and connotations. Argento is playing with deep rooted fears within us all and the film's Germanic setting gives it a strange surreal realism, if such a thing can be. But Argento also plays close attention to generic conventions. And shows a surprisingly good understanding of them in what is really his first full horror movie. Like most affective horror movies it is set almost entirely in one location, in this case a very creepy and atmospheric dance school. There are lots of eerie night time sequences and lots of supernatural babble. But where Argento differs from the comfortable expectations of the horror genre is in his technical approach to this film. Argento employed the services of the one of the last Technicolor cameras and the result is astonishing as Argento creates a curious visual palette. He splashes lurid and odd colours into almost every scene. Greens, reds and blues are used to startling effect and grips the audience in the claws of unease that never let up. The narrative structure is also quite strong, which is a surprise for an Argento production. This was the first film in a mooted trilogy detailing the present day incarnations of the mythical Three Mothers. Three figures of ancient evil still alive and functioning. In Suspiria we have the Mother of Sighs and her coven of witches. But these things really are superfluous and play second fiddle to Argento's main interest, which is creating unforgettably ways to kill of his cast. The opening fifteen minutes of the movie are true genius.A horror movie can provide many functions, but its most important one is to scare the hell out of the viewer. If a horror movie doesn't get some reaction from you, then it has certainly failed. In this context Suspiria is easily one of the greatest horror movies. The atmosphere is heavily laden and a great deal of the credit must go to Italian progressive rock band Goblin, who produce a wondrous score. But it is essential to watch this movie in the correct manner, with the lights off and the surround sound on high. In these conditions be prepared for a truly awesome and terrifying spectacle "},{"Title":"Weird European film, scary atmosphere","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a funny little film, full with clichs, such as evil castle like buildings, evil bat in the hair (that finally ends squashed with a chair. I mean, who is evil here? ) and the ugly Romanian handyman (should I feel offended?). It is also full of clumsiness, by todays standards. However, the movie has innovation as well, succeeding to create a scary atmosphere that I feel was spoiled by the spooky soundtrack.The story is really irrelevant. What is important is the feel of the film. Heavy European architecture, mixed with windy rainy weather, all happening in a ballet school (that means many women put together, which just has to be scary) and an alternation of loud spooky music and complete lack of soundtrack.Funny little things in the movie Udo Kier plays a short role and he is really young ). There is a scene that seems very much like the one in Hannibal (a girl is knifed and then hanged). There is a scene with a girl that tried to escape and lands in a mess of razor wire. That scene could have been a lot scarier.The interesting part comes in the last 10 minutes or so, where all the action takes place, but it brings no real climax. Conclusion this is OK as a movie, but fails to capitalize on the story. It could have been done a lot better. Now, seeing that there is a 2005 Suspiria project, I wonder if it is a remake and how well will they do it. Maybe this one will seem a masterpiece after that ) "},{"Title":"The only thing more terrifying than the last twelve minutes of Suspiria... Are the first ninety-two.","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There was a lot of Hoopla about this film on all of the horror websites I've seen. The cover of the DVD says One of the scariest movies ever made..., but I've learned it's wise to ignore that over-used line because it's usually bullshit and sets your expectations way higher for the film. But who could resist buying a fairytale film by Italo-lunatic Argento, especially one which is referred to as his 'masterpiece'? Our heroine Suzi Banyon, an American girl with a serious need for some eyebrow plucking, moves into a dance school in Germany, but grisly murders begin to occur there, and she discovers that the school has a dark, supernatural secret...The film opens so well. Right from the beginning there's a sense of dread, the killer eerie music by Goblin feels amazingly ominous and may even remind you of the opening of Mike Oldfield's masterpiece Tubular Bells, which was used so well in The Exorcist, and achieves the same eerie feeling.A few moments into the movie we are treated to an extremely frightening scene involving a window (but doesn't involve catching Rosie O'Donnell changing with the curtains open, there is a limit to how scary these films can be), which then breaks into what has to be one of the most original death scenes I have seen. A sign of things to come? Let's hope so.For the rest of the movie we see some more stylised kills, though none of them quite living up to the first one. However, what drives this film is the tension and atmosphere. I remember years and years ago, seeing the sexy ass French lesbian Vampire film, Shiver of the Vampires, and admiring the atmosphere, in particular the use of red lighting in some scenes, where you wouldn't really find red light. The thing is, coloured light effects are actually not very common at all in modern horror films - they're scrapped in favour of realism, but in the sexy Vampire flick, when I wasn't too busy staring at the nude 70's French chicks, they worked a charm. Suspiria proved to me that the Italians can do that even better, and has provided me with a film which seems to be entirely based around using that kind of atmosphere, to extreme lengths.As with all of Dario Argento's movies, the acting and dialogue is, well, comedy genius. Of the unintended kind. Dario ain't great at English and it shows. He also likes to record the movie without sound and dub the voices on afterwards, which knocks the cheese factor up another 10 levels or so. He even allows some of his actors to speak in Italian to then be dubbed over in English, which causes some painfully bad lip sync.The only thing more terrifying than the last twelve minutes of Suspiria, are the first ninety-two, croaks the creepy voice-over man on the rather korny US theatrical trailer. There's actually an amusing irony to this little gimmick tag-line, as the end of the movie actually isn't quite as good as the rest. Just as the secrets are finally being uncovered, the final battle breaks out and is over before you know it. Questions are left unanswered, before you have even been given the time to ask the question. When our bushy eyebrowed heroine manages to destroy the 'final villain', you almost want to say was that it?.Other than the slight cop-out of an ending, the film was great fun, and the atmosphere wins hands down and this instantly gets to sit in my 'favourites' list.Do yourself a favour and watch Suspiria in the dark. You just can't beat the atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Argento's Masterpiece","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" - From IMDb A young American dancer travels to Europe to join a famous ballet school. As she arrives, the camera turns to another young woman, who appears to be fleeing from the school. She returns to her apartment where she is gruesomely murdered by a hideous creature. Meanwhile, the young American is trying to settle in at the ballet school, but hears strange noises and is troubled by bizarre occurrences. She eventually discovers that the school is merely a front for a much more sinister organization. - From the moment Suzy (Jessica Harper) steps out of the airport at the beginning of the movie, the power of Suspiria is evident. Suspiria is like a Technicolor nightmare. No matter how many times I've seen this movie, I never get tired of it. In fact, I seem to enjoy it more with each subsequent viewing. Very few films have a combination of visuals (each frame of film is like a painting), soundtrack (few films have a soundtrack that so perfectly compliments the action on screen), and story (I've always found the story to be one of the most compelling aspects) like Suspiria. In my opinion, this is very nearly the perfect movie.- It is very difficult to make a horror movie that actually frightens. Suspiria has moments that are to me as frightening as any I've seen. The scene that immediately pops to mind is the bathroom scene near the beginning of the movie. The girl in the bathroom hears a noise and looks out the window to investigate. As a viewer, I just knew something was going to happen. The situation and music are a clear indication that this girl is in trouble. But Argento is very patient and allows the tension to build. When nothing immediately happens, you're sure that Argento had been playing a trick on you. All of a sudden - BAM - you see two eyes staring back into the bathroom. I jump out of my seat every time I see that scene. It's really filmed very masterfully.- One complaint I've read on numerous websites concerns the acting. I tend to think a lot of people are confusing bad acting with the whole dubbing process used by Argento and other Italian directors. Suspiria was originally filmed in English with no sound actually recorded. All of the dialogue was added in post production. Why? Often, these Italian films featured actors who spoke a variety of languages - not necessarily English. During filming, these actors would do their best to phonetically sound out the dialogue. Another persons voice was then often added and matched as good as possible to the lip movements. The lip movements and dialogue are often out of sync and I think some people have a hard time getting past this. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and nigthmarish at the same time","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is one of those movies that keep on coming back to your mind again and again and again. Dario Argento uses violence, cinematography and colors to create the nightmarish atmosphere. The use of red creates an illusion of blood running down the walls. Argento is known for using the camera in a superb way, and Suspiria is no worse than other Argento movies. The camera is almost a character himself, it goes up and down walls, through windows etc. There are three things that creates atmosphere here Goblins excellent score, the colors and the superb use of camera. Suspiria contains an excellent creepy feel all through the movie, and is my absolute favorite. I've got nothing more to say than Perfect, just perfect. "},{"Title":"Compels me to seek out more Argento, although lacking somewhat on its own terms","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Intermittently gripping at its most gruesome, but that's about it. The story is unfocused, the performances unremarkable, but Argento's evocation of supernatural dread, of sharp, hirsute limbs whooshing in from off-screen to claim virgin sacrifice, is the main attraction, and it's mightily impressive considering the lack of resources. His mastery of certain film-making elements&#x97;the Gothic music of chants and bells, the withholding of a key plot point (here, a crucial bit of dialogue) until the moment of greatest impact&#x97;is undeniable. However, these strengths are largely invested in the delivery of several go-for-broke set pieces that, although quite accomplished in themselves, compromise the continuity and movement of the film as a whole. By the end, the whole unwieldy thing is running on fumes. "},{"Title":"Merciless","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first saw Suspiria after someone told me that it was some kind of freaky, livewire must-see camp horror flick. When I saw it, I new that it was much more than that, though I didn't know what. I admired Dario Argento's way of constantly keeping the suspense building without allowing any kind of gory release of the tension-keeping the bomb under the table without letting it go off, as Hitchcock put it in is demonstration of the difference between surprise and suspense. After watching the film a second time, I realized that it doesn't merely keep us on the-it, literally, emotionally tortures us. Argento grabs our hearts with his clawed hand and tightens it, little by little. Of course, his visual style, with cinematography by the experienced Luciano Tovoli, is extraordinary because of its magical, music video richness in color and texture; the music, which was composed by Dargento along with a band called The Goblins, is haunting in its pulsating repetition and the monstrous voices singing along. This style is not window dressing; it makes the movie. The pace is purposely sluggish with so little being revealed until the end. Even the final revelation isn't that satisfying. But Argento doesn't want to satisfy us; he wants to terrorize us. This film is not the conventional, delightfully scary horror film; its designed to make you feel frightened, violated, and depressed. It succeeds flawlessly but do you really want to be terrorized, tortured, frightened, violated, unhappy? "},{"Title":"Excellent horror film","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ordered this DVD online having heard good things about, got it yesterday, and watched it. In my opinion this has to be one of the creepiest horror movies ever(and i have seen a lot), perhaps right up there with Texas Chainsaw Massacre. The Goblin score is truly awesome, and the direction, cinematography, and set design throughout is so hauntingly atmospheric and moody. I love Argento's style of closeups(even going as far as doing a close up on the door shutters at the airport in the beginning) and POV shots, even some really good gore close ups.This is just a really good horror film. Forget the naysayers and nitpickers, see this movie immediately if you haven't already!  "},{"Title":"Awesome Horror Movie of the 70's","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just recently bought the DVD and it was a great movie. It was really easy to get into and was a very smart movie. It was scary. It also is very unique and original. It doesn't get boring and is a great movie to watch with friends. I bought the awesome Limited 3-disc DVD set. It has a strong story and doesn't let you down. The acting is great, as well as the special effects and directing. There are a lot of twists and mysterious occurrences. Overall this is a very entertaining and fun film to watch. I think all horror film fans should see this movie. 10/10 stars  "}{"Title":"Could This Be the Most Beautiful Horror film?","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria is the eye candy of all horror flicks. It might have the most beautiful set and light design I've seen in this genre - ever. Director Dario Argento is kind of a Tim Burton of the horror genre, giving us a completely unique and visually stunning vision of what other directors would leave as gray shadows and dull props. I guess there's the idea of lighting films in a realistic manner. But in the horror genre, that seems a little silly since the story lines deal with mostly impossible situations and characters anyway. In some ways - and this is a compliment - the look of this film reminds of me of the original STAR TREK TV series, for all it's use of bright color and over-the-top sets. Argento takes it orders of magnitude higher, however, and gives us images that could be taken as stills, framed and displayed in art galleries.SUSPIRIA is not a perfect film by any means, but I believe many fans of this film and its director are won over by the look of it all. And I completely understand that. Where this movie fell short in my viewing was in problems with pacing and storyline. It's great that Argento gave us some nice establishing shots and wide shots of where all the mayhem takes place, but sometimes it seems to linger there too long, and return too often. This coupled with the sometimes confusing order of information we're given (I'd wished we'd gotten things a little earlier or later in places) made the whole feel less than it should have been. And there is a moment or two where the special effects get a bit cheesy by today's standards. I think these moments are magnified by the contrast of how good everything else looks, so it's unfortunate, but probably unavoidable for the day.At this point I also must bring up the issue of gore in the horror genre. There seem to be 2 camps on this subject those that want to see everything in great detail, and those that believe that less is more, and leaving things to the imagination can often be more powerful and effective (I sight JAWS on this issue - we only see one full-on shark attack, and that's at the end - all others are offscreen or have an obscured view, and it's one of the scariest movies ever made). I'm in the second group, so I must say I found certain gore aspects to be overdone, often to the point of trivializing the event. But I'm sure those who like gore in their horror will like SUSPIRIA's content even more. For those who can't handle it at all, however, this might not be your cup of tea. For the rest of you horror fans, even with the plot and pacing issues, SUSPIRIA is one to see at least once. I wish half of the horror films I've seen looked half as good as this one.  "},{"Title":"Interesting and Stylish","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was the first Dario Argento film I saw, and I saw it almost by accident. My stepmother recommended it. What I was expecting was some sort of horror general, middle of the road horror film that might be worth a look. I was wrong. This can sort of be described as a cross between a horror film and a cinematic experiment (a la David Lynch or David Cronenberg), and it does have varying degrees of sucess. I did not personally find it frightening (but it is rare that I get scared by a film), or that easy to follow (usually a bad thing, but sometimes it's good).  It enters into the deep and mysterious world of a ballet school, which was once a place plagued by black magic and sorcery. It features some bloody murders, but they are definietly done in a much more stylish and interesting way then the (generally) American slasher films in the years immediately following the film's release. All in all, my feelings are mixed. I'm sure they will become much clearer overtime. Check it out anyway. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite horror/supernatural films","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, it seems to me that the Europeans and Asians sure do know how to make great supernatural horror films, and Suspiria is no exception.From the strange plot-twists, colourful surreal cinematography, the creepy effects used in this film and of course, the eery, yet fascinating soundtrack by Daemonia/Il Goblin, Suspiria has all of that seen in a good Dario Argento (or Argento-esque) film. Eventually, this film also inspired the creation of the Korean Whispering Corridor movie series, which is equally great and creepy.But warning to those who go to theatres, They are remaking this movie and *oh lord* AMERICANIZING this film at the Hollywood trash factory! HOW DAR THEY! It will be just like every other Hollywood horror film, with the cinematography and soundtrack for the Marilyn Manson generation, cheap fake CG and equally fake, makeup covered former prostitutes turned actresses as the main roll. Just can't beat the originals... ...BTW, the actresses who play the hapless students (and the lead girl)are quite hot, plus, they can ACT! "},{"Title":"holy crap","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this movie blew me away. I was scared out of my mind. The tension, the music, the set designs... everything about it made absolutely terrified, and the death scenes were incredibly graphic and shocking, as well as beautifully done in a very artistic manner, which makes it all the more terrifying to watch. this movie gets a 5/5 "},{"Title":"A wild, loud and colorful horror film from Dario Argento.","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria (1977) is an assault on one's senses. A true horror classic. From the vivid red and blues, the horrific set pieces and the loud rock music from Goblin. Argento wanted a film that could shock people then, now and into the future. In my opinion, Suspiria has accomplished that. It's a film that people will still be talking about for years to come. The music from Goblin is awesome and it's the perfect companion piece to this movie.The script (written mostly by Daria Nicolodi) tells the story of three evil witches. One happens to reside in Germany (The Tanz Academy), the others in Italy and America. Suzy Bannon (Jessica Harper) attends the dance school and eventually stumbles across it's dark secret.Suspiria has been recently restored to it's original Technicolor glory. The reds and blues are strong, the print is pristine and the soundtrack is loud. This movie happens to be one of my personnel favorites and it still scares me! Highly recommended! It's one of the essentials. "},{"Title":"Exceptional gore-fest.... with suspense!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Extraordinary photography and direction raise this film above its weak story and average cast.  Some stunning moments of suspense, followed by a gore payoff that only the most hardcore modern gorehound would find disappointing.  Impressive use of color light in the photography.  Story is unimportant concerns a new student at a dance school which turns out to be a cover for a witches' coven.  A few weak scenes (i.e. the bat attacks the heroine) are quickly forgotten in the fast moving mix of terror and tension.  Excellent soundtrack by rockers Goblin enhances the mood of suspense.  Memorable opening in the rain. "},{"Title":"Over long and over rated","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's difficult to know quite what to make of SUSPIRIA, a film that meanders all over the place as it tries to emulate Hitchcock's skill at creating suspenseful situations. Trouble is, the whole thing is over-egged. A relentlessly monotonous six-note musical soundtrack by The Goblins, plus unremitting screaming from various females, might well give some the creeps, but in between, there are longeurs of endless creeping down corridors, the usual lights suddenly failing in frequent thunderstorms, and of course the majority of exterior scenes are accompanied by torrential downpours of rain. A few set pieces are well done, (for those who have a taste for gruesome mutilations), and it must be said that Jessica Harper acquits herself well as the American student forever glancing around to see what mischief is likely to befall next, but poor Joan Bennett I'm afraid comes across as a role-model for Divine, and Alida Valli seems to think she's really on the set of ILSA, SHE-WOLF OF THE S. S. I don't know if it was intentional, or if it was meant to be read the way I read it, but in the final shot as the Academy is consumed by flames and Jessica Harper walks away to safety, a smile of deepest satisfaction appears on her face which at the same time also seems to be a smirk of profound relief that at last it's all over. I felt much the same way. "},{"Title":"Another brilliant nightmare from the mind of Argento","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Like a lot of other Argento movies (Phenomena, Inferno), this movie works better if you treat it as a nightmare from start to finish. The scenario, often maligned, does hold up, but it's not really the strong point as it's secondary to the style. Like all nightmares, leave your logic at the door and prepare to assault your senses with brilliant set pieces, camerawork and pounding music by Goblin. There are a few dull moments in the middle part, but it's usually very creepy and bleak, and it's always pleasant to look at the amazing color compositions used thoughout the movie. A must see for any horror buff, and a nice introduction to Argento's work, even though I like Deep Red and Phenomena better. If you get and liked the nightmarish atmosphere of this film, Phenomena uses a similiar approach, although it's a little weird for some tastes.8/10 "},{"Title":"Argento's Masterpiece","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria is by far Dario Argento's masterwork.  A brilliantly photographed and stylish slasher flick with cool and brutal murders.  An American girl travels to a European ballet school only to find that it is a witches coven where girls are brutally murdered every once in a while.  The atmosphere and awesome camera work make this one of the most beautiful, yet savage slashers ever.  A must for horror/slasher fans! "},{"Title":"Very boring","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dario Argento is a very popular film director here in Italy and in the last thirty years he's shot quite a lot of movies of different quality. Suspiria is not the best one, to put it mildly. It will disappoint all those who look for a scary horror film, because you don't get scared at all when watching it. On the contrary, you'll run the risk of yawning after the first ten minutes. I remember watching it a dozen of years ago for the first time and I didn't understand anything of the plot. Yesterday night I rented it again and concentrated upon every single detail. Although this time I did understand the plot, I found it very boring. I do agree with the criticism expressed by many other reviewers the acting is really bad (but this often seems to be a common feature in many of Argento's films), the music is annoying and really too loud (I kept on changing the volume every time there was the soundtrack playing). But also the script is terribly bad the dialogues are shallow and rather ridiculous. More often than not you feel like laughing. Surely you don't get goosebumps! Some praise the colours and the photography... Well, perhaps they're good if you're watching the film in a movie theatre, but on a home tv screen it gets pretty annoying there are scenes where you just catch red hues, then green hues, then blue, but they lack depth. In the authors' intentions the scenery - I'm thinking of the ballet school - should be sinister, but actually, as the friend who was with me rightly observed, it looks more like a brothel. Needless to say, the plot is completely disjointed. The only actor who didn't act too badly was, in my opinion, Flavio Bucci (the blind pianist). You can forget the rest. Some of the figures were totally pointless (like cute Miguel Bose' in the role of Mark).If you're interested in more films by Dario Argento, I suggest you should look for Profondo Rosso (Deep Red), which is actually more a thriller, but with a great feeling for suspense, or Trauma and Demoni - which are not art masterpieces, but do their work. His latest movie, Non ho sonno, again a thriller, is ok. At least it does its work, even if - this time again - the actors give their worst performance ever.  "}{"Title":"Outstanding!!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is by far, the best horror film i've ever seen in my whole life. If you want to make the best horror movie, here's the recipe- Frightening score created by master Argento & performed by The Goblins - awesome cinematography, great use of colors that make this film a surrealistic voyage into fear. - A dance academy which uses M.C Escher's models as decoration. - Lots of camera tricks, which include animal's perspectives among other cool stuff - The Italian accent - the most artitistic murder ever filmed. or if you think this is to difficult, just buy a copy of Dario Argento's Masterpiece SUSPIRIAP.S The DVD version will be available on September 11, 2001, includes a fully remastered director's cut version of the film plus some good extras. There's will also be a special edition which includes a documentary and the original music by goblin (3CD) "},{"Title":"A tad overrated (minor spoilers)","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Without question, hype is a huge factor in determining a movie's success. This is especially true in the horror movie genre. From early entries in the 50's and 60's, whose campy trailers promised thrills and chills to recent times where internet hype made The Blair Witch Project the most profitable piece of Shoestring budget trash in history, hype can make or break a film. It was hype from knowledgable horror movie fans than made me see Suspiria. Needless to say, some of that hype is not deserved.It's easy to tell that Suspiria is made by people who know and respect the horror movie genre. Argento tries to create the most thoroughly creepy atmosphere he could. And in the most part, he succeeds. Most of the film takes place at night, aiming for a dark, seedy look. The opening airport scene combines hard rainfall, a scary soundtrack and darkness for a most chilling effect. Some scenes light up the dark in eerie shades of reds and blues, almost hinting at something creepy lurking on the horizon.Yet the creepy, forboding soundtrack (excellently scored by Goblin) and subtle hints at something wicked coming usually ends up disappointing. One scene in one of the girl's rooms builds up tension well and woefully ends in an infestation of maggots. Other tense scenes such as the one where all the girls sleep in the same area while heaving breathing is heard in the background have unresolved tension. The movie constantly makes you think one thing will happen and something totally different happens. This is evident in the murder of the blind musician. Such as attempt to surprise the viewer is so typical of late 20th century horror films, but ends up flat.The plot also disappoints. As with other movies that are heavy on imagery, such vivid pictures come at the cost of a deep plot. The extremely graphic first murder (one of the scarier scenes in the movie, especially in the uncut version) throws the viewer into the plot. Questions are raised as to what force is causing the murders, but are resolved at a snail's pace. Indeed, none of the questions are thoroughly answered until the film's climax, which is way too subdued and nowhere near as impacting as the opening scenes. The acting carries the movie through the film and the female leads due their jobs as budding scream queens. The actress playing the freaky Directress did is well cast.Again, it is obvious from the chilling opening to the creepy end credits that the Argento and company tried to create a surreal, creepy atmosphere for this film. In that, they succeeded. However, the film builds much tension without giving the big payoff - which is a huge scare. The movie owes much to its brooding soundtrack - the most constantly chilling part of the film. Despite how is disappoints, the surreal imagery and soundtrack do make Suspiria a must-watch for hardcore and even passing fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Vibrant blues and reds drape the fabric of Argento's generally considered masterpiece.  His use of colour gives this film a dream-like quality that places the viewer in between a reality and a unreality of sorts.  Cinematically speaking, Suspiria is marvellous.  It has sweeping shots when needed and some of the scariest close-ups as well.  The story is a bit convoluted as it details the events that follow a young American girl going to a ballet school in Germany, where witchcraft seems to be the avocation of the day.  Jessica Harper does a fine job as the female protagonist thrust in a world she does not understand...a place where insane killings have taken place.  Argento pulls all the stops in his quest to scare the young girl and the audience as well.  He succeeds.  This film is a visual feast for the eyes and a heart-pumper too.  Argento's camerawork is impressive on all accounts.  The cast is very good with Joan Bennett and especially Alida Valli giving fine performances. "},{"Title":"Chills aplenty!","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Just to dispense with one aside -- if you liked the soundtrack to this, it's available on CD, and worth getting. I actually find listening to the music from SUSPIRIA as frightening as the movie itself. Now, for the film... Agree with the Argento purists, it's got its flaws (not the least of which is the total absence of logic), but if you put that aside, you'll find this one hell of a ride. Agree also that it should be seen uncut and widescreen, preferably on a very big screen. I saw this at the theater back in '77, and was blown away; it's not the same on the box, but then, what is? One of my favorite horror movies, SUSPIRIA isn't consistently terrific, but oh, the highs it hits... Still, I think Argento's giallos (especially PROFONDO ROSSO) are superior. "},{"Title":"Dr. Drew says...  6 out of 10","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria (1977) The Good, the Bad and the ColorfulSynopsis Dario Argento's giallo of a young American who goes to Europe to attend a ballet boarding school. Little does she know the school has a dark secret. As events unfold, young Susan starts to realize and uncover the truth behind those in charge.The Good Argento, among a few others like Bava and Fulchi, are the masters of giallo and if you know what that is, your viewing pleasure will be enhanced. This isn't straight up horror, it's a murder-mystery-thriller with a penchant for some excessive blood and shock. For what it is, Argento does it well. The collaborative efforts from screen to sound are a work of art. The soundtrack, performed by the band Goblin, in essence, make the film, because it's really not scary at all. Those who coin phrases like, the scariest film I've ever seen are just silly. It's not scary. It's atmospheric. The widely applauded use of angles and color are as good as advertised. It's a very nice looking film. Moods are well-captured and yes, it is quite arthouse in form and thus, loved by film snobs worldwide. Am I a snob? No, but I do well to appreciate something new and different and well-captured and this is a film worth seeing for that alone. The Bad All that good stuff about cinematography and atmosphere aside, the script of this movie is a mess in places and incoherent in others. No one that is not taking a snobbish approach to this film can deny that there are just some flat out bad scenes in this movie. Stilted acting, wooden dialogue... it's all there. This is one of those movies that has received acclaim and now, it seems no one wants to backtrack and call it what it really is... a decent giallo that is far from a work of art. Strictly speaking, the story just isn't a great one... not great enough to stand the test of time. Nor is it told in any way that is unique. The only unique and interesting quality is the way the movie is filmed. That sets it apart and makes it an Argento film. That is great and all, but it doesn't make it a cinematic classic in these eyes. The story is what is missing here. It's just very dull and slow-moving, but done in a nice-looking way. It's a sawdust cake that is beautifully frosted, but has nothing tasty at it's core.The Colorful As stated before, Argento's use of color in the film is truly brilliant. It creates mesmerizing atmosphere and it is unforgettable and makes the film unique and worth watching. The use of bright red blood is one of style and some reviews seem to not acknowledge that (i.e. ...and the blood was just so fake!). Yeah... it's supposed to look that way. Coupled with a musical score that brought out the vibrant reds and greens, the look and feel are as good as any movie out there, horror or not. Too bad the content doesn't match. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time.","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's almost impossible to show this film to someone without them having some extreme type of reaction, whether negative or positive. Few films offer the audiovisual experience of Suspiria and I have played this movie in a room full of people who have never seen it and nearly everyone was stopping to inquire what exactly I was watching. Whether it's the unique use of a strong primary color palette or the music score by Goblin, something about the film draws them in like nosy people gathering at the scene of a car crash. I once had a friend come over just as the film's opening murder sequence was playing and she immediately looked at the TV with a What are you WATCHING? expression and was completely thrown.But aside from its ability to get attention, it's simply (in my opinion) a masterful piece of art. Every scene is framed and composed in such a unique way, utilizing objects and color to full effect to fill the screen with so much information. It is sad that people tend to focus on the quality of the English dubbing and ignore the film's other merits. I have seen Suspiria called cheesy and this is unfortunate because anyone with some knowledge of film technique would notice the amount of detail put into it.The film's dubbing and the bizarre use of music and color make this an acquired taste for some, which is understandable, but this shouldn't be mistaken for poor craftsmanship.From the fairy tale atmosphere to the entrancing musical score and the bold colors that just pop off the screen, Suspiria weaved a spell on me that has stuck. I have yet to experience such a unique barrage of the sense such as this and it keeps me coming back every time I'm in the mood for a different kind of horror that isn't your typical haunted house or slasher flick. "},{"Title":"Argento Surprisingly Better than Advertised","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love horror, but I can be a very picky consumer. I like subtlety, sophisticated and psychological scare tactics over pure shock and/or revulsion, and characters I can actually give two shakes about. I don't insist that plots be super-complex, but I expect them to be well executed. Given the numerous times I had seen Dario Argento compared to David Lynch, the reputation his contemporaries have for over-the-top gore and plot holes you could drive a tractor through (charges upheld by what I had seen of Italian 70's and 80's horror so far), I was fully prepared to hate this movie. I EXPECTED to hate it.I loved it.Don't pay attention to the film's detractors' accusations of horrible acting. You'll find no Oscar winners here, true, but you rarely do in ANY horror movie. The acting in 'Suspiria' is actually about average for a horror flick. The dubbing process has dulled some of the immediacy and intimacy of certain scenes, but in all fairness the viewer should make some allowances for that. It's a handicap almost all Italian filmmakers had to work with in that era, and Argento compensates for it better than most.The rich colors, gorgeous sets, creepy lighting and masterful pacing make up for the weaknesses of the dubbing process and occasional lapses in acting ability. (And they ARE just lapses for the most part. The leading lady seems a little confused as to how to move when drowsy, but otherwise gives a decent performance. I can think of only two of the cast who were consistently bad.) The silent characters, unhindered by the dubbing, are thoroughly creepy. The toothless attendant will make you squirm every time he appears.The gore is intelligently handled, graphic enough to frighten but not ridiculous enough to make you stop taking the movie seriously. I won't quibble over realism because for me the brightness of the blood can be forgiven, as it lines up with the surreal colors that characterize the film. It may well have been intentional.As for Goblin, it's true that they make more banging and wailing noises than music, but it's not an album, it's a soundtrack. And it has the desired effect. So music critics, shut up and accept it for what it is.What worried me most about Argento before I watched this movie was the persistent David Lynch comparison. ('Mulholland Drive' is one of the few films I found so terribly pointless that I actually walked out of the theater--and I NEVER walk out of theaters; I'm anal about finishing out what I've paid good money for.) I don't know what people who make that comparison are smoking, at least in this case. There is a coherent plot here, decent characters you actually care about, and the scenes actually relate to one another and proceed in a linear fashion. After this, I'll be giving the rest of the Three Mothers movies a go, and if they turn out to be like this one, I may just move on to Argento's gialli. "},{"Title":"Moody, Atmospheric, and Bloody","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am not always thrilled by overtly bloody horror movies; I tend to be more impressed with the sort of film, like Robert Wise's THE HAUNTING, that puts over its scares with suggestion.But every rule has at least one exception to prove it, and SUSPIRIA is one of my concessions to the blood-and-gore school of horror. Because Dario Argento does not rely solely on the gruesome effects to tell his story he creates an other-worldly, oddly colored (with red predominant), utterly weird scenario that is so bizarre that I have always felt, watching this film, that this is what a bad acid trip might feel like.The plot is almost negligible a young American woman arrives to study dance at a famous dance academy in Germany, and the weirdness starts the second she exits the airport and attempts to get a taxi.I won't reveal any more. The whole thing is so trippy that it has to be experienced, and there are some scenes that Argento seems to have put in the film just because he thought they were scary, since they have little to do with what plot there is.And all the while the proceedings are accompanied by a score that will always rate with the music from PSYCHO, JAWS, HALLOWEEN, and THE EXORCIST as some of the most frightening music ever composed for a film soundtrack.Another bonus to SUSPIRIA is that it gives us a chance to see the great Joan Bennett and Alida Valli in their later years; what they may have lost in looks they have not lost in talent. And I have never understood why Jessica Harper did not become a bigger star.Not for the squeamish. But if you like a good scare, hold on and go for the ride. It's worth it. "},{"Title":"Horror which doesn't scare","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" May be in 1977 it was way above the horror level expectations and sensibilities of the people.But in today's age its kinda well... without being harsh, not really scary.(if one were to be harsh, they would call it comical.) decent stuff.not for the horror fans.The plot line is almost predictable. And the acting not really above par. The end is agonizingly simple and uncomplicated. Its as if the story waited to be rushed in at the end.The music however deserves a mention. It builds the necessary anticipation. Only to have it squashed by the deliverables. There are gaping loopholes in the story, which scream to be filled. But then given that the only scary element of the movie was the music, this is not much of a surprise. "},{"Title":"And I thought the Wicked Witch of the West was scary","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When you think about it, there really aren't that many horror films about witches. Sure there's hits like 'The Craft' and 'The Blair Witch Project,' but when you compare the list of witch movies to the ones about vampires, werewolves, and zombies the number just doesn't measure up. Why this is I don't know, but what I do know is that unlike those other genres where there are many great and yet also some really terrible titles, there aren't many bad witch movies and I'm happy to say 'Suspiria,' one of famed horror director Dario Argento's greatest achievements isn't one of them. I hate to admit it, but I actually didn't see this film until high school and when I finally did I was taken aback by it. It truly is a horror classic that deserves to be remembered.Pros Excellent work from the cast. Absolutely stunning architecture. Director Argento does a spectacular job at both scaring the viewer and making the film a piece of eye candy with use of colored lights and filters, neat camera tricks, etc. Dripping with suspense and dread. Frightening moments and images from right out of a nightmare. Some of the most elaborate and brutal kill sequences ever filmed. Goblin's score is one of, if not their best and really adds to the terror. A generous amount of blood and gore. A pace like a roller coaster; slow and steady one moment, moving a mile a minute the next.Cons The evil is done away with too fast and easily.Final thoughts Unlike many recent horror films, 'Suspiria' is not one that can be easily dismissed as just another routine waste of time. It goes places a lot of horror films are afraid to go and instead of wall to wall gore it uses visceral shocks and suspense to scare the audience. It's not like any horror film ever made before or since.My rating 5/5 "}{"Title":"I Appreciate The Film More Now, But Still Heavily Overrated Argento","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I first saw Suspiria, and for many years after, I was not impressed at all. Now, the movie has grown on me a bit and I appreciate it more but it's not everything it's cracked up to be. Yes, the film is nice to look at and contains a spooky moment or two and some excellent music but overall, it's pretty much just eye and ear candy and not much more. The problem with the film is that the majority of it simply cannot live up to the frantic, chilling opening 17 minutes or so. Dario went all out with the opening but the rest of the film suffers because it's a letdown after that. Anyway, might make for a cool bit of late night viewing so judge for yourself, it's the best way to decide. "},{"Title":"Wooden acting, weak plot = masterpiece?","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I searched out this movie after seeing it included several best of lists on the internet. Maybe it was my high expectations but I found myself disappointed with this film. While there are several genuine eerie scenes, the whole film as a whole didn't work for me. It concerns a young American ballet student, who enrols in an exclusive ballet school, only to discover sinister goings on involving witchcraft. There's not a whole lot to the story beyond this. I didn't find myself gripped to know what was happening next as the film rattled along its wooden acting tracks. The acting for me was the biggest drawback. The delivery tends to be dull, even from the American actors. There is some interesting use of colour, but for this viewer I can only express disappointment on this movie. At around 80 minutes it is mercifully short so it may be worth seeking out if only to see what all the carry on is about. "},{"Title":"Classical conditioning","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From the get-go, Suspiria is filled with bright imagery and sound. Right before a very early moment of killing, it seems like Argento is purposefully overdoing it with the music and the sound. The Goblins' playing is relentless and it seems absurd that it's supposed to lead to anything scary... and then the killing happens. From then on, the music no longer seems extraneous, but only deeply foreboding.Dario Argento's Suspiria is not a horror movie of plot or suspense, but of experience. If Hitchcock depended on Freud, Argento depends on Pavlov, and it's as if this movie is an attempt to classically condition the audience against it's own logic. Visuals and sound unravel at overt levels to set your mind towards terror. Surprisingly, it works despite my better judgment.A young American woman attends an academy for ballet in Germany. She hardly even has time to settle in before crazy things start happening a woman runs out of the school as she's trying to enter, subsequently getting murdered; another young woman taken to the new arrival starts whispering about witches and mysteries; an uncannily scary looking woman and boy reflect light into the American's face, sapping all her energy. The colors are very Hitchcockian and Argento's camera delights in floating around in long takes; his use of dubbing for sound does not create problems as expected but lends a particularly surreal air; he plays with different effects from straight-up gross-out (maggots) to psychological terror (the hallways) to a scene that single-handedly makes the entire Saw series redundant (the wires in the closet). Best of all, he sets it on a place called Ascher Street, in Gothic buildings decorated with Escher interiors.It's hard to exclaim the point as to why this movie is so successful Argento is utterly expressionistic, willing to eschew logic or reality for a good ol' brain-tingling mesh of effects that somehow add up to a very pleasing and loaded aural and visual experience.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Essential art","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So the other night I turned down the lights once again, and saluted the fall with a bottle of Italian red wine, some Italian almond biscuits and a DVD of SUSPIRIA; in Widescreen, in Surround and (in this case) in Italian! With me was my girlfriend who had not seen the film, and once more I witnessed the full power of this magnificent horror film through new eyes.I don't know how many times I've seen Suspiria over the ages, but it never fades in strength. It's one of the most intense films ever made and every time you put it on, lightning strikes. Now, Suspiria being an incredible feast for the senses is one thing, but every time I see this film it grows on me. Not only is this one of the greatest horror films ever (if one wishes to argue THE best, I would not disagree, it's certainly not a bad pick) but it is indeed also a bold and thoroughly conceived film, that - unlike many films, in particular horror films - has to be conceptually understood. I am a big fan of accepting films on their own rules. To me, there are no grounds in film, in the end film has got to be art, and no film can be expected to achieve a certain standard. Film has existed for little more than one hundred years, and I guess this is why film has not yet broken through it's primitive state, as say, the novel did during the Modernist days. Don't get me wrong, I like a good popcorn film any day, and I hold no grudges towards Aristotelean storytelling - I just don't like it as a norm. Still today, priority one of film is entertainment and a film that doesn't pay enough attention to story mechanisms, will be automatically perceived as more or less pretentious or, at best, conceptual or perhaps arty.Now, why this long essay on the situation of art within film? Because, Suspiria is a prime example of a artistically free film. As much as we horror fans love it, many people still have a hard time with it - it has been said by many the actors aren't good enough, the story is ludicrously thin, the dialog is cheesy... and the greatness of Suspiria is that this is exactly the point. You could argue One cannot claim Suspiria being bad, by saying that it is incoherent. It's like saying Schindler's List is bad because it's about WWII. Dario Argento is not interested in the common so called rules of cinema. Like many other European directors before him, the actors are mere models, so are the characters. There is no psychology, no intrigue. We basically never get to know anything about anyone, in the beginning of the film Suzy Bannion is at the airport and she has no identity, in the film she is not given a background, nor a future. The characters speak to each other, but apart from things leading the story along, it's about nothing. It is what's going on around them, and in between them, that matters. It is in the colors, the music, the violence, the imagery, in one word Art. It means nothing or anything, judging on the viewer. It's essential art. This also sets Argento apart from many other Artistic directors (Bresson, Godard...) because unlike their films, Argento's films there are no concepts being followed. Just imagery.Personally, I think Suspiria is one big nightmare. It seems to be the real world, but it really isn't. When Jessica Harper arrives in the airport we are still in the real world. But the realm of Suspiria is lurking behind the doors of the main entrance, apparent with the demonic hisses from the Goblin soundtrack every time the doors are in frame, and the silence when we see Harper move towards them. And when she finally reaches the main doors, she enters the world of Suspiria. A world where people are talking in stiff articulations and where you cannot count on anything being quite the same as it is in the real world. For instance, if you turn out the lights there won't be darkness, but a tone of green or red.Despite it's enormous depth and width in imagery, Suspiria is a very concentrated film (compare it for instance with the followup INFERNO, no less interesting but a total demolition of any kind of coherent storytelling). I am not going to deny that the amazing Goblin score does very much for the film, and it is the element of music that truly makes it masterful. In the pounds, the howls and in the dangerously simple blood red theme, lies the true horror engine Adrenaline. It's impossible not to become disoriented and instinctively scared by it. Added to that, the extreme use of diverse colors, perfect editing and basic Argentoish geniousness, we have a nearly flawless execution of a nearly perfect horror film.But not only that. When film has reached a place that it deserves, we will look back on Suspiria as a role model in modern film making, way ahead of it's time. "},{"Title":"Great horror movie.","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm an avid fan of horror and before seeing this movie I had no idea that it was horror. Imagine my surprise when I found out that it was and even more so when I saw how good it was.First off, the dialogue was mediocre, the acting as well and there was a bit of cheese towards the end.But I have to hand it to this film though, the cinematography lighting, colors, and camera angles - is very well done. That coupled with the eerie soundtrack makes for a terror and dread inducing horror movie like no other. The suspense is very subtle, unlike most of the horror movies today which love to throw everything at the viewer.Some of the more memorable scenes were the blind man walking home through the square and the last victim trying to escape from her assailant, an extremely suspenseful chase in my opinion.Two thumbs up for Dario Argento and props to the great music from 'The Goblins'. "},{"Title":"A Child's Nightmare","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The 70's was undoubtedly the best decade ever for horror films. Often quoted as one of the finest of that period, the fact that Suspiria stood the test of time is basically due to it's originality compared to films such as The Exorcist and Texas Chainsaw Massacre, who tried their best to make a horror film that was as close as possible to something that could actually happened. Argento goes the other way around, by taking his audience out of the normal world, and into the darkest corners of the subconscious, where fears we long thought didn't exit anymore, childish fears such as those of the Witch in Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, are suddenly reborn. With expressionistic set design that seem to suffocate the characters within, as well as extreme use of sound and colors, this is a child's nightmare captured on celluloid. An Argento trademark, he once again proves he's a master at creating some of the most unique death scenes in cinema, which are so bloody violent, and yet the camera lingers on them with childlike fascination, the events bathed in a wonderful combination of primary colors. The script of the film is often criticized, but I consider it quite solid and I just love the fairy tale vibe it has. Indeed, Suspiria is nothing more than a fairy tale, a dark, twisted fairy tale and when you stop to think of it, in the same style the Grimm Brothers use to write their stories. In any case, the plot follows a young American girl joining a renowned ballet school in the Black Forrest in Freiburg, Germany. A series of strange, supernatural events start to take place and soon she finds out the school is merely a front for a coven of evil, and powerful witches. I have to admit the finale is not as great as the rest of the film, but it's good on it's own right and the apparition of the queen witch scares me to this very day. The acting is good, with strong performances by Jessica Harper (who also stared in another favorite film of mine - Brian De Palma's Phantom of the Paradise) as the protagonist Suzy, as well as other great cult starts such as Alida Valli, Joan Bennet and Udo Kier. I recommend Suspiria not only for horror fans, but fans of quality cinema as well. "},{"Title":"Horror Masterpiece, Stunning In Every Aspect","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento's cult masterpiece Suspiria of 1977 is an ingenious and incomparable piece of Horror art, and, as far as I am concerned, one of the greatest and most important Horror movies ever brought to screen. Dario Argento is one of the living directors I have the greatest respect and admiration for, and Suspiria is widely considered to be his greatest achievement. For good reasons, that is. In my opinion, this is Argento's greatest movie along with Profondo Rosso of 1975 and the vastly underrated Phenomena of 1985 (his brilliant 1970 directorial debut The Bird With The Crystal Plumage also comes very close), and the ideal proof that Argento is the absolute master of style, atmosphere and spine-chilling suspense. Argento's directing, the brilliant interaction of colorful visual style, ingenious Progressive Rock soundtracks by Goblin and the creepiness, ultra-violent brutality and stunning suspense that will keep you on the edge of your chair throughout an entire movie are incomparable, and Suspiria is the movie that unites all these qualities in the most brilliant manner, an out-and-out masterpiece that epitomizes the term 'Horror' like hardly another film, and that easily ranges among the most atmospherically overwhelming Horror films ever made.American ballet student Suzy Bannion (Jessica Harper) comes to Germany in order to study on a renowned dance academy. It soon becomes evident, however, that the academy is not only famous, but also haunted by something evil, as more and more mysterious and exceptionally gruesome murders occur...As mentioned above, Suspiria is pure perfection in style, photography and score. Argento's unique color-play goes hand in hand with gruesome violence, and a perfect score by Goblin. The acting performances are great, Jessica Harper is excellent in the lead, and Alida Valli delivers a brilliant performance as the strict dancing instructor Miss Tanner. The cast furthermore includes the legendary Joan Bennet, and German character actor Udo Kier.Seldom have colorful beauty and gruesome brutality matched so perfectly as it is the case with Dario Argento's movies, above all with Suspiria. Those who are very sensitive with violence in movies should be warned Dario Argento has the well deserved reputation of being extreme in the graphic depiction of violence, and Suspiria is one of the movies that have earned him this reputation. The gruesome acts of violence are (very stylishly) depicted in explicit detail, and the film is certainly not for the easily offended. Everybody else, make sure to watch Suspiria uncut and prepare for one of the most stylish and suspenseful cinematic experiences ever brought to screen. Eerie, ultra-violent and highly atmospheric, Suspiria is an utterly brilliant masterpiece of Horror, and a personal favorite of mine that Horror fans and lovers of cinema in general can not afford to miss! The absolute proof that Argento is a genius of style and suspense, Suspiria is one of the most ingenious masterpieces the great genre of Horror has ever brought forth! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Much people says that this is one of the most scariest movies of all time... i'm agree!!","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" At the first look i think that Suspiria turns be in a regular horror movie like we see today (Few one saves it from forget), but then, minute by minute the films turns in something interesting, and without falls in old formulas, gives us intelligent scares with big surprises.Dario Argento's Suspiria told us the story about an American girl who go to a dance school in Germany. She wants to dance a perfect ballet. But when she arrives... the things start to see bad. Our girl, Suzy, stays. Will she pick the right decision? ... I don't think so.This awesome masterwork for the genre and the movies by Dario Argento is really unforgettable and scary. Few horror movies can makes that thing that Suspiria makes, that thing that supposedly horror movies must do... scare. Few movies like Nosferatu by F.W Murnau, Carrie by Brian De Palma and The Others by Alejandro Amenabar do similar effects. Suspiria turns is a thrilling experience for its performances (Jessica Harper is fantastic and beautiful in its character, Stefania Casini, Alida Valli,k Joan Bennet, Flavio Bucci, Miguel Bos who was a big surprise for me, Barbara Magnolfi and Udo Kier, who appears shortly), big and beautiful scenario, a score by the same Argento and music band Goblin, an intelligent plot (In spite of much blood, turns be in a experience full of scares and horror) and of course the direction by Dario Argento (Without mention a chilling end, unique in its kind. This is really an excellent horror movie, very different to others. This one really scares! If you have the chance to see it, don't lose it! This is an excellent horror movie. Go and dance ballet for it! *Sorry for the mistakes... well, if there any. "},{"Title":"One of Argentos best","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've watched quite a few movies of the director Argento. I wouldn't say that I'm a big fan of his. Nonetheless this movie delivers. It's frightful as it should be. The acting is solid enough (which you can't say about all of his movies).Although you can see many things here that Argento used later in his newer more recent films too (such as the hand that is in front of the camera ... which many will know is Argentos own hand) this one is enjoyable to watch. The horror & gore stuff works here pretty fine, but you shouldn't be faint of heart! There are better horror movies out there (imo), but this is a good one too! "},{"Title":"Semi-tolerable Italian horror movie...","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Italian horror director Dario Argento's Suspiria is a very well perceived film. I wonder why? The plot concerns an female American student coming to study at a dance school in Germany. The dance school is actually a cover for more sinister ongoings. The plot is derivative and very slow-paced. Not much happens. The dialogue is passable at best but moderately well-dubbed.It is said that the movie was printed on a Technicolor strip hence the lush colors. Actually I find that hard to believe and the colors aren't lush. Early Technicolor movies are visually beautiful. This one isn't! The photography is irritating and there is a strong emphasis on red. The film is quite disgusting showing cuts and entrails and all without any horror accompanying it. The blood used in the movie was orange in color believe it or not. That in itself can be a damper. And the editing was one of the worst I have seen The two minor pluses were the German instructor - a real dyke. And of course the music which Dario Argento contributed to. "}{"Title":"Argento is great","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Very scary and unpredictable. Excellent camera work and the original sound track by The goblins was great. I do believe that Dario Agrento is in The Goblins, how cool is that. At first I was skeptical but the movie held my full attention all the away through. Jessica Harper Is great in this film perfect for the role and very pretty if I might add. This movie is definitely my kind of cult classic film. It combined a great combination of suspense, tasteful violence blood & gore (which I love), a very deep well thought out unpredictable plot, several scary camera tricks and a great twist at the end. If you are an avid movie buff I strongly recommend SUSPERIA. "},{"Title":"Creepy as anything you will ever see.","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A young American girl arrives at an exotic land. A horrendous rainstorm welcomes her. Once she arrives at her destination, she is told to go away. The icing on the cake of Suzy Banyon's horrible night is that the girl she just saw flee in terror from the school, who was uttering gibberish is about to be brutally murdered.A masterpiece in supernatural horror! Dario Argento ditches the Giallo mystery formula and gives us a tense, creepy, and cerebral journey into witchcraft. Suzy Banyon(Jessica Harper)has no idea that her new dance academy is full of dark secrets. Her newfound friend Sara soon decides to help her unlock the door of secrets.The images are ones that stay with you. There has never been a more violent opening than the first 10 minutes of this film. The whole film is a dreamlike, surreal and odd experience. The score by Goblin is like an assault on your ears, but in a good way. Never has death and terror looked so beautiful. A true classic! "},{"Title":"The most beautiful horror movie ever","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento gained fame and worldwide recognition with the release in 1977 of Suspiria. After years in the film industry as a writer (Sergio Leone's C'era Una Volta Il West being one of his best works) and later as director of great horror movies like Profondo Rosso, he finally crafted what many consider one of his best movies so far, and one of the best horror movies ever.The story is a bit simple, as we follow Suzy (Jessica Harper), an American woman who has just been accepted in the most prestigious dance academy in Germany. In the night of her arrival, she notices a woman running away from the school. To her surprise, the woman will be found dead hours later. This is only the beginning of a series of strange events that will convince her that there is something evil in the school.While the plot may be simple (specially when compared to the rest of his work), what makes Suspiria special is the whole composition, the perfect mixture of plot, visuals & music to create emotions in the viewer. Every frame in the picture has a supernatural beauty that makes it look like a canvas. Argento's eye for the visuals has created a aesthetic work hard to equal (even by himself), as he has taken care of every piece of the film.The music is another important part of Suspiria, as it complements the visuals in a perfect marriage. Argento's usual partners in crime, the band Goblin, are in charge of the soundtrack and craft a haunting score that if even alone would be enough to create tension in the audience.Jessica Harper is very good in the lead role, however, Joan Bennet and Alida Valli are truly the stars of the show as the Headmistress & Suzy's teacher respectively. Both give superb performances and capture the attention in every scene they appear. Alida Valli is particularly scary in her role as a very strict teacher.The rest of the cast is very good in their small roles, although a notorious flaw is the fact that most of them were dubbed. Although this was a very common practice in Italian films during the 60s and 70s, the dubbing of Suspiria is at times odd and distracting. This may be the only major flaw in an otherwise perfect film.While not as violent as other works by Dario Argento, the film has its share of gore; and just as everything else in the film, the violence is done in a surreal, almost beautiful way. Suspiria's morbid beauty is both attractive and frightening, and maybe that was what Argento had in mind when he conceived the movie.This visually stunning film is definitely a classic not only of the horror genre, but of film history in general. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Scary if ure 12 years old","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well I cant say much that I personally found good about this film which is a shame considering some of the review's I read about it.As a 28yo man and used to watching scary films like Session 9, this was as scary as finding out you've got odd socks on! The film is dubbed all the way through - the theme music is a rip off of Halloween (which is accompanied by a south park LA, LA, LA, LA, LA, LA, LA) which to me make's it very cheesy, but laughable.It didn't make me jump once, rather all the way through I was wondering what the hell was going on half the time, or course the acting is top notch - NOT!!!! I would only recommend this to 12yo who's getting the feel for the horror scene, or someone who's up 4 a right bit of cheese. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece form the king of macabre","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are few directors which enjoy such support as the king of the macabre - Dario Argento. Although the plots in his movies aren't on the highest level, the characters are not convincing enough and all-in-all, the actors are not the best available, his works are very high-esteemed among horror fans. He may be lousy script-writer, but he is one hell of a director. He scares you a lot when you least expect it, and that is what horrors suppose to do (don't they?). Surprising moments are not his only weapon. There are also colors which he uses in most scary scenes. And while most horror movies are dark, Argento's works scream with yellow, blue, green and - especially - red color. The atmosphere in this giallo masterpiece is also built with a horrific soundtrack written (and performed) by Goblin. To summarize, the director of Suspiria and Phenomena maybe don't deserve an Oscar, but he surely deserves glorification. "},{"Title":"The Art of Carnage","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hitchcockian suspense, brilliant colors, and a killer ending. This one's got it all, folks.This is a truly great film. I understand some blockhead is remaking it, which is about as foolish as the chowerhead who re-filmed Psycho block for block and added an...unfortunate scene.There will never be another Suspiria. Never. The colors, texture and nuances are artistic.Artistic. Does anyone see what an achievement this is? It's a slasher film, and it's actually beautiful. I mean, it is gorgeous. Terrifying and breathtaking at the same time. A utter orgasm of movie magic from an era when artistic vision outweighed the dollar.This remake, whatever its aim, will flounder and die. Suspiria, the ONLY legitimate Suspiria, will never be forgotten. Directors have no common sense these days, and have no hope of making a film with the depth and precision of Suspiria.What else shall I say? Shall I describe for you any of the suspenseful unfolding? No, only a monster would deprive an audience of these choice morsels. Should I warn the uninspired among you to avoid this film, since you appreciate nothing unless buildings explode and bimbos in leather shoot automatic rifles? Well, I just did.This film is grotesquely perfect. "},{"Title":"One of the most frightening films I have ever seen.","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento is like the Alfred Hitchcock of Italy. Suspiria takes its viewers on a gorgeous, psychedelic, supernatural scare-coaster. Sometimes gory, sometimes nightmarish and very unpredictable. Beautiful Jessica Harper stars as Suzie Banyon, an American dancer who goes to a prestigious dancing school in Germany. People are getting murdered in strange ways. Little does Suzie know the academies horrifying secret. Suspiria is one of the most creepy horror films of the 70's. It's magical yet bloody, it's beautiful yet horrifying. It's definitely one of my favorite horror films. Watch it, but make sure you have friends with you. Be prepared to be scared. "},{"Title":"Remains one of Argentos Best","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Title Suspiria (1977) Director Dario Argento Cast Jessica Harper, Stefania Cassini, Flavio Bucci, Miguel Bosse, Udo Kier Tagline The only thing more terrifying then the last ten minutes of this movie are the first 90.Review I've seen most of Argentos films, and I must say that Suspiria remains one of my all time favorite Argento films.Suzy is a young dancer who travels to Europe to continue her dance studies. She is accepted in a special dance school. Little by little she finds out that there is more to this dance school then meets the eyes.I liked everything about this movie, first off Ill start with the films unique visual style. I've read many times about Argentos colorful and surreal style, now I can see what all the talk was about.Every single frame is bathed in beautiful colors. Lots of Reds and greens and blues. The colors are not just there, I mean the colors in this film are LOUD, they are there for you to notice them and to make every frame that they are in just a beauty to look at. They make the film have a certain surreal feel that only added to the story. The colors perfectly matched the type of feel that the story needed and I applaud Argento for that.His visual style and storytelling also impressed me very much. I noticed that Argento is a bit like Tobe Hooper in the sense that he likes to torture his audience, but not in a bad way. I noticed in quite a few scenes Argento would stretch the tension and the suspense to the point where you feel like your being tortured but in a good way. A good example of this is that scene with the blind pianist and his dog on the streets. The scene is spooky....Argento focused on shadows and buildings creating an atmosphere of dread. You almost feel that at any moment someone will jump out of the shadows...great control of storytelling and suspense that was good stuff.I also enjoyed the music. Again, I think this also was perfectly matched with the type of story Argento was trying to tell. A mix of moans, shrieks, whispers and guitar twangs...that was just eerie as hell. Great job from the Goblins.The gore was there in a few murder scenes...and just when needed. I don't feel that Argento abused of the gore like maybe Fulci would. Argento only reserved that gore for when it was absolutely necessary for the story. But when its there, boy is it there.And as long as I'm talking about the story...let me just say that I'm very surprised that this movie made sense. I remember watching some of Fulcis movies and feeling lost and angry at times at that constant incoherence. Not so here, Argento made a decent and intelligible story. And a spooky one at that. Not a lot of action and not a lot of gore...but if your really into it you'll find that the movie has some truly creepy moments. Like for example, the first few scenes with Suzy in the middle of the storm, the students counting the footsteps of the teachers in the night...the blind mind waiting for his killer to come out of the shadows...just really eeiries scenes. Obviously this movie is more focused on atmosphere and creepiness rather then going for cheap thrills.This is the type of story where you feel that the protagonist is slowly being taken into a dark place that will change them forever, and they are practically helpless to do anything about it. Kind of like Mia Farrow in Rosemarys Baby where she was being dragged into this world of magic and satanism and she was almost completely powerless to it. That is the feeling I got while I watched Suspiria.Well what can I say, I've found yet another movie to add to my best of all time list. Really creepy story, good performances, great style, great music and just good spooky fun.Rating 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Hmmm","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Alright. I have read the bad reviews that people have given this film. I can completely understand why they have been written, and I respect the opinions of those that have them.Before I go on to explain why I love this movie so much I'll have to talk a little bit about its shortcomings.The major thing that should be faulted is the acting. Perhaps it is just the dubbing, but the acting is quite lousy. Jessica Harper, and some of the older actresses, suit their roles very well yet for the most part the acting verges on being laughable. As well, the pace should be somewhat faulted as there are a great deal of moments that could have been cut out to make it a better movie.When I truly think for myself about this film these are the only problems that I can think of. Certainly these are problems that must be mentioned, yet there is so much that I love in this film. For one, I actually quite enjoy the plot of it. It is simple, yet built up in a way that is exciting and sensible (to some degree). The score is terrifying, though quite repetitive. It is quite an intense piece of music that that band Goblin wrapped together, I must say.As for why this is perhaps my favorite horror movie of all time, save maybe Dawn of the Dead or The Shining, let me rave for a while. This film is like an extremely violent acid trip. The color is completely out of this world, making you feel as though you are part of something truly supernatural or alien. As well, the 'story behind the story' is really really cool and I found it to be somewhat creepy. There are certain scenes, even non violent ones, that just freak me out. Like the scene where Suzy is in the dancing room amidst some horrible sickness. It honestly seems as though she is being literally forced to dance by some strange power in the school.I don't even need to say that this film is atmospheric because that is something that is just known by all horror fans. What I need to say is that it really is quite terrifying. Despite the lack of emotional depth the film remains an emotional experience for me. Maybe I'm just a wacko, but I really really get into this film when I watch it. It is the most violent and elegant piece of horror that I have ever seen in my entire life. There are certain images in this movie that completely haunt me. And yes, the last 12 minutes of Suspiria are completely horrifying.I think perhaps the reason that I love this film so much was that it is the film that made me fall head over heals for horror. I had always been a fan of horror to some degree, but when I saw this it turned into more of a full on fascination. It sometimes leaves me with sleeping troubles to see this movie. See it, and if you don't like it, than discuss that. I can totally see why people both love AND hate this film. In truth, when considering depth of character or social commentary or whatnot, the film does not seem to have so much substance. But when you get beyond this and see it as some sort of a weird nightmarish supernatural world then the style in a way becomes the substance and you just have to let yourself get taken away by it. Sure the plot can be slow and certain moments perhaps would have been better left out, but it is actually something of an engaging story as well. The ending is pure genius, not only because it has the power to scare the living dead out of me, but because it comes together so well. It is perhaps the most powerful ending that I have ever seen in a horror movie, save perhaps the ending of The Exorcist (which is powerful in a different way).So, if Suspiria is not your kind of thing but you still want to give horror a chance I would recommend something like The Exorcist or maybe some of those old Roger Gorman Poe adaptations. But it is always a good idea to keep an open mind to these things. If you accept it for what it is you could just end up having the ride of your life.(By the way, Helena Markos scares the daylights out of me) "},{"Title":"Argento's Suspiria *minor spoilers*","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" About a year or so ago, my friend bought the DVD of Suspiria because we both had wanted to see it. I watched a documentary about the director, Dario Argento, and was interested in seeing what is considered his best film. I heard in an interview with Alice Cooper that he thought Suspiria was one of the scariest movies ever... quite an achievement if Mr. Welcome to My Nightmare thinks it's a frightening film. Well we never got around to seeing the film until a few weeks ago it was on IFC so I was excited. However, I didn't find this film overly scary. It's the story of an American ballet dancer, Susie, who goes to a prestigious, if not all together creepy, ballet school in Germany. Right from the start there's some strange things happening and within a few minutes there's two dead people, killed in quite inventive ways. As the story goes on, Susie starts finding clues about witches and evil at the school, which of course leads to the thrilling conclusion. Surely it's visually stunning and relatively violent (far less violence than I expected). The thing this film had an abundance of was suspense and mystery. So mysterious, in fact, that I still wonder why witches would need to use a knife to kill people. Wouldn't they just cast a spell or something? Of course, I'm no witch. The constant and repetitive score (by Goblin and Argento himself) is quite unnerving and succeeds in heightening suspense. Overall it was an enjoyable film, if only for the striking visuals. Argento certainly makes gore seem like art. I only wish there was more. Does that make me weird? "}{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Don't GET FOOLED!As many times before I was fooled! This movie is cinematographic equivalent of a ship wreck! This movie is so slow - just like ship wrecks - It takes looong time to finally sink...That is - end. I'm a bit ashamed by now! I'm freakin 25 and by now I should learn more about overrated authors (like Argento SADLY is), and completely illiterate morons that will praise this kind of crap just because the flick kept them amused and in confusion (Well, I didn't understood so there must be some thing in there...). Suspiria is not a bad movie. I watched it twice. Once on video and second time on DVD. Both times I was badly disillusioned by what I saw.The story is lousy. It reminds me of so many others in the slasher genre, but this time Argento cant just get away with THAT! And again we see poor girl visiting unfriendly environment, fighting her fears and having socialisation troubles. And then -just to have a cherry on the cake there's freakin' Witch coven! Something starts as slasher gets through teen drama and ends with...that witch thing! No, You cant get away with that! Characters Oh, my God! Its just unmentionable! I don't care 'bout them! They are ALL criminally acted, with lousy dialogues given to them - they reek of incompetence for actual suspense or the easy way out of a compleete mess - feeling sorry for them. Gore - ummm...yes there is some of it. But when there is NO story to back it all up - I don't care for all of it! One thing I admere is the music score - GOBLIN IS GENIUS! This guy is maestro for horror scores and I would really like to see Him perform independently of film world! Where was I... Yes...next time when some sexually deprived, pimple faced, dark dressed, long greasy haired moron tells You of This cult art horror flick by this famous cult art horror what-not director... give him couple of bucks and tell Him to visit nearest whore-house and trade intelectualism for some of more basic things that matter more... Eh... "},{"Title":"The most awful piece of trash ever transferred to DVD (slight spoilers!)","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just watched this utter lump of fungus for the first time tonight. Remember Mystery Science Theatre 3000? If that show were still on, I guarantee that they'd be able to make international stars of themselves--cast, crew, production team--just by making fun of this fest of stupidity.Dario Argento must have thought himself an incredibly good filmmaker, because this thing is so self-indulgent and horribly written that a group of seventh graders on crystal meth could have made a better horror film. Nevermind that it was the seventies--there's a little something called Subtlety that filmmakers occasionally use. Argento decides to throw it out the window.Within the first few minutes, a madman (who is never FULLY explained) stabs a girl so many times that he rips open her sternum, exposing her obviously foam-rubber heart so that he can stab it with what seems to be a swiss army knife. The fact that he never re-wrote the original script, which called for none of the actresses to be over the age of twelve, really comes out in the dialogue and acting. In other words, every single person in this movie sounds like a child. A female child. A female child that was written by a man.The last twelve minutes that are so heavily touted are amazingly predictable, except for the parts that were barely explained 23 minutes before. I was all geared up, thinking maybe it'd get a jump or a gasp out of me... no. I actually laughed out loud the entire time.Save yourself the trouble. If the movie isn't enough to keep you away, the DVD extras should be. In addition to the international trailer, which reveals the supposedly horrifying last twelve minutes throughout the entire thing, you get (for no extra charge) the most pathetic goth-band music video ever made. They re-make the Susperia theme in somebody's garage. At some point, the camera pans across the keyboard--and hits the hand of the keyboard player.I do feel bad for insulting the DVD for one reason--the video transfer. If absolutely nothing else (and there aren't any other redeeming factors, trust me), the transfer to DVD is amazing. The video is clear, and for a nearly 40 year old movie, it's absolutely breathtaking. Until somebody talks, tries to act, walks across the scene, gets killed, or... well... appears. Honestly, if a company is going to spend so much money on an INCREDIBLE transfer, why would they waste it on a film I could have done in 24 hours with some friends, a four year old camcorder and Adobe Premiere? Leave it alone, and thank me later.  "},{"Title":"Tame classical horror from an era long surpassed by more effective horrors.","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I watched this film on a projected 300 screen in the dark, to get the full effect. From the mixed reviews I've seen, it's obvious this film is like Marmite -- You either love it or hate it.Unfortunately it did very little for me. I really wanted to like it, but I was 5-years-old when this movie came out and I've seen dozens, more recent horror pictures before I finally arrived at this one. As a result, I am only able to appreciate this as a classical piece of film art from the past as I'm unable to feel as entertained as I would watching the likes of, say, The Sixth Sense.The pace is slow and fairly boring. The guts and gore elements are infrequent, unsophisticated and relatively tame (compared to recent material).That being said, I was impressed with the cinematography -- Although the flamboyant use of theatrical colour could be interpreted as pretentious or magical depending on how you view the film.Soundtrack was quite excellent in my view. The main theme of the xylophone/human la la duet is haunting, effective, original and memorable.I recommend renting this movie first before buying.3/10.  "},{"Title":"Bleh","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It seems to me that the word masterpiece is entirely overused here at IMDb, and never more so than when I see it used here to describe Suspiria. Maybe it was a masterpiece for its time, though I doubt it. This movie just has too darn many flaws.  ***watch out for the spoilers!!!I didn't like the different colored lights, the sound, or the Goblin music. It all did more to distract from the story than enhance it. There were numerous plot holes- such as why were the witches drugging Susy? Why did they kill their blind pianist? Did all of the innocent dancers die/burn to death in the end ? If so-that doesn't seem right... And what was up with that giant slinky that helped kill her roommate ? And what happened to that dancer character who was introduced in the beginning (the one that Susy initially roomed with) and then disappeared from the rest of the movie? I could go on all night with the questions. Maybe I would know a little more if I'd paid better attention, but it dragged so much that I picked up a book near the middle.All that being said, the lead actress was quite good and they weren't lying about the last 10 minutes being scary. I was very creeped out once she got into that room. But witches & devil worshippers are creepy anyway since they are more real than say vampires and werewolves, so I can't credit the director too much for that either. And 10 good minutes do not make up for 90 bad ones. "},{"Title":"too explicit","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Very overrated movie. I watched the movie because the IMDb users had given it a good rate, but I was really dissapointed. The plot is too banal, the directing is too explicit (close-up of the stabbing scene and the scene in which a dog kills a man among many others). Blood is unnecessarily omnipresent. After all, we know that thoses effects are mere 'effects'  the colour of blood is too pale to be true; the wide-opened eyes of the murdered has nothing natural and used to shock the viewer very naively... The music, abused, is a real headache (Listen to the score of Signs (2002) to see the wonder that the music can do in a movie). Acting is poor, melodramtic, unnatural. When the characters are scared to death, the viewer wonders why... he doesn't feel anything horrible in any moment (other than a feeling of gore, disgust). The atmosphere, overworked, is nothing than a barren style. The variuosly coloured settings never really contribute to the plot. Just like the subject it deals with, this a very superstitious movie that should lead your 'black list'.  "},{"Title":"The visuals are great, but the story isn't","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just couldn't get fully into the film.  From a visual perspective, it's great.  The color schemes used in the production design are absolutely brilliant, and beautiful as well.  Dario Argento choreographed the death scenes very well.  Unfortunately, other than those imaginative death scenes (first time I've ever seen a shot of a knife going through someone's heart), the film is all pretty pedestrian.  The story involves humdrum supernatural elements that we've seen many times before.  There's no real surprises, the characterizations are thin.  Also, the pacing is uneven, and many scenes drag out.  Altogether, I was quite disappointed.  My score  5 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Very Over-Hyped","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, I'd like to say that this movie is not cracked up as it is.  Entertainment Weekly called this one of the scariest movies of all time...and I was thinking while I was watching this.. what drugs were they on?  The only scary thing about this movie is the score, the score is very haunting.The first 5 mintues are great, probably the most violent murder sequence I have seen in my life.So, i suggest big horror fans rent this, to you know, say they seen Suspria.  I rented the dvd, and the trailers are more scary than the movie.** out of **** "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This brilliant Italian horror film by the equally brilliant Dario Argento, is both dark and beautiful all wrapped up in one film. Dripping with superb lighting (alot of red, blue, yellow, green) an eerie, horrifying score, which alone adds to the chill factor of this film. Argento succeeds in making a twisted fairytale for adults. Though the plot doesn't fully develop itself...all is forgiven.  The camerawork, lighting, set peices, characters and score make up for the underdeveloped, and slightly tepid plot. The murder scenes in this film are a work of artistic genius.  We just don't have someone stabbing someone and they die.  We bare witness to a sickly beautiful kaliediscope of brutality and macabre sophistication.  The opening sequence alone proves this!  From the chilling encounter in the bathroom to the climax of broken glass, blood and dead bodies.  My heart is quivering now thinking of that knife being plunged into that womans heart! Argento treats the bodies like pieces of art...letting the camera soak up their grisly beauty.  The woman in the room of razor wire....such a display of human suffering!  The woman can see the door is slightly ajar, and if she can only make it to the door, she will be free. I must admit, the ending did seem a little rushed, and a trifle underdeveloped....but I don't feel Argento focused on it as much as a modern audience would.  His work seems to be more focused on getting the story on film and making is look and sounds brilliant.  You have to watch this film with the mindset of a 1977 audience.  With so many Scream clones and Halloween rip-offs, it is hard for audiences today to be scared of much more than a killer in a mask...which is sad! Overall, this is probably one of the greatest horror films ever created! 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Boooooriiiinnnggg!!!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After hearing so many good reviews of this movie I decided to rent it and hoped for the best. I was really disappointed. First of all, the soundtrack is incredibly annoying and far too loud. The tense moments are ruined by ridiculous violent sequences that seem to have been spliced into the movie after it was made. The dog scene? Give me a break! Argento ruins every single scary moment in the movie. And yes, he makes good use of colors, etc. to create a sense of style, but all the style is severely dated as well as overdone. A waste of time, unless you're a fan of Italian horror I guess. "},{"Title":"An absolute masterpiece of pure horror.   **Spoilers**","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria is the most beautiful,dreamlike horror film ever made.Jessica Harper stars as Suzy Banyon,a young ballet dancer studying at prestigious Tanzakademie in Freiburg,Germany.On the night of her arrival,a fellow student is chased by a demonic killer who stabs her repeatedly in the chest,finally piercing his knife into her exposed,still-beating heart.He then ties his victim with rope and she falls through a glass ceiling,hanging from her neck as a large shard of glass bisects another student standing below.The next morning Suzy meets the school's head Madam Blanc(Joan Bennett)and one of the teachers Miss Tanner(Alida Valli).Upon making friends with a girl named Sara(Stefania Casini),Suzy learns that all is not quite as it seems and the final truth is horrifying-the academy is a front of a coven of witches,headed by mysterious Mater Suspiriorum.The photography by Luciano Tovoli is brilliant,the musical score by synth rock group Goblin is simply outstanding.Dario Argento creates an atmosphere of horrific dread.Plenty of suspense plus some of the most shocking scenes of violence you'll ever see.Truly a masterpiece Suspiria is necessary viewing for anyone interested in horror movies.An absolute 10. "}{"Title":"Not fun","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I didn't enjoy watching it at all. Maybe it doesn't deserve 1 but as there is a lot of votes giving it much too much, this 1 will make some justice to the movie.It is some kind of artistic horror. The first thing you'll notice are colors. They are very intense and contrast and it looks really nice.The other things work much worse however.The plot is very thin, almost non existing. Everything seems very weird, exaggerated. and surreal, like a dream. People have no personalities. Death scenes and especially blood are very fake. It makes you not care at all if someone is going to be killed. Needless to add that you feel no fear at all.At some moments, out of nothing, some terrible and loud music is being played. It's a cacophony painful to your ears, just like someone banged on metal dishes. It doesn't add fear, it doesn't add thrill, it's just awful. Fortunately I could turn down the volume, I wouldn't survive the movie otherwise. Cinema goers weren't that lucky, I suppose.Maybe somebody seems something deep and artistic in it, I saw nothing. It was just generally bad. "},{"Title":"Horrible music, mediocre acting, stale plot","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Some of the most horrible soundtrack music I've ever heard, so poorly done that sometimes the music (cacophonus noise more like) was hurting your ears and yet you could not hear the dialog. Literally, the soundtrack often sounded like distant screams mixed with clashing chimes and someone dropping a ton of sheet metal on concrete. Mediocre acting so much of the dialog sounded contrived and artificial, and was often delivered in either a wooden fashion or an overly melodramatic or hyper-emotionalized manner. Stale plot I can't say much without giving the whole movie away, since there is not much to the plot at all... suffice it to say that it is overused, trite and unimaginative. I expect the only thing it had going for it at the time (1977) was a certain shock value to what was (then) blood and gore... by modern standards pretty tame. The lead female actress was competent, cute and sympathetic, but that wasn't nearly enough to redeem this film. On the whole, don't waste your time. I have no idea why some consider this movie a horror classic. Evil Dead, just to name one from the same decade, is vastly superior. "},{"Title":"I'm probably a retard, but this is not a great horror movie.","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the first Argento movie I've seen. I don't think it's gonna be the last, but my effort to get to see another movie by him, are weakened. The positive things about this movie is first of all the musical score. Without that, the movie would have plummeted to the ground. The acting is...how shall I put it, theatrical. Unfortunely enough to make me disinterested. But the killing scenes in the movie are well above average for the rest of it. The plot is not there. It's just a girl dancing ballet and everyone around her dies. My biggest problem with this movie that it is not scary. I didn't quite see the phenomenal editing or cinematography either. It was descent for a 77 standard, but today it's just not that eye-catching. Mostly it is a huge gasp. My girlfriend fall asleep after half an hour. And I was really thinking about sleeping half way through. Fortunately a new killing saved me from it, and the terrific musical score. And that is the two things that hold this movie together and make it an average experience. "},{"Title":"Argento is not for me.","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the first Dario Argento's movie that I've watched (as far as I can remember). I chose Suspiria because it's one of the most famous movies from Argento, and one of the favorites of the Italian director's supporters. Now, here's my verdict Argento is nothing but another mediocre director who makes b-series movies with such hackneyed stories, bad actors and, of course, tons of macabre stuff.Witchcraft, gore, a soundtrack that gets on your nerves, and that aesthetic that's so ugly and looks so old fashioned.If you want my opinion I think that only those who unconditionally (and strangely) love this man will enjoy this kind of films.*My rate 3/10 "},{"Title":"Highly overrated","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is nothing to praise about Suspiria except the imagery, the music and some occasionally good direction. But it is not enough, because apart from these things the movie is plain stupid. With some ideas borrowed from Polanski's Rosemary's Baby(an infinitely superior film), and an artificial script, the movie fails to leave an impression because of it's lack of substance. There is nothing insightful here, characters are poorly portrayed, the lines are childish, and the beautiful sets and truly excellent music determined me to expect something more when in fact it wasn't. This is just a bad horror movie with a good direction, nice images and a very inspired soundtrack, that's all.5/10 "},{"Title":"Don't believe the hype.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" All I ever heard was how brilliant this movie was. I was so excited when I finally got my copy in the mail and all I can say is, What a disappointment. First the positives. Argento's use of bright colors and dark settings is a sort of eye candy that keeps you attentive. The murder scenes are rather gory though not too realistic looking by today's standards. The one excellent aspect of this film is the score. Absolutely creepy. Which Argento over uses to the point of ridicule. What the film lacked the most was substance. I know its an over used term but All style and no substance, describes this film to a tee. The acting was less than mediocre to say the least. Like most cult films, a minority will rave on about how great the film is but an unbiased opinion will only tell the truth. The truth is, its really nothing special. "},{"Title":"didn't like it","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Many people here on imdb love Suspiria then there are many like me who don't.I ready so many reviews for this flick and most were good so i got the dvd and well after watching i thought of ways i could have spent my money better.I love horror films and yes i like Euro Horror. But i just can't get into films by Dario Argento.This film like many of his others are poorly written in my opinion.Has a Director he does have talent if he had a really good script he just might be able to make the best horror film ever.I felt the first 10min too Suspiria were amazing, very Suspenseful and Scary then after that i got really bored.If you're a fan of Dario Argento or a die hard fan of Euro Horror then see this flick. Or even if you're like me where you like Euro Horror but not a die hard fan then i guess you should give it a shotBut if you don't like Argento or Euro Horror at all stay far away.I give Suspiria 3/10The opening minutes were great and the score by Goblin is great that's why i rate it a 3 "},{"Title":"classic of gore? No! just an unpleasant bore!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Following a retrospective documentary on the work of Dario Argento, and the gushing praise heaped upon this film by Horror afficianados and Film makers alike I was left with one thought lingering.  'Did I just watch the same film, these people are describing?',because 'Suspiria' must rank as one of my biggest cinematic dissappointments in recent years. I was looking forward to this dark tale of modern day witches and initially i must say I was intrigued by the dance academy setting and it's splendidly gothic appearance but here lies my main gripe with the film, that being that on the surface it looks like a much better film than it actually is.  The sheer look of the film is as striking as it is macabre but the admittedly stylish visuals and stunning use of colour and lighting cannot fully paper over the cracks of a frankly preposterous storyline and some pretty shoddy editing. The special FX despite what anybody says are downright lame (a supposedly chilling scene involving a clockwork bat is unintentionally hilarious)and even the much touted soundtrack by Italian prog rockers Goblin (altough initially effective) begins to grate as it is wheeled out on a regular basis to signpost another stalk 'n' slash sequence. Likewise Jessica Harper as our hapless heroine Susy just didn't seem to engage me in the slightest and as she lurches gormlessly from one creepy corridor to another i found myself caring less and less about what was coming next. I realise Argento was attempting to imbue his film with a dream like quality but that is no excuse for the lead actress to sleep walk her way through an entire performance. Personally I feel this movie does nothing to cement Argento's rather dubious reputation and as i sense a snarling 'Emporer's New Clothes' style rant coming on I think it probably best to end the review here. Sorry.  I don't mean to rain on anybody's parade here but it just didn't float my boat. "},{"Title":"Suspiria is way overrated. Argento's own Opera is much better.","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria sucks.Opera, The Beyond, The Evil Dead movies, the Hellraiser movies, The Exorcist, The Shining, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Zombie, Dawn of The Dead, Night of the Living Dead, Return of the Living Dead. All of these movies are much better horror movies. Almost all horror movies are better.In my opinion, this movie did have some funny parts. But no scary parts. No suspense. The music was ok, and there were three funny parts, but that's about it. Where to? Essenstrassa What? Essenstrassa What? That was funny. It reminds me of Steve Austin in the WWF. Then when that funny, blind guy on the piano goes Stop It! Stop It You Stupid Bitch! I was cracking up. It reminds me of Arnold Schwarzenegger in Kindergarden Cop. The third funny part of the movie comes when two girls are going Sssssss, sssss to each other like snakes.In my opinion, this is not Argento's best work. If you want to see a really good Argento movie get Opera or rent Tenebre or Inferno.They seem better as well.The acting in Suspiria cannot come close to that of Opera. Especially cool in Opera is where the killer shoots the lady through the peephole on the door as she's looking through.Unless you want to see a boring horror movie about a ballet dancer that has a few funny parts to it. I suggest you see one of the aforementioned movies I listed at the beginning of this summary and skip this overrated snoozefest. "},{"Title":"Boring, Boring, Boring Movie with Nice Use of Color","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Based upon the recommendation of many people, I rented this little known (in America anyway) horror film by the so-called horror genius Dario Argento. There are reasons he's not known in the US - his films are too...well, European.  Very stylistic, but lacking in any excitement, tension, plot, or story.  The movie is a big, long, painting.  If you wanna just look at the TV for a couple hours, and you're fine with just looking and not watching, this is the movie for you.I can't say this movie is without merit, because it isn't.  If it weren't for this movie, there would be no Halloween.  Stylistically speaking, Halloween takes a lot of its visual substance from this movie, and I'm sure it's influenced many other movies as well.  The story, what little of it there is, is poorly acted and hard to follow.  Most of the story is dull and completely unengaging, but that's clearly not what the director had intended.  I can't tell you what he did intend, because I can't figure it out.If schlocky European crap-horror is your bag, this is the movie for you. If not, go to your local video store and burn all copies of this movie.  That would make me, and hopefully you, feel better about this uninspired movie. "}{"Title":"Mixed reaction","Date":"25 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was impressed with the relative originality of the first part of the film. Relative in that it is stylistically way over the top. It is pretty outrageous in a way I had not seen before. However, the plot quickly bifurcated. Maybe I missed something, but I could not relate those first scenes with what followed. And what followed just seemed to roll inexorably downhill as the film went on. It does seem to maintain a dark and blood soaked atmosphere throughout, but at times it drags and toward the end it started to get a little silly. So I give it a 5, points added for stylistic excess and points subtracted for being dramatically insipid. "},{"Title":"Very colorful, but  very empty","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ah! Suspiria....One of the dumbest, silliest, and most overrated film I have ever watched.... Compared to it, a film such has Dr. Phibes is a masterpiece. And there are people that consider it a work of art. It is simply awful, the story goes nowhere, the plot is almost inexistent, and the script a mess, the acting is wooden, and the blood looks like cheap oil paint.Well, I have to admit that the sets are interesting, the colors are very vivid and the sound track by Goblin is not that bad, but what about the film itself? Where is the narrative.I fell asleep halfway through it, the dialog is very boring, dull It is so bad that Suspiria does not fit into that category of films it is so bad, it is good. It simply is bad...Suspiria is one of those artsy-far**y films. Skip it. Watch the news instead. They are scarier... "},{"Title":"What a pathetic piece of crap!!!","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was my first Argento movie, and I am more than certain, the last as well. I turned off my DVD player after exactly 46 minutes of playing. Reason my 17 year old niece just couldn't stop laughing at more than a silly storyline (was there any?) and stony expressions on actors' faces. I am sure mannequins would've done a better job at acting.Five minutes into the movie, I could tell director was going to employ sound and make-up effects to draw audiences into a fearful state. That is usually the chosen path when storyline and one's faith in self's ability is weak. Argento knew it more than anyone else. Hence the irritatingly shrill sound and coloring effects.All in all, this is a bunch of nonsensical C-grade drama with an even lower quality casting. In the age of beautiful technical work by the likes of Guillermo del Toro and Martin Scorsese, how can anyone like this crap? Compare this movie to the likes of Pan's Labyrinth, The Orphanage, and Shutter Island...urrghhh...I could vomit. I give 2 stars to this junk in charity. "},{"Title":"BoRinG","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was soooooooooo boooooooring. It was so cerebral and annoying. The ambiance completely ruined the film. The music was pretty good but overdone and so loud anyone would be distracted from the BORING dialog which is imperative you pay attention to in order to understand what is going on. The decoration of the interior sets was awesome in a gaudy 1970's sort of way. But, like the music, it was a huge distraction from the arduous task of having to give 100% attention to a movie about NOTHING while scary music plays and people babble nonsense, only because it looks like they are saying that for the Italian to English overdub.There is one cheesy murder scene about 15 minutes into the film, then 60+ minutes of atrocious and vacuous banter, and then another retarded cheesy gore scene...and then credits, which to me was the climax (yay... it's finally over).Something I found funny About 40 minutes into the film, a ballet dancer (the main character)passes out...while standing on her toes!!! Like, staggering around looking all jacked up and rolling her eyes back in her head...but she remains on her tippy-toes the whole time and then just passes out and hits the deck. dUH!!! I think someone on the verge of unconsciousness would flatten her feet out first before passing out. If you want revenge on someone, give them this movie for Christmas and watch it with them, giving commentary about how much you love Goblin, the Italian 1970's progressive rock band that provided the over-featured soundtrack. I am no movie critic, but trust me...this is the most boring crap I have ever forced myself to sit through. It was just BAD. HORRIBLE. "},{"Title":"Simply amazing in every sense of the term","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This classic horror tale about a young American ballerina coming to a mysterious school where the leadership has vile secretive motives, is brilliantly conceived, expertly filled with true suspense, has one of the BEST color schemes in any horror movie ever, an amazing musical score, and is just a fantastic movie all the way around. I'm a huge Argento fan, and while it's true that his more recent output can be sporadic than i care for, THIS film is the real deal and deserves to be a staple in every single movie fans collection.My Grade A+ Anchor Bay Limited Edition DVD Extras Disc 1) 'Daemonica' music video by Goblin; Cast and Crew Biographies; posters and still gallery; 3 Radio spots; a TV spot; and Europeain & US Theatrical trailers Disc 2) 52 minute Suspiria 25th Anniversary documentary The set also came with a music CD of the soundtrack "},{"Title":"Colorful nonsense trying to pass itself off as horror","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Boy, what are all these nice reviews about? This is not an effective horror picture. It is a very gimmicky set up moron goes to alien place and weird, semi-violent stuff happens. That was done to death by the time HORROR HOTEL came out in the sixties. There's a quote from David Cronenberg's VIDEOROME that certainly applies here a producer for station watches soft-core porn and says No, we can't use this it's too formal. That's bad for sex. It just doesn't work to spend lots of time showing dark shadows, playing creepy music, and basically shouting at the audience Hey you, this is going to be scar The audience just gets bored, and when the scary thing finally happens, usually after a clichd lull, we feel relieved that we got through that dull as dirt bit. Horror is much more shocking if stuff actually comes from no where, without a bleeding decade of setup (take the scene in THE EXORCIST where the priest just walks in on a desecrated statue, much creepier than the Linda Blair rubbish, or the popping out alien in ALIEN) This movie gets lot of credit for having brilliant color use. Nonsense it doesn't take brilliance to put gels on lights for a few scenes, or to place neon all over the place. Any disco or porn shop owner could hire a contractor to do that. On a related note, the sets don't add to the horror at all they just look expensive and tasteless. BOOGIE NIGHTS was scarier in its color scheme than this.And the murders? You could tell what was going to happen you knew the main character was going to pull through well enough (so as not to alienate American audiences to this) and you knew the movie wasn't going to spend minutes on a chase with a killer and just let the character go oh no, you were just shouting die already like people do at every slasher flick eventually. (You'll even see the death of the Blind man, the most tasteless and grueling of the deaths in the movie, coming.) Music kind of creepy the first few minutes. But they played it over, and over, and over again just irritating. "},{"Title":"Not Really A Masterpiece","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria isn't much of a masterpiece at all. Far from terrifying, the story is drawn out and weak. The music by The Goblins is annoying more than frightening. And having all the victims scream, run and do virtually nothing to defend themselves (except the lead character) is just plain pathetic.Beyond the story itself, the audio and audio effects are absolutely abysmal and downright laughable.It's not all bad though. Argento does offer a couple of good, ghoulish special effects. But his use of light, shadow and color is simply fantastic.I'm not sure why this film is so over-rated and put on such a pedestal when it's far from deserving. "},{"Title":"Suspria wasn't as good as I'd heard.","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love scary movies, and since this one was so highly recommended by so many people (critics, Top Ten Lists, the guy on `Beat the Geeks,' Imdb posters, etc...) I tracked down a copy.  And I don't get it.I guess because it came out before the other slasher films of the '70s, is stylishly filmed,  and is foreign, it's been hailed as some sort of masterpiece on the genre.  I watch horror movies because I like to be scared, and gruesome deaths and gore don't equal suspense in my opinion. There are a few incredibly disgusting murders in this movie.  If you don't like sadistic murders and bloody violence you probably won't like this movie; if you do like sadistic murders and bloody violence there probably aren't enough of them to hold your interest.The movie is about an American who goes to Germany to study dance at a prestigious school.  Strange things begin to happen. most of which make no sense and are never explained.  Is Susie losing her mind or is the school actually run by a coven of witches?  The movie IS beautifully filmed, and there IS a maintained sense of foreboding; but the dialogue and the situations are ridiculous.  The main character continually makes stupid choices, clues fall right into her lap, which lead her into ridiculously contrived situations.  Few of the `scary' scenes have anything to do with what is actually going on at the school, so at the end the viewer is left with a whole lot of unanswered questions.I had probably just heard too much about the film and the director before I actually saw the movie.  My expectations were just too high, I guess.  In the end, to me, `Suspiria' wasn't any better than a `Friday the 13th' movie with a really, really good cinematographer.  (And a horrible soundtrack.)  "},{"Title":"Laughable","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Being near Halloween I thought I'd rent a scary movie, so I searched the web for horror movie top 10 lists and to my surprise a movie I had never heard of called Suspiria was appearing on many of the lists. Well, tonight I rented the DVD and I have to say this movie is laughable with bad acting, little story and no suspense. Director Argento's attempts to build suspense fail miserably until you are left bored and looking at the clock. Particularly silly is a scene where the lead character is attacked by a bat that gets stuck in her hair. You can almost see the wire that the bat is hanging from.  Also, the fake blood they use looks nothing like blood. Perhaps they should move this movie to the comedy section of my video rental store. Perhaps maybe in the seventies this was cutting edge (excuse the pun) horror, but by todays standards the big scare I got is that I actually paid to view this piece of Eurocrap. Probably the most horrorfying experience I will have this year is reading reviews of this movie that describe it as a Masterpiece of Horror. Be Afraid, there are obviously insane people out there.  3/10 "},{"Title":"Another overrated Argento movie","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dario Argento is the film maker horror fans have picked out to find recognition among mainstream critics & film fans His style is amazing, his choice of music remarkable, the atmosphere he creates genuinly creepy and the gore very well integrated into the story. However, Argento is not a good storyteller. In almost all the movies I've seen by him, I was either bored or confused by the story. Suspiria is one of the better ones on that account. It's considered a horror masterpiece, but while I do not agree with that, I appreciate certain scenes and definitely Argento's style.The scene for example where the blind man walks on the piazza with his dog is perfect. It's scary, beautifully photographed and masterly edited. There are other sequences that stand out. But overall, I was still disappointed. It was the first movie I've seen by Argento. I didn't like it much the first time I've seen it (the uncut version by the way). Later, I've watched other Argento movies and returned to Suspiria. I liked it more the second time around but finally decided that Argento is highly overrated and he is not my kind of film maker. Suspiria might be his best work, but it's still not a great movie.Rating 6/10 "}{"Title":"Pretentious","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie epitomizes the subjugation of plot to art.  Beautifully shot, it makes no sense whatsoever.  Just another example of a director overindulging himself at the expense of his audience.As for chills, I am baffled by all those reviewers who wrote about how frightening this film was.  Each attempt at horror lapses quickly into confusion or unintended comedy. "},{"Title":"A laugh riot!!!!","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Oh, was it supposed to be a horror flick? Oooooppps! I saw this on the big screen and when I wasn't grossed out by some tacky gore, I was laughing at the stupidity of the so-called plot and the pretensions of the film to being artistic. The maggot scene and the room of barbed wire really stand out as some of the funniest in horror history, though the scene with the professor is particularly delicious for its pretentiousness, using oblique camera angles in a misguided attempt to be unsettling, but winning awards instead for best comedy performance by Jessica Harper's hair. No need to discuss the acting, especially Joan Bennett's. "},{"Title":"SusperNegotiation","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" We watch so many movies that we forget. Its never real, as real as we are. And surely it is never as rich as what we carry in our inner minds and dreams. The most that externally carried stories can offer is to provide contours that we then apply our own stories. What art is all about is negotiating with us, in perhaps the most elaborate dance in existence, to find things that we can accept and also that we can be enticed to use in building these inner stories.We forget, how much allowance we make, how much artificiality we accept. We accept as real a two dimensional image with elements we know to be fake. We did that a century ago. We accept that certain mannerisms that actors must use to convey selves are somehow similar to what real people use. We accept all sorts of cinematic conventions having to do with structured lighting, assembled scenes and where the placement of the eye makes sense.Most obviously, we accept certain other conventions effects, simplicity, closure in the spirit of this negotiation. And in these we encounter strange treaties that previously were acceptable but no longer are. The overacting of old movies. Special effects that seem unreal now. Obsolete conventions of beauty, seduction, love, horror.That's why a visit to Argento is so interesting. When these were new, they were on the edge of what could work, and for a smaller majority. Today, the artistic values and what we are willing to ignore have changed. So with this film, it is more than a film experience; it is an experience about what once was a film experience. Its like visiting a museum of obsolete gods that still beckon. Argento never cared about the story except as it gave an excuse for the situations he wants us to see mood and (for the times) radical violence against women. His compositions have nothing to do with long form narrative, instead are purely episodic. The things we don't accept today are the bad acting, stupid story and clumsy effects. It isn't that any of these are closer to the world now, its just that we have made different compromises as intents have evolved. But some of the effects are laughable. All the acting seems execrable. The story is apparently vapid in fact it is not so. His original idea was to have a ballet school of almost-pubescent girls, and give us David Hamilton with innocent sexual awakening into bewitched death. That is so promising I almost want to contribute to a fund to have dePalma do a correct remake.In any case, we don't come for that. We come for the visual experience, and that remains classic. He draws exclusively on pure red, blue and green. Much has been made of the tri- color Technicolor print technology, but in fact the colors he chose were not those specified by Technicolor, but slightly off. This gives a shimmer to the colors that you can only see on a big screen with a good print. The first death scene is the most notable and perhaps that is all you should watch. It has no story, only motion, color and shape. Is he important? Is this film, probably his most famous?Yes. Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Stylish slaughtering and colorful brutality","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Often regarded as Argento's finest achievement, Suspiria is at the top of the horror industry. Yet, I don't fully agree with this statement. No doubt that this film is technically superior to almost every other horror film and it breathes a truly horrifying atmosphere&#133;but, like in so many other Argento movies, the plot and dialogues are second to the diabolical surrounding. If Dario would ever find the perfect balance between storyline and technique, his films would be true masterpieces. Suspiria is a visually stunning cinema experience. You're just being overwhelmed by the colorful decoration and the blasting thunderstorms. The film makes terrific attempt to build up an unbearable tension but, as the viewer, the silly and far-fetched plot constantly limits you feelings of fear and threat. The whole movie might be a bit overrated, and it's definitely hyped too much. Nonetheless, Suspiria is essential viewing for every self-respecting horror fan because of a few irresistible aspects. The gore and bloody sequences, for example, are perfect representations of Argento's wild and twisted imagination. There aren't that many massacres in Suspiria, but the one you do get see will haunt your mind a long time after you finished watching this film. These killing scenes are shot typically Argento rough camera movements and raw, explicit close-ups of pure violence and terror. Other than this, there's the haunting soundtrack, supported by the excellent use of (un)natural  sound effects. The most `horrifying' aspect remains the dubbing, though&#133;pleasant films like this almost get entirely spoiled by the poor dubbing. For your own good&#133; try not to pay too much attention to this! "},{"Title":"The most overrated horror movie ever made","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Based on all the rave reviews of this turkey, I blew $15 on the THX-certified anamorphic widescreen DTS-ES super duper DVD.  Why did they bother with this?  This movie was not even the tiniest bit scary, and the only reason I made it through to the end without falling asleep was that I kept expecting SOMETHING to happen to justify all the excitement.  I keep hearing about how brilliant and awesome the soundtrack is; well, I've got all the hardware to listen to the DTS-ES track in all it's 7.1 glory and I was more annoyed by it than anything.  It's too loud in most places and drowns out the conversation in others, and further, it's not all that spooky or even good.  The soundtrack for The Exorcist and even Alien was 1000 times better than this goofy dreck.  I also keep reading about all the excitement over the lighting.  The lighting, folks, is silly.  Argento must have used up the entire world supply of red, blue, and green gels.  Ooo -- see the dark room with the character backlit by weird green light coming from no source!  Eek -- see the weird red spots playing over the wall from nowhere. Come on, it's lame, lame, lame.  I've seen better lighting in my neighbor's Halloween haunted house.  And don't get me started with the goofy plot, well described by others here.  Witches?  Running a dance school?  Killed in 2 seconds flat by a pointy stick?  Sheesh, give me a break.The only good thing about this movie is that now that know what the classic and scariest horror movie of all time is, I won't have to waste any more of my money buying stuff like this pathetic drivel.  You drooling fans owe me $15 and 2 hours of my life back!  Or, instead, treat yourself on me to something that's actually some degree of scary The Exorcist, Alien, The Thing, Silence of the Lambs, The Omen, etc., etc., etc. "},{"Title":"most boring piece of trash I've ever seen.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film was quite boring, although there were some disgusting scenes like a woman's throat getting slit, which made the film even worse.  What fun is it to watch grotesque acts of violence?This type of film will just make a person dumber. "},{"Title":"Could put an insomniac to sleep","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this for the first time recently having liked Argento's Tenebre. By about thirty minutes in I found myself checking my watch wondering how much longer it was going to go on for. The acting was awful, but I can overlook this as the acting in most of Argento's films is poor. What can't be overlooked is the terrible story and lack of suspense.Fans of this will rave about the cinematography but style of substance doesn't make this anymore entertaining. Flashing different coloured lights in the background doesn't make it ground breaking. I can't find any redeeming quality's in the film and I only paid a very small amount for it. If you are tempted, do not pay much for it. Best avoided in my opinion. "},{"Title":"This movie is not scary","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Warning  If you have heard good reviews about this movie and never seen it then just stay away from it.  I like well made movies and I like horror movies.  This is neither.  This movie would not have been scary in 1978.  This movie is only scary for being so bad.  If you want to see a movie from this time period then rent the original Exorcist and stay away from this.  "},{"Title":"Hilariously bad, in the worst way","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was one horrendous movie.  I read the other reviews for this stinker and I was expecting something shocking, something scary. . but there was nothing. . nothing that even got me to so much as jump.  This would have been perfect MST3K fodder.  The brutal dubbing, Olga the Super Bitch (in a very brief cameo I guess), the murdering of the word occult (pronounced 'OCK-pause-cult' in this movie), and the teeth. . my God the teeth!  The Romanian butler guy looked like Lurch's homely cousin with dentures, and the dance instructor's choppers were reminiscient of Matt Dillon's in 'What About Mary?'  The acting was horrible, and music (by Goblin?!), which I will admit was eerie at first, just became grating and, after a while, a source of jokes for me and the people I was watching this with (. . sounds like the cameraman has a sinus condition.)  And then we meet our main protagonist, A witch with a sinus condition!  Apnea is terrifying, or something.  There's so much more that I could name that made me laugh (the 'hissing fight', the bat, the blind pianist standing up and yelling You Stupid Bitch! and sounding exactly like Gene Wilder when he screams it. . ), but I have to stop now.  Feeling too negative.  I'm gonna watch something really scary, like Hellraiser or the beginning of When a Stranger Calls.. good scary or gory movies.1 out of 10 Brutal!  Absolutely Brutal! "},{"Title":"this movie suck s really","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this is the worst movie i have seen....................................... it doesn't have any horror sequence..... at all i prefer it to be a comedy movie with no comedy in it and a horror movie with no thrill or gore in it................................... the acting is not complain-able........ but what really disturbs us is the plot and the way things go in the movie.... no scenes of directorial talent also...this movie is not worth even a download from torrents....the colors in the movie are good though.........the music doen't haunt you as the story line is weak the movie actually disturbed me too much as we were disappointed after downloading this having seen the review as very good so my suggestion is leave this alone and go watch some movie with good stuff "}{"Title":"One of the best unintentional comedies ever!","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just finished watching Suspiria. Oh, my, what a mess. Some parts were SO BAD. The cinematography/lighting and the score were great, but other that that... I found some scenes to be worthy of the Mystery Science Theater treatment. The plot made little to no sense, and the main plot device that leads to the resolution lacks all credibility. While some of the effects and make-up were neat, most of them were extremely cheesy. The acting is really bad, the dialogue scenes are poorly handled and horribly written. Most of the time the actors sound like they're reading out of cue cards or advertising a product on the Home Shopping Network. Plus, the dubbing is really obvious throughout the film. The movie started off really well, I thought I was going to enjoy it, but it became unbearably ridiculous. On second thought, at least I can say this one thing in favor of the movie even if it's trash, at least it's unique, uncompromising trash. Argento must have been pretty gutsy to submit such a movie (especially at the time). I'm curious to see more of his work, especially recent films, to see how his technique changed over the years. "},{"Title":"Zzzzz...","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Imagine the dumbest movie in the world. Now multiple that by 10, and you have the dumbness that is Suspiria. Interesting? No. Suspenseful? Hardly. Scary? Try again. Granted, I saw this movie for the first time in 2005. (Maybe in 1977 it was a landmark achievement? If that's the case, raise my rating to a 2.) Granted, horror isn't my favorite genre. But nevertheless, I found this movie a total waste of time -- I mean, there was absolutely nothing redeeming about it; not the plot, nor the sets, nor the acting, nor the music ... nothing.At the end, I said to myself I want those 98 minutes of my life back. "},{"Title":"Suspiria requires no introduction!","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A newcomer to a fancy ballet academy gradually comes to realize that the school is a front for something far more sinister and supernatural amidst a series of grisly murders. In a stormy night, the American dancer Suzy Bannion arrives in Freiburg coming from New York to join a famous and expensive ballet school for a three years training. On the next morning, she is informed by the direction of the school that a student she met leaving the place on the previous night was violently murdered and the police is investigating the crime. She becomes friend of another student, Sara, and she realizes that the house is indeed a coven of evil witches. Suspiria is one of the most atmospheric horror films that I have ever seen. It is full of a brooding tense atmosphere that lasts for the entirety of the movie. I personally love this type of film because the leave you on the edge of your seat. Suspiria is the most beautiful horror film ever in terms of the stylish film-making and use of color. Suspiria is one of the scariest horror films that I have ever seen. It takes a lot to scare me but this movie scared me in different ways. The soundtrack to Suspiria fits the atmosphere of the film so well. Suspiria is a horror film that requires no introduction. "},{"Title":"The Best Italian Horror Film","Date":"14 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I guess that Argento is one of those horrors directors who can really make a good horror film,i mean,they understand everything that an horror film can be but they don't make common horror films,i mean predictable,they know how to control the atmosphere,the sound,the acting and a original script. This is my favorite Argento movie,i think he is the Italian Carpenter (Carpenter took a lot of things from the Argento's Profondo Rosso - Deep Red) From the first scene when Susy appears in the airport the atmosphere is unique,the script is very original and the soundtrack,the soundtrack is a plus to make this film a classic of the genre.The final scene when Susy understands everything that happening in the school and she discovers what is the director of the school,i mean that scene is just great,the tension that Argento creates is fantastic.And of course the last scene,the fight of Susy with the Witch is one of the greatest horror scenes. The acting sometimes is not so great,but this is common on the horror films. Argento is the best Italian horror director.You have to see this movie... "},{"Title":"All About Art Direction!","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Argento made his mark as a director as a master of style and visual flair, and nowhere is this more obvious than in Suspiria. Although the screenplay isn't explicitly a fantasy or a fable, it seems to be set in an alternate world where walls and gardens and backgrounds scream and vibrate with color and icons and swirling shapes, to the point where it is sometimes difficult to actually pay attention to the actors. Sights and sounds are cranked up to the point of absurdity and I tend to finish his films feeling as if I'd been forced to take peyote and then roll strapped in a wheelchair through a MOMA exhibition with my eyelids propped open by toothpicks.I'm OK with that though. Sometimes you want something subtle and creepy, and sometimes you just want the movie to grab you by the throat and shake you until your teeth rattle like castanets.Yes, the plot doesn't make a whole lot of sense in spots, and yes, things are being done for shock value alone, and no one is going to award the screenplay a Nobel prize for literature...but damn, this movie is an experience that every devoted horror fan should try to see at least once. "},{"Title":"An okay horror film","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria was a decent horror flick, but not really as terrifying as I was expecting it to be. This film has a few pretty disturbing scenes, but I couldn't find the scares so effective at times due to how dated the effects seemed for me. You can clearly see they used puppets or prosthetics sometimes so instead of being frightened, I thought the film was unintentionally funny on certain occasions. I also felt that the music was very repetitive and there was some overacting in my opinion. Still, I appreciate Dario Argento's unique style of filmmaking and I liked how he gave a lot of emphasis on different tones of red, making Suspiria always feel very colorful and vibrant. "},{"Title":"You absolutely must see this!","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay. If you are like me you might be sitting there wondering whether or not to watch this flick. It took me a long time to do it because the description didn't really grab me and the reviews I read here were confusing me. I thought it might be some dreadful 70's horror dreck that has a cult following just because it's awful. Some of the negative reviews I read here were so scathing it was really putting me off. But I kept seeing it being recommended at other sites so I decided to get more pro-active about my research. I followed the profile links for every single person who hated this movie and random links of profiles for those who loved it (there were far more of the latter so I couldn't check em all). My goal was to see what other movies they liked or hated to see where they were coming from & where they fitted with my tastes. And honestly, once I did that and realised what kind of people hated or loved this flick, I didn't hesitate to rush out and find Suspiria to watch it. I honestly suggest you do the same. Not just for this movie but for any other. The profile of the reviewer tells you a lot more than the review itself sometimes.Anyway - I cant add much to the plethora of positive reviews here already except to say that I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and wish I'd taken the plunge to watch it sooner. It's rich colours, vivid stylistic murder scenes (and yes dear negative reviewers - they are MEANT to look stylistic), uncanny soundtrack and finely honed camera work will stay in my mind for ever. I love how Argento is able to create tension and dread out of the most ordinary things, never letting up, keeping his audience as wide-eyed and keyed up as the characters in his story. This is the third Argento film I have watched having only just discovered this amazing Director, the others being Tenebre and Phenomenon. I actually enjoyed Phenomenon slightly more than Suspiria - I think it has a richer plot line, better characters and slightly more accessible screenplay (by Argento's standards anyway) which is why I gave Suspiria 9 and Phenomena a rare 10. If you're new to Argento Phenomenon might be a better movie to start your discovery process with. But Suspiria is also brilliant. Just in a different, even more off-beat kinda way.A brilliant twisted suspense-filled horror fable full of awesome camera work, fascinating metaphor & cultural symbolism that will keep you on the edge of your seat and mesmerised at the same time. If you consider yourself to be any kind of movie lover and especially if you're a fan of horror you can't afford to let this one pass you by. Simple as that. Ignore the negative reviewers... they honestly just didn't get it but hopefully you, like the majority of it's happy viewers, will. D "},{"Title":"Red And Blue...","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is a strange, beautifully shot film that has terrible acting, weak script and awesome score by Goblin. I always prefer slow moving, moody, visually interesting horror films over the gore fests, found footage films, slasher films and torture porn.This film was just interesting and that's what I'm looking for in any film no matter what genre it belongs. I don't care about the gore, how good the scares were or Scream/Josh Whedonesque cleverness and poking fun at the genre. Suspiria was visually interesting, the art direction was fantastic, the score by Goblin was great and it had an interesting story. There isn't much substance or good acting to be found here but everything else just overshadows these shortcomings.If you like films that has something more to offer than gory deaths, scares and boobs, Suspiria might be something that you should check out. It's very flawed and has many problems, but this film is interesting which can't be said about most of the horror films that came out in 21st century. "},{"Title":"Hell is behind that door! You're going to meet death now... the LIVING DEAD!","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a 98 minute Dream sequence of a movie. The use of colour and sound make you experience this movie in a way not quite like anything else you will ever see. Though this is my first Argento and Italian horror film. So it could be a common elements of those movies.The way people are killed is unique, and with the effects they had available quite gruesome, and reasonably realistic. The first murder sequence being the particular stand out.The story is quite uneven and some set pieces require a rather open mind, especially a scene involving some razor wire. For some gore hounds this may lean to much towards art house cinema. and vice-versa.This deserves it's place in in film history, and it's assault on the senses is an experience like no other. "},{"Title":"Stunning!","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first thing that really hits you about this classic horror film is the score. I've read up a bit about it since watching and it was composed by a group called 'Goblin'. Possibly the greatest, creepiest score I've ever heard in a horror film. Coupled with the movies great sense of lighting and visuals, it makes for an endearing psychological, suspense driven horror film. Sometimes with an element of elegance. Although the stand out element of the movie is the sound, there are some horrific deaths, the opening murders in particular were extremely violent and Dario Argento isn't afraid to show the gore. The two main female characters begin to unearth some secrets about the ballet school they're living in. What are the secrets? A question that will intrigue any viewer enough to be gripped right until the climax. A must for those who like the classics, Suspiria is best enjoyed in a dark room, with the volume turned right up (preferably with surround sound). "}{"Title":"Argento's universe heart","Date":"18 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" music, rooms, atmosphere. all - really impressive. nice acting. slices of Chirico and Gothic literature. and same art of Argento to create a circle of mysteries and fear. Alida Valli in a drawing role and interesting presence of Jessica Harper. not a good or bad movie. only part of a building in which preoccupation for details, old tricks, story as support for horror instruments, tension as blood of classic theme, seductive music, dark presences are bones for decadent work. silhouette of characters as ornaments. basic virtue - it is heart of Argento universe. all his motives, all his shadows and traps are present in this film. like an identity card, it remains beautiful demonstration of a special director, seed for many horrors. "},{"Title":"Moody but muddled","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've been putting off seeing Suspiria for a long time because I could only find it dubbed; I despise seeing dubbed movies, which looks goofy and bastardizes the movie. But Suspiria looked interesting enough that I finally gave in and had a look. An Italian horror film from 1977, Empire put this in its top 100 of world cinema and called it a moody masterpiece. It is about an American girl who joins a dance school amid a series of violent deaths. It is revealed the school is run by witches.It's a bit hard to get passed my aversion to dubbing, which does hurt Suspiria a bit (the voice actors are awful). But even trying to put that aside, Suspiria didn't seem like a masterpiece to me. Some of it is a bit incoherent, at other times it falls flat. The maggots, for example, weren't that scary. When one girl makes snake noises and the other sticks out her tongue, I was wondering, what are they, 6? That said, the movie has good music (which does help to establish mood) and some interesting mystery (somewhat spoilt by the fact that it's well-known that the movie is about witches). I can imagine why it has a cult following, but don't think it's one of the better films of the '70s. "},{"Title":"An occultic classic","Date":"11 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arriving from New York in a stormy night can be a scary experience. Especially, Suzy Canyon(Jessica Harper) who happens to appear at a very fancy dancing academy which one dancer was expelled, and would later get killed by an unknown killer. When she is able to get in the academy, she meets the people and gets to know her way around. Somehow, when she passed the cook that's where everything comes into place. After declining the room offer, she gets one against her wishes following the fainting spell during her dance lesson. Then during her recovery, maggots came down from the ceiling because of some food left in the attic. Who on earth leaves food up there? Drawing out rats instead. Then at night, Suzy hears footsteps, going into a room. When the last girl left the academy, she mentioned irises and secret. Things are getting more mysterious by the minute. The blind piano player is fired from the academy when his dog bit the nephew, only to be killed by his own dog. Then the truth is out. The academy is only a front. Inside there is a secret coven, founded by a Greek witch. After that, the other students will have to find a new academy, without any secrets. Interesting movie, a must see for the enthusiasts. 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"The psychedelic old, dark house","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento's 'Suspiria' is nothing less than a raging, delirious, hallucinogenic nightmare caught on film. Having established himself as a name in the giallo genre (an Italian detective story-cum-proto slasher) with the likes of the awesome 'Profondo Rosso', Argento teamed up with his partner Daria Nicolodi to craft a supernatural thriller suffused with lavish Italian cinematography and a glorious Grand Guignol approach to cinematic kills&#x85;all set to a pumping, haunting rock-opera soundtrack.The film is the first part in Argento's Three Mothers trilogy (the other parts being 'Inferno' (1980) and 'The Mother of Tears' (2007)) and follows Suzy Bannion (played to deer-in-the-headlights perfection by Harper) as she arrives in Germany to attend a famous dance academy. The excessive art nouveau stylings (a masterstroke of set design) of the labyrinthine academy and bold use of Mario Bava-esque colouring immediately usher Suzy (and the viewer) into a surreal atmosphere which, in its sheer over-the-topness, achieves a kind of hysterical Gothic expressionism akin to Whale's 'The Old Dark House' (1932) except with Edvard Munch as interior designer. Populating this odd milieu are the staff and dancers - all of whom accentuate the already bizarre environment with their odd and disconcerting mannerisms. The oddness continues as people are off-ed in some imaginative set-pieces which motivate Suzy to investigate the academy where she unearths its occult history before coming face-to-face with the Mother of Sighs.However, while the lavish set design, use of colour, and rampaging score effectively disorientate the viewer with a full-on sensory assault, some criticise the movie for being more style than substance and this is kind-of understandable as the acting and dialogue are a bit patchy and the plot was nothing new even in 1977 (after all, by this time we had already had such supernatural horror landmarks as 'Rosemary's Baby' (1968) and 'The Exorcist' (1973) as well as the brutal and wholly un-supernatural 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre' (1974)). This point is underscored by the fact that, whilst loving 'Suspiria', it would be remiss if I didn't mention that it didn't scare me so much as remind me of being scared. What's more, it reminded me of being scared by past nightmares rather than anything real. This said, like a good Gothic novel, the hysterics (which in a cinematic context would include set design, cinematography, and score) are what it's all about and thus style and substance are fused and (at least for me) patchy acting and dialogue become absolved. Maybe some would be less forgiving, but I found the demonic hallucinatory quality of 'Suspiria' so well-crafted that disbelief was easily suspended and I was rewarded with an air of disquiet and Gothic derangement evocative of my childhood, hammer horror infused, nightmares.So, flaws there may well be, but despite the influence 'Suspiria' has had on generations of horror movies since, it still manages to stand apart as a singular entity which, like the storm at the start of the movie, will sweep you up and let you freefall into a dizzying descent into occult, dreamlike claustrophobia. "},{"Title":"A nightmarish fairytale with an appreciation for violence","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With its reputation as one of the most atmospheric and stylistic entries within the horror genre, one might build up grand expectations of excellent acting, dialog, cinematography and narration. Suspiria, on the other hand is a movie so original and bizarre that it defies all anticipations, for better or for worse. You can tell right from the beginning that Dario Argento tried really hard to achieve something unique with the interesting setting of a prestigious ballet school in Germany as his foundation. Here we get to follow aspiring dancer Suzy Bannion who stumbles into a nightmarish panorama of frightening colors and strange phenomena when she comes to the conclusion that the female employees are in fact witches; evil sorcerers who create misfortune for nothing else than their sadistic needs. As far as the storyline goes, Suspiria fares rather well, relying on its originality rather than any kind of complexity. Witches are rare antagonists even in the horror genre, so any culprits other than unnaturally strong human beings, zombies and vampires provide a refreshing breeze that disobeys the norm. Characterization is another important criteria but I fear that the nature of the movie itself is far too bizarrely different for a proper assessment; in short, none of the characters are ever able to leave their one-dimensional realms even for the shortest of moments, but nor do they actually need to. Suzy, the protagonist herself, is incredibly hard to describe without using the word bland, but then again that was probably the only point of her character; a mundane girl with stereotypically female interests thrown into a bloodstained fairy tale of frightening proportions. Likewise, most of the other characters only embody one or arguably a few characteristics that don't really make for any deeper explorations.The writing suffers from slightly more troublesome problems; Dario originally intended the story to star young children of around 12. When the idea was rejected and the ages of the characters were raised, he didn't make any adjustments to the script. In other words, what we get are young adults who behave like they're still in their pre-teens. While we're on the subject I might also add that most of the dialog was not recorded whilst shooting with creates a certain delay that's highly noticeable and equally annoying; not to mention that it makes the already mediocre actors come off as severely worse.With all this said, are there any redeeming qualities to find in this movie? Sure there are. You can explain it in very accurate manners to almost anyone and they won't fall for it. Suspiria is incredibly hard to sell since it basically boils down into a visual and auditory experience where the primary importance lies in what you can see and the music you hear. As far as cinematography goes, an eerie atmosphere of strong colors and creepy shadows is achieved with limited effort but almost limitless effect. Enhanced by the insanely freaky and above all else bizarre soundtrack that emphasizes strange noises more than any melodies, the result is nightmarish. The viewer feels like he stumbled right into a fairy tale or dream-scape so mesmerizing and occasionally pretty that he finds it a lot easier to ignore logical inconsistencies (of which there are plenty) and scenes that suffer from poor execution.A lot has been said about this movie. It's been called a masterpiece, overrated trash and hauntingly creepy art. In the end, it requires you to forgive several flaws that are well worth forgiving with the insanely original and atmospheric viewing it provides. Whether or not you end up enjoying it might even be a question of minor irrelevance; it's going to be an interesting watch regardless of your personal opinion. "},{"Title":"A stylish late 70's horror movie.","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Given that lately Hollywood have been pushing out a lot of crappy horror movies I've been looking for a lot of old horror movies, mainly to try and find films the weren't part of either the Friday THE 13TH or HALLOWEEN franchises because when discussions normally start among me and my friends about 80's horror the aforementioned two titles are pretty much all they talk about or at least if it wasn't part of a franchise they didn't know about it.Among many of the old films I've never heard about from the 80's I found a few really great films which made me wonder why they went unnoticed and the Friday THE 13TH films were so big and I thought they were crap, although SUSPIRIA came out in the late 70's I put it among the great old films I've seen, the cinematography is excellent, the use of colors certainly gives the film a sort of edge, its almost like watching someone's nightmare unfold in front of you, the score manages to create tension whenever it plays and the main theme is really catchy, It took me a while to get a certain tune out of my head and the best part about this film is it barely shows its age the only thing that reveals its age are the gore effects that look a little fake but they're not too badly done, the other telling factor is the dubbing that's not so well done but it didn't get on my nerves like it could've.Overall, SUSPIRIA is actually very good, the cinematography is great, the score does work well to help set the mood and create tension but the only mistake you can make while watching this film is to try and compare it to horror films today which with all their fancy effects still manage to suck, the best way to watch this film is to be a little open minded and remember this wasn't brought out today it came out in 1977 so obviously if you start running comparisons you're only ruining the film for yourself as many of the newer comments on its IMDb web page does indicate those people have made that mistake mainly because they complain about the effects and everyone knows this film was directed by Dario Argento and many people have told me his work is an acquired taste but given that I've seen eight of his films so far I have no complaints. "},{"Title":"Bewitched, Bothered, and Bewildered","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" SUSPIRIA is a superior 70's kitsch horror film, and a splendid example of how the innovative use of dramatic lighting and mind-boggling set design can elevate a low budget feature into something which approaches Art. The plot is about as hackneyed as you could possibly imagine, but this film is not about a storyline. Just shut down the critical part of your brain, and let your eyes take over. In addition, the soundtrack is by an ensemble known as Goblin, and this musical score perfectly enhances and sublimely compliments the cheesy production values. Two degrees more, and this film would have stumbled into parody, but SUSPIRIA remains a truly one- of- a-kind film. "},{"Title":"Disturbing movie and one really nasty death scene","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I noticed that Suspiria is listed on a lot of horror movies top lists so I decided to buy it. I wasn't disappointed.For a horror movie coming from 1977, Suspiria is a rather violent movie with one death scene in particular that could probably stand alongside the shower scene in Psycho as one of the best ever. However, it is not the violence alone that makes this movie work. Much of what makes this movie so disturbing is Dario Argento's use of color and different sound effects which keep you on edge throughout. He sort of makes it an art form, and that in itself is strange.The acting wasn't much to talk about, but I wouldn't say it's terrible either. In fact, a lot of it probably had to do with dubbing upon release in America.The entire movie left me unsettled throughout, and like I said, much of that had to deal with the color and sound. The death scenes, when they do come, are not forgotten, especially that one scene mentioned above which I will not spoil for anyone who wants to watch it.This is not a great movie, but its one that will be remembered once watched. "},{"Title":"I love the music","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Basically an American girl who loves ballet goes to Germany to join a very popular school there. Unfortunately it is run by witches. For a horror film, it is not that scary. It has the potential to be creepy and spooky, but not scary. Plus the fact you really don't see any witches. Well you do, but that would spoil it. The story line is OK for the film, but really doesn't have the suspense it needed to give a dynamite ending. Jessica Harper plays the main role and does a decent job. There are many side characters and they split with good and bad acting. There are many funny scenes in the film that you have to pay attention to see. For example, there is a pool in the school. Harper and another girl swim in shorts and a shirt. Why they didn't let them wear suits, I don't know. But the funny thing is that all they wore were shirts and you can easy see through them. The music for the film was played by a group called The Goblins. This definitely gave the film a spooky feel. You would hear the music and it would make it feel like Halloween. So the movie did have a decent story line and it was fun to watch. Of course it could of been better, but at least you wanted to wait to the end to see what it happening. This is truly a better movie to watch than most horror films now a days. "},{"Title":"Suspiria","Date":"1 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dear Readers, This film will keep you on the edge of your seat, consistently thrilling you with each new scene. Although the thriller was filmed in the 70's - it's message transcends to today's standards of an outstanding storyline.I highly recommend this movie for date-night. It sets a perfect scenario to cuddle up to your significant other, and if you haven't sealed the deal yet... trust me this will help! So, make sure to turn off all of the lights in your apartment and get your date a blanket before you turn on this flick. The movie starts off with a few creepy scenes, so take this opportunity to cuddle up to your fine feline. As the movie progresses, your lady friend is sure to get closer and closer.... Good luck! "}{"Title":"A Vibrant Distubia","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is not only a movie with a great opening and closing, its a movie with some of the brightest colors ever in a Horror movie. Not on Blu-Ray, but on a DVD from Anchor Bay, it has very vibrant textures and a beautiful scenery to go along. I've never seen blood itself be so red in a movie. The opening to this movie is the highest point. Its very brutal and an intro to a highly appealing Horror flick. Being an Italian movie, and having minimal knowledge of those movies, I had no idea what I was in for. An all out mess of blood and guts? Some of the creepiest and strangest deaths to my knowledge? Or a tamer film since it was made in '77? Heres what I got.Having only seen one Dario Argento's newer films a while back called Mother of Tears I wasn't sure if he had changed his styles from 1977 to 2008. It seems like he has a bit, but still kept the 70s and 80s blood flowing. While Suspiria is a little off balance for me as far as Horror goes, its interesting flow and unique blend of Drama and Horror is interesting, while being redundant at points. I consider it creepy, at times, but at points the dialog gets tiresome and almost dragging on. I realize in 1977 everything couldn't be just killing, stabbing, slashing, murdering, burying, action all around. But sometimes the dialog scenes last so long and it goes sometimes twenty minutes without a scare, I forget Im watching a Horror film. The dialog is a bit too much here, but still effective.Suzy Bannion (Jennifer Harper) is a naive girl who is now in Munich to attend a once in a lifetime opportunity at a dance academy in the town of Freiburg. Suzy is greeted the next morning after her arrival by (Joan Bennett, in her last film role) and Miss Tanner (Alida Valli). Upon seeing a girl named Pat the night before, Suzy is told something by her she is unable to remember the next day. Suzy continues to meet and greet other members of the dance, but when she sees weird, beyond abnormal events occurring in the academy. She believes that witches may inhabit the place and she may not be so much in control.The plot is pretty simplistic, but Argento bends it enough to throw some nice twists in there. Dario Argento is not a horrible director, just not my favorite. Don't get me wrong, his work here is a million times better than the remakes nowadays, but he is just not my favorite director. Different strokes for different folks applies here and I know people treat Argento with respect, which should be the case since he is one of the few classic and very well done Horror directors left. But I think since so much garbage has came out over the years Argento has been a bit overpraised, not saying he's bad, just overpraised.While Suspiria does deliver some very vile scenes for being done in 1977, it does deliver a little too much dialog. I love dialog, Im all about it, but seeing it in a Horror movie, where the dialog is unappealing wears on me quickly. I like it in a lot of things, but not so much in Horror movies. The dialog is slow paced and droning in parts. Not that its bad, just grows tiring after a while. Especially after a huge opening scene and very cool effects and colors hit the screen, I expect a handful of more unique scenes.The films biggest boom, is the music. The synth music by Goblin and Argento himself is beyond words outstanding. It comes at the right times and leaves at the best. The synths composed for Suspiria alone are mind-blowing and excited. I've always said that music in movies usually adds to the excitement, joy, laughter, horror, suspense, etc feeling of said project. In Suspiria, its here it at full force. If remakes/movies nowadays used synths like the ones in this project, they would all earn themselves an extra star.A remake is confirmed and set for a 2012 release which is just a pathetic, bad idea. Suspiria in 2012 will not work. It may have the same plot as the 1977 version, but in no possible way will it have a better cast, idea, background, or music than the 1977 version. Suspiria doesn't need to be remade. Why remake what is already close to perfect, why change the already very well done? Aren't the purpose of remakes to make something better, if that was the case, every remake ever made in the history of movies has failed. No remake is better than the original, all are inferior. Remakes may have the same plot, not the same feel or suspense brought in the original.Suspiria is the Horror gem of the 70s and while going on to achieve a rating of cult classic will now have me as a proud watched. Much thanks to user No Personality for recommending it to me. I will watch more Argento in the future, and hopefully, the sequel Inferno will impress just as equally as this.Starring Jessica Harper, Udo Kier, Joan Bennett, and Alida Valli. Directed by Dario Argento. "},{"Title":"The ultimate Argento","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Susan Bannion (Jessica Harper) arrives in Europe aiming to hone her dance skills in a world famous school in Freibourg. Placed in a remote location just outside of town and surrounded by woods the school is set in an old eerie building saturated with colour (naturally mostly in Argento's beloved red). On the night of her arrival to Germany in the midst of a great thunderstorm she is locked out of the school, whilst at the same time witnessing a seemingly terrified fellow American flee it . That same night the American is murdered (in one stunning and memorable murder scene)... The following morning Susan finally enrols into the school only for the more mystery and terror to persist...Dario Argento's masterpiece is in many ways perfect. This especially concerns the tone in which the movie is filmed and the never-subsiding suspense, which makes this movies extremely creepy despite never really offering much visual shockers (and one quite terribly poor bat attack scene). Permeating in red and blue hue the whole movie has an unmistakable feel to it that has become Argento's trademark. And as such the whole film together with the remarkable blooming set-pieces is a visual masterpiece with certain scenes and shots guaranteed to remain in memory long after the movie itself has been forgotten.The main reason I however forfeited on giving the movie a higher mark has most to do with the story itself. I was never a great fan of Argento's stories and scripts - often extremely rudimentary and leaving a sense of being highly underdeveloped or even rushed. Characters are also very underdeveloped and the poor acting coupled with sub-par dubbing never helps. In the case of Suspiria the mystery behind the killings keeps you on the edge of the seat for most of the film, but in the end the final act and the resolving of the story leaves you deeply unsatisfied. Would love to give a bigger shout out to Argento for his most important film, but I am unable to ignore to deeply disappointing plot to the otherwise terrific movie.Additional kudos for the tremendous lead musical motiff recorded by The Goblins. "},{"Title":"Arty Slashing","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is a reason why Italian filmmaker Dario Argento is called the king of slasher and giallo movies. Not only has he revived them, but also has given them a new dimension. Suspiria is one of Argento's best creations. It is art-horror at it's best. I call it colorful brutality. We get scared after watching the victims throat get slashed but we also do not fail to appreciate the colorful & artful background where the victim was murdered. In Suspiria, the first murder itself makes us appreciate the genius of the filmmaker. It is one of the finest killing I have seen in cinema. Most of the movie takes place under one location - The ballet school and hence Argento has given special attention in creating its own separate personality. Background music is exceptional by Goblin.The one thing which I hated about the movie though was it's bad acting and terrible dubbing.But I am not aware if Argento movies are known for their good acting anyways. People watch them to see some throats get slashed. It surely is worth a watch.Rating  8/10 "},{"Title":"Gorgeous horror film","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If this is your first introduction to Italian auteur Dario Argento, you may fall in love with him, even before the movie ends. Suspiria, much considered his finest, is almost an opera of a horror film, unlike anything else from it's time (except Argento's other film's). Even today, it is extremely distinctive, and although I am probably among the world's last of horror fans to feast my eyes on it, if there is anyone else who has not seen it, go for it.American cutey Susan Bannion hops across the pond to attend the famous TAM ballet academy in Rome. The place is moderately friendly but also unusual. as the nights progress tediously, Strange signs lead Suzy to suspect that there may be witchcraft a foot in the place.The plot is actually pretty thin, but it doesn't feel that way. Suspiria is stretched out slowly, and while it's scariness is middling at best, Argento successfully makes the whole thing feel very subjective, subtle and fragile, as if life hangs by a thread. Argento's vision is a highly eccentric manipulation of colour, shape, and sounds intended of course to provoke the feeling of being in a haunted house, which is just as eerie during the day as it is during the night. These sets would be a great place to stage a music video, among other things. Suspiria has much to offer for anyone who gives it a try, I doubt if it will scare the pants off you, but then again, that is not really the film main intention. It is an experiment in the art's and crafts of cinematic design and it's result are more than satisfactory. "},{"Title":"A vivid classic of European horror.","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Italian maverick directs a gruesome story (the first film in the never-completed 'Three Mothers' trilogy) about an American dancer Susy Banyon (Harper) who travels to Europe to enrol at a famous ballet school. Settling in at the academy proves increasingly difficult, as she is greeted with bizarre noises and even stranger occurrences, eventually realising that the establishment is a facade concealing a dark world of sinister witchcraft, in which throat slashings are commonplace.Hailed as a European horror classic, Suspiria's bloody charm resides in its technical triumphs and visual style. Argento's skillful use of unsettling, intense colour and stunning set designs adequately obscure the film's numerous structural flaws. Death is portrayed with aesthetic abandon - most memorable is the scene where one woman in a negligee escapes a predator by crawling through a window, only to tumble onto a mat of razor wire. Argento's confident conjuring of hallucinatory terror and all-pervading evil sends a spell-binding chill through every frame. The bloody mark of a fine horror picture. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is gorgeous, stunning, thrilling and (in some parts) stomach turning. A true masterwork, and a true horror film.This movie is visual, a lot of meaning told through color, hue, and indirect lighting. The camera work is beautiful. ALL modern directors, especially every modern horror hack, should really try to freakin learn something from Argento.The red signifies blood, of course. But not just death, but life as well, the dichotomy that is blood - as lifeforce and death when blood is lost from the body. At some points the main character is bathed in indirect green light - sickness. Yellow windows with red centers - the heart. Perhaps, that's just my thinking on some of the visuals in Suspiria.The sets are stunning. Stunning. The death scenes truly horrorific, and the music is nothing short of superb. "},{"Title":"Dario Argento's Greatest  Horror Film To Date.","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is the greatest horror film and a true masterpiece made by Dario Argento. As a big horror movies fan, this is my favorite Argento film and it is much better than Phenomena, Inferno and Tenebre.With great special effects and a great background score by the Goblins.The film is about one of the three mothers (Witches) who is called Suspiria or 'the mother of sighs'. Susie Bannion (played by Jessica Harper) arrives at a ballet school in Germany to perfect herself. There she is welcomed by the school's directress, Madame Blanc (Joan Bennett). She befriends Sara (Stefania Casini) who tells her about a friend of hers who had vanished without trace and who believed that the school was actually a coven for witches and the only one who knew of a secret entrance to the coven. When Sara disappears mysteriously, Susie begins to investigate the rumour of The Black Queen who had previously been the owner of the school.This film is a must have for any horror fans film collection. "},{"Title":"Suspiria - What does that title mean, anyway?","Date":"21 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is one of the most fascinating horror films ever made. I mean that, really. I make note of the fact that not only is Suspiria an incredibly well-made horror film (considering its budget and the reputation of slasher movies in general), but it's actually scary. All this has to do with the unconventional direction of Italian horror maestro Dario Argento, who up until watching Suspiria for the first time in its entirety a few nights ago, I only knew by reputation - not by film (though I am aware that he collaborated with George A. Romero on my favorite horror movie of all time - 1978's Dawn of the Dead).His 1977 Suspiria is arguably his best and most well-known horror film. Incredibly enough, much of what makes this movie scary is not because of the usual theatrics usually associated with run-of-the-mill slasher flicks - masked and/or unseen killer, scantily-clad sexy lead heroine and other like-dressed female associates, just plain dumb characters who abide by the rules of slasher movies, buckets and buckets of gore, ominous music, etc. While Suspiria uses elements of all these (and would in turn influence subsequent horror films in the United States), they are, to be precise, merely tools at Argento's disposal - they're not the film's driving force.That is to say that Suspiria is probably the most frightening-sounding movie ever made. I'm deadly serious about that last statement. No movie has made me more at unease due to the combination of the use of its soundtrack (by the Italian band Goblin), sound effects, and general use of sound than Suspiria. This is really where Argento shines as a director here - through his use of sound and music, and the mayhem that many times ensues whenever/wherever it's employed. And there is some pretty surreal and frightening imagery to boot.But too bad the film's plot doesn't match the effect of its soundtrack. To some, that's a bad thing. But in the giallo genre (the Italian word for yellow, and is also the mystery/thriller style of storytelling popular in Argento's native Italy), this IS a good thing, style and atmosphere over plot and characters. The plot is insanely simple and almost episodic in nature the film's central character is American ballet dancer Suzy Banyon (Jessica Harper), who enrolls at a prestigious European dance academy and discovers along with her roommate and fellow dancer Sara (Stephania Casina), that the place is run by a coven of witches.As stated earlier, all of this secondary to Argento's use of sound, color, imagery, and music. I've never before been so effectively creeped out by a movie's soundtrack before, nor have I ever seen such prominent use of music before to scare the hell out of the audience. Two of the film's most frightening and surreal moments involves a blind man in the darkness of a vacant square, and Sara being pursued through the dance academy's labyrinthine hallways by an unseen, knife-wielding maniac. Combined with the film's dreamy atmosphere, these two sequences come to stand out in a movie that ultimately plays out like some vivid nightmare come to horrifying life.With all this mind, it immediately separates Suspiria from the rest of the crop of horror flicks as being something truly unique to the genre. I can assure you that is not to say that all other horror films I've seen dim in comparison to this film, but I'm just commenting on how different Argento's style of direction is when compared to some of his peers. It certainly makes for quite a viewing experience.Suspiria is unquestionably one of the most uniquely frightening horror films I've ever seen. Dario Argento has made a horror flick that is most certainly hard to compare to and I can say that I have found a new horror favorite. This film is also shockingly gory and violent (its outbursts of violence are so sudden and infrequent that they're actually quite horrifying), blandly acted (which is not so bad, after all), and just plain scary. This movie is not just a thriller or a slasher.This movie is Suspiria.10/10 "},{"Title":"Witchery","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For my money, SUSPIRIA is Argento's greatest work. An American dancer (Harper) joins a ballet school in Germany, only to realize the school is a haven for witches. Various people die, and she is targeted for her suspicions. There are two outstanding death scenes a blind man walking with his seeing eye dog is abruptly attacked by the dog. And a ballet student ends up falling into a room full of razor wire. The ending is spooky although a bit silly. Someone should have told Argento witch films can become unintentionally arch or camp even when they are played straight. Strong on atmosphere, weak on logic, so-so on acting ability, SUSPIRIA is a good place to start your Argento collection. "},{"Title":"Skip the hour in the middle","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria has a great beginning and a truly effective ending, but the middle hour is a craptastic mess of bad writing, bad acting and particularly bad editing. The music by The Goblins is truly haunting but the repeated use of the main theme, over and over and over, and over again, dilutes its impact when once again it loops over the final fifteen minutes. The same applies to the cinematography and its multiple cycles of reds and blues to create atmosphere.The plot was nothing new even in 1977, basically Rosemary's Baby set in a girls' school only without the baby nor even a motive. Hammer Films themselves had already beat this dead horse to a pulp years before.Go ahead and rent though if you are a die-hard horror fan or a film student as the film does have bits of creative genius, however the sum adds up to much less than the whole. Then after viewing it, compare it to Polanski's Repulsion and Rosemary's Baby. "}{"Title":"A Provocative Atmosphere","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a self-proclaimed horror connoisseur, this movie left me in awe. The plot is retrenched by the, at times, obnoxious music, and opulent scenery. But it is my opinion, that a sturdy plot isn't needed to make this film worthwhile. The scenes are decadently enhanced by artificial colored lights and an unsettling orchestration that is by far the most chilling soundtrack I've heard in a horror movie. The acting was mediocre, but I feel like the amateur and sometimes humorous portrayals, added a certain depth and feel that otherwise wouldn't have worked. The cinematography is brilliant. At times I felt as though I was looking at an I Spy book. There was always something more to look at, but not so much that it was impossible to catch. All of this combined with the rich Italian architecture, make for a seriously thought-provoking film. I couldn't shake the scenes for weeks later. Though the plot didn't add up, I was unable to stop myself from feeling an unusual sort of fear. It's all the more frightening because I honestly did not know what to be afraid of. If you're a stickler for fine-tuned films, then I would not recommend this. But if you're like me and prefer films for their atmosphere and thought inducing visualization, Suspiria will more than boggle your mind. "},{"Title":"Strong start, great middle, weak finish","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A young American woman, Suzy Bannion, enrolls at a prestigious European ballet school. She soon hears some frightening tales about the school and suspects that some of them may be true.The movie begins as a great horror film. The stylish brutal murder near the beginning is among the genre's best in terms of tension and execution. Pun not intended. The sets and atmosphere are also ripe and well used for a horror story in addition to the premise. There is great use of light and shadow that make some scenes really menacing. Those scenes also never go over the top into the buckets of gore that comes standard with many horror movies today. The instead rely on clever set design and the type of innovation that makes movies fun to watch.However, with all this set up and care to make a great horror film, it is a shame that it amounts to so little. The end can be summed up in two words and they are, sudden and disappointing. No clincher. No twist. Not even a cheesy sappy feel good end. The credits literally just start to roll. On the bright side that leaves you thinking about what could happen next, but with the film's careful setup they could have put a little more into that conclusion. --- 7/10Rated R for violence and horror "},{"Title":"Most influential horror movie of our generation!","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" By far one of the best and most influential horror movies of our generation. When this movie came out, I was only a child, and I remember the commercials vividly---scared me out of my wits!! I remember many of my relatives seeing this film and trying to describe it to me, but for obvious reasons that just can't be done---it's something you have to see and experience for yourself. I think perhaps the negative comments come from people who haven't seen the widescreen version in it's full surround sound. Years later when I was old enough to see this, I was blown away!! The story, the design, the music, the mystery---instantly made me a Dario Argento fan (and also influenced me to become an actor and writer of the macabre!). European countries have such an ethereal feel and look to them, which only intensifies the overall effect of the film. I backpacked around Europe when I was in my twenties----I saw buildings, streets, areas very similar to what's in the film. Remember also that there's soooooooo much more history in these countries, and that the black arts have been part of their cultural history. I'm not going to retread the story line at all here, but this movie, along with many other European horror films of that era (like, Let Sleeping Corpses Lie, etc) are to me much more creative, horrifying, and better made than the American counterparts. Every film Dario Argento has created, to me at any rate, rank up there with the best-of-the-best---they're all obviously labors of love, but Suspiria shines above the rest. As far as a remake, unless Dario's directing, why even bother? "},{"Title":"Nothing if not impressive","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's about Argento's perverse love affair with composition and effect. The incredibly saturated color, the harsh geometry of the compositions, the virtual absence of character and plot - it's just one set piece after another, most of which are very impressive. Also kind of sick. Italian horror movies put so much emphasis on the details of physical violation that they can make you stop and ask yourself exactly WHY you continue to watch pretty girls being hacked to pieces, even in saturated color. But Argento's stuff is interesting and different in that it is CLASSY - both in setting and technique - so the chaos is tensing against something and has a very ill-defined aura of subversion. Also the music (also by Argento) is just WHAM WHAM WHAM WHAM the whole time, I've never heard such extremity on a soundtrack before, and it's very effective. Sometimes you're like, WTF? But it's nothing if not impressive. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous and suspenseful combination of colour, blood and music.","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" (r#70)Suspiria is, unlike many other classic horror movies from this period, actually very suspenseful, and artistically it is a triumph on all levels. Gorgeous colours and images, inventive camera angles, and a fantastic score to top it all off, make this a one of a kind film and a horror classic no one could ever remake.The beautiful Jessica Harper stars as Suzy Bannion, an exchange student who comes to a ballet school with more than a few dark secrets. There really isn't that much of a plot, and the acting is a bit corny at times, but the point of Suspiria isn't the plot nor the acting. You just have to let go and enjoy the enormous visual and musical pleasure of the film. Some of the most memorable scenes are the first, shocking murder, the revolting worms sequence, and the sadistic barb wire scene. This is simply a great film to look at which is more than a little suspenseful at times. What more could you want?This isn't a 70's low-budget cult movie like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre or Dawn of the Dead - neither of which I found very scary - this is a genuinely frightening movie that stands on its own as a unique cinematic achievement. If you only see one horror movie in your life, make it this one. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece.","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria stands out among the work of Argento because it is simply the best film of his career to date, and a truly brilliant film in itself. This film clearly displays Argento fantastic visual style, his attention to detail and his way of telling a story visually, rather then through dialog. The film is the most beautiful film I have ever seen, as it was shot on Eastman Color Kodak stock and was printed using the 3-strip Technicolor process, giving it an 3-D effect. This film stands as not only a monument to the genius of Argento but the film's photographer Luciano Tovoli.Dario Argento influences culminate in this, his sixth film. It can clearly be noted that his main influence was his mentor, Mario Bava (Black Sunday). Argento made Bava's famous tracking shot his own, and this has become one of Argento's many signatures.People say that Suspiria does not have a plot, but it does, although it is a simple one. I think it is genius of Argento not to focus to much on plot, as the audience will probably be trying to figure the story out if the plot for Suspiria was complex, therefore, they would pay little attention to how visual stunning Suspiria is, and this would sour the experience of watching Suspiria.The acting in Suspiria I adored. Jessica Harper is perfection as Suzy, her innocence radiating out brilliantly. The supporting cast are just simply brilliant, especially Alida Valli and Joan Bennett.This film is simply a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Loved Suspiria!","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of the best Horror movies i have ever seen. Everything from the music to the story is mysterious, and scary. I had heard about this movie from all my friends and they mentioned how good it was, and how i had to see it. It really never got my attention but i decided to buy it and when i saw it i fell in love with it. There is a lot of art in this movie, and i love all the bright colors, the editing, the music, and the lighting. Horror movies now look to fake and rarely have that Thrill that makes you want to scream. Suspiria is not a perfect film, and it has its flaws but its a Horror classic that everyone should watch. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Horror Movie Ever Made","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a pulsating beautiful nightmare. The colours bleed like blood pumping through the veins of child being told a cautionary fairy tale. The actors are like mirages in a dream. They dance like ghosts and the killers strike with ferocity. The shadows create labyrinths and space in the film and the imagination. The music expresses the intensity of nerves being jangled from a noose. Maybe this film could only have been made during the seventies. No film has ever been made like it. I prey that one will again. We'll see. This film encompasses like the threat of a recurring nightmare, then lays the experience out like an opiate, trying to catch the moment between dream and reality. Watch it alone, in the dark and with the sound pumped up. "},{"Title":"Does this movie have a plot?","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is an awesome piece of art, much like the Abominable Dr. Phibes or any Disney cartoon (seriously). It should be played at a museum, not late night on AMC. It's probably one of the most beautiful movies I've seen. The colors can just draw you in. And the images -- a woman swimming through barbed wire, glass shattering, and other scary Italian things -- are sensational. The music is also recommended. Unlike the soundtrack to Demons and Demons 2, which were filled with 80s songs that Italians must have assumed Americans like, this movie uses its music to build the suspense. I sincerely recommend this movie, not for the dopey, nonsensical plot, and not from the scares (because it's not a particularly scary movie), but for the artistic value. That alone makes it a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Italian Horror","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento is the King. I just love Italian horror. The cheesy is what makes it what it is. It's so gruesome and the music can be hilarious but Suspiria's kinda gets stuck in your head. You can't deny liking it.The most memorable scene in the movie is when the gets brutally stabbed and then hung from the glass in the ceiling causing another of a young woman. A sheet of glass falls on her, how unfortunate.First of all I have to say, I love ballet, I was in a dance company, so the fact that they tied ballet and horror together makes me all warm inside. Jessica Harper is an awe-inspiring actress. She was seen in Phantom of the Paradise which is another good one. I was hoping she knew how to dance but NOPE! My only disappointment goes to how short it was. "}{"Title":"truly a classic horror movie","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Argento's use of color is what makes this movie special, i must admit the plot was bad, but how that differs from most other horror movie i do not know, many reviews state that the acting is terrible i personally found no problem with it. And the first death scene is truly one of the most gruesome, amazingly shot death i've ever seen. It would be worth a viewing for that scene alone. And of course there is the amazingly perfect Goblin soundtrack, I find that song quite enjoyable to listen outside of the movie, and it creates such a feeling of dread in the movie, all in all its just what it should be. "},{"Title":"You're going to meet death now.","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is the first part in Italian filmmaker Dario Argento's still unfinished Three Mothers trilogy. The first time I watched Suspiria, I wasn't expecting, nor was I prepared for it. There was no linear narrative structure and it killed me. I really didn't like it. I saw this film back to back with Deep Red and became totally perplexed as to the hype of Argento. All these fans and talented filmmakers whom I respect love the man's body of work and I don't. Is there something wrong with me? I wondered. Now that I'm a little older, and maybe a little wiser, I understand the dreamlike qualities of Dario Argento's films. Suspiria is an iconic fairy tale horror film and the first fifteen minutes are unbelievable. It's very gorgeous and uber-violent. And Goblin's score is nothing short of brilliant in its simplicity. The moans and whispers are very eerie and compliment Argento's visuals perfectly. The movie just doesn't completely work for me on a basic storytelling level, and that's okay. It's a much better film than I ever gave it credit for being, but I still loathe Deep Red. Although Suspiria didn't quite live up to its hype, and Deep Red was god awful, I would later fall in love with Tenebre. So I do encourage you to watch his films, especially if you're into nightmarish visuals that don't weave together in a traditional fashion. I still don't love Suspiria by any means, but I do respect it. I can see that Dario Argento is definitely an acquired taste. "},{"Title":"really creepy film","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of Argento's most creepiest films. I remember watching the commercials for this film in the movie theater with the skeleton combing her hair and turning around and jumped out of my seat as a kid. What comes across during this film is Suzy gets involved in an almost Alice in Wonderland like surrounding involving witchcraft and murder in which the people that are running the place are involved in. There were a few disappointments though in the movie and one of them being the fake special effects in the film like blood looking to much like blood from a paint can and the fact that we didn't actually see the killer killing the victims, there was just a hand coming from behind the shadows and the corners doing all this killing. The killers are obvious in the movie sense we don't see to many nice people introduced in the film, their characters were stiff and to the point and it gave it away as to what their intentions were for Suzy to be rid of. But this is a vary good movie and vary creepy as it plays along the characters and the music in this film makes it even more creepy. "},{"Title":"Instant Argento fanmaker film.","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Films come and go, and in each film comes forgettable sets, camera set ups, and lighting. Rarely do these elements stand out to vividly revisit without watching the film again, especially in a throwaway 'blockbusters' that line the summer (T3, XXX, Catwoman). Some films provide a set of memorable images that will stay with the audience for a long while (Citizen Kane, Psycho, Alien, T2, Signs.) And then there's Dario Argento's Suspiria, which is a relentless montage of unforgettable sets, camera moves, composition, and color.Watching the film, I was amazed. Never have I seen a more classic example of 'not what, but how' rule of cinema. Sure, I've seen hundreds of stalking/chase scenes, hundreds of suspense scenes, hundreds of action sequences involving hundreds of stunts and effects and I'm dozing off in many films. Argento makes his sets, the lighting, the camera all characters in themselves, and thus finds a way to keep his scenes both interesting and intense when he wants them to be.I slept through XXX; I was afraid to blink in Suspiria.Argento is not afraid to let the camera linger, to slowly follow characters as they creep down his elaborate sets, and leave the audience suspended from one perspective for long periods of time. Thanks to the new wave of epileptic-cutting style (Hollywood) film-making brought on by the invention of Avids, I'd nearly forgotten how much more tension, how much more suspense, and how much more interesting a scene can play from an elite handful points of view with strategic cuts.As far as style goes this is, hands down, my favorite horror picture, and the only thing holding it back from being my favorite horror film is the dialogue and some of the characters' childishness. Yes, I have read from more than one source the reason behind this, but it still really irritates me - coming from the mouths of these actors, it makes their characters come across as a bit dimwitted and also as a cheap way of spelling out the plot. From the mouths of children; however, it would be appropriate and perfectly acceptable.I want to rave endlessly about the magic of Argento's use of the frame - how he sets up his death sequences, wonderful use of extreme close ups juxtaposed to extreme distanced shots, a wonderful zoom that starts on two characters talking and finishes on their reflection, Goblin's classic score, and how Argento paints the screen with blues, reds, greens, with masterful precision to direct your eye to his focal points, but I'd be wasting my breath because this is a film that must be experienced firsthand. "},{"Title":"Color and Sound","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You are either a fan or not a fan of Argento's horror genre. His direction adds to the thrill of his movies, but not as much as his use of color and sound. The over powering musical score and sound coming from movement of the characters or the settings help make the horror come alive. The use of color also brings a feel and a look to the movie that no other film maker has reproduced since. Suspiria is loved or hated by today's audience. It will either rank high or low by today's audience standards. In my opinion, the movie has its moments but falls apart in many scenes. The script and story fail to keep my attention. Too many people whispering about something that is obvious, but still confusing to the audience lacks character and drive. The script has several holes that remain unfilled by the close of the movie.The direction is slow at times but picks up in the right areas. Still, besides the terrific use of color and sound, Suspiria falls short of anything terrific. A classic for its time, the movie sits on the shelves at the local video store, waiting to be watched. A cover of dust blocks the title on its box cover.  "},{"Title":"And Momma Said 'Please Don't Be A Serial Murderer' &#150; So I Became A Director Instead.","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The horror genre can range from the sublime to the ridiculous. This is especially true of the late Seventies, early Eighties where slasher movies had some mainstream acceptance. Moviemakers sometimes strived to deliver the blood without much thought to anything else. So where does &#145;Suspiria' fit into this &#150; sublime or ridiculous? When the movie is given some serious thought, the answer is not quite as simple as one would have thought it should have been. This is largely due to Dario Argento &#150; a well-known figure in horror. His complexities of character overrun this movie as he instinctively performs his task of directing. Below I shall outline some of the salient factors within the fabric of his foremost creation, which give it its place in the horror genre.The first thing that strikes you is Argento's use of images and sound to create atmosphere. This is seen from the outset where Suzy arrives at the airport into a downpour with creepy music as a backdrop. She has now entered the world of the unnatural - unnatural evil. It is the lair of a dark foreboding force waiting for the next victim. The conditions are cold and the people even colder. We also see close-ups of water pouring down drains, something that is used throughout the movie as he attempts to create an illusion of the bloodletting and loss of life.Even more striking is the architectural settings that are used. It is like Old Europe meeting Picasso and it is quite breathtaking. This is a signature of almost every Italian directed film that I've seen. It was evident in &#145;The Ninth Gate' thus accentuating the illusion of book readers having refined tastes and in &#145;Dracula' to give an indication of the ancient, dark evil that he is. The advantage here is that the story is easier to become engrossed in. The senses are fully engaged as the settings add real value to the storyline. Another world is created and we are not put off by realistic settings that can jolt you from the story.The use of lighting is strongly emphasised by other users here and quite rightly so. Not only does it reflect the evil personality of the clan, but it also gives evil life to the dwellings. There was deliberate intent here that is proven by the death of the Black Queen, which causes the school to explode. This is a clever tactic since the majestic settings' thoroughly engages the imagination and our heroine is not only against the shapeshifting entities, but the whole complex itself. If we go to a place of splendour, we can feel the vibe that it gives &#150; it seems to have a life of it's own - and the shrewd camera technique takes full advantage of this.The setting for the blind mans demise is a perfect example of this. The courtyard has an effect of foreboding power and when alone you could feel overwhelmed by the magnanimous aura. This effect is fully exploited by Argento. The sense of ever-present evil is also created by the set where they go to sleep away from the maggots. The blood &#150; red lighting that awash the sheets and walls is indicative of the intent of the not only of the horde, but of the school building. This setting becomes all the more macabre when we learn of the Directresses (The Black Queen) presence.On the subject of the blind mans demise, it is also where one of the weak points of the movie is evident. The effects stand out as very weak to an audience used to high &#150; tech CGI. This will be a problem for most movies of this time period as advancements create realistic effects. We can easily see the fake blood and the mannequin. Even though the scene stands out as a truly gruesome murder scene, an Argento signature, this will diminish with time, as effects become more seamless.      One thing that is inescapable here, is the deep &#150; set misogynist element. This is overwhelmingly evident in the first and third murder scene where the victims suffering is drawn out and vicious at the same time. In the first one she is methodically and brutally stabbed instead of an all out knife assault which would have resulted in a quicker death. Argento even uses his own arm in these scenes to deliver the lethal blows. A slow death is the worst kind of death and that is meticulously planned here. As if this was not enough, she is hung for all to see with another woman creatively impaled below.In the third murder scene, the woman seems to seductively ensnare herself in the barbed wire thus causing more suffering. Indeed Argento's complex personality is laid to bear in scenes like this. Also one of the witches conjures up an image of a Frau Blitzen who teased the weak boys at physical training class.      As a lead - up to the first murder scene another shrewd ploy was used and that is of the presence at the window. The sensation of a presence draws in the frightened woman who looks but then draws away. But her curiosity gets the better of her as she is now driven by her fears &#150; a fear not uncommon to many members of the audience. The hanging clothes block her vision accentuating the effect of something hiding. Suddenly she is attacked through the window and the vicious assault begins. This scene with the assistance of surreal music and a room visually vibrant is one that will stay long with the audience.Another camera trick used has its roots in Edgar Allan Poe. The wine glass is lifted to the camera as if we were drinking. This is an attempt to instil us in Argento's symphony of terror &#150; much like Poe used to do.Italians seem to lay their souls to bare for their chosen art form. Perhaps a part of the emotive make &#150; up as they draw on all their senses to deliver a product to satisfy their particular artistic tastes. This is fortunate for movie fans. The camera work, lighting and music have already been mentioned, but sometimes this will not do when the required effect is necessary. In the first murder scene, an animal heart is stabbed. In the third murder scene, it looks like a chicken breast is being slashed in order to simulate a throat being cut. These attempts did not go unnoticed and do take the already gruesome scenes to another level, even if we can tell what has been done.The story is not particularly of note, although I do not believe it is as weak as some say. The climatic scene builds up quite nicely as the heroine is given an insurmountable task, that is, to kill the Black Queen in her own lair. But she delivers one strike and as she perishes, the evil complex starts to disintegrate. For a movie that made its name out of scenes, it should not be the climax that is the let down. For everything to end in thirty seconds certainly went against the grain of the movie.Where exactly this movie fits was not easily determined. But it was the creative use of sets, lighting and sound that ultimately elevates this movie above most in the genre. Any true horror must have this in collection. Cheap thrills were not the norm here as we are spellbindingly drawn into a wicked, cruel world of parasitic witches drawing their evil power from the weak and unwitting. Although there is ominous motivations in the make &#150; up of some scenes, there is no doubting Argento's talent and the contribution he has made to the genre. While you are reading this, I am probably searching for &#145;Tenebre'. I believe that there is an axe murder scene like no other. If Picasso did murder, perhaps it would be something like this.     "},{"Title":"Hard to pin down, but you may not want to.","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Some movies require the viewer to prepare themselves ahead of time. This is one of them. The first time I saw this was on the big screen in 1977. It has never left me. I didn't know who Dario Argento was then but I became a cautious fan after my initial viewing. And yet, much as I have a fondness for this film and am compelled to watch it again, I tend to dwell a bit before taking the dive. The first minutes of the film are indeed anxiety inducing. At first it looked like the legendary 'snuff' films we've all heard so much about. Very disturbing and yet somehow beautiful. I didn't like what I was feeling. Cool! It occurs to me as it has to many of the other reviewers that this just might be ART. Since I have indeed taken the plunge a few more times and endured this flick, I agree. It is.The colors of the sets - tongue red, bile blue, gall bladder green. Ew! The colors are beautiful in the way they unbalance you with their vivid gaudiness. Shadows Caligarically cast darkened scars across the walls, furniture, and, of course, the players. The rain shadows on the red walls - good visual idea.The acting wasn't bad - but it wasn't great either. At least it wasn't quite what I expected. All of the effort that seemed to be put toward establishing character in the characters was wasted. A lot of whispering. I didn't establish sympathy for any character. I was scared for most of them. After that opening scene I just assumed everyone involved was merely meat waiting to be harvested. So I detached. The story isn't hard to follow but doesn't necessarily follow logic either. There are nightmarish dreamlike qualities to many of the scenes. Logic doesn't have to prevail because no matter what you do, you are doomed. This leaves the viewer even more upset and unbalanced. Often this is a good thing to get from a horror movie, n'est ce-pas? The ending was a touch more abrupt than I would have liked. You are kind of dropped - so there.Now the music - wow. What a noise. Very voodooish and somewhat haunting. It builds and builds. Hypnosis sets in. You know something is going to happen but, man, getting there can be real suspenseful-like. Frequently the soundtrack overwhelms what is actually going on. You have to wonder whether that wasn't done on purpose. I think it was because the effect worked on me. All you can do is stare at the carnage. Neat!At the end of the day this movie is like a craving. You want to see it but not necessarily have to go through until you're ready. There are maggots beneath the skin of this film. It is definitely worth seeing as a film student. If you like horror films with a bit of gore that could also be called art - this is the movie for you. I liked it but I can never guarantee when I am going to be compelled to see it again. I am getting old and faint of heart.        "},{"Title":"Wow, the colours!!!","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've heard so much about this movie. Being a huge fan of George Romero's Dead Trilogy, Dawn of the Dead being my favorite, I decided to finally check out what Dario Argento was all about (he produced Dawn). I went out and rented the 3 disc dvd today and watched it twice. The first time my friend was talking most of the way through but I still followed it. The 2nd with another friend and we were both enthtralled by it. Every corner of the movie is pure suspense. The buildup for every scene is immense. You just don't know what's gonna happen next. I won't give away any of the scenes but the use of colour in the movie is absolutely phenomenal. I've never seen anything like it in fact. Also, if you're into gore, you'll like this one. Honestly, if you've had any doubts about this movie, get rid of them and watch it. Hopefully you'll enjoy it. I give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Dario Argento ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this movie SO MUCH! Dario Argento is one of my most favorites when it comes to scary movies. This movie , out of all the ones that he has made - in my opinion - is the very best. If you like this like I do , then you might wanna look for his 1982 American realease CREEPERS AKA Phenomena - not as ghoulishly freaky - but a lot of eeriness and atmosphere. Total mystery... Rock On , Dario! PEACE "},{"Title":"art house maybe, but not great horror","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sorry, this is not great horror.  I know, Argento is some kind of a master, and his daughter is hot, and this movie is famous, and...it just is not very scary, particularly in the middle parts.  It isn't terrible.  I give it a six.  Some characters are well-drawn, and the beginning and ending are very tense.  I think Tenebre was more terrifying, and I am sure lots of Argento's other work would appeal to me.  But I  didn't think Suspiria was that great, and I won't see it again.    "}{"Title":"A favorite","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let's look at how a standard horror movie works you build up characters that the audience identifies with (maybe some teenagers, or a family with a cute kid) for the first part of the movie, which is usually pretty sunny. Then the monster drops in and terrorizes our victims; they get chased and we get 'scared'.  Various happenings in the plot where things we didn't know before get revealed try to keep up interested.  And so it goes.  I think Stephen King's got a how-to book that explains how to do all this stuff, if you're interested...Suspiria, if you haven't seen the movie or heard anything about it, doesn't exactly work like that, or even try to.  'Atmosphere' is not even the right word- it's more like a shared hallucination.  The plot is criticized even by the movie's supporters; personally, I think it might have done the movie service if all explanations had been done away with altogether (then you'd _really_ read some howling reviews from people who wasted their money). I wouldn't exactly call it scary, but I don't know that I've ever really been literally scared by any movie since I was about ten or so.  I will say it's an unmatched experience, and one of the few horror movies that I return to again and again.  It's a rare breed of movie, and in its breed, it's really the best we've got.So, to wrap up, I won't exactly pass on a recommendation to the reader. If you're the kind of person that needs to see this movie, you'll probably end up seeing it, but if you want a safe bet for a rental or purchase, try a safer movie.  People seem to like the Sixth Sense; try that one.  But suffice it to know that if this movie works for you, it'll really work check out the number of tens it's getting (one of them's mine!), compared to the backlash from people upset about a movie that really just wasn't for them.  Oh well every movie can't be for every person.  Fans can be smug in their appreciation of a one-of-a-kind movie, though. "},{"Title":"My fave Horror of All Time","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My gosh...I saw Suspiria when I was about 12 years old...scared the living daylights out of me (and that takes alot to do since I am the ultimate horror maven) 11 years later...and it still scares the beegeebees out of me. Maybe its the fact that its foreign and dubbed, the music is different and creepy, and well..lets face it, some of the people are downright creepy....their faces, their voices. Absoutley bone-chilling. My spine and heart needed a rest after this one.....I reccommend this movie to anyone who thinks they cant get scared. If you arent afraid of the dark, you will be after you watch this movie. )  "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Haunting, and Enchanting!  Argento's Horror Masterpiece!","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love Dario Argento's work.  I caught onto him only a few years ago.  However his film Tenebre is among my favorites along with Profondo Roso and this one Suspiria.  The typical horror fan may never understand this film, just as a typical film fan may not either.  I have heard so many people make fun of the over dramatic sequences in the film.  I have heard a lot about the color of the blood.  I have heard even more about the eyes in the window.  So many people have lost their ability to think in an abstract sense that the world's art has gone to dung over the years.   In Suspiria, Argento paints a picture.  He has been the only person who has been able to put on film the way we all see things when we are afraid.  When we are afraid we do not pay attention to the details simply because we are in a euphoric state of mind.  Fear is the greatest boost of adrenaline anyone can receive.  Fear unto itself is like a drug, it can give us a very abnormal view on our surroundings.  Don't you remember the shadows of your teddy bears when you were children, becoming monsters?  Don't you remember seeing things that could never possibly move do the impossible?  That is the abstract idea of the famous words There is nothing to fear but fear itself.  The point is when we are afraid our minds become playgrounds for extreme paranoia to the point of delusion.  You can scare yourself with your mind more than any person can.     That being said, although nobody will ever truly capture fear, and make you feel the same fear; Dario Argento has found a way for us to explore the beauty and ugliness of fear.  Thus far, he has been the only director in film history to scratch the surface in capturing the essence of true fear.  Suspiria is the film that displays it better than any other film.  If you like Suspiria check out all of Argento's work.  Argento is thus far, the only director to have never disappointed me.  Hopefully anyone new to Argento will feel the same.  Warning however, cynics need to stay away from this film.  While there are many spots in this film that can come off to non-abstract thinkers, (You know who you are, people who like the box office hits, and Academy award winners), poking fun at this film will only make you seem more ignorant than you probably are.  If you don't get it don't poke at it, just go watch Jaws, Psycho, or Scream and everything will be ok.  You will have return to the land of Hubba Bubba dreams!Suspiria  10 crows of 10, slaughtered and beautifully arranged.   "},{"Title":"Forget Halloween, forget Scream, you MUST see Suspiria.","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Spoiler Alert Suspiria is certainly not the type of film that will appeal to the average moviegoer, as it is about as far from the Hollywood model as can be, both in terms of storytelling and cinematography. If you approach this film expecting it to be a horror movie in the same model as Scream, A Nightmare on Elm Street or Halloween, you'll be sorely disappointed, as Suspiria is a much stronger assault on the viewers' senses, and makes no attempt to conform to the rules of the genre.Suspiria is more or less a fairytale. Many classic gothic elements are present throughout, such as the main character, Suzy, who bears more than a passing resemblance to Snow White. She arrives in Freiburg in Germany in the middle of a massive thunderstorm, planning on studying at the famous Dance Academy. Upon reaching the academy, she witnesses another girl running out, screaming incoherently, and is subsequently told by voice on the intercom to get lost. Within a short amount of time, we see the runaway girl and a friend with whom she is staying meet their end in one of the most original and brutal murders ever to be filmed. As disturbing things continue to happen in and around the school, Suzy becomes more and more aware that what appears to be a respectable dance academy is actually a cover-up for occult worship...Little is explained about what's happening. For example, the first girl to die (Pat) is killed by an unseen assailant with large, hairy arms. We never find out who the killer is. In fact, we never find out who any of the killers are. We know (eventually) that it is the witches that are making these things happen, but we don't know who the actual perpetrators are. But in a way, does anything need to be explained? Bad things don't necessarily happen for a reason the impression I am under is that the witches are simply intent on spreading evil and destruction, with little motivation.This is definitely one of the most incredible looking films I have ever seen. The colors are completely surreal, with bright reds, blues and yellows lighting many of the scenes. I suspect that these colors are used to suggest the presence of evil; yet, the characters don't seem to be aware of them. Blood is bright red, but this adds to the style rather than detracting from it. The whole story is so unbelievable anyway that it's perfectly normal to accept that blood is bright red and looks a lot like thick paint.I also have to mention the incredible music by the group Goblin. The simple theme tune that is repeated throughout the movie is quite similar to the one John Carpenter composed for Halloween, but in my opinion this score is far and away the better of the two. The hypnotic soundtrack is filled with barely-decipherable screams and chants, the best example being the word Witch! which is frequently hissed, especially during the opening scenes.Let's be fair, the actual story is pretty far-fetched, and some of the dialogue and acting is laughable. This isn't helped by the fact that almost the entire film was recorded silent, and dubbed later (a process that many Italian filmmakers continued right up until the mid 1980s). However, this doesn't seem to matter. The visuals and aurals, and the genuine atmosphere and heavy stylization, completely mask the scenario deficits. That's why I'm giving this movie FIVE STARS because it completely works within context. It has faults, yes, but its pros make up for its cons, completely dazzling you. Forget Halloween, forget Scream, you MUST see Suspiria.Overall 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"So much potential is lost on uninspiring characters","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Like many other IMDB reviewers I have heard this movie mentioned frequently as one of the scariest of all time.  Not until recently have I delved into the Euro-Horrors, and even though I wasn't impressed by Argento's Demons, I figured I would give this movie a shot.I have seen many a horror movie, and I have to say that the musical score by Goblin is by far, one of the best horror scores of all time.  Yes, it deserves a place right up there with Carpenter's music (Halloween, The Fog) and it works so well to build the tension, you have to wonder how much more bland the movie would be without it's eerie presence.  Since it is used heavily in the movie, it plays with your psyche.Some of the visuals and architecture in this movie are stunning, and on more than one occasion I pinched myself and told me this wasn't Kubrick, but Argento.  His gratuitous use of Red and other overtoned colors pulls you into the story as if you were watching a fairy tale, the menacing outside shots of the school (looking up at it) make it seem as it's an entity of it's own.  The opening scene in which you see the student running through the dark woods, cloaked in white is unnerving - and when she looks out the window of her room.. the eyes.  Horrifying.  At a few points in the movie, when you first start discovering that the school hides an evil secret, the tension is wonderful.  Fear of the unknown, exploring the footsteps of the teachers and the path which they lead, it definitely preys upon your imagination and will have you clinging to the edge of your seat.  Death could come from anywhere.  Especially beautiful is the courtyard death scene, with ominous architecture peering out of the darkness upon the prey in the center - in the light.So much potential it made me angry that the movie falls apart on so many levels.  To be a psychological horror, you MUST identify with the characters.  You must crawl inside their fear, you must form some sort of emotional bond with them, you have to care whether they live or die.  From the beginning of the movie the pacing seems way off, it's long, drawn out and quite simply boring.  Not until the second half does it start to redeem itself slightlty.  If the plot was worked on, there were better actors and it was edited properly this really could have ranked up there as one of the best horror movies ever made.I won't comment too much on the special effects because I know this was a low budget production, and it was the seventies.  Yes, the bat scene is laughable and painful to watch.  The barbed wire clearly has no razor edges on it.  The dog puppet is ridiculous.  The blood is so fake you swear you were looking at a kool-aid and ketchup composite.  But if you can suspend criticism of pre-CGI special effects and overlook these props it helps.I can't really recommend this movie to the casual horror viewer, because quite frankly they will look past the beautiful cinematic moments and focus on the weak story and bad acting.  But for those of us who also judge movies from an artistic side, there are definitely some pleasures to be had with this film.7 out of 10 for the moments of beauty and tension that could have played out into so much more. "},{"Title":"Style over substance.","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was really looking forward to seeing this film, as I'd heard so much about it and seen some of Argento's other work. But, oh boy, what a disappointment it was.  I suppose I should've looked at it from the view point of when it was made. But I was under ten years old in 1977, so I couldn't possibly have seen it then anyway.  The murder scenes are inventive and stylishly done, but the bad acting and dubbing spoils the atmosphere they create. I'm not suprised nothing's been heard from Jessica Harper. A movie like this could ruin any actor's career.  Argento seems to fill most of his films with dodgy US/Euro actors, which doesn't help things a lot.  The music is also excellent. But is so loud at times, and over used it's like being smashed over the head by an orchestra.If you want to see a decent Argento flick, check out 'Opera' (1987) as it features a not-so-hard to follow story, and very chilling scenes. "},{"Title":"THE SCARIEST MOVIE EVER!!  HAD TROUBLE SLEEPING AFTERWARDS!!","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Critics, film fans, and Mark Edward Hueck of Beat The Geeks said this was the scariest movie ever.  They are 100% RIGHT!!  You can watch this film any time of day and you will have night(or day)mares the rest of the day(or night)!!This was the first Dario Argento movie I ever watched.  I was curious to check it out.  I did.  That music throughout the music is in my head for life(even as I write this review).  Nothing much happened to Jessica Harper after this 1977 classic.  Shame because she was a beautiful and talented actress.The first 8 minutes are creepy enough with the loud scary music.  The first murder is SOOOOOOOOO creepy.  If that scene does not scare you, shock you, or make you cringe in horror, YOU ARE NOT HUMAN!I watched this movie in the afternoon and I was scared the rest of the night.  LOLIMHO, The Exorcist is an awesome horror flick, but overrated. SUSPIRIA is the best and scariest horror movie EVER!!!  Check it out.  I have recommended it to all my friends.  You'll get the crap scared out of you. GUARANTEED!!  Ignore those that didn't get it or found it boring.  DARIO ARGENTO RULES!! "},{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After hearing about this film from so many people and reading the praise it has received from fans of the genre, I took the plunge and bought this movie (after having miserably failed at finding it for rent anywhere).While I won't say it was a complete waste of money, I'm not sure I'll be watching it again any time soon. For the most part, the film lives up to much of the hype found in other reviews..very atmospheric, strategic use of blood/gore, and at times rather disturbing.However, the one element that completely ruined it for me was the sound...both the music and the voices. Perhaps the original version (and not the dubbed english one) would provide at better balance, but this version was positively painful at times. The film's music, credited to some geniuses known simply as The Goblins is absolutley horrid. Although it works at times, you'll find yourself constantly adjusting the volume to drown out the artistic audio. Because of the harsh music, the voice of the actors is usually completely drowned out, making it almost impossible to follow the film's already confusing storyline.Not a bad film but certainly not the classic some consider it to be. "},{"Title":"Bizzarre and Eerie! I Liked It!","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had never heard about Suspiria (it was supposedly to be a classic) until I saw it at an electronics store. The film looked rather good, so on my next trip to the video store, I picked it up. Boy, are the taglines right! The only thing more terrifying than the last minutes of the film is the first ninety! This movie was very scary and entertaining, and kept you glued to the edge of your seat. The musical score was very creepy, and the music itself brought down a very eerie setting. The end is the very best part of this movie! It had an ending that I have never seen be used like before. This is a great horror movie that is guaranteed to keep you up all night with the lights on! I give Suspiria a 10 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"mysteriously acceptable!","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  By the title, I thought this movie was going to be very boring, but watched it and a big surprise came about.  This is the best Argento movie I have ever ever seen. It just kept me going the whole time as to what would happen next and the movie was  VERY good because it was unpredictable to what would happen next.  I give this movie a 10 on a scale of 1-10. "}{"Title":"A classic horror film that moves with the logic of a nightmare","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The postings deriding Suspira compelled me to write a review of my own. The main complaint seems to be that the story makes no sense, the acting is wooden, and the blood bright red.  These are all correct observations, but most real horror fans will tell you that it is the film's atmosphere that matters.  Ambiance is the whole point of Suspiria.  The set designs are drenched in blazing primary colors; this was done on purpose to create a surreal, dreamlike quality.  The blood is bright red to match the extreme technicolor scheme.  There is little in this film that is lucid, which is its greatest attribute.  Sure, there is a decent plot about witches, but the narrative is PURPOSELY kept at bay to give the viewer a disoriented effect. Some may say Argento is hiding an ineptness in story telling with garish sets and effects, but check out The Bird With the Crystal Plumage or Deep Red(UNCUT), which are very sophisticated murder mysteries.  The dialog is often times generic and is the one thing I can see as a valid complaint; but, it is really there to propel the story and take the viewer further into Argento's funhouse of images. I'll take that over some pretentious horror film that has pedestrian after school special sub-plots and cornball pop as its soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Compelling and makes no sense! Possible Spoilers","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After hearing various rumours of this movie being a true horror classic and Dario Argento's best, I decided to buy it and take a look. It is a great piece of work from the Italian Master but if you watch closely you will realise it makes no sense. But, the bizarre music, the wild settings, the impossible bit where a killer bursts through a window when there is nothing to hold on to! It is utterly compelling and an unforgettable experience. Jessica Harper plays Susy, a girl who wants to enter a ballet school and realises it is a coven of witches and demons. The gore is bright pink but the killings are suspenseful. It is not a giallo like Argento's other early work but it hints of a possible detective story told instead by the main character and her friends. The camera angles like the pigeons eye view and the presence of someone or something watching Susy and her friend in the swimming pool. It is overall one of Argento's best. I don't like it as much as 'Deep Red' but people will argue over which is the best. I give this 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A definitive top five horror film","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I sat down to compose my top five list of greatest horrormovies (a feat inspired by High Fidelity), I took into account thecraftsmanship of the filmmaking, the creativity it took, how well thefilmmakers worked with what they had and how quickly it took meto recover from the film. The list ended up looking like this1. The Exorcist 2. The Silence of the Lambs 3. Suspiria 4. Halloween 5. Night of the Living DeadNow, why would Suspiria rank so highly on my list? The mainreason was that director Dario Argento's style and visual senseset him in a class that was far beyond any other horror director Ihave ever seen (I categorize Hitchcock in the suspense category).If you watch his set up and choreography of each shot in Suspiria,one can only imagine the time and effort that he took into makingthe shot. The amount of time it took to adjust the lighting just right,to get the actors to move in a certain way in their positions, theplacement of the set designs, the use of the simple, yet effectivemusic, all are executed in this film with such precision andcreativity.If you watch the choreography of the first murder scene, you'llnotice how everything is set up just perfectly within the first minute,using the next to build a sense of dread, the next to clench theaudience in a sense of fear, and that final minute to take thatsense a bit further and show the full brutality of a murder. That'sone thing Argento does well, deglamourizing murder. If you were towatch of the murder scenes in Suspiria, you'll notice howdisturbing they are to watch, but at the same time, how they lookjust fake enough to distance the audience from reality. By doingthis, Argento is able to both repel, but keep us grounded in the factthat the violence in this film is fictional and should not beglamorized.Granted, the characters are never as clearly defined as, say, JodieFoster's in The Silence of the Lambs or Ellen Burstyn in TheExorcist, and there is a good reason for that. By doing this,Argento still maintains that safe distance from the audience, sothe murders seem less glamorous. Also, this allows Argento theability to enter a more surreal universe and create an almoststorybook like surrounding.Overall, the effect of this film is one of complete dread, wheresuspense lurks around every corner of the gothic dance academyand the audience is never quite sure where the attack is going tocome from. This alone should be grounds to make if an aboveaverage horror film. But Argento's style takes it a step further tobecome an icon in the horror film genre. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of all time","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What more can I say?  Not only is Suspiria one of the best horror films of all time, it is one of the best films of all time, period.  What makes it so great is its innovative use of color and sound to create a haunting experience.  Argento has made plenty of great movies, but none which match the power of Suspiria.  Argento's later films may be more thematically and narratively complex, but Suspiria still retains a primal power which is missing from his later films.  The reason why it is so scary is because of the intense quiet which pervades so many of the scenes.  I won't say anymore...just watch the movie! "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Terrifying film about an American student that enrolls at a European ballet academy that is plagued by a series of grizzly murders and it looks like she is next. To make things worse, it appears the faculty is a coven of witches. Colorful, expertly structured horror film is a triumpth of direction and score and that opening and ending is amoungst the best in horror cinema history.... now if only they had worked on the script a little bit more. Well anyways Jessica Harper and Joan Bennett both turn in good performances.Unrated; Extreme Graphic Violence. "},{"Title":"If only Horror was still like this...","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It is amazing how every other genre of film has exceeded the imaginable in greatness.  Older movies still rule, but film today is nothing like what it used to be...Except for the horror genre.I am a lover of horror movies, and it breaks my heart to walk through the video store and see the crap that has been released in the recent 2 decades. Horror has become a joke, since the 70s.When I first read about this film, it definitly sounded interesting.  I searched and searched, before I finally gave up and forgot about it. However, I was amazed to find this films 3-disk collectors set in my local Borders, so I quickly snatched up the copy and spent the last of my birthday money.It is amazing how a movie can be so boring, that you think you are going to die, yet it still keeps you at the edge of your seat.  The few murder scenes had my eyes bulging from their sockets.  The gore was so unbelievable, it is hard to think of a description that doesnt include at least a dozen curses in them.Every second of this film had me waiting, tensely, to see what would happen next.  As bored as I was for quite a while, I still could not take my burning eyes from the screen.  As soon as the movie ended, I immediatly logged onto Amazon to purchase the sequel, Inferno. "},{"Title":"A Formal and Rhythmic Masterpiece","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the example of a flick with perfect form.  Its not to say that the content is perfect.  It isn't.  But there is nothing about this film formally that doesn't belong.  Everything fits together like a Seiko Wristwatch.  Music.  Action.  Editing.  What stands out is the rhythm that Argento establishes between the moments of high tension and then letting you relax and then taking you back to maximum tension. What is more, you will never be able to forget the primary color-schema that he establishes.  If you like the genre, this is the best in category!! "},{"Title":"Visually stunning!","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After viewing 'A Blade in the Dark', I began to explore further works of many other Italian directors like Fulci and Argento.Although I read the synopsis frequently about the film, I was hooked at the idea of purchasing on DVD considering that it was a limited edition pack. The only compliment that I can give 'Suspiria' is the fact that when it comes to visual style it's a REAL knockout in terms of Argento's abstract look at the World presenting us with more of a twilight zone vision.My only complaint though was the fact that it wasn't so spooky as I'd come to expect, though film's opening murder is the best part. It's not surprising to know where fellow giallo directors (giallo meaning the color of yellow for fear) like Lucio Fulci and Lamberto Bava drew their inspirations from with films like 'The Beyond', 'A Blade in the Dark and 'Demons' with opening shots, gore scenes and haunting scores incorporated within these other works of horror.Overall a stylish film with some amazing camera work and creepy settings, letdown slightly with a somewhat awkward ending.8/10 "},{"Title":"Frightening","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this is one of the most atmospherically frightening movies of all time! the film does have some flaws...but what films dont have em? the lighting is AWESOME! and Jessica Harper is GREAT !! the only bad parts are that, the blood looks like paint at times...too pink...and other minor problems.the atmosphere, (not always showing the killer) works for me, it makes it creepy, along with the soundtrack by Goblin...this film tops my top 10 horror films...it has that 70's witch feel....and with the music,and lighting , it is an unforgetable experience!if you like Italian horror, this is it ,this is THE one to see! again,and again!!! "},{"Title":"ok, so the plot was lame, but the movie's great","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have heard several times that Argento is the Italian Hitchcock.  This comparison is unfair to both men.  Whereas Hitchcock was the master at creating suspense through masterfully interwoven plots replete with complex and thee dimensional characters, Argento's technique is much more childlike.  Indeed, the actual plot and characterization in Suspiria was weak, it didn't matter.  Argento's halucinatory fairy tale of a film batters the viewer so successfully with its shocking atmospherics that the film needn't actuallly provide much of a story at all to be terrifying.  The use of color filters, as well as Goblin's unrelenting soundtrack create a nightmarish scenario that draws us to the film.  Argento, like all of the great masters of the genre, is able to coax us into watching, even as we know that something horrible is coming, and then still shock us senseless when the violence comes.  Though Suspiria is a very graphically violent and gory film, one never finds the gore to be exploitative.  Indeed, I have viewed the film on several occasions with friends who hate the slasher genres senseless gore, and even they were forces to admit that Argento's handling of violence is artfull and classy. "}{"Title":"You have to be the right type of person to like it.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Despite the fact that this is one of the most popular cult horror films ever made, there is an extensive love/hate relationship with its viewers. You'll either critique it to death and hate it, or you'll understand and appreciate its beauty and love it. It depends on who you are. This movie is certainly one of the best horror films I've ever watched, and I've seen it all. You name it, I've watched it. Most people are surprised to find out how popular it is because only a select few big fans of the genre know about it. I didn't know the movie existed for years until I read about it in a magazine. Dario Argento is no marvel. He's GOOD, but not THAT good. Either he truly knew exactly what he wanted in this film and struck gold, or he got very lucky. His filmography is okay, but this is his best. If you want to watch this and see a movie just to have something to watch (i.e. you're at a slumber party and want to rent something from Blockbuster to watch at night), and you just want to munch out and WATCH it, then stay as far away from it as you can. You'll make a mistake by covering up your senses...you'll just WATCH it. And you'll laugh. But if you're in a serious mood and are ready to analyze and comprehend, then by all means go ahead and get prepared. This movie is above all a horrific fairy tale. From the dance school atmosphere, the intimate relationship between the girls, the storybook actresses, great sets, music, etc. it's all a dream-like experience. Goblin is terrific as the composers for this movie. The lighting is absolutely brilliant and adds to the fairy tale feeling. And the art (i.e. the blood) is unmatched anywhere in horror. Those of you still reading, watch it and see with not only your eyes. Open doors you usually keep shut. Think of it as Snow White with witches and bloody murder...and then, and only then will you love it and be drawn into it like all its fans...and then you will be truly SCARED. Sleep tight... "},{"Title":"Mixed Feelings.  An incomplete meditation (Mild Spoiler...)","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With over 110 reviews of this film, I wonder who is going to read this???I skimmed through the reviews and found, not unexpectedly, that with this film most viewers either adore or despise it.  What could I possibly have to add to this glut of praise and blame? Two words with much-too-lengthy-commentaryTerrificly Ambivalent.Dario Argento is credited by some as a master and pioneer of the slasher movie genre. When I was a boy I used to draw a curious distinction between the words horror and terror in classifying films.  A horror film, to my young logic, was one which emphasized a more spiritual, psychological study in fear, more often than not a ghost story of some kind where the peril its characters undergo is often less physical than spiritual (the word horror being somewhat onomatopoeic of the rounded O of a person's mouth, moaning in extreme psychological disturbance).  A terror film, on the other hand, is the classic slasher, violent, shocking, with a focus on the sheer panic mainly of being confronted with someone or something trying to tear (alliterative sense of the word terror) your body apart and the adrenaline-infused yet mainly hopeless attempt to escape.  Well, I feel that Argento's work combines the two, incidentally, and brings to the screen the best and worst of each.I have a terrible attraction/repulsion to Argento's films.  I have never been a big fan of the slasher genre as a whole.  These murder scenes-- vibrant, pulsating, writhing, lingering and terrifically brutal-- arouse in me a cold sweat of squirming moral repulsion.  I contemplate after the movie's pivotal, brilliant scene which ends famously with the desperate and actually somewhat sad (in my opinion it is simply terrifying but there is a distinct undercurrent of human despair) snuffing of the character Sarah Why do I, why would people want to watch something that makes us feel so wretched?I can't honestly give an answer that doesn't contradict some other feeling I have on the issue.  Now typical of the slasher genre is the close-up stabbing shot.  Maybe I'm just still too squeamish to hack it, but it is awfully effective in Argento, and he just doesn't let up.  Just when you NEED relief from the violence, he gives you more, raises the bar.  These types of shots are the kinds of things only the killer would be seeing; for example a throat being slashed.  It is deeply disturbing to be put into that position.  It is the verge of psychological trauma; after the first violent scene (not the one where Sarah is killed but her unfortunately inquisitive friend Pam ?), I was scared the rest of the movie of being made to watch it happen again to someone else.  I BECAME SCARED OF THE FILM, NOT MERELY OF WHAT IT PORTRAYED.  I believe that is the crux of why some view Argento as a master.  He is able to make you fear him, the filmaker, and he does this seemingly quite intentionally with images and sound and the interweaving of both.  It IS sublimely significant, in precisely this way, that in the first scene the killer's arm is actually Mr. Argento's arm.Actually to me that is amazing.  Having recently seen _Suspiria_ for the second time, I now literally dread watching _Deep Red_ for the second time, though I know I will be compelled to do so.I'd love to end on that note, but I also had a brief word on so-called plot.  I admit the script was mediocre as far as nuts-and-bolts dialogue goes, but I admit it only grudgingly because for me it didn't honestly detract.  But I felt that the plot in this movie is more of a theme than a plot; an instance for exploration, and yes, a bit of contemplation.  It's not interesting as a plot, not clever, not shocking or classically suspenseful, but I sense profundity nonetheless.  I'd almost have to go so far as to say this is NOT A STORY, folks, but a thematic musing.  Which goes against those who see in this film all surface, all effects (which is a fairly obvious and fallacious assumption to make about garish lighting and loud music)  There IS substantial content, regardless of the usual observation that the dialogue is cheap and the plot is thin.A love/hate film.  Casts a spell over some viewers.  Some are immune and amused or bored by its failings.7 or so out of 10, give or take.  Could be a ten, could be a zero.  Five isn't adequate.  ;) "},{"Title":"Forget 'the only thing scarier...' tagline, its all scary!!!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When Dario Argento was born, he was born with a gift, a gift that he decided to share upon the rest of the world through the camera and this film was perhaps the greatest gift to the horror genre.From start to finish Suspiria is a complete assault on the senses from the opening scenes of the rain soaked Black Forest, to the final scenes in the convent. It hits you like the proverbial ten-tonne-truck, and keeps hitting you until the closing credits roll, leaving you emotionally exhausted and absolutely scared out of your wits end, not wanting to look out of the window!!!What really sets this film apart from the rest is the way its shot in an almost dream like way, everything is so bright but yet so clouded.The camera work is top-notch and many of the set pieces are of the highest quality, films like Lucio Fulcis 'The Beyond' have borrowed some of Argentos set pieces all to degreeing effects.As for the acting, well if there is a downside to the film it could be that the script leaves a lot to be desired. But maybe thats because it is such a visual masterpiece that the script would have to be of Oscar standards to top the film. But to be fair, theres not a lot said as most of its shot involving the camera and the actor/ess and rather than have someone jabbering on taking the viewers mind away from whats happening. People don't get scared while someone is talking, they do get scared when the person is running away from some unseen assailant.It can be a little bloody at times, but since when has the murdering of somebody not been bloody, Argento just lingers on the scene a little longer, forcing you to look at whats happened, and be repulsed at it, just in the same way as you would if it was real.The Tagline says 'The only thing scarier than the last 12 minutes are the first 92.' thats wrong, it is all scary, believe me. "},{"Title":"Mmmmmm, subtle","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Welcome to the insane world of Dario Argento.  A world where wild music and visuals take the place of story, dialogue and suspense.  A world where a dance class is full of inane, sub-porno actresses dubbed so badly that hilarity is the only sensible reaction.  A world where Suzy, our heroine for this little adventure, arrives in the middle of a raging storm, in the middle of the night, just in time to see something - but what? - and then gets involved in all sorts of supposedly spooky shenanigans.  There's the dance instructor who surely used to be in the SS.  The other girls, who act all weird all the time, and seem particularly unfriendly.  Oh, and did I mention the maggots falling through the ceiling?  Silly me, must have slipped my mind.  Yes, we store all our food in the attic (hey, makes sense!) and I'm afraid some of it must have been spoiled, so that explains a torrent of maggots pouring into everyone's bedroom.  Okay? Argento's visual style involves the use of lurid colours, flashy camera angles and other such flim-flam.  Coupled with the hysterical score (by the Goblins or Goblin or someone) this makes for strangely compelling viewing.  It would be a lot better without dialogue, or if it was in Italian and sub-titled.  That way the woefully inadequate script, acting and dubbing would not get in the way. That said, this is still a pretty stupid movie.  I wouldn't even claim it as a classic of horror cinema.  It's an interesting footnote in that genre's history, perhaps, but nothing more. "},{"Title":"one of the most masterful, nerve-wracking films you will ever see.","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  for the uninitiated or the uninterested, the unpredictable and addictive sub-genre of horror films, Italian Horror, is a minor subcategory which is only interesting for it's extreme brutality. these people are missing the glorious point entirely. indeed, the average American, raised on a steady diet of such idiotic and lamentable horror movies as Friday The 13th and Urban Legend will be baffled by such movies. yes, even Scream. the Italians, in their own brilliant and insane way, attempt to go after the audience not with the horror of somebody being hacked open with a screwdriver, but with total sensory overload. yes, Suspiria contains gore that actually outdoes it's American counterparts. no, the gore isn't actually the point. that's what so many are missing.from the first title card, director Argento seems determined to overwhelm our senses. the thundering drumbeats of Goblin's groundbreaking score rise to a harrowing crescendo of cacophonous noise that makes the viewer immediately uncomfortable, offering anticipation of something that seems on the brink of exploding into being but remaining unmaterialized. then, the haunting, melodious soundtrack - perhaps the most effective of all time (yes, counting even Halloween and Psycho) - kicks in, backed by a chorus of seemingly endless whispering voices, all of which seem to chant the same errie melodyda-da, da-da, da-da-da...and all of this before the first image appears. and when it doers, it's a stunner to a thunderous echo, we see an airport bathed in pink light. and the visuals just get weirder from then on. there is a forest alit with the flickering light of a thunderstorm, the shadow of an arm wielding a raised dagger painted across the bark of one tree. the sequence which follows our main character's unsuccessful arrival at her new dancing academy takes the punish the audience theorem to an extreme - glowing eyes pierce the darkness, bloody daggers plunge into chests, and stained glass work shatters and is transformed into a million falling daggers. Argento seems to be throwing us into the deep end of the pool as a means of instructing us how to swim, and this scene - when seen in it's newly restored print with the full effect of the thundering surround sound - becomes one of the most shocking openings in horror movie history. from here on we're in Argento's clutches, and he proceeds to wring every drop of nervous paranoia out of us for 98 minutes until the film's intense and nearly unbearably upsetting conclusion.perhaps his consistency of vision is most impressive. the underlying theme of the movie - magic - seems translated onto every frame of film. the film flows with the free-association logic of a nightmare through sets and setpeices lit with eye-poppingly vibrant color and given a driving rhythm by it's mystical, mysterious soundtrack. we are given a minor shock and set up for another repeatedly, but the shock never seems to come from the place we expect it to. it is a fairy tale for adults, and by the time an hour has elapsed, we accept even the most outrageous of revealations. why? because, to put it simply, it's magic. near the end of the film, a character jumps from a ledge onto what we assume is solid floor. it is anything but, and it makes no sense from a realistic standpoint. how did this nasty suprise get there? simple. it wasn't there until she jumped.there are suprisingly few shocks in the film itself. yet, by the end of it, the audience is reduced to jelly. it's all in how deftly Argento manipulates our emotions. yes, it's dated in some respects. yes, it's pretty sadistic. yet you'll never see a film that's beautiful despite being absolutely horrible. deserves a place with Psycho, Halloween and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre as one of the most unsettling films of all time.  "},{"Title":"Confused?","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Trying to define Argento's films is very difficult! I have just watched 'Suspiria' (not the DVD)and all the typical hallmarks are there.let's settle the acting thing right away  the acting in Argento films are generally awful and 'Suspiria' is no exception. It's as if he is so busy on the technical side that actors get neglected (or maybe they work cheap)! I think I have finally formed an opinion on Argento  the man is very nearly a genius but come on,plot & narrative do matter! Suspiria is definately an experience as opposed to a film and is better than most crap from America in the last decade (Blair Witch anyone?) and the score by Goblin is superb. Indeed,I am a huge fan of their music ever since 'Dawn of the Dead' and the 'Suspiria' score is haunting and hypnotic and in my view makes the film unforgettable. Argento has his flaws but his strengths are that he is unique and for that he should be praised. How many American directors (any genre) would be so uncompromising ? The dream like narrative,psychedelic lighting and score are all highpoints and with better acting it would be the masterpiece some think it (Personally I feel Neil Jordan's 'Company of Wolves' does the whole dream/nightmare thing better WITH Good acting). So,Argento  slightly overrated (Tenebrae & Inferno are AWFUL) but be glad he's still out there in this day of high concept cynical studio rubbish). By the way, I liked SLEEPLESS .  "},{"Title":"The Most Beautiful Horror Film Ever Made","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As has already been mentioned by a fellow fan on this list, I didn't see any reason that I should offer my perspective on Suspiria. However, considering the shockingly negative comments that have been dominating this discussion as of late, I felt it was my duty as a devoted Argentophile to defend and further acclaim this masterful film.Suspiria is the story of Suzy Banyon (cult superstar Jessica Harper, of Phantom of the Paradise and Stardust Memories fame), a young American woman who enrolls in the Tanzakedemie dance school in Germany...only to learn that this celebrated establishment is a beautiful front for a coven of evil witches.Yes, that's basically the plot...but Suspiria is not about plot...it's about experience. This is not an American horror film, and should not be judged by the same standards used to judge American horror films. As a matter of fact, Suspiria pretty much throws out the rules of cinema in favor of the logic of dreams...to put it bluntly, Suspiria is the definitive cinematic nightmare, a wildly colorful and dizzyingly stylish funhouse of blood and beauty. Take it seriously and you'll laugh. Take it too lightly and you'll be bored. It demands a degree of intelligence and sophistication from the viewer, but this does not mean that it necessarily follows any archetype, and it certainly should not be discredited for its lack of conventional movie wisdom.A lot of Argento's fans and critics alike attack his films for bad acting, but I would have to disagree, particularly in the case of Suspiria. All of the actors in this film are fine actors, and if their performances seem dull or weak its because Argento WANTED them to act that way, much the same way David Lynch put to great use intentional badness in such films as Blue Velvet, Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me, and the current smash Mullholland Drive.  The unusual performances in the film add to the surreal quality, benefitting both A.)the film's dreamy feel and B.)its root in gothic fairy tales.Suspiria is, in my opinion, one of the most truly terrifying films ever made. However, this is MY opinion. I find my nightmares to be far more frightening than any horror movie or ghost story or strange noises in the middle of the night. However, fear is a far more subjective emotion that people give it credit for-witness the unbelievably extreme responses to 1999's The Blair Witch Project-and thus it's not fair to blast Suspiria based on whether or not it frightened you. On a personal note, my all time favorite horror film is Wes Craven's A Nightmare on Elm Street...yet it has NEVER scared me. Contrary to what American filmmakers profess, horror films are about much more than simply scaring an audience. Essentially they are just conventional dramas, pushed to the extreme in terms of visceral emotional response and, often times, the explicitness of onscreen content. Such a definition could and should be applied to Suspiria.The most popular theory about Suspiria is one shared by many critics and many fans, and that is that the film is a technical masterpiece...period. This is something with which I partially agree, AND vehemently disagree. First off, Suspiria definitely has an emotional component to it. It's not as present as in other popular horror films of its time-Halloween, The Shining, A Nightmare on Elm Street, etc.-but its there. And while the plot gets criticized, its apparent weakness is crucial to the effectivness of the film; if the movie made sense, it wouldn't be scary at all! With all that having been said, I must admit that the strongest elements of Suspiria are its technical merits. In all honesty, this film is one of the best movies I have EVER seen in regards to 1.)cinematography, 2.)musical editing, 3.)camera movement, 4.)framing and composition, and 5.)original soundtrack. The film is literally a sensorial assault on the viewer, with bizarre color schemes and an even more bizarre soundtrack being thrust upon the audience throughout every frame. The most minute details are splashed across the screen in Argento's wonderfully fanciful style, and the result is....SUSPIRIA.I realize that I have done little more than defend Suspiria against some of its criticisms, but quite frankly I think the film speaks for itself as a true work of art. Suspiria is the most beautiful horror film ever made, and if you never thought that beautiful horror film could not be an oxymoron...watch this film immediately. This is truly required viewing for horror film fans, the perfect introduction for cinemaphiles everywhere into the fascinating realm of EuroHorror, and most of all the best possible starting point for anyone interested in the work of Dario Argento, who gets my vote as the finest director working today. The best thing about seeing Suspiria for the first time is that his other, less renowned films are even BETTER...which will be hard to believe by the time you are getting over the experience of this one!I highly recommend that you all purchase Anchor Bay's stunning DVD edition of the film, recently released in a standard edition as well as a three disc special edition. Unfortunately the three disc edition was limited to 100,000 copies, and after less than two months of release is all but impossible to find in stores. If you can get a copy, do so...it contains the excellent documentary Suspiria 25th Anniversary and overall gets my vote as the very BEST DVD on the market! However, the standard movie-only edition is extraordinary as well. It boasts a jaw-dropping transfer from the original negative of the uncut Italian version of the film, as well as a bevy of newly mixed DTS and Dolby Digital tracks and a batch of great supplements.Avoid the backlash, watch the film...and prepare to never again feel safe in the dark!My Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby goes to Satan's (dance) School for Girls ...","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  and FLUNKS!  I haven't seen acting this bad outside of a porn film.  The plot is laughably lifted from many other films and held together by, well, nothing.  It's no wonder Jessica Harper has disappeared. And Joan Bennet's performance makes her turn on Dark Shadows look award-worthy.  Really!Visually, it's wild to look at ... kind of like a whorehouse in Querelle or a Ken Russell daydream.  Otherwise it does not have much going for it.  The soundtrack is effectively creepy - but if you have a home theater system, be warned it is LOUD. And scary ... Not At All.  The only frightening thing is the bizarre adoration some people have for this movie. 3/10 "},{"Title":"the sum is less than the parts","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dario Argento and his co-producer, makers of Suspiria (1977), are well-versed in the cinematic history of set design. They pay homage to The Cabinet of Caligari, The Cat People, The Mask of the Red Death and even Rosemary's Baby by duplicating sets from these movies, and borrowing plot elements from each. They also refer to heroic literary sources such as the Greek story of Theseus and the minotaur, and Dumas' Le Chevalier de Maison Rouge. The red mansion, which houses the Tanz Akademie (dance school) where most of the action takes place, is delightfully foreboding. But the great sets and scenes borrowed from various are not woven into whole cloth by means of an engaging, cohesive plot, or by strong dramatic performances. Even the lovely presence of Joan Bennett, whose performance in Woman in the Window (1944) once set the standard for film-noir femme fatales, is empty and robotic. Overall, Suspiria is derivative and mechanical. It reminds us that surrealism is a perceptive art, not a mathematical science. "},{"Title":"A singular horror classic","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let me start by saying that Suspiria is not my favorite Dario Argento film-that would be Phenomena-but it's certainly a classic in it's own right that gets better with each viewing. As with most Argento films (at least in my opinion), plot is secondary to style, and this film has style to spare. All of the director's usual trademarks (colorful lighting, matter-of-fact visual statements, gory, elaborate death scenes, etc) are here in full-force as we also find Argento exploring a more supernatural avenue that he had not visited in his previous work at the time. Rather than using Hitchcockian murder mysteries, Suspiria tells it's story with nightmarish images and surreal setpieces. The set design and lighting make for some of the most visually stunning work I have seen in any film; oversaturated colors often give the viewer the impression the film is either bleeding like one of the story's victims or the screen itself is illuminated by some otherwordly supernatural glow. Sometimes we get both impressions at the same time and it always adds up to a stunning visual statement. Then there's the terrifying score by Goblin, a soundtrack that along with their score for Deep Red a friend of mine called the missing link between Tubular Bells and the score for Halloween. Appropiately garish, Goblin's score is as memorable as Bernard Herrman's Psycho and, quite frankly, the film probably wouldn't be as frightening without it. Memorable for it's scenes of terror and admirable for it's technical merits, any horror fan worth his or her salt needs to check out Suspiria. "}{"Title":"I didn't think I needed to comment but...","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really didn't think I needed to add a comment on Argento's Suspiria until I read some of the negative comments on the site. Of course it's a masterpiece...of course it's innovative and brilliant. I can only surmise that those viewers who were disappointed must have seen substandard versions of the film (there are a few cut up versions around). Of course it is possible that they saw the uncut unedited version and possess substandard taste... but I prefer to think otherwise. "},{"Title":"Overhyped? Mmmm....","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not quite a masterpiece, and not too scary either, Suspiria is just a very good set of shocking scenes over a very weak plotline. Does it work? Well, it does, in a way. Suspiria is much better than the average splatter because it combines gore with supernatural elements, has an effective soundtrack (the sound quality is another thing!) and is fast-paced (while in most thrillers the tension sequences are 10'-15' apart from each other, this one had me jump off my seat every other minute - not because I was scared, but rather nervous!). Don't look for great performances here - and don't ask too many questions  just prepare yourselves for some agony and enjoy this very good thriller from an era where computer effects in movie making were virtually unknown.8 "},{"Title":"This movie is scary","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    This movie is one of the most chilling supernatural horror films I have seen in a long time.  It reminds me of movies like The Omen, with the dog.  The Exorcist with all the stuff about witchraft and the hidden coven brought together by the owners.  The Shining with all the weird stuff that happens and the people dressed up like people from another century like the lady and the boy and how they acted.  It was just all creepy.  It starts out that there is this young girl that goes to Germany to become a ballet dancer in one of the most famous and best ballet academy's in the country.  As  soon as she gets there, crazy things start happening, she sees a lady screaming out at her and not until the end of the movie do we find out who was screaming and what was said and what she meant.  But after the girl comes to live there, people all the sudden disapear, unexplained killings occur and nobody knows who is doing the killing and why.  Not until the end of the movie do we find out about the coven and the strange old demon lady that still lives there and why she continues to live this long to seek vengence.  This movie is crazy and I reckamend it to anyone that loves a good horror movie. "},{"Title":"great horror flick","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   Suspiria is about a dancer who goes to a prestegeous dance school where strange deaths have been occuring. She senses something there is wrong especially after she gets sick someone dissaears. She begins to hear voices and then learn the dark secret of where she really is. The terror is displayed very well by Argento and there are some cool dark scary moments. If you are a fan of horror and haven't seen it check it out. *** "},{"Title":"stylish giallo which is no surprise to me","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is probably the trademark of famed Italian horror master Dario Argento, and with good reason.  Odd colors and scenery mixed in with an intricate story of terror makes the viewer get down on his/her knees and cry out What the hell ever happened to good horror like this?! Jessica Harper turns in a decent performance in the 1st part of the Three Mothers trilogy, which to this day remains unfinished.  Argento really knows how to lay on the gruesome fatalities as he proves time after time in this movie alone, as well as other classics TENEBRE, OPERA, and PHENOMENA (all of which I recommend).  Check out the killer theme as well developed by Argento himself with the band Goblin, who has done much of the music for Argento films.  Don't try to go to sleep to that main title theme.....rating-  it's such a holy experience, you'll go blind, baby!   "},{"Title":"Suspiria, how I do love thee...","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria, a truly incredible example of the horror genre, is most often overlooked by horror fans. This film is Dario Argento at his most creative, using more than just jump-scare tactics. The use of ambient lighting and shadows remind me of old German expressionist film techniques, which although limited to black and white, were still able to convey the full emotion of the scene. Here, visual effects are presented in blindingly bright colour and thick black shadow. In fact, the art direction is perhaps the most striking aspect of the film, making use of painfully imposing actual buildings in the German locale and gaudily decorated modern-70s-style sets. The use of extreme set-to-actor ratios, ranging from tiny, suffocating rooms to expansive indoor-and-outdoor locations, the viewer manages to feel a constant claustrophobia. The music and sound, quite piercing and discomforting, adds to the armrest-gripping mood of the film. There are a few problems, however, such as the fact that most of the actors do not speak English and are poorly dubbed. This sometimes slows down the progress of the film, as do the sometimes lengthy plot expositions provided at different points in the film. If you look at this film from a camp standpoint, some dialogue is downright hilarious, worthy of MST3K-style ripping. I do agree with lordrob in reference to the end, as the last act is almost a let down after such a strong buildup. I really have to say that Suspiria is one of my all-time favourite films. Having originally seen it on the small screen, I recently had the pleasure of seeing it again at the local English rep. cinema. Of course, the experience was quite different, and of course, this time, I was watching it in a packed theatre. (There were many more people laughing their heads off.) However, if you can, get a group of friends together and catch it if it comes to town. Or, if you can find it on video, turn off the lights and turn up the sound on the TV. Either way, you'll enjoy this Argento horror masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Dario Argento is the Edgar Allen Poe of Cinema","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  See this wild masterpiece only in its uncut, widescreen glory.  And play it loud.  You'll lose yourself in its labyrinthine twists and turns.I can watch Argento's films repeatedly and find something fresh each time. A true master.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first time I watched it, it scared the hell out of me. If you are in the mood for a horror film, this is it. Even has a good mystery sub-plot to it. . "},{"Title":"Still scary the tenth time","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Since I've seen this movie enough times now to make a solid judgment on it, I have to admit that it falls a little flat sometimes, has a tin ear for dubbed dialogue, and doesn't make one tiny fragment of sense. But who really cares? This movie is so creatively made in every technical sense--cinematography, sets, soundtrack--that despite its other failings, it still is more solidly entertaining than most any other horror film I can think of off-hand. It can't really live up to its first murder set piece, but, then, few movies could, and this is one of the few movies I can watch repeatedly and not get bored with. As Argento films go, it is the most seen if perhaps not the best, and anyone with more familiarity with his idiosyncrasies is more likely to forgive the lapses in logic. Don't even bother seeing it if it's not in widescreen format, though. "},{"Title":"Wandering Witch's Ways","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've heard many a talk about Suspiria and I've never seen it. Not the movie, a trailer or hell, a clip of it previously. And I've known about this movie for many decades; I've even listened to the main theme many times from a horror-movie-score-collaboration CD I've owned.I love these experiences. Going into a movie, especially a well-known, cult film, cold. (Well, that's not 100% true in this case &#x96; the score does mention the word witch, so beyond knowing it's famous and it's horror, I knew it had something to do with witches.)The result of me seeing this may not be the same as most people. I cannot comment on the DVD or BluRay version of this since I have not seen either. I wanted to see this one night for my October Horror Movie Marathon of movies I've never seen before and the best I could come up with was a YouTube version. So, maybe the incredibly BAD dubbed and TERRIBLE dialogue was part of that version. I dunno. What I do know is I gave the movie the benefit of the doubt (for the dialogue) since I watched this from YouTube.Beyond that and my free-pass, I observed the movie fully. It wasn't the most original movie, even for 1977 and the acting was subpar. But, I felt a lot of it was well shot and interesting despite the incredibly bad decisions our heroine makes throughout.Basically, the story goes a newcomer to the ballet world ventures to Europe and inadvertently gets involved in a cult academy. Weird scene after the next evolves until the final confrontation.Following this, and a day later, I would watch another one of Director Dario Argento's films to understand how weird this guy is. That movie, Phenomena (aka Creepers,) helped me see what his visions were and they don't mesh with my ideal horror film. So, there may be more out there that like his odd sense of filmmaking, but it's not my cup of European Tea.Unfocused and random this movie may be, it's ten times better than Phenomena (aka Creepers,) but it doesn't match the better horror movies locally made. Skip it.* * * Final thoughts The overall score was meh, but the main theme &#x96; the same one I heard on that compilation CD was fantastic. I just wish the movie mimicked the theme. "}{"Title":"An interesting, yet rather overrated film.","Date":"30 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I didn't think this film was too bad. It did have have some merit. The sets, photography, cinematography, camera work, were all stunning and flawless in execution. The story is about a pretty young woman who goes to a ballet school, only to discover it is in fact a witch coven. I had no problem with the script or storyline, I thought the script was well done and the story was pretty involving. People who criticize this are kind of missing the point. It isn't really a horror film that relies on a conventional narrative, but instead, it relies on a visual narrative to tell its story. The effect were very well done, the murders were grisly and difficult to watch, and the music was very intense and chaotic, as it should be for a film of this type. My only real gripe with this is that occasionally it is a little slow. Overall, a solid effort. But, I don't think it is a masterpiece like most horror fans would tell you. "},{"Title":"Cinematic diabetes","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Like a lot of cult movies, everything negative and positive said about Suspiria is true, to some extent. It is rather idiotic and stilted, and some of the effects are total dump (how about that bat on a string?), but that's all something that comes with the territory of Italian horror. Where the film succeeds is its single-mindedly expressionistic use of the medium in the emotional communication of childlike wonder. Think about some of the imagery, sounds, characters, etc bright primary colors, huge looming architecture, sinister lullaby-like music, impossibly immature, catty girls, an ogre-like, lurking servant, the distant mythology of witches, etc. It's all like some hazy daycare memory that's been rolling around in Argento's head since childhood. "},{"Title":"If Crap was King, Then this would all bow to this movie.","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If the Writing is anything close to the English Dub version then this is a movie for Iggits. And obviously the Acting and Direction seem Horrific as well. Scenes in the movie look ridicules and this can not be explained away by the English Dub.The colors are quite nice. The actors look scary retarded. And the music isn't half badThere is quite a since of dread to the movie which would lead a fool hardy fan boy into conniptions. Which is alright as long as they understand that Bad Acting and Directing just isn't their thing.If they don't then Smack em. "},{"Title":"A Horror Masterpiece.","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento, the master of Giallo gives us one of the most beautiful and intense horror movies in the history of film-making. Suspiria is easily his best Giallo yet.I have nearly seen every Giallo of Dario Argento. So, to scare me, the movies really need to be very frightening. I have seen Suspiria very recently. The movie kept me at the edge of my seat and biting my nails. The horror element was very successfully executed in this film. With classy and gory haunting murders, good-enough cast, wonderful artwork and one of the creepiest soundtracks in the movies ever, Suspiria is a ride you will never forget once taken. I just don't know why the Art direction wasn't at least nominated for an Oscar.The pace of the story, the gore, the story itself(not a complicated one, but still..) and the art, all together create a very effective and eerie atmosphere which definitely gives chills.So, give this movie a serious shot. Simply, a horror masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A Tale Most Haunting","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The great Italian horror director Dario Argento made a name for himself by making some of the wildest, unhinged movies. And though he was making movies before this one, SUSPIRIA put him on the map. From the opening black screen and the eerie soundtrack provided by the Goblins, you're guaranteed to be frightened in new and disturbing ways. The wonderfully bizarre lighting, color scheme and cinematography all combine to unsettle the viewer. The story A young American ballerina comes to Germany to take classes at a prestigious ballet academy. But soon after she arrives on a stormy night, a girl warns her to leave and then runs off into the rain. Moments later, in the most memorable death scene, the girl is attacked and killed by something before another girl, her friend, dies as a result of falling glass. From there madness ensues, for you see the academy is run by a coven of witches and headed by the Black Queen an ancient, evil, uber-powerful witch. Each death scene is elaborate and shocking. Along the way, there are so many notable set pieces and scenes. But don't worry, I wouldn't think of revealing them all! Experiencing them firsthand, like a really bad nightmare, is the best way to enjoy the thrills and chills. The overall atmosphere feels like a dark fairytale, and that's what makes it so terrifying. This film sticks in your mind and comes back to scare you well after viewing it. For you, gentle viewer, I highly advise this if you truly want a tale most haunting! "},{"Title":"Psychedelic Horror At Its Best!!","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had not ever heard of or seen this awesome, bizarre little horror flick until recently. I purchased a DVD and am truly glad I did! Suspiria definitely is the most bizarre but beautiful or mesmerizing horror movie I've ever seen! Usually most attribute psychedelic colors used in strange ways or outlandish situations (art, clothes, effects of hallucinatory drugs, etc...) to the late 60's and the whole hippie generation. However, this delightful little Italian slasher uses that medium superbly to its advantage in the late 70's.The cinematography, color, lighting, sets, bizarre music, terrifying chanting, etc...are awesome and truly make this movie. The plot itself is a little over the top, and the acting is not that wonderful either. But, this movie is not meant to be Shakespeare--it's meant to be a scary horror flick with unrealistic, fantastical people and places. The scares are also very effective, and the strange colors and background music/chanting definitely helped make the feeling that much more ominous and terrifying! I would recommend Suspiria to any true horror fan/collector and it's truly a colorful gem within the genre! It's become quite a cult-classic over the years and now that I've seen it I can understand why! "},{"Title":"Art on celluloid","Date":"20 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This story concerns a young ballet student, named Suzy Bannion, who has arrived in Freiburg, Germany to study at a prestigious dance academy. Very strange things begin to happen at this school, with students going missing and one staff member mysteriously killed. Who or what is behind these bizarre goings on?Suspiria is a must see for horror aficionados. This movie has atmosphere to burn. Director Dario Argento is exceptional here with his use of colour, especially reds and blues that are at times beautiful and other times disorientating. The music is suitably sinister, with many different compositions, conveying unease and tension. Jessica Harper is great as the anxious Suzy Bannion, portraying the haunted look very well, particularly in her eyes. The acting by all concerned is fairly solid. A special mention must also go to the interior sets. These are magnificent and give the school a real Gothic look.If you are looking for something different, with heaps of atmosphere and imagination, this movie is highly recommended. Definitely not your usual bubblegum mainstream horror movie. Suspiria is also one of those films that can stand up to repeated viewings. A classic, 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A film that will awaken your senses.","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie resides in a little genre I like to call Horror Conspiracy where the lead character uncovers mysteries and then tries to solve them and everyone close to him/her disbelieves the theorising that is occurring the rule of thumb is that the mystery is usually something to do with Aliens or the Occult, this movie deals with the latter, more specifically the film deals with witches. When you mix with formula with Dario Argento you get a strange blend of surrealist atmosphere, extreme violence and a chilling and memorable score. Suspiria lives outside of reality that is the best way to describe this, logic and physics are suspended here and if you are the type of person who can't end handle the surrealist nature of Alice in Wonderland you stand no chance here.The movie follows a newcomer Suzy Bannion (Jessica Harper) to a higher class ballet academy and she discovers that the staff are a coven of witches that are hell-bent on chaos and destruction. The plot is silly at best but this is a film where the plot does not matter it there just to give the film so feel of structure.I don't where to begin with this movie, it is so insanely fantastically extraordinary that it deserves to be celebrated by all, horror fans and cinephiles alike.I shall start with the atmosphere because it is integral to the movie it is unrelentingly creepy and eerie, in my books it beats every single J- Horror hands down which is an honour because I have always said the atmosphere in a J-Horror could beat any movie from the USA and Europe, it looks like I am eating my words now because here we have terror in its purest form. The next integral part of this movie is the use of colour and not just any colour deep primary colours, to portray the tone. This is nothing short of amazing and I don't use that word lightly, on first viewing the colour just becomes a part of the movie but it works on an innate and subconscious level, our innate subconscious is readily aware that the colour red is danger, this is a device that I wish was used more in modern cinema and when I say used I mean used in the correct way to achieve what Argento has here and not only does the colour add to the atmosphere it adds to the bizarre and hallucinogenic feeling the movie seems to have. The cinematography works to the movie's advantage and makes a perfect partnership between the colour and it. Even the main theme is so incredibly beautiful on so many levels it manages to capture the mood of the movie and is so memorable and fantastic and it does far surpass any other horror film theme and that is probably due to it's avant garde nature the incomprehensible shouting and moaning just adds to Argento's irrational vision.Of course the film has a few winks and nudges to other classics but that is because unlike most others the film has succeeded in what it set out to do scare but not only scare it has become a work out art and therefore deserves to reference classics because it is in that league. It references Psycho, Rosemary's Baby, Night of the Living Dead and The Exorcist and why shouldn't it have fun doing so but to be honest these might be best left until the second viewing because on the first viewing you will be so stunned with the set design and cinematography and colour you will not have enough time to spot them, your senses will be so stunned by the end of the film that you really won't know what hit you.Naturally there are two things that Argento will get stick for here one being graphic violence towards women. Argento has been accused many time for being sexist but he is adamant he is not A woman in peril is emotionally affecting. A man simply isn't. It's hard to disagree with his logic here and anywhere in horror cinema so here' s quick note for those who accuse him of such things, do your damn research before casting stones! The other thing people might have a hard time accepting is the use of extremely graphic violence itself but, it is not gratuitous it has a purpose it is to exploit the use of the colour. The colour of blood is another fundamental feature of this movie without it I am highly doubtful that it would have worked without it especially considering the most abundant colour in this film is a garish red. Surely this is a perfect movie because there is not one single feature you could tweak to make it better in any way and if you could do let me know I would be very intrigued.Skip to the End10/10The film is mesmerising, entrancing, terrifying and it has the most spectacular display of everything I have ever seen in a film. You won't easily forget it. This is a masterpiece that will never be forgotten and if you haven't seen it think Rosemary's Baby with an immense infusion of acid and then ask yourself if you can handle that first. "},{"Title":"inspired","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While the style in Suspiria was definitely heavily laid on, it's but one element among all of the others that make this film so memorable. Maybe only Dario Argento could make an airport look so menacing as the one in the opening of Suspiria, an airport in which there is no one around except star Jessica Harper, and from which she finally emerges into an incredible rainstorm and tries again and again to flag down a cab, which takes her to an out of the way, but weirdly prestigious dance academy, housed in a scary looking building from the outside and totally drenched in deep, rich color on the inside. Who better to recruit as future witches than attractive dancers. The taxi ride from the airport to the academy gets creepier by the minute and is reason enough to watch, especially when we see an ex-student who apparently did not meet the academy's requirements, in a creepy night time shot running through some woods in her white night gown while the rain pours down. What happens to her later goes down as an artistic masterpiece of sustained violence and color. "},{"Title":"Much bloody ado about nothing","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had tried to watch Suspiria all the way through at least three times before this last, finally successful, attempt.I remembered the music, the blinding rain, the barbed wire, the running through the forest, and a variety of other scenes so scary I couldn't look.I took the opportunity of my sister's visit to gain the moral support to get me through this film. In the end, though, I have to say the movie was just OK. I'd wanted to see it to the end because the sometimes stunning cinematography and mesmerizing music left me curious to see where it was leading.In the end, though, the movie proved far too manipulative to be taken very seriously. The drawn-out sequences between the various murders started to seem like a lot of padding after awhile.I was surprised to read that the director, Dario Argenti, was a co-writer of the formidable Once Upon a Time in the West. Judging by this effort, I think he should have stuck to co-authorship.I can't fault opalesque Jessica Harper for her performance, however. She did the best she could with what she had. I'll remember her relentless drive to discover and understand and the squeamish aloneness of her quest. "}{"Title":"Style over substance?","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Luciano Tovoli's cinematography combined with shrieking music by The Goblins combine to make Dario Argento's film a triumph of style over substance. Jessica Harper is a ballet student who attends an exclusive dance school in Germany, only to realize she's in a house of horrors. There are, as in most of Argento's films, a couple of clever murders but not much else. Harper, one of the quirkiest screen presence, doesn't do much aside from looking wide-eyed while headmistress Joan Bennett seems to be reading cue cards. Udo Kier is a doctor and a very odd looking Alida Valli plays a very Prussian dance instructor. It's all very colorful, but not very frightening. "},{"Title":"I Dunno...Maybe I Just Don't Get It...","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Italian horror master Dario Argento's Suspiria seems to be one of the most hotly debated fright films of the last 30 years. Its proponents claim it's an absolute masterpiece and the greatest thing since canned beer, while its detractors say it's boring, pretentious, and not scary in the slightest. Where do I fall? Somewhere in the middle I'd say.First the good news from a technical standpoint, Suspiria is lovely to look at. The European locations are elaborate and interesting, the set pieces are creepy as hell, the film is beautifully photographed, and Argento's choice of color palette (lots of reds and blues) give it an otherworldly look all its own. I was less enthused by the constant pulsing, throbbing electronic music score by frequent Argento collaborators Goblin, which starts out suitably creepy but becomes more intrusive and eventually annoying as the film rolls on.The bad news story-wise Suspiria isn't very interesting and falls rather flat. An American girl (Jessica Harper) enrolls at an exclusive Ballet academy in Germany as a student. When she arrives at the school in a howling wind and rain storm, a girl rushes out of the building past her, and the camera follows this girl until she is eventually killed by an unseen murderer (in a fabulously brutal scene involving a knife, a rope and a stained glass skylight).As Harper settles into life at the Academy, strange things begin to happen, a few more bodies turn up, maggots fall from the ceiling, and eventually she figures out that All Is Not Right Here. When her closest friend at the school disappears (the viewer already knows that she fell into a room full of razor wire - OUCH!) she begins to investigate the odd goings-on, and eventually finds out that the Academy is actually a front for a hidden coven of witches, and that she's scheduled to be their next innocent victim. The last fifteen minutes or so are the best part of the movie, as she frantically tries to escape her fate.So is Suspiria worth a watch? I guess it depends on your tolerance for the artsy fartsy. Pacing is frustratingly mid-tempo; Suspiria is a fairly short film (just over 90 minutes) but I found myself wishing someone would just step on the gas pedal and speed things up more than once during its run time. The dialogue is mostly awkward and unrealistic, due to the fact that like most Italian horror films, it was recorded in a multitude of languages by the international cast and then dubbed into English (by people whose native language is not English) in post production. Gorehounds will, of course, enjoy the murder sequences (which are presented in lovingly gooey detail) but they are so few and far between that most of that crowd will be bored stiff while waiting for the next body to fall.In the end I'd say I enjoyed Suspiria to a certain extent but wasn't as impressed or blown away as I'd hoped I would be. I can definitely dig Argento's visual style but I can't say I'm as enamored with his storytelling ability.It was recently announced that an Americanized remake of Suspiria is in the works, and of course the horror community is tearing out its collective hair at the idea of remaking this classic. I'm probably one of the few who thinks that the Suspiria saga could benefit from a few modern tweaks and it could end up being a pretty damn good movie. I guess we'll see. "},{"Title":"Over-rated nonsense","Date":"7 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was highly recommended this film after two good friends both independently raved to me about it. Two friends separately telling me this is a masterpiece? Wow it must be good! But oh my God was I unimpressed. I even found it difficult to sit through, having to watch it in two parts. Not because it was scary, but because it was so boring I couldn't stand it. I told one of my friends and he said 'stick with it, the ending is amazing'. The ending was not amazing, the ending was pathetic and even worse than the beginning. The last time this happened was with Rosemary's Baby, and what a piece of rubbish that was. This film in the same category.It has a bad script, is ill thought out, has boring subject matters (ballet and witchcraft, nice), then throws in some cod psychology and has some of the lamest scenes I've ever seen. Like when the girl is in the attic and the guy chasing her is taking forever to unhinge a simple latch. Then when she escapes thru a window she falls into a room full of barbed wire. Why on Earth is there a room full of barbed wire? (My friend tells me it's a trap, yeah OK...) And then instead of getting up she writhes around pathetically in it... And the ending, oh God, it was awful.But, I give this film a four because it has decent music (not amazing like I was told, but good original music by the Goblins) and some beautiful cinematography and excellent use of colours. It is worth watching for that alone, but, as another reviewer rightly said, in places some of that beauty is taken over by seediness and it has the feeling of a 70s porn film... but with no nudity. If you want to be scared or horrified don't watch this. This film is not scary, even for one second. This film is not the masterpiece I was told it was, how anyone could call it that is beyond me, and definitely falls short of being a work of art. I came away from this film feeling immediately disappointed and after a week of pondering it I now feel that it was pretentious art school rubbish. Thanks. "},{"Title":"The best horror film I've ever seen","Date":"23 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, this one's it for me. As a horror movie fan since I was a kid, and one who's seen plenty of horror films, this is probably my favorite. I remember going to the theater when this was first released and sitting there stunned and watching it twice in a row. I'd never seen anything like it. I was an Argento fan and expected this to be a giallo like BIRD and CAT, both of which I'd seen on TV and liked. I was unprepared for the fact that here the killer wasn't a suspect in the school but a witch, one of the three mothers, and that this wasn't a standard giallo, but a supernatural horror film made in a totally original style. Needless to say, it's become a classic since I first saw it, and I'm not surprised, because at the time I first saw it I recognized I was seeing something stupendous in the horror genre. The haunting tale seemed a contemporary update of Val Lewton's mysterious, ghostly films - an update with mind-bending color, operatic violence, incredible 'set pieces' and cinematic magic. Since then I've been quite an Argento fan and loved his supernatural follow-up INFERNO almost as much. The recent long anticipated end to the first two parts of his THREE MOTHERS trilogy was a terrible disappointment. If only he'd made it right after INFERNO when he was in the groove...but then we might never have had TENEBRAE, a superb giallo. Let's forget genre for a minute. This film is an intensely realized, dazzling piece of cinema that has lost none of its power over time. "},{"Title":"Visually fantastic but conceptually poor.","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria starts one stormy night in Germany as American dancer Susan Banyon (Jessica Harper) arrives in Munich to enrol in the world famous ballet school the Frieberg Dance Academy. Once there Susan sees another student named Pat Hingle (Eva Axn) running from the academy, some time later at her friends apartment Pat is viciously murdered. The next morning & the police question various students & teachers at the academy & Susan realise that she was the last person to see Pat alive the night before. Thinking about the chance meeting Susan remembers that Pat actually spoke to her when they passed each other but the loud thunder masked her words, deciding to investigate Pat's death & several other mysterious incidents at the academy Susan discovers that the academy was founded by an evil nineteenth century Witch named Elena Markos who may still be alive in the building doing evil Witch type things...This Italian produced fantasy horror film was co-written & directed by Dario Argento & stands out as one of his most visually impressive works, in fact Suspiria is one of the most sumptuous & best looking horror films out there in my humble opinion. Unfortunately while few could reasonably argue about Argento's style, imagination & competence as a filmmaker I personally think that few could argue successfully that Argento knows how to write films, construct plots that aren't ridiculous & flesh out character's beyond simplistic stereotypes. After an almost imperious start that oozes style, atmosphere, gore & an Argento trademark terrific set-piece murder it all goes downhill with a story & plot that really doesn't go anywhere or draw you in or engage in any satisfying way. In fact once the first impressive murder set-piece is out of the way little actually happens for what seems like an eternity, in fact it's around the hour mark before the next murder takes place & between the first & second murders not a lot happens. Then there's the Witchcraft exposition scene which has all the subtly of a sledgehammer, towards the end Susan visits some Witchcraft expert guy & in a scene which is there purely to get some exposition across & set up the instantly predictable twist ending this guy gives a long very forced sounding speech on Witchcraft & the academy in general. From that moment on you know, you just know how Suspiria is going to end. I appreciate that Aegento was trying to create some sort of abstract & weird environment & world in Suspiria but a lot of things from earlier in the film aren't addressed satisfactorily at the end, in particular the reason why so many character's act so oddly & weirdly is never really explained & the whole film ends up feeling silly & strange which is maybe what Argento wanted but I can't say I like it.The one area where Suspiria scores big points is in the style & cinematography departments. Suspiria quite simply looks fabulous from start to finish, the rich colour schemes, the precise framing of the shot & the silky camera movements all add up to make Suspiria a visual treat but whatever you do make sure you at least watch the full 2351 widescreen version & if you can manage it an anamorphic DVD on a good widescreen telly since it really does look stunning at times. Symetery seems to play a big part in Argento's shots here, lots of shots are every symmetrical with panelling & wooden beams being repeated on both sides of the frame, big arch ways with exactly the same pot plant decorations either side & even the swimming pool featured has a perfectly symmetrical tile pattern at it's bottom. The colours are extremely rich consisting of neon reds & blues, there were times when I thought the wallpaper in certain rooms were made of velvet they look so textured. There's not too much gore here & relatively few death's, there's a stabbing & a close-up of a beating heart in a cut open chest being stabbed, a hanging, there's a brief slit throat, a guide dog bites his masters throat out & a large pin is stuck in someones neck. Special effects are good but why do filmmakers insist on using rubber bats? They always look awful!Shot on location in Germany & in the studio in Italy the film has good production values & looks fabulous but the story & plot are far less satisfying which is a shame. The film was completely dubbed (according to an interview with star Jessica Harper the film was shot like a silent film & only a couple of scenes had live sound shot) so the original performances are hard to judge & I found it very odd listening to Udo Kier in this, I instantly recognised his face but his voice is dubbed by someone who doesn't sound a bit like him.Suspiria is one of those films where style wins out over substance, I think it's a great film to sit down & watch on a purely visual level but the story & plot are noticeably weak & surely if Suspiria didn't look as good as it does & it wasn't directed by Argento no-one would ever have heard of it today. The Hollywood remake Suspiria (2010) is currently in development. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Photographed Horror","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" SUSPERIA stands as truly a beautifully photographed film, far surpassing the later INFERNO carrying the same theme of the Three Mothers, or witches, who control the entire world from their three homes in Rome, New York and Germany (where this film is set).If one, however, were to read 'The Witch's Dream' by Florinda Donner-Grau or the even more frightening and revealing 'The Art of Dreaming' by Carlos Castaneda, the witches portrayed in this film are novices... even the terrifying Mother of Sighs (Mater Susperia) with whom the protagonist dancer tangles in the final scene. This being said, there is not a moment in this well-wrought masterpiece that is not riveting. There is enough for the splatter-punk as well as for the viewer interested in a more traditional ghostly houses of the damned atmosphere.INFERNO, the second film in the Mater series, is highly recommended, however, for a clearer understanding of the Three Mothers concept.SUSPERIA is given a 10 for photography, an 8 for acting, a 10 for abject visceral horror, a 10 for atmosphere, a 10 for originality of storyline, and a 6 for executed plot... awarding a 9 for its entirety.As this reviewer will not be reviewing INFERNO, the viewer may want to note that the mysterious beauty in the musicology hall in Rome is the same girl who plays the ill-fated baby-sitter in Lucio Fulci's THE HOUSE BY THE CEMETERY. Fulci even uses the same seductive eye shot with this gorgeous actor, giving an obvious nod to our brilliant Poe-influenced director Dario Argento. Too, Fulci samples the bat in the hair scene from SUSPERIA, but makes it more gory in CEMETERY.Though SUSPERIA does not turn out to be the faerytale for adults that Argento had hoped for, it is certainly worth seeing more than once. Children and other impressionable persons should not, however, view this film. It should be added that Argento, as with many horror storytellers, banks upon the fear of death for impact. If, though, the receiver of the story has in some way conquered this fear, though the visuals still have powerful effect, the storyline itself loses much of its impact. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies of all time","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie follows Susan a naive American girl whose talents have brought her to an European ballet school. But once she gets there, she realizes there's something strange going on as she's faced with a bunch of freaky happenings, from a shower of maggots to poison in her food. What she soon learns is that the school has been a meeting place for witches for many years.This movie will keep you on the edge of your seat just like the tag-line said The Only Thing More Terrifying Than The Last 12 Minutes Of This Film Are The First 92. Suspiria is a excellent horror movie and Dario Argento is a genius. The colors are so extreme in this movie it is a artwork of horror please see this movie you won't be sorry you did.Get all of Dario Argento horror movies.He truly is a master of horror. "},{"Title":"Dario Argento's cult classic horror film","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is a cult classic by Italian horror maestro Dario Argento. American student Jessica Harper arrives at a German dance academy in a raging thunderstorm. The headmistress - Joan Bennett - is a little more than weird. The school is full of young girls and Jessica begins to notice strange things and hear strange sounds. What's really going on at the school? Some flying bats and falling maggots later she finds out after she does some detective work. Directed by Argento in a jarringly abrasive style, Suspiria has gaudy sets and a strange irritating musical score by The Goblins. Suspiria has its creepy moments and the barbed wire scene is especially disturbing. You won't fall asleep during this film. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A well-directed horror film in which Dario Argento shows a talent for style, colour and atmosphere, the technical side of the movie provides some compensation for a silly plot and bland characters. Argento's lighting choices are wonderful, especially the red and blue filters, which induce an ominous feeling when contrasted against each other. The creative camera angels keep the film interesting on a visual level, and the music, though a bit monotonous, perfectly suits the project. This is not a particularly well acted, nor a particularly well-written horror film - but as a rather entertaining entry in the genre the film succeeds, due the workings of a director who knows how to make a film intriguing. "},{"Title":"Not Bad For It's Time","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You can't watch a 1977 horror movie and compare it to today, at least not on a special effects level. But what Suspiria does do effectively as a horror film for its time is to incorporate some good suspense and shock.The film is about a American, Suzy Bannion, who goes to Europe to study at a prestigious ballet academy. Upon the night she arrives, another student dies in a brutal stabbing (scenes of this are shocking). Afterward, other bizarre and deadly things begin to happen. The staff also seem controlling/manipulative over the entire school's attendants and goings on. Soon the occult and witchcraft become suspect.Mostly costume design is used given the film's date but there is one scene with a brief glimpse into some of the advanced sfx technology of the time. It's appears almost comical today as I'm sure our sfx will appear to others years down the road. The musical score (by The Goblins) reminds me of other old horror films that use music to scare or amp up the suspense. One scene in particular is shocking as it involves a student falling into a room filled with barb wire. If Clive Barker had directed this, it would have probably been a little too unsettling. 7/10 "}{"Title":"The scariest thing about this movie is that I sat and watched the whole thing!","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What can I say except, this was one of the most disappointing films I've ever seen. It was Halloween a few years back and my friend and I wanted to rent something really scary. So I go on IMDB, the bible of movie info looked up various comments and reviews. After reading so many shining comments, we picked Suspiria.We sat on the couch, and waited and waited and waited for it to get scary and guess what? It never did. There wasn't one scary scene or good scene. Virtually no suspense and the entire thing was so cheesy, it was laughable. Most of the plot made no sense and it just didn't hold up over time. Maybe if I had seen it when it first came out, I'd feel different.The soundtrack by Goblin had potential but couldn't save this stinker and the climax to the film, where we finally meet the queen witch is so much of a letdown as the effects were poor and it was the least scary part of the film.Complete snoozer. "},{"Title":"Great Visuals, Wonderful Set Design, Poor Movie","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dario Argento's Suspiria is a movie that definetely attracts the viewer by its beautiful display of colors and camera work. The shot in which we see a castle reflected on the water, giving the illusion of a real building is really ingenious. We also see amazing design in the interiors with a lot of geometrical compositions, that gives you the impression that this film has been made by someone sensitive to visual art. The use of blue and red are well chosen in order to create a visual feast for the spectator. However, the movie is not an exact demonstration of what smart, creative storytelling can be. It is a poor movie that after being watched, leaves the sensation of wasted time. Dialogue is completely void and doesn't build any of the characters. There is no depth to it and even as an entertaining horror movie fails for its lack of content and meaning. Dario Argento can be a genious in filmmaking but he fails mostly to create plots that are complex and characters that are 3 dimensional. I really had hopes for this film , since I had heard really good comments about it, and it was my first Argento film that I could rent for free at the public library. I wish this film would have been better; it could have been a masterpiece...My rating 5/10 1- Good Visuals 2- Good Set Design 3- Good Cinematography 4- Fair Soundtrack 5- Dario Argento "},{"Title":"I agree with Dog's Breakfast","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this film last night at a special screening at a local theater.  That is, I saw about the first 25 minutes until I walked out.  What plotless drivel!  No amount of lush photography and atmospheric lighting can make up for the overwrought bore that is Suspiria.  I had hopes for a good thriller at the beginning, and the weird score (with almost subliminal moaning voices going at it nonstop) didn't begin to grate on me until about ten minutes in.  I was initially intrigued by the address she requests  Escherstrasse, especially when, in a subsequent scene, the wallpaper in a bathroom has those famous M.C. Escher optical illusion designs.  I was hoping for a brain-teasing thrill, movie as Mobius strip, but all I got was a slasher flick with mammoth and unjustified pretentions.  Yuk! "},{"Title":"Poor excuse for a movie.","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this once before many years ago and unless you really appreciate long, lingering shots of people - women - being penetrated with long knives - even their open organs - you can probably pass on this one.  Jessica Harper moved on to better things, you shouldn't have to.Badly dubbed in English.  Poor cinematography.  Grating sound. "},{"Title":"This movie was HORRIBLE","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie on a top ten list of all time for horror films.. I rented it on halloween and it put me to sleep..  The music was not scary at all and the supposedly scary parts were not scary at all.. There were like 3 scary parts in the movie which were spoiled because they were so obvious something was going to happen it didn't scare me at all... I would never watch this movie again.. I had a better time sleeping on my friends lap then watching this movie.. BOOOOO is my opinion... "},{"Title":"JUST NOT SCARY","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I wanted to like this movie...I really did.  It had an interesting plot and setting, the best tag-line I've ever heard, and came with great recommendations to boot...but this one just didn't work.  For example,  the music balances on the apparently thin line between horror music and porno music.  I was unaware the two were so closely related but this movie made it obvious.  This is one of many reasons why the movie just didn't frighten me. Some of the camera work is very well done and eerie, and some of it is just...awkward and even humorous (i.e. seeing a pair of mysterious hairy arms come from off screen and grab a rope).  Indeed, a lot of this movie made me laugh out loud at the poor work put behind it.  Yes, I know it was made along time ago, but The Exorcist came four years before Suspiria and it lacks any of these amateurish (there, I said it) elements.  The music is weird and off color, the lighting is flamboyant and out of place, and the camera work is just plain embarassing.  This is why the movie just was not scary in any way, shape, or form (which is too bad because fright value is the only real reason to see this movie).  By the way, an old snoring woman IS NOT SCARY EITHER...despite Mr. Argento's ideas.  Any of you who have seen the film know what I'm talking about.  The only thing scarier than the last twelve minutes of this movie would be having to watch the entire thing again!     "},{"Title":"Without a question, the absolute silliest film I've ever seen.","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I only paid $1.99 for this movie, and I want it back. It's simply unbearable. Four lines are required to submit this? Okay. Let's see. I've never eaten as much ketchup as this director used for blood. I've never had wine that was so paint-like that it wouldn't wash out of a sink and I've never, ever (I swear), been so totally unamused and bored by such a transparently benign attempt at horror. Italian horror films, I've found, generally suck. This one is the ultimate Hoover Deluxe.  "},{"Title":"More Argento Gore","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let's get one thing straight right from the start. This is a horror film and, like most horror films, the story is absolute tosh. The story line is, at least now 35 odd years after release, as old as the hills. Creepy going ons in a school-in this case a dance school. The location shoots are reasonable, especially the city square in Munich where (spoiler alert) the guide dog gets over excited. If you like Leder Hosen, then wait for the hilarious beer hall shenanigans! The dance school itself is a fine set, lit like a bordello with a Nazi like Alida Valli (no less) putting the dancers through their paces. The music is typical thumping 1970's Italian horror-thumping rock interspersed with tinkling percussion and assorted grunts and whispers. Most of the acting is execrable, although the version I saw was dubbed so maybe an unfair comment. The main characters are beastly, stupid, or beastly and stupid. What the police are doing amongst all the gory deaths and unsolved disappearances, I have no idea. Some claim this is a horror masterpiece. No it's not. Just another Argento rock and roll with some bloody set pieces. "},{"Title":"oh no !!!...this OLD AIN'T GOLD...","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let me give you my honest opinion,its one of the worst films i have ever seen,i don't understand why is it so popular,some might even say its one of the best of its genre,i can never understand what makes this movie scary ????...well its not even an average horror flick,the film falls steeply from the starting till the end and left me so disappointed,let me tell you about few things the makers used to scare the viewers,RED LIGHTS,COLORFUL WALLS,WORMS,BIG FAT LADIES.If that sounds scary to anyone you go ahead and sit through 90minutes of utter trash.In my opinion the only bearable thing about the movie is the acting,it was not horrible but bad.I don't see how this film got critical approval,is this Dario Argento's best work...really?????,then what's his worst?????...that scares me more!!! "},{"Title":"Pretty, but dated.  Soundtrack overrated.  (Rhyming sophisticated)","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I finally got this movie via Netflix after having missed my chance to see it for the first time on a big screen.Wow.I realize that older movies are often considered 'tame' by today's standards, but this movie is (imho) really, very boring.Not very much happens. Only one or two graphic deaths -- and this is supposed to be a horror movie, after all.The cinematography and use of color is beautiful, but, um, where's the chopped beef? About that soundtrack. Yeah, it's scary. Easily more frightening than anything depicted on screen. It bothered me to be honest, and it reminded me of other movies like Legend and Near Dark where the entire soundtrack is done by a single band/artist, however, in this case I found it just pretty annoying. If you watched this movie muted, it would absolutely put you to sleep. Alternately, listening to the movie with no picture might remind you of bad haunted house effect loops.I'm sure i'm in the minority of people who did not LOVE this movie, but, for anyone who hasn't seen it yet, don't get your hopes up too high.It pales by comparison to Carrie from a year previous. "}{"Title":"Suspiria","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" American New Yorker Suzy Bannion(Jessica Harper)finds that the prestigious European ballet school she is attending could very well be operated by practicing witches! It seems certain females who might've gotten a bit too close to the truth of where the teachers were meeting inside the school at night, meet grisly ends. Even a blind man, whose dog bites the nephew of Madame Blanc(Joan Bennett), meets a grisly fate..his dog mysteriously tears his throat out! When Suzy's new school pal, Sara(Stefani Casini)comes up missing(we watch as someone pursues her within the darkened school as she meets a horrible death getting trapped in wire with her throat slashed by the murderer's blade), she must find out the truth about this school or her life might meet the same fate as the other victims. Suzy also suffers from health problems once the portly female cook(with Blanc's nephew by her side)blinds her with the reflection of sunlight bouncing off a butcher knife.Argento, thanks to the supernatural aspects of the story, is set free of the limitations a giallo holds him to. The marriage of the Goblins' thrilling, unnerving score and his vibrantly effective use of color creates a very unique experience. The opening grabs you instantly even before you enter the world of Suzy..we see how genuinely vicious this mysterious killer is. Built to scare the hell out of the viewer, Argento attacks the senses with graphic attack sequences where it seems the killer will never stop penetrating his knife into the victim's torso. Developing the story of the school and the evil deep within it's center, Argento gives the viewer an outrageous finale where chaos ensues when Suzy meets the killer. Alida Valli is almost unrecognizable as Miss Tanner, a tall, brutish teacher who seems as if she were secretly a Nazi foot-soldier. And, horror icon Udo Kier has a minor role as a psychiatrist who once had Sara as a patient. "},{"Title":"Stupid and completely lacking of plot or characters, but well made and quite scary at moments. Overrated but worthwhile.","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Many consider this to be one of the finest horror films ever made. I'm not in that group. Suspira is scary, to be sure. But, as many other critics have noted, it completely lacks a compelling plot or interesting characters. The film is frightening, but if Argento were for once to attempt to create a story with protagonists, he could create a much more grueling film. Many of the best horror films ever made are horrifying because we become so involved with the protagonists that we alternate between shock and sadness when bad things happen to them. In its present form, Suspira won't resonate after viewing and is a bit of a one-trick pony.But, for all its lack of substance, it is a well-made film. Argento is creative when staging the gruesome murder scenes. They're somewhere between the ridiculous and surreal, but are always scary. Hes a very talented director at least visually, as all of his films look beautiful. The use of colors for a horror film hasn't been this fine since the mid-60s output of Mario Bava. Still, the lack of a story is a major drawback. I'm one of the few that'd rather watch a film by an American horror filmmaker from the period than the European ones (Argento, Bava, Jess Franco) who're mainly interested in creating an atmosphere. Suspira is good but not the horror classic many fans have made it out to be. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Stylish Slasher","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Long considered to be Dario Argento's best feature, Suspiria is the first film in his yet unfinished Three Mothers trilogy. Jessica Harper is a US dance student transfering to a prestigious dance academy in Europe. Arriving in the middle of a hellish storm she is greeted by puzzling teachers and disappearing students. Will she uncover the secret in time to save her life or will she die a grisly death? One of my favorite Argento films and an awesome Anchor Bay dvd this film is a good introduction to the new viewer of Dario Argento. The photography, with the use of bright lighting and gels is simply the best he has done. The Goblin score will take over your home theatre and your soul. The overall production value coupled with Argento's usual flair for inventive deaths thrown in with a good cast and a sense-shattering music score makes this a winner. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Why is this a classic?","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A word to the wise, don't try to figure out the plot to this movie. There isn't one. It's just a bunch of scenes loosely tied together that make no sense at all. In fact don't try to think about anything in this movie. The people who made it certainly didn't. Either that or they're following some brand of logic that I'm unfamiliar with. This movie is horrible. I have no idea how it's a classic or put on so many lists of awesome horror movies, because it's not either.Nothing makes sense in this movie. The music is alright, but soon gets annoying. My friend and I decided half the time the characters were running away from the soundtrack. Also their bodies are filled with paint.Long story short. Do not see this movie unless you want to riff it. MS3TKing it, was the only thing that kept my friend and I going during it and even then I'd have been happy to just have never seen it at all. "},{"Title":"Suckspiria","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So much hype and all the recommendation got me to watch the movie. I had heard that this was one of the goriest films in cinema history but 'Suspiria' barely had any gore. As a movie itself, there was little that appealed to me. The thing that stood out is the use of colour as that was handled quite well because it contributes to the creepy tense atmosphere. Also, the soundtrack is quite suitably unsettling. Argento was under the impression that he was making something great. However, storywise, it has nothing new to offer. The film feels dated. It follows the usual routine of newcomer girl goes to ballet school and things start happening (yeah her friend gets murdered too) and so on. Many times I found myself yawning. The dialogues are plain ordinary but the cinematography is good in places. The acting is campy even though Jessica Harper is passable. There are three murder scenes which are amateurishly shot and unintentionally funny. Actually, I found much of 'Suspiria' to be funny without meaning to be. Overall, it's a huge disappointment. "},{"Title":"Someone please explain this phenomenon","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For pretentious horror fans the world over, Italian horror in general, and Argento in particular, has become some sort of gold standard by which horror films are measured.  Having now viewed several in the interest of completeness, I must conclude that horror fans will praise anything if it happens to be foreign.Thus far, these viewing experiments have yielded extreme silliness; only Dellamorte Dellamore and Phenomena have even begun to live up to their reputations, in my opinion.  Suspiria is one of the worst of the bunch, as it appears that such concepts as story construction, plot logic, and character motivation are as much a mystery to the writer as the plot is to the heroine.While there are many atmospheric moments here, they are essentially built around nothing.  Such terrifying moments of realization such as the directress isn't really out of town and the teachers all leave at night fail to drum up much tension, despite the desperate whisperings of characters who come off as paranoid schizophrenics in their histrionics over next to nothing.Not to give anything away (spoiler alert), but how is it that a coven which has existed for over a hundred years is so easily felled by a single ditzy dance student?  Was no one else in history Einstein enough to put it all together before now?  Why is the directress, who has her own hidden chamber, sleeping in a temporary dorm room on the other side of a sheet from the students?  Why is a coven of witches running what appears to be a legitimate dance academy, even going so far as to recruit students from overseas?The film seems sadly uninterested in answering any of these questions, thus winding up as a singularly unsatisfying experience.  If this is what true horror fans consider the holy grail of horror cinema, then I am happy not to be counted among their number. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare Comedy","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was the 3rd Argento film I've seen and it is just as bad as Inferno and Tenebre. As soon as the main b*tch was walking through the airport I knew I was again in for the stupid light bulb bullsh*t. He can take his red, green, blue, purple etc. bulbs and shove them up his *ss. I think there's a torture porn video of a guy breaking glass in his rectum and there's no doubt in my mind that it was somehow influenced by his hate for the visionary lighting skills of Dario Argento. Except for that, the opening scene made it seem like this might actually be a good film. Good use of the camera, editing and location....same for Inferno with the underwater scene. The filming from the trees was pretty good too (besides the shitty flood light) but it all turned to C grade horror during the 1st murder. The b*tch is screaming about a murderer even though she can't get in the room to see what's happening. There's a hairy arm smushing the other c*nt's face on the window? Maybe the arm belonged to the hairy monster in The Lords of Salem.In grade school I used to build gory sets in the entrance of our house every Halloween and the paint blood I used looked pretty similar to Argento's paint blood... I'd like to think my sets were scarier than Argento's because they probably were. Speaking of sets, they were suppose to be the best thing about this film and I've seen numerous people say how psychedelic they were. N*gger please. You can actually see places on the walls where they didn't put even layers of paint. They were also using acrylic (doesn't reflect light) and enamel (reflects light) black paint on some of the walls. Light reflecting paint actually looks natural and I think that's what he wanted but I guess they must've f*cked that up somehow or ran out and had to use the cheap stuff. The railing looked like Styrofoam spray painted with gold...terrible. Lesson gold spray paint does not make an object look like polished brass. Speaking of the railing...why were there windows around it? That wall was just 'there' even though it had nothing to do with the foundation of the building if you looked at it from the outside. Anyway, the rest of the set had a high school play quality to it and many of the hand painted designs were probably painted by high school kids. However, that doesn't mean this movie was better than a high school play...One of the funniest parts was the pointless and non-nonsensical killing of blind Adam Sandler by his own German Shepherd. Or did it kill him because he had some raw meat on his neck...? Hopefully one day they'll address this point in an ultra deluxe Criterion blu-ray release. What else? The maggots... totally visionary. People think maggots are creepy...lets get some maggots. Same with the bat. Bats...hmmm. The room with the giant slinky was brilliant. When I was a little kid I decided to get myself stuck in a slinky during nap time at a babysitter's house but she walked in before I got out. I had my *ss whooped so it brings back the fear.Why is that Austrian woman smiling all the time? Are her teeth bleached? How can she teach ballet when she uses a cane? Mysteries, mysteries.Then there's the whole dubbing English over Italians mouthing English words thing... Bat sh*t insane. Just speak Italian and subtitle it. There would've been much more time left over to fix the many other problems in the film. But oh well, what can you do? All in all I cannot see Dario as a visionary even in the slightest sense. The man does not possess the skill set for film making. At best, he's just some guy who has never been good at anything in his life but somehow managed to acquire enough money to make movies. He masquerades his accidents as intentional and his short-sightedness as artwork. I can see how maybe some grade school kids eating freeze pops or a group of stoners looking for some laughs might be entertained by this but beyond that I think there's little of value here. The best thing about the film is the soundtrack and the f*cking wallpaper. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"7 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dang, I can't see how the rating of this movie so high. Is it the eerie music? It was so boring in most of it. The only freaky part was the building looked strange. I never been to Europe. So I guess that means I know nothing.The blood looked fake. It was like watching a PG-13 horror fake horror movie of today. I say this is one of the worst movies I seen so far. There sure is a lot of terrible horror movies out there. I don't see how it was rated R. Hardly any blood, and only the word B*tch. I mean now a days PG-13 has F word.No way the rating of this movie can be 7+. It's just hard to believe people think these terrible movies are that good. I think most of these reviews must be from teenagers. I do not recommend seeing this movie. I will not watch this one again. "},{"Title":"Why did I sit through that?","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria tries hard to be a mature children's movie&#151;along the same lines as Pan's Labyrinth and Halloween&#151;and it fails. The reason it fails may be due to its age, but I doubt it. In 1970 films like Alien created doom atmosphere in the most believable way with no cheese, and simply make this movie look like a student film by comparison. No, the reason it fails at being a children's fairytale done wrong is because it tries so hard to be mature by creating suspense that it just creates boring, predictable, and sloppily executed.The movie opens with the first murder, and I simply cannot think of a more amateur, sloppy way for it to have taken place. It's more reminiscent of a cheese parody than a horror movie. It actually had me chuckling. Once again, I can't blame this on the era it was made because other movies in that same era nailed death scenes better than any modern movie could hope to do the cheese is from poor ideas and poor film making. If this is Dario Argento at his best, what is his worst? An episode of Sesame Street? I'm worry, I can sometimes excuse an old movie of cheese, but I can't get over the fact this was made after Alien. Dario Argento should have known better, and he could have done better, but he didn't, thus I'm not going to look past the fact the murder scenes were so poorly done I couldn't hold back laughing.As far as gore goes, there is so little I don't even find it worth mentioning. So I won't. Just know that most of the stab wounds don't even show blood, and the blood that is in this film looks more like clown paint than plasma.But by far the biggest flaw of the film is the lack of any cohesive storytelling whatsoever. One scene will be an over-the-top (but not graphic or violent) murder scene, the next will be a ballerina scene that adds nothing to the movie, and the next will be some teachers talking about nothing that has anything to do with the movie. There is no order. At least 50 minutes of the runtime are completely pointless to the rest of the movie&#151;and this is supposed to be scary? These scenes don't build suspense or character, they just build boredom.In the end when all the mysteries are explained it was almost like a cute, trite, clich slap in the face. The explanation for everything going on has been done so many times in horror movies I honestly would have liked the movie better if it cut off and ended right before explaining it all. I don't understand how something that is supposed to be a work of art is as unoriginal or sloppily done as this. If this is a work of art, the entire film is nothing but a poorly drawn stick person drawn with bright colored Crayons.The only sole good thing I can say about this movie is that the soundtrack is great. That is all.I'll never understand why so many people seem to think that if something is old, it has to be good, and if something is new it has to be bad. Also, especially with the horror crowd if something is indie or foreign it is good, if it's American it's bad. This film the perfect example of why that thinking is wrong. Especially when the American, 1970's Alien came out in the same era. There is no reason for Suspiria to be as bad as it is, and I cannot excuse its faults because it's old.All I can say is what I said in the beginning Dario Argento should have, could have, and probably does know better than he put into this movie.2/10. "},{"Title":"Argento should stick to Giallos!!","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As much I enjoy most of Dario Argento's work, I can't bring myself to like Suspiria, his supernatural horror film about a coven of witches secretly living in a dance school. Often cited by fans as one of his greatest films, I fail to understand why so many horror buffs get so worked up about this rather uninteresting and muddled effort.Jessica Harper plays Suzy Bannion, an American dancer who joins a strange dance academy where some gruesome murders have just taken place. Gradually, Suzy unravels the mystery surrounding the bizarre school and eventually comes face to face with the ancient evil that is hiding within.Opening with a wonderful scene in which Suzy emerges from an airport and is met by a torrential downpour, and followed soon after by two grisly and inventive deaths, Argento delivers a truly promising start to the film. Unfortunately, between this great beginning, and the fairly creepy final, the film consists of over an hour of ridiculous and very tedious drivel.I realise that much of the appeal of an Argento film lies in the stylish direction, and narrative usually takes a back seat to the visuals, but I found Suspiria to be equally lacking in both departments. The story leaves many unanswered questions (the main one for me being 'why would a coven of witches run a dance school?') and Argento's usual inventive camera-work is replaced by an excess of garish lighting (maybe he got a job lot of coloured bulbs cheap from somewhere). Furthermore, the soundtrack (by the usually reliable Italian rock band, Goblin), begins melodiously but soon descends into a migraine-inducing cacophony.Throw in a couple of truly laughable scenes&#151;one involving a clockwork bat attack and another with a victim inexplicably escaping into a room full of unwound spools of wire(!)&#151;and the result is a below-par effort from the usually impressive Argento. "}{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The 70's created some of the best horror movies ever. Sadly, this is not one of them. It is awful. Loud, boorish and plain stupid. For some reason lovers of this film think that red backlighting and headache inducing music also translates into stylistic masterpiece. It is supposed to be like a nightmare and incoherent like a nightmare. Well, yes, it is a nightmare but for all the wrong reasons, like bad acting and ridiculous scenarios. It isn't good or even worth the time. I got duped by the good reviews and I hope I save you the torture and you just avoid this nonsense.Don't waste your time unless you watch it with some migraine meds and several bottles of wine. "},{"Title":"Why is this supposed to be Scary?","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was an awful movie. I was waiting for the movie to actually get started and when it did the move only had 5 minutes left. In between the first 5 minutes and the last 5 minutes nothing happens. This is why the movie is so lousy1. People say the music is great. Its annoying. 2. People say it is gruesome. There are only maybe two gruesome senes. And they are not that bad. Check out the Evil Dead or Dawn of the Dead. Those are real Horror movies.3. There is no action except for the first 5 and last 5 minutes.I think the people who get scared by this movie are not used to Horror movies. If you are use to American Horror Movies this Movie is a joke. Most people who like this must be out of the US. "},{"Title":"Nothing more than pretentious horror schlock...","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This ranks with some of the worst stylized horror films, even worse when you watch the dubbed version. Makes you wonder how an actress like JOAN BENNETT lent herself to this sort of shlock toward the end of her career. VALLI doesn't do much better in this tale of a young woman (JESSICA HARPER) who discovers that she's entered a ballet school where girls fall victim to vicious crimes (involving horrific mutilation) because the place is actually a front for a coven of Witches.At least that's what I was able to understand of the so-called plot, which exists for the sole purpose of exhibiting as many gruesome deaths in loving detail as possible.At the same time, the settings are overlit in garish colors, loud music by The Goblins fills the soundtrack, and you know the heroine is in danger whenever too much red appears on the screen. That's a signal that more bloodletting is about to take place. So much for subtlety.Dario Argento has filmed the whole thing on bold, fake looking sets with crooked camera angles, using color to create a campy, surreal looking atmosphere, and lots of carnage. You almost expect Salvador Dali to step from the wings and take a bow for the stylized sets.You won't know whether to laugh or cry at the crudeness of it all. As one critic said, between nervous giggles, There are interludes where no one is actually bleeding. "},{"Title":"The only thing scary about this film is the multitude of praise it has received!!!","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One word summary HORRIBLE!!!!I have nothing positive at all to say about this movie.Very boring.The story was bland and not very interesting.The only reason I watched this film past the first 15 minutes was because of all the great reviews that it received. (Which I have to say totally baffles me!!!)This movie really STINKS!!!!I gave it a 2 rating instead of a 1 because it could be useful as a non-narcotic sedative for those who suffer from acute insomnia.Without a doubt, the WORST movie I've ever seen!!!!  "},{"Title":"garbage","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie sucked ass. I expected a nice suspense like a lot of other 70's horror flicks I've seen like the exorcist or the sentinel. The color in the movie was great.. but I looked at the box... 98 minutes long. After about 75 minutes I was bored to tears. Just a lot of chicks chit chatting the entire movie about absolutely nothing... with maybe two scenes that were slightly entertaining (the dog and the chick stuck in the barbed wire).This movie was a huge disappointment... more proof that European filmmakers are a bunch of no talent pretentious hacks that think their movie is automatically ART because they're from italy, or the u.k... or whatever  "},{"Title":"The only thing scarier than this movie...","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"16 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ... was the fact that I was duped into buying it without seeing it first.  I had read several reviews of Suspiria. Most of them praised the movie. There were a few in there that bashed the movie but by the time I got to them it was too late.  I was already hooked. I had taken the bait.  I am a sucker for a good horror movie.  I had heard about Dario Argento's reputation for being a serious horror film maker.  Since none of the movie rental stores in my town carried Suspiria in any format I was forced to buy it sight unseen. I rushed to the closest Video store and found two DVD versions of the film. There the the run of the mill regular DVD and the super 3 disc set.  Hey, anything with a special edition set like that can't be that bad.  Or so I thought.  After serious pleading with my girlfriend I convinced her to sit and watch it with me.  By the end of the movie I was just sitting there frowning at the TV while being nagged about buying such a piece of garbage. A story about witches and a dance school... I should have seen the red flags right there.  I'm not even going to trash the horrible acting (it is after all a horror movie).  I'm going to trash the lame story and lack of... suspense.  There was absolutely no climax.  The end felt rushed and I was like Was that it?.I am usually very easy to please with movies.  I can sit through garbage or superb films.  This movie not only stole close to 30 bucks from me but also an hour and a half of my life and I want them both back.If you are like me and are looking through these reviews to find out if it is a good movie or not, don't be fooled like I was, save your money and your time.  You'll be happier in the end. "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For so many horror buffs this is an instant classic but for others this is just a boring picture. I can agree on both parts. The story isn't that strong and there isn't that much of horror to spot but in the other hand the cinematography is stunning. And that due two reasons, the way it was shot and edited made it worth seeing and became a standard for Argento flicks, well back then, nowadays his flicks aren't worth picking up. The other reason is that by coincidence, the development of the film was done in a wrong way which turned out in saturated colours. And the mistake became the reason why so many people are seeing this as a standard. The use of red and green lighting saturated is still done nowadays. Naturally the blood looks extreme due the saturation which adds another positive note to Suspiria.But it isn't of course all hail to Suspiria. It is in fact low on gore and even when the murders are happening be sure that you watch the full uncut version as I did. It's only in that version that you see it in full glory. I also know that people seeing it for the first time didn't understand Suspiria. The reason lays in editing.The opening murder confuses the viewer, Susy Banyon (Jessica Harper) arrives at the Tanz Akademie. Before entering she notices Pat Hingle (Eva Axen) running in panic out of the school. Both standing soaking wet in the rain when Susy re-enters the taxi we move further to the killing of Pat, also soaking wet after running through the woods. It's there that a lot of viewers are thinking that actually Susy is being murdered.Suspiria is one of those flicks that is a must in every horror collection and being out these days restored on a 4 disc Blu Ray you just can't argue about picking it up.Gore 1,5/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 3/5 Story 2,5/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I see many people love the technical and artistic side. Certainly the intro is impressive, and the architecture, sets and score are all very good.But it's no more than a Nancy Drew mystery with some imaginative violence. Most of the dialogue is exposition, the dance environment has no connection to the plot, the coven is dull, the killings have no theme. And what happened to Olga? The most provocative character disappeared from the story with no explanation after ten minutes - a loaded gun that was never fired. And the heroine's love interest also disappears without trace. What a mess. "},{"Title":"Highly Overrated","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The premise is simple; a girl named, Suzie, leaves New York to attend a prestigious ballet academy in Germany and it's a front for a coven of witches.NOTE I watched the English dubbed version, but couldn't imagine the subtitle version being much better. This movie is too flawed.This film relies too heavily on visual and musical effect. The plot is very thin and it's hard to hold on throughout the film, particularly because you don't know what you're holding on to. There is nothing ordinary or realistic about the setting, the characters, or the film itself. Dario Argento uses odd camera angles and the film is heavily saturated with lurid, florescent colors. There is lots of optical imagery and symmetrical, geometric patterns. If only I could appreciate the craft... it seems to be done for effect rather than enhance the story so I cannot commend it fully. It fails more often than not. The murder scenes are definitely the most interesting parts of this movie. If I remember correctly I think there are three - three girls and a blind man. One girl is murdered in the earlier portion of the film, stabbed repeatedly and thrown through a stain-glassed roof and hanged. It serves as one of my favorite scenes because it's creative in many regards. Another memorable scene that sticks out is the one where we see a girl fall into a bed of barbwire. It felt fresh in a movie rotten with inadequacies. The blind man's death is irrelevant. There are too many plot holes to fully enjoy this film. There are many unexplained nuances - characters that are irrelevant and certain sub-plots that aren't explained in the slightest regard. Many scenes drag along sluggishly without direct intent, as if there is some pervasively intriguing mystery afoot. Especially annoying is the music score. It pervades the film like a stink bomb. There are times when I put my hand to my face and shook my head. The bright and colorful setting, the annoying soundtrack, mediocre acting, and very shaky plot makes for a film that plays to the senses and avoids the intellect. Would I recommend this movie? Sure, it's okay. Reading the reviews and looking at the rating, it's obvious many people enjoy the sensual stimulation, but that's as far as it gets. That's only one portion of a movie. All other categories are severely lacking. It does deserve some credit, however. I did in fact rate this film a 5-out-of-10, so there must have been something I enjoyed about it. I ragged on the music, and it's not overly terrible, just used too often and done with ill-intent. The murder scenes are fun, and some scenes are visually stunning, but it's missing a coherent plot and for that it cannot be held in the highest regard. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies ever made, if not the best.","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Filmmaking at it's best. Suspiria is one of the best horror movies ever made. It has a disturbing atmosphere, creepy images and gruesome killings. It's made in a very artistic and stylish way that makes it scary yet beautiful at the same time. Dario Argento is a masterful filmmaker who knows his thing. He manages to balance bloody horror and stylish art like no other. A very creative nightmare is a good way to describe this movie. There are no other movies like Suspiria on earth (except maybe it's sequel, Inferno). It's totally unique in all ways. The soundtrack by Goblin is just incredible. Overall Suspiria is one of the best horror movies ever made and means a lot when it comes from me cause I've seen a LOT of horror movies. If you decide to watch this movie, watch the original Italian version of the film and not the English dubbed version.Message to all greedy movie companies Please do not remake Suspiria. "}{"Title":"Beautiful and horrifying","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is absolutely in my top two of favorite films. I love everything about it. The sound is impeccable, the set is beautiful. The acting is perfect. There is nothing about this film that I would change.Argento is a horror master, and this is the crown jewel of his collection. The story takes place in a prestigious European ballet school. Suzy is the latest arrival to the school, upon arriving she notices strange and frightening things are happening. She shortly discovers a coven of witches within the school. The set was inspired by Disney's 'Sleeping Beauty' and you can tell. The beautiful architecture and design of the sets is awe inspiring. If you haven't treated yourself to an Argento film yet I suggest starting with this one, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"A Genuine Review of Suspiria","Date":"21 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is the 1977 giallo classic directed by Dario Argento. So for those of you who don't know giallo is a style of film making that takes pride in bright colors,inventive shots,and blood,lots and lots of bright red blood. So Suspiria is about a girl who travels to a very famous ballet school.On the night of her arrival we are treated to a very tense and scary kill sequence.Things go from bad to worse as she slowly finds out that an evil coven of witches is using the school as a cover and their base of operations. Suspiria is a wonderful film that is both truly scary and chock full of gore.Suspiria also has a haunting soundtrack courtesy of the Italian progressive rock band,Goblin. See Suspiria if you love horror films and realize that horror film can excel to a true form of art and fine art at that.Skip this if you don't love horror films,this is an absolute must for any horror film fan. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Unforgettable candy coloured nightmare","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is the first film in Dario Argento's Three Mothers trilogy. It was followed up by the uneven but excellent Inferno and completed with the pretty bad Mother of Tears. Suspiria, however, is the classic. With this movie Argento moved away from his giallo roots into pure horror. Having said that this is a supernatural horror film with gialloesque elements. For one thing, the murders are committed with the assailants off-screen keeping their identity a secret in the manner of the giallo. Secondly, the protagonist recalls a half-remembered, vital clue at the climax of the movie that proves crucial in uncovering the mystery. This was a device that Argento used in several of his other gialli before and after Suspiria. But in stylistic terms, this film was a considerable leap forward. The look is resolutely unrealistic. Argento's use of coloured lighting is the most obvious factor that makes the world of Suspiria so strange and artificial. He clearly took his cue from the 60's movies of Mario Bava which were also colourful in a similarly impressive way. The intense colours contribute to the idea of Suspiria resembling some kind of a nightmare. It all looks extremely impressive throughout thanks in large part to the beautiful cinematography by Luciano Tovoli.Suspiria is a fairy-tale for adults. When originally conceived the schoolgirls were much younger teens. Unsurprisingly given the violent content it was decided that this would just be too problematic and the age of the girls was increased. However, you will notice that they often act in child-like ways as if they are still playing the parts of younger girls. Not only this but Argento added details like handles on doors positioned higher than normal meaning the girls seem smaller when reaching up to use them. In general, the gaudy dcor and the Tans Academy building itself are menacing. The building and dcor create an uneasy feeling all by themselves. The atmosphere throughout the movie is perhaps the greatest thing about it. Right from the wondrous opening this is a film full of menace and a feeling of that something just isn't right. We follow the lead character Suzy Banyon from arrival in Freiberg airport via a taxi journey to the Tans Academy dance school in the middle of a rain storm. In this brilliant opening it becomes clear that one of the things that marks out the genius of Argento is in the way he can make the most ordinary everyday objects seem completely threatening. Automatic doors and night fountains suddenly become strangely sinister in the world he creates.It would be impossible, however, to discuss the merits of Suspiria without making reference to its soundtrack. Italian prog-rock group Goblin had already worked with Argento before, providing an excellent score to Deep Red. But here with Suspiria they really do excel themselves. It's like no other soundtrack recorded before or since. It's made up of a cacophony of disparate ideas - sighs, a sickly lullaby, hard rock, avant-garde experimentalism and thundering drums. Altogether, it's multi-layered and completely original. It works too. The music is genuinely unsettling and creepy and aligned with Argento's incredible visuals it packs a considerable punch. Suspiria is an assault to the senses aurally as well as visually.In addition, Suspiria benefits from a great cast. Jessica Harper is excellent in the lead role. She is a very compelling presence and her subdued performance is a perfect counterpoint to the extreme events that she encounters. There are two very impressive performers in Alida Valli and Joan Bennett who both add considerable gravitas to the cast. Stefania Cassini and Udo Kier are both performers I like but unfortunately here they both are dubbed by lacking voice artists. A shame considering both actors have great, expressive voices themselves.This is a horror movie with considerable cinematic artistic merit. As a visual and aural feast for the senses the genre has rarely came up with anything quite like this before or since. "},{"Title":"Nightmarish masterpiece","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This really is a masterpiece. I realize more and more after each time I see it how Argento is giving us clues about what will happen before it actually happens and when the music is getting louder and louder then you know that something will happen but you don't know what and get prepared for something gory but at the same time beautiful. The music is one reason why this movie is so disturbing, but it fits so well with what happens.So the whole movie really is like a disturbing nightmare that you never wake up from. The architecture and environment is fantastic with all red colors that somehow makes me think of blood. Even that the blood has that unnatural red color makes it so nightmarish. Actually it isn't an interesting story and it's quite short also but that doesn't matter much. Jessica Harper is really good in this movie, but there are some actors that I don't think are so good in it.I like how it starts at the airport with the music and the storm. Something happens already in the beginning and it's never boring because you know that something can happen anytime, like a dog suddenly bite his owner by no reason.I give this movie 10/10 because I really think this is a beautiful movie, it is definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Good Horror","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For a movie categorized as Italian Giallo, there is actually very little extreme scenes of gore as in other films of this genre. If anything, Dario Argento art directs this movie within an inch of its life, to a point where it actually succeeds to separate itself from its horror roots and begins to open itself to a perverse fairy tale. The first fifteen minutes of the movie are one of the most tense moments of mounting horror I have seen in a while (despite the horrible dialogue and the bad dubbing, courtesy of what seems to be the norm of Italian movies of the period). Its setup, consisting of Jessica Harper's character, Susie Bannion, arriving at the school of dance that she is to attend in the middle of a storm. (Why she doesn't take the storm as a signal that maybe this might not be the ideal place for her is anyone's guess.) A girl, Pat Hingle, runs out screaming into the night and winds up at the neighboring dorm where a friend takes her in, but soon later she meets a grisly fate in a fantastic sequence that has become a classic all its own. "},{"Title":"Tense and rattling depiction of sordid goings-on at a far reaching locale of high culture; a chilling submersion into a terrifying world which works really well.","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento's Suspiria is about a young woman so far out of her depth, that dealing with being able to integrate into an offshore culture and come to bond with those to which you're alien is the least of the her problems. The film takes clear glee in tossing a young American girl head first into a fierce cauldron within a foreign place further still within a foreign nation, plunging her into the pouring rain that greets her as she makes her way beyond the international boundaries marked by way of an airport's exit and then into what will come to form a bleak proverbial mire. The howling wind and driving rain makes it tough to keep dry and retain a normalised, balanced look; she drags her luggage through the conditions made tougher with little in the way of other people around to help; then, upon tyring to obtain access to a taxi, she is shunned by the mechanical-like driving past of various cabs until, finally, one stops to pick her up. Salvation? Not really - even communication with the driver is difficult through the language barrier.Once at her destination, you'd think the worst of it was over; the trekking out from where she's from and limping through the initially difficult stages of getting there only to, at last, get to where it is she's going. Not so, as further confusion over the intercom at the entrance to the locale follows, before a girl not that much older flees from the door in an hysterical and garbled mess. Away from what the lead female is able to witness, but perversely informing a continuously watching audience thus informing us and not her that something is definitely wrong with this place, someone or something catches up with the escapee, and she is dispatched in a less than pretty display. There begins 1977 film Suspiria, and the two key items that will come to act as foundations for the film; namely, that notion of a young woman being in a foreign locale in which she will struggle or suffer hardships, along with the catalyst in the form of overlying terror and unnerving ambiguity, particularly in regards to the mystery as to what's actually unravelling behind the scenes in this place.The film is one of such which revolves around a girl in a location she has every right to be wary of and initially struggle through before getting a grip on the situation and rising to what it offers. Jessica Harper plays the lead, a young and fragile looking American named Suzy Bannion. She's a dancer, one of whom has showed such promise in recent times back home that enrolling at a prestigious school in West Germany beckons; that notion of, not West Germany, but Europe in general being a locale of both culture and academia rearing its head once again &#x96; when intelligent American characters need to journey somewhere so as to study something at a higher level, Europe always seems to be the place they either travel to or strive to travel to.After night-set shooting and blood red hues dominating the frame during Suzy's arrival and the young girl's death, we are greeted by fresher, bluer and more welcoming tones the following morning. All appears well at the dance school, the employees are welcoming and quick to dismiss any of the foulness raised from the previous night. The other girls appear in relatively stark contrast to Suzy, her one confidant in Sara (Casini) already at a stage in her own paranoia which will see things on that particular strand effectively unravel later on. The school comes across as somewhat of a female dominated zone, one female student encapsulating the feminine empowerment at the place in her strutting around a dormitory room whilst bare legged and whilst in a loose white gown of some description, wielding cigarette holders in a sultry and fetishistic manner. The male students few-and-far between amidst all the female ones, and the school is a place in which most of the men appear to do either the menial work or exist to purely serve the woman in some form. One of these men arrives in the form of an apparently mute Romanian butler, a male charged with moving items to and from locations therein in an unfussy and subdued manner, while a blind pianist must play what he is told to until he himself can take it no longer and is then punished for his disobedient transgressions.Suzy's eventual clashing with the school in this and mostly every regard is seemingly obligatory, Argento's film a very gradual; bleak, brooding and ruthlessly effective little number covering substantial ground in both the thriller, horror and mystery genres. The entire film arrives with a pumping and pulsating musical score upon which first heard appears to be a chorus of Islamic prayers acting as a coating to some high pitched breathing and gasping, all the while accompanied by blaring bursts of throbbing acoustic guitar combining wonderfully and acting as a fantastic over-tune to proceedings. The film builds to a quite chilling culmination, the notion of building and brooding your way to something and providing us with an attentive enough attitude towards character evident and working with the film as it concludes with a large payoff; there is nary a sign of dunderheaded schlock frills for eighty minutes before the cheap wrapping of everything off. Suspiria is good fun, a playful and well made little film delivering on a number of levels as it covers its lead's descent into the uncanny unknown. "},{"Title":"Bad luck isn't brought by broken mirrors, but by broken minds","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Today we welcome an entirely new genre to your humble reviewer's repertoire the Italian giallo. From what I could glean, the term refers to a pulpy style of Gothic thriller, most prominent in the cinema in the 1960s and 1970s. 'Suspiria (1977)' &#x96; stylistically, half Roger Corman and half Brian De Palma &#x96; boasts a strong emphasis on dreams and paranoia, and a perverse fascination with the act of murder. One early death, a real show-stopper, is depicted in glorious operatic slow- motion, and sees a young student (Eva Axen) hanging from a glass ceiling. If I wasn't giving this film my full attention, I was now! Needless to say, the original US theatrical cut was bowdlerised quite liberally. The film's soundtrack, by a band called Goblin, is supremely unsettling, though it rises so loudly above the dialogue volume that I had to watch the film with remote control at the ready.An American girl (Jessica Harper) arrives in Germany to attend a prestigious dance academy, only to discover that the school is governed by a coven of witches. The plot may be wafer-thin, but the visuals are utterly amazing. The school hallways blaze with orange at night-time, casting ominous, exaggerated shadows across the walls. The building itself seems to pulsate with sinister intent; in fact, I was reminded of 'The Cabinet of Dr Caligari (1920),' in which otherwise solid walls distort violently to match the twisted mind of its narrator. Blood is coloured such a fierce red that it appears unreal, lending the violence a sense of theatricality, an operatic intensity that elevates it above most contemporary American horror films. It's well known that Brian De Palma was a great admirer of Alfred Hitchcock, but his style appears to borrow just as freely from films like this. "},{"Title":"Video Discussions Suspiria","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" WARNING CONTAINS SPOILERShttp//www.youtube.com/watch?v=sY2JkmxplgkSUSPIRIADario Argento's Suspiria is pure cinema. It's one of the most beautifully realized horror films I've ever seen, so gorgeous in it's sound and visual compositions, that it easily overcomes any flaws in the narrative or, especially, the acting. Now, I should note that I am nowhere CLOSE to being an expert on Dario Argento or his filmography. In fact, this is the only film of his that I have seen, which, to me at least, is somewhat puzzling, because I've always known about his work, and he is a huge influence on both Quentin Tarantino AND John Carpenter, and those are two of my all time favorite directors. But for whatever reason, I just never got around to seeing any of Argento's films. Fortunately, I have a good friend of mine who has very good taste in film, and he's helping me fill in some of the gaps in my cinematic knowledge. And in return, I'm introducing him to some of Brian DePalma's work that he hasn't seen yet, so it all works out. But anyway, back to Suspiria. Just from what I've read, Argento is primarily known for his Giallo films, or Italian horror- slash-thriller films, if you will. Again, these are films that I look forward to becoming more familiar with, and although I've seen nearly all of Lucio Fulci's films, I think I owe it to myself to check out some of Mario Bava's films, as well as Argento's early efforts in the genre. Suspiria, however, was a bit of departure for Argento, who was looking to break away from the conventions of giallo in favor of something more supernatural. And though this film has elements of giallo, such as the extended murder sequences, the overall mise-en-scene creates a dream-like atmosphere of unreality.FOR MORE, CLICK ON THE LINKhttp//www.youtube.com/watch?v=sY2Jkmxplgk "},{"Title":"Worth watching for horror completists, but not as classic as it's made out to be.","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Being a huge fan of Deep Red, Tenebre and Phenomena, and having seen several other Argento films, I tracked Suspiria down too. At the time I bought it, it was fairly hard to get, and the only copy I could find was an R1 special edition. I figured quids in.With this being an exhaustive special edition package, and listed on IMDb as the 'fullest' cut of the movie available, I assume outside of watching it on my telly, I watched the best version I could get my mitts on.Suspiria is an extremely stylish film with a sustained atmosphere and artistic direction that's very powerful. Artistically, outside of some very creaky special make-up effects that look like an art student's attempt at a horror movie, not a real horror movie, the film is hard to fault.Its soundtrack is a masterpiece. An absolute masterpiece.Unfortunately as entertainment instead of art, Suspiria is rubbish. The movie runs only 92 minutes, a good 20 minutes shorter than most of Argento's giallos, but feels like an eternity compared to the fleet-footed Phenomena or the well paced epic that is Deep Red. It's dull, uninteresting, and even the much vaunted set-pieces irritate more than impress and are fury-inducingly few and far between.Horror/stalk and slash set-pieces are gratingly slow, going through tension and into 'god just kill them off already', and go out of imaginative into just plain ludicrous. One girl is murdered after nearly ten minutes of preamble by a disembodied werewolf arm with a knife while inexplicably being seemingly astrally projected between 4 different locations as she absorbs way more stab wounds than any human body could possibly sustain, only to finally die when thrown through a window she wasn't anywhere near attached to a cord that seemed to be wrapped round half her house. An hour later, another girl comes a cropper after nearly 15 minutes by climbing through a window and into a room that has for no obvious reason been used to stock several cubic foot of barbwire, then murdered by another disembodied arm. They are intentionally long, drawn out, and, oddly for Argento, limply shot from unimaginative angles, relying on bizarre colour combinations and 'nails on chalkboard' music to try and make them frightening. Tenebrae this is not. Do not expect any crazed hand-held shots, any 'Axe POV' shots, or even that many close ups. Do expect a chronically bad cardboard heart at one point though.On top of this, relatable characters do not exist in Suspiria. Jessica Harper is eminently watchable but epically useless, leaving her entire friendship group to die while she languishes in bed with a headache most of the film. Everyone else aside from the head of the school is window-dressing, either props to the dancing school atmosphere or cannon-fodder for the long-winded murder sequences.The storyline is limp-wristed and unimpressive. Here it is Oops. I joined a school run by a murderous coven of witches. Better do something about that...once I've taken some paracetamol and someone stops flashing that red light in my eyes. That's about it.The biggest problem by far though is that the environment Suspiria happens in is so poorly defined. There are no rules or reality at all in this movie. Initially this is terrifying and confusing. By minute 25 you'd kind of expected a storyline to kick in and it hasn't, and you're checking your email at the same time as watching the film.Point is, most Argento fans are divided by 'is Suspiria best or Deep Red'. I come down on the Deep Red side. Deep Red is a movie. Designed for entertainment purposes by a highly creative and artistically left-of-field director. Suspiria is an indulgent vanity project created with an 'art first, narrative and coherency later' approach. I felt like it was intentionally designed to alienate and confuse instead of entertain and engross, and it was an extremely frustrating and boring, if beautiful 92 minutes. "},{"Title":"Deserves to be considered a classic","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento is an absolute genius. He makes wonderful horror and mystery movies. Such movies as The Bird with Crystal Plumage, Four Flies on Grey Velvet, and Deep Red are simply art on film. This film is certainly no exception, this time it strays from a giallo and steps towards a more surreal, supernatural feel.The movie is about a pretty young woman named Suzy Banion (played wonderfully by Jessica Harper) who is going from New York to a luxury dance academy in Germany. Upon arriving at the academy, she sees a woman named Pat Hingle (Eva Axn) escaping from the academy in a panic. That night, Pat is brutally dispatched upon arriving at her apartment building. The next day, Suzy meets the directors of the academy, Miss Tanner (Alida Valli) and Madame Blanc (Joan Bennett) along with a beautiful yet jumpy young lady named Sara (Stefania Casini). Sara warns Suzy that Pat was one of her friends in the academy and that Pat ran away because she believed the academy was being run by witches, ultimately leading to her death. Sara begins to become more aware of the strange things happening at the school, such as footsteps outside of her room and a strange hoarse yawning that echoes throughout the academy. Sara continues to tell Suzy about the mysteries going on around the academy until she to is murdered. It is then up to Suzy to conquer the evil force that's running the academy before she is the next victim.The surreal and sometimes day-dreamy quality of the film seems like you are watching someone's nightmare on your television. Scenes like a conversation between Sara and Suzy in a mosaic pool and Pat's twisted death scene gives the feeling of something that an artist would paint while hallucinating from a drug. The red and blue colored filters that show up during shadowy and dark scenes make the film feel like it's being watched through the eyes of the monster tormenting our heroine. Some standout scenes would be not only Pat's scene, but also a scene in which Sara is chased into a room full of razor wire and then killed with a gleaming straight razor, along with the twisted climax in which Suzy comes face-to-face with a clear view of the terror that haunts the academy. Once the movie is at it's end you feel like you have witnessed the same terror that Suzy has seen, along with the feeling of relief that comes from Suzy escaping the academy during a rain storm. This movie is one of the only movies that I will ever truly need to see on Blu-Ray or HD because the surreal and colorful movie must be seen in all possible beauty and crisp view possible. It deserves to have a place on the Top 250 (Not unlike Halloween, Silent Night Bloody Night or Black Christmas) and it deserves to be recognized as a classic. "}{"Title":"Style over substance","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Some say this is Dario Argento's masterpiece and that may well be true. I haven't seen all of his films, but this one certainly has a lot going for it. Few films can match it, in any genre, for cinematography. The lighting is superb and surreal, the use of geometric patterns amazing. There aren't that many death sequences, but the ones present are dynamic and disturbing. The initial murder has a dance student being stabbed multiple times before being pushed through in immense skylight to fall and be strangled by a cord. Unfortunately, the effects man has scant knowledge of the inner workings of the human being, otherwise he wouldn't have created an exposed heart for the killer to stab. However, that aside, the shots here are incredibly effective, and watch for the great shot of the second corpse on the floor among the tiles and broken glass. Argento cast Jessica Harper in the lead role. It's an excellent choice in terms of her physical beauty and childlike innocent staring, but once she starts talking, the character is marred. Harper sounds like a 38 year old woman in an 18 year old's body. View this for the colors, lighting, and repeated patterns, the long shots of empty corridors, and the building sense of dread. You will have to overlook the slipshod dubbing and the lackluster ending comes across like a wet fart. There is a cool nod to one of Argento's previous films, The Bird With The Crystal Plumage, in the final sequence. However, when we at last see the showdown between Jessica and The Directress, you can't help but feel let down. The scene is all too short and rather silly. Compared to the rest of the film, this seems very rushed. Don't let that dissuade you from a few viewings. Argento fully realizes how to utilize color to manipulate your mind. There are suspenseful moments(including one sequence that seems straight out of Saw), but no scares. "},{"Title":"Great Visuals","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria (1977) *** (out of 4) Italian horror about an American student (Jessica Harper) who travels to Rome to join a high class ballet school only to learn that it's a coven for witches. I've often been rather hard on this film as I've always looked at it as a flawed masterpiece but I must admit that this was probably my fourth viewing and the film struck me a lot better this time. I still think there's a very big flaw in the story that could have been worked on better but there's no doubt in my mind that this is one of the most technically flawless films ever made. Not just in the horror genre but any genre. Even though I have issues with the story I wouldn't argue too much with anyone who would call this Argento's masterpiece because everything he's known for hits all the right notes here. Everything from the visual style to the rather terrifying music score are perfectly captured and really makes for an intense movie. There are only three deaths in the film but all three are downright unsettling and nail biting. The movie is somewhat like a roller coaster ride as Argento builds up great tension only to come down several notches as to let the viewer catch their breathe. The opening fifteen-minutes of this film are among some of the greatest ever in a horror movie. The brilliant use of lighting, the wonderful score and the use of the thunderstorm make for some great atmosphere, which then boils over with a terrific and quite memorable death scene. Harper is good in her role even though I think a stronger actress could have been found. The supporting players are all nice as well but again they aren't anything too special but I'm sure this didn't matter too much to Argento who clearly meant for this to be a visual film.American versionOne might ask why anyone would bother watching an edited version of a film that has countless uncut versions on DVD from various countries in the world. Well, the recently aired American version has shown up on Fox Movie Chanell as well as on Netflix and it's worth watching for a few reasons. First is that we can see how audiences originally got to see the movie when it was released here. This American version is around six-minutes shorter than the uncut one and it goes without saying that a lot of the death scenes were trimmed. The masterfully done opening murder misses quite a few shots of violence as does every murder that follows. The dog attack suffered the most amount of cuts but it doesn't stop there. Everything that happens before the attack is pretty much missing and this really takes away from the murder as it doesn't help explain anything. The knife cutting the throat is also edited to the point where you can't tell anything. There's no question seeing the movie with the edits certainly hurts things and that's why this will remain a curio at best. However, there are a few great things here. The biggest being that the print is actually better than any version I've seen and that includes the Anchor Bay one. We also get a marvelous Stereo track that has you hearing this masterful film like the very first time. The sound is so crystal clear that I was hearing things that I hadn't ever really noticed before. This American version also has the complete end credits and not the freeze-frame that hampers many of the current DVD releases. Another alteration is the opening titles, which are completely different here. When the title appears it looks like pinkish lungs breathing and giving the title more movement. This is certainly something minor but as a fan of the film it was nice seeing this alternate opening. Again, if you want to fully experience SUSPIRIA then you must see it uncut. Once you've seen it uncut I can't help but recommend this American version just as a bit of nostalgia and getting to see it like people originally did. The print and audio here will hopefully find it's way to DVD (uncut of course) at some point. "},{"Title":"Brilliant. A nightmarish fever dream on film","Date":"3 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Prior to seeing Suspiria tonight I had never seen a Dario Argento film. The procrastination was partly due to the mixed response to Argento and this film from people I trust on film- half of them said this was brilliant and unforgettable, the other half said it was comically dated and completely ludicrous.To be completely honest... Both sides are 100% right. Suspiria features some brilliantly stylized horror set-pieces, but the special effects are never convincing. One could argue that making the 'blood' such a bright shade of red was a legitimate aesthetic choice which contributed to the color scheme of the film itself, which is dominated by bright red, but the rest of the effects just aren't all that great. As far as I'm concerned though, as a lifelong Doctor Who fan... Suspiria looks like it was made yesterday to me. I can completely understand how so many people think this is dated, and even a quick glance at the preposterous excuse for a plot here- girl goes to dance school which turns out to be populated by witches and lots of very, very bad things happen, supports the claims of ridiculousness aimed at the film. In addition, Suspiria features bad voice acting from certain characters (none of the physical performances are really bad, but the dubbing definitely is in some cases), some absolutely ludicrous dialogue, and probably a good number of plot holes I couldn't bother with spotting.This brings us to the question of what defines a 'flaw'? Is Suspiria significantly flawed because it features a preposterous plot and dated special effects which don't really match many films of its time? Is it inherently flawed because some of the dialogue is absolute cack? Or is a film only significantly flawed when it doesn't achieve its goals? Does Clerks really suffer from Kevin Smith's unimaginative, plain, ultra low-budget and completely standard approach to filming it? Similarly, is Suspiria really in any way dependent on any of the things it's criticized for? No, it really isn't. The plot in Suspiria is nothing more than glue holding together several lengthy, stylized, and frankly bloody brilliant horror set-pieces, and does it really matter if it's preposterous? Do I care if it makes any sense for this bizarre gathering of witches to suddenly become a dance school? Do I care why these murders are happening? Hell no. Absolutely not. Why should anyone care? It's absurd to even bother! Suspiria is all about the mood, the atmosphere, the music, the stunningly-filmed and set up murders, the simply awesome use of color, the nightmarish quality of the whole thing, Argento's wonderful compositions and use of space, let alone the eerie feel of the whole thing which results from the printing of the film using the old three-strip Technicolor process. You can't even call it a triumph of style over substance because there's no substance for the style to triumph over. Sure, you can bang on about conceptual metaphors and what not but really it's just a bunch of nonsense isn't it? Surely Argento knew this?That doesn't really change much when discussing this film, though, because it's really quite frankly brilliant. It's an outstandingly successful, stunning bit of film-making, with great care taken in composing shots, in lighting scenes, in the use of color, in the construction and setting up of the big kills. If you define a flaw as a hindrance in reaching the goals a film has then Suspiria simply has none. It's a nightmare on film for just over 90 minutes. Sure, it's a bit too fun to really reflect a nightmare, but it's just as involving, as creepy, as spooky, as bizarre as one. Aside from being visually stunning there's the brilliant score by Goblin, and the wonderful lead performance from Jessica Harper to enjoy. Having heard so much about Suspiria from just about everyone on the internet, in my personal life, on television, etc. Does it live up to expectations? I don't know if it's just my expecting something a bit on the overpraised, crappy side or what, but Suspiria simply owned my soul for 90 minutes. It's the most gloriously entertaining, involving, and fun movie I've seen in a while. I didn't take my eyes off the screen for one second and sat, mouth agape, staring at this preposterously amazing film. Suspiria hits all the right spots, avoids all the pitfalls one normally expects from something like this, and boasts some of the best goddamn horror scenes I've ever seen. The scene with the man in the square manages to create such tension, such abnormal tension out of basically nothing and the payoff is greater than one could ever imagine. Actually, I just described Suspiria as best it can be described Argento builds this unbearable tension then pays it off, and the payoff is better with every successive set-piece. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Visually a good movie but pacing wise...","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" JESSICA HARPER stars as a woman who enrolls in a European ballet school that unfortunately is owned by a coven of witches that start to trim down the student body one by one in grisly violent fashion & she may be next!. Despite a lot of hype from a lot of fans & movie critics, I failed to see what all the fuss was about over this movie, not that the film is a bad movie, it's just well...slow moving & i'm a big Argento fan! Visually SUSPIRIA is amazing with lots of excellent camera work & direction, beautiful cinematography & some striking visuals, not to mention good acting. But for the movie as a whole, SUSPIRIA isn't nothing to really write home about, it's pace is slow, it's characters are really not that interesting & there's really nothing to memorable happening in the movie in terms of shocks to make you remember this movie apart from the dozens of other supernatural horror items. Followed by two sequels starting with (in my opinion) the much better, scarier INFERNO PROLOX TRIVIASupposedly co-writer & actress DARIA NICOLODI (Who was Argento's wife at the time) based this on an actual event that happened to her grandmother (A Parisian Jewess who worked with Cocteau) who was sent to learn the piano at a school near Basel, only to quickly find out that she was being trained in black magic rather than the piano! The third film in the series was originally supposed to be TENEBRAE, but that film instead turned out to be another of Argento's giallio films that he kick started his career with. The Third film, THE THIRD MOTHER MOTHER OF TEARS followed 27 years later in order to complete this trilogy, that was virtually pronounced dead in all that time.Nicolodi herself attempted to complete the trilogy with director LUIGI COZZI a few years after INFERNO (Part 2) by writing a film called OUT OF THE DEPTHS, but as realized by Cozzi, the film was nothing but a shambolic mess, with URBANO BARBERINI & FLORENCE GUERIN playing thinly disguised Argento/Nicolodi figures, Nicolodi later disowned that film & it was later released by Cannon films & retitled THE BLACK CAT in order for them to keep up with their EDGAR ALLAN POE adoptions.**1/2 stars "},{"Title":"So so","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     A young American dance student Suzy Bannion(Jessica Harper) is on her way to a famous European ballet school.When she arrives,She see's a young girl running from the school,terrified.Momenets later,Her and her friends are murder.After strange occurances and more murders,Suzy soon begins to think there is something wrong with the school,And finds out its horribly secret....   The diretion and use of colors in this film are amazing,And give the movie an errie feeling.The acting is good enough,And the murders and gore and all great.Very original,But the end was terrible,And sometimes it boring,And I just felt it wasnt,All that.Overrated,but worth watching. "},{"Title":"Not that scary","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This review contains minor spoilers.Suspiria is a movie with potential.  It does have it's scary moments but the surrounding story is quite dull and you'll find yourself wishing the director (Dario Argento) would put more scares in the film.  The film has 3 good moments too it, one at the beginning, middle and the all too brief end.  The movies main problem is that there isn't much plot to hold the scare scenes together.  Had the main character actually investigated the strange goings on then perhaps the movie would have been more interesting as she found clues to the schools secret.  The problem is that all of the investigating has already been done for her and it is just a matter of time before she is told all she needs to know.  The telling isn't very interesting and you wonder how the information was gathered in the first place.  To top it off there aren't many strange happenings going on anyway (that the viewer sees) so you have to wonder why an investigation takes place at all.  So in the end that viewer just has to take it for granted that strange occurrences have been happening at the school for awhile.On the good side the film does have an interesting musical score although it tends to get in the way of actually being able to hear important noises and pieces of dialogue in the movie, but it is creepy so serves it's purpose.  Argento's use of the camera is interesting but not enough to save an otherwise dull film.A better revelation of what is going on at the school might have increased the suspense level.  By the time Argento gets around to said revelation the film is almost over and everything is wrapped up quite quickly.Overall Suspiria has a few good moments but lacks in story.  It's a fine idea for a horror film but it's story matter is wasted.  You'll find yourself asking many why questions and getting very few because answers.  Suspiria looks good, sounds good, and has some shocks...but in the long run you'll probably be bored.  Suspiria ranks a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Is this Argento's best?","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have read about Argento being the master of horror movies, so I decided to watch one of his films. Suspiria is supposed to be his best work. I was dissapointed to find no gore at all (I did watch the full, uncut version), ridiculously helpless victims who choose to wait in a corner for their deaths, unnecessary secondary characters, and no sense in the story. I don't really care about the storyline if the movie is based on something else (comedy, sex, gore), but this has nothing. I will give Argento a second chance and watch Deep Red. If that doesn't do it for me...I am sorry. I will not add to mindless comments from real fans who claim this to be One of the scariest movies of all time. I can give you One of the scariest movies of that year, considering it was 1977 and violence and blood on film was frowned upon. But this movie is unlikely to convert me into an Argento fan. And to put some salt in the wound, I think The Blair Witch Project was better...and it probably cost around the same (ouch!) "},{"Title":"Dog's Breakfast","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Warning! Spoilers contained in this review...!This film is a prime example of how important the PLOT is. Argento apparently gets his ideas from writing down his own nightmares, but he could have gone to the trouble of ADAPTING this particular nightmare. To be fair, the ending is tied up as far as the usual baddies identified & killed (& building destroyed for good measure) type of ending, but it was never made apparent exactly WHAT the coven of witches had been doing. The only bad acts committed were the murders of people who knew too much, but it was never explained whether all they knew about was the EXISTENCE of the coven, or WHAT IT WAS THEY WERE ACTUALLY DOING. The only clue we are given is when the paranormal expert professor says that the aim of witches is to accumulate wealth (which not only is news to me, but never figured in the movie). He also said that a coven had a head-witch and was helpless once the leader was killed (this also is news to me). Why is there a need to invent conventions about witches, when there is plenty of perfectly cinematic and plotworthy mythology in existence. There is a suggestion that the hearts were removed from the bodies of two of the murder victims, but, again, this was never made clear or followed up on.There were so many other things wrong that I can hardly be bothered to list them all but... What was done to the blind pianist's guide-dog when it was first approached (never explained)? The murder of the pianist was actually quite well done, but WHY did they murder him? They accused his dog of having bitten the boy (never clear whether this was true) and sacked him, then he muttered about having heard things (WHAT things? WHEN WAS THIS?). Having proved that the coven could kill from afar by hidden means (the pianist), how come the first murder of the runaway girl was so messy and dramatic? Multiple stabbing seemed unnecessary, plus the subsequent dropping of the corpse from a great height with a rope tied around the neck was surely likely to draw the attention of the police. Oh, and her head would have come off if dropped from that height. The third death was a bit odd as well was that barbed wire or razor wire that she fell into? Is just looked like plain wire to me, and she didn't seem to get any extra cuts or scratches from it, and even if she did, can you die from that? Oh, and what was all that with the maggots falling from the ceiling and all the girls then having to sleep together in the main hall? WHAT WAS THE POINT? Just so that the girls could hear the head-witch's wheezy breathing? Or so that the witches could be close to the girls for some reason? Nothing explained, again. Oh, and why did they keep drugging the main girl every night? Why just her? Did they have a special plan for her? If so, WHAT? Oh, and what was that bat in aid of? Was it just a coincidental real bat? Or was it a supernatural bat (sent to do WHAT EXACTLY?).The only definitely supernatural things that happened were 1) The head-witch's longevity (woop-de-doo!). 2) The head-witch's appearance at the window of the first victim (teleportation? broomstick? changed into a bat? leg-up?). 3) The mind-control over the dog (nice surprise, but how was this achieved? Maybe a mysterious shot suggesting the coven in session would have been nice here? Or at any other point in the film?). 4) The head-witch's invisibility (again, woop-de-doo! and why did she just carry on sitting in the same place she had last been seen? DUH!). 5) The spell cast on Susie via the flashing blade in the hallway (which just made her have a bit of a funny turn). Oh yes, a masterpiece of the supernatural this.I thought this was going to be one of those films where everything seemed very confusing, but you carry on watching it anyway (even though the acting is pretty poor) because it looks/sounds good, and because you assume everything (or at least SOME THINGS) will be explained at the end, but, be warned, IT ISN'T!On the plus side, Argento's shot-composition, lighting and use of colour are rather splendid, but that's really not enough to make up for the above shortcomings. Er... oh, and the soundtrack is excellent (no really!). 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Not Scary","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was so excited to have tracked this movie down. I heard nothing but great things about it. It had been on so many critics scariest movies list. I had to see, I just had to. I wish that I never did. I don't get what all the hype is. It's not scary. It's just an okay try at a horror movie. There were a few real dumb hard to swallow scenes. I love scary movies, I love dramas and all kinds of movies. I just did not like this movie at all. Don't believe the hype. Yawns Ville! "},{"Title":"Fantastic use of colour and editing make up for dull performances and weak plot...","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Fantastic cinematography and editing are what makes Suspiria a good film, besides that the plot is paper thin and the characters dull, but this is a horror film, so as long as it has thrills and shocks it's fine, and Suspiria has enough thrills and shocks for about five films. Dario Argento really out did himself here, although I can't really comment, because this is the first Argento film that I have enjoyed (I've only seen three). But the colours, there just fantastic, each frame is a rich tapestry of deep red's, green's and blues, working towards Argento's hidden meanings. The editing is also good, cut to the loud clanging rhythm of Goblin's rock score, and it really creates a form of terror rarely seen in most horror films. Even if Argento was taking the whole Italian Hitchcock tag a bit serious with the first twenty minutes, and the ending is a bit silly, Suspiria is still worth the watch... Don't know why they had to dub Udo Kier's voice though. "}{"Title":"Scary, but not Argento's best","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   Suspiria is a very scary movie and is loaded with atmosphere, but it also lacks stuff. It's your basic Italian horror film that relies on shocking visuals, gore, and eerie music(Good music by Goblin.), but that's not necesserilly bad. It also lacks the style of his later and greater efforts(Some not directed by him.)like Demons 1 and 2, Creepers, and The Church Demons 4. It is scary from the beginning to the end, and concerning the end I don't understand why people didn't like it. I thought it was pretty good, it could of been a little scarier, but I was happy. I also liked the death scenes, especially when one of the students fell into the room with barbed wire on the floor, now that is a scary death scene! Good story, visuals, and music score. *** out of *****. "},{"Title":"I want my $3.00 back!!!","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I rented this film after reading so many of the reviews posted here. I also remember seeing the commercials for it on TV as a child (the one with the woman with her back to you combing her hair, she turns around and its a skeleton...whooh...very scary).  Anyhow, the film starts off somewhat interesting but then after about 15 minutes goes way down hill.  The set design, I must confess is very interesting in the way the buildings are designed and its use of color.  However, that's about all this film has going for it.  The story is flimsy, the effects are laughable (even for 1977) the musical score is actually ok, but the rest is pure c**p.  NOT suspenseful, no building of the plot, and the end is outright laughable.  I don't know who rates this as some kind of masterpiece (unless they were on a hallucinogen at the time they viewed it) but all I can say is that if you stumble upon it in your neighborhood video store, avoid it at all costs.SSB - New York City "},{"Title":"As scary as a glass of milk","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just finished watching the uncut version of Suspiria and if this is scary, I must have ice water in my veins. This movie is about as scary as a glass of milk. The everpresent, ever annoying music, with its unscary screams and moans, brings to mind those horrible Disney Haunted House LP's from the 70's. If this movie scared you, check out a good David Lynch flick. That should really creep you out. "},{"Title":"Where do I even begin?","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria is a film about a ballet dancer named Suzy who moves from New York to some European dance academy. I just want to start off by saying the first 10 minutes were fantastic (The death scene reminded me of Drew Barrymore's death in Scream.) But after that it is all downhill.The plot and the acting was terrible. The film was boring and not scary at all. Now people might see the IMDb score of 7.4/10 but the truth is that I feel like getting the DVD (Which I bought) and flushing it down the toilet.To conclude I tried to like this film but nothing happened and the ending was shocking. Is it too late to send it back? "},{"Title":"The Only Thing More Terrifying Than The Last 12 Minutes Of This Film Are The First 92.","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suspiria has been lauded as one of the greatest horror films of all time. While I don't agree with that statement, I won't deny its sheer craft. Suspiria is an all-around beautiful film to look at. Director Dario Argento's use of color, especially green and red, are nothing short of mesmerizing. The production design is lavish and detailed, and the composition of certain shots are just magnificent. Its palpable sense of atmosphere should also be commended, as some scenes really do convey the horror of the characters' situation.It's a shame, then, that not more attention was paid to its characters, story, and screenplay. The story unfolds very slowly, and it works for the most part. The buildup is really good, which kept me interested in what's happening. However, the film does run a bit too slow at times. The heroine doesn't figure out the mystery until the last 20 minutes of the film, although it's quite obvious where things are going. Even the soundtrack gives everything away; the chorus shouts Witch! every chance they get. Maybe I'm just biased towards strong female characters, but Jessica Harper's performance as the weak and oblivious Suzy made it hard for me to root for her. Following her revelation, the film fizzles out fairly quickly. After this great buildup, we are treated with a climax that is so disappointing, we are left wondering what was so evil and powerful about the old witch in the first place.The film's worst offender, ironically, is what made the film so memorable the blaring soundtrack by Goblin. Some call it beautiful. Others call it haunting. I call it an assault to the senses. At times, I found the score to be so overbearing, it detracted me from certain parts of the film. Despite my negative attitude towards the soundtrack, there is a charming quality to it that makes it unique and memorable.There are many things to love about Suspiria. For me, it would be its technical aspects. I have rarely seen a horror film that looked this damn good. However, appearances can only do so much. Only if you bother to look underneath the surface, you will find a screenplay that isn't up to par, a story that isn't very substantial, and characters that aren't particularly deep. But damn, is it good style. "},{"Title":"Yes, it looks beautiful, but the story made no sense.","Date":"17 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento's SuspiriaYes, it looks beautiful, but the story made no sense. Hell, if they just let the girl live off campus there would have been nothing to worry about. And how did they get that room filled with razor wire?Fade InOutside a dance academy in Freiburg, a delivery guy knocks on the door. The door is opened by Madame Blanc.Madame Blanc Hello.Delivery Guy Good morning Madame. I hate to bother you so early in the morning but I could use your help.Madame Blanc  How so young man?Delivery Guy Well you see, I am supposed to deliver one-hundred and twenty-nine meters of razor wire to this address.The Delivery Guy hands Madame Blanc his invoice.Delivery Guy But all that's here is your dance academy. I must have the wrong address.Madame Blanc No, this is the right address.Delivery Guy Really.Madame Blanc Yes, really.Delivery Guy Are you having fun with me Madame?Madame Blanc No, I placed the order.Delivery Guy Seriously?Madame Blanc Seriously.Delivery Guy Pardon me Madame but I must ask, why does a dance academy need one-hundred and twenty-nine meters of razor wire.Madame Blanc The Academy intends to put on a production of Swan Lake.Delivery Guy Swan Lake&#x85; with razor wire.Madame Blanc It is a new interpretation, very avant-garde.Delivery Guy Okay.After a short awkward pause.Delivery Guy So where do you want the wire?Madame Blanc There is a small room on the third floor with a window near ceiling that opens on to another room for no particular reason.Delivery Guy You know, traditionally people keep their razor wire outside the house.Madame Blanc JUST DO AS I SAY!Delivery Guy Whatever.The Delivery Guy walks back to his truck to retrieve the razor wire.Madame Blanc (whispers to herself) Tonight your dog will kill you.Delivery Guy What did you say?Madame Blanc What?Delivery Guy I thought I heard you say something.Madame Blanc No. No, it was nothing.Delivery Guy Okay.Madame Blanc Do you have a dog?Delivery Guy A what?Madame Blanc A dog. Do you have a dog?Delivery Guy No Madame.Madame Blanc Well, you should get one. This afternoon in fact. Right after you place the razor wire in the small third floor room. That way you will have a dog tonight.Delivery Guy Why should I get a dog?Madame Blanc Dogs help us fill our time in ways that have absolutely nothing to do with the stories of our lives.Delivery Guy I'm more of a cat person.Madame Blanc Get a dog.Delivery Guy I think I may be allergic to dogs.Madame Blanc GET A DOG!Delivery Guy Okay, I'll get a dog.Madame Blanc Today.Delivery Guy Today?Madame Blanc Yes, today, so that it is with you tonight.Delivery Guy Okay, I'll get a dog today.Later that evening the Delivery Guy's new dog Pepe, a Pomeranian, nuzzled him viciously until he gave him a belly rub and snauage.The End. "},{"Title":"Really funny! -)","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am really in trouble commenting this film. If I had to judge it as a horror film, I'd give it a 2 or 3. But I watched it with a nice group of friends, lightheartedly, and we had lots of laughs together, since this old film appears old (exactly) and clumsy. Much more fun than any poor comedy. And as a comedy I'd rate it 8. So, 5 out of 10 is my rating ;-)My main wonder was trying to understand how Dario Argento is considered TODAY a master of the horror, when YESTERDAY he made such funny films. Amateurish in the best sense, a ridiculous acting, and yet full of good efforts... "},{"Title":"not the greatest horror flick of all time","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I recently found this movie online and ordered it on high expectations from a lot of reviews I had read on here, I watched it for the 1st time and didn't think that much about it. I would say that i found it better than deep red which I own as well. The problem I had with this movie is I loved the beginning of this movie it truly is one of the best openings in a horror movie but after the double murder scene the movie goes cold. It's like it turned into a drama, it truly would have been better if there was a lot more scenes like the opening scene. I have only scene this and deep red from argento, I know there is a lot of fans of his work and i must not be one. I would say not to let my opinion stop you from watching it though because there are a ton of people who love it and you might too, but as for me I would just as soon watch a good fulci flick if I'm in the mood for Italian, I will say the colors of this film really are like nothing else I had seen before. "},{"Title":"Oy","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie's cinematography, direction, and lighting are incredible. However, the editing as well as the acting is abysmal. It ruined the movie for me. The murder scene isn't as gruesome as its cracked up to be. But if you're looking for cool and well framed shots then watch this movie, and check for the scene driving through the forest. Is that scene done in 48 fps? The depth is flawless with the trees. While the movie has some interesting ideas to it, it just doesn't pull off what its trying to. The music can get a little over-bearing at times as well, it sets a scene well but it just ends up sounding like its trying too hard. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This overrated Horror thriller comes from Dario Argento and makes great use of color and lighting. However, despite a good performance from Jessica Harper in the lead, this tale just doesn't hold up to close scrutiny...just why would the girls stay at such a place for one thing? The music from Goblin is fantastic as well but this is yet another case of flashy style over story and as such this is a disappointment. "}{"Title":"Argento displays his deep hatred to women","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Suspiria is among the top italian horror movies in that lovely decade known as the seventies. As for most of the spaghetti horrors, and Argentos specificly, the plot is very bad, totally incomprehensible. But you dont watch this kind of movies for the plot; its the briljant camera movement and the briljant mise-en-scene. The colors and light in suspiria are spectacular, this makes the film a must see. The thing though that sets Argento (and sometimes Fulci)apart is the deep sadistic underlay in the movie. watch out for the scene featuring a girl trapped in small room filled with barb wire. The more she moves, the more she hurts herself. Blood is dripping from her body. Its the ultimate display of the deep hatred Argento feels towards women. Mind you, this is the guy that had his daughter in one of his later movies getting raped and brutally slaughtered. This is where it begins.  "},{"Title":"Kubrickian Horror","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let's travel back in time. Forget there was ever a Scream trilogy or a Freddie Krueger.  Film production costs are low and the special effects, to say the least, are underdeveloped.In 1968, Roman Polanski introduces to popular culture the occult classic, 'Rosemary's Baby'.  In 1973, William Friedkin's 'The Exorcist' gives audiences worldwide another reason to sleep with the lights on.  These two films are pivotal in the development of horror as we know it, yet very different in form.  It's the European influence of Polanski versus the stylings of American filmmaker Friedkin that draws this division.'Suspiria' has received some pretty rotten reviews by our fellow IMDb commentators.  The negative opinions vary in reasoning but I believe if we travelled back in time to 1977, without benefit of prior knowledge of current filmaking, perceptions would change.Directed and co-written by Italian filmmaker Dario Argento, 'Suspiria' is a product of 1977 European horror and therefore should not be reviewed with the jaundiced eye of today's standards.Compared to much of the horror of its day, there are some points where 'Suspiria' could use some refining.  It is in need of better developed dialogue and a more climactic ending.  But the build up to the end isn't entirely anticlimactic, it's true to the story told.  It's Argento's use of sight and sound that make this an important horror film for its time.Argento's use of imaginative sets is almost Kubrickian in nature. The colors are bold and the architecture is stunning.  Every shot of this film is carefully choreographed to add to the film's suspenseful atmosphere.  And I can't say enough about the eerie foreboding of Goblin's soundtrack, omnipresent throughout the feature.Some will dismiss Argento's use of green and red lighting as cheese factor, but if this film is seen on good quality DVD and the proper perspective of the time is applied, then one may truly see the value in it's creation of dark imagery.Yes, 'Suspiria' is dated.  But it's artfully directed.  That's what makes it a classic within the genre and a must see for any true horror fan. "},{"Title":"Comes together quite effectively after poor beginning","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" American ballet student Jessica Harper (who has a nicely grounded sensibility and a pithy way of speaking) goes to Europe to attend famous dance academy, but the school is a front for a witches coven. I went to see this in the theater in 1977 and walked out after about an hour. I found the film nonsensical, and tacky-looking in Jell-O reds and blues. But something brought me back to it a few years ago, and I'm glad I finally saw it through. Director Dario Argento uses several other movies as reference points, so Suspiria is very derivative, but the foreign style of the picture is truly original. The supporting performances are highly uneven, however it is the atmosphere and ambiance that gets you in Suspiria. As for the plot, it ties together neatly at the end, and Argento's style certainly sneaks up on you. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Complain! Complain! Complain!","Date":"15 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For starters - From where I was sitting, it was plainly clear to see that when Dario Argento directed this absurd, confused and badly-paced horror film back in 1977 he certainly didn't hold the intelligence of his audience in very high regard.And, with that firmly in mind - If Suspiria really is supposed to be Argento's absolute best offering, ever, then I totally cringe and shudder at the thought of what would be judged to be his worst. Yeah. His worst must be so wretched that it beats out all of the most incompetent, dismal and unscary horror flicks ever gathered together into one lump sum.From my perspective - There was just so much predictability and stupidity about Suspiria's less-than-frightening story that I don't exactly know where start off with my complaints.But, you can bet that there's one thing for sure - This utterly shallow picture took the likes of Witchcraft/Horror movies to a whole new level of dumbness like you wouldn't ever believe possible.For one thing - Suspiria (which certainly took itself and its artsy/fartsy-ness way too seriously) contained, in its uncensored state, no gratuitous sex or nudity, whatsoever. And, as far as I'm concerned, this was definitely the sort of film that literally cried out for this type of distraction in order to compensate for all of the nonsensical heavy-handedness that prevailed throughout.To be sure - Suspiria (with all of its bad acting and cardboard, cut-out characters) was a bona-fide thumb-twiddler of the highest order.I think that Argento's repeated use of the red/blue/green colored lighting schemes in countless scenes showed a director of really bad taste and a decidedly limited imagination.And, finally - I think that above all of my other complaints, Suspiria suffered considerably from its musical score which was written and performed by the Italian, pop-wimps The Goblins. Far too often this discordant and annoyingly over-loud music gave away any surprises that lay in store for the viewer long before they actually took place.All-in-all - I would never, ever recommend Suspiria (with all of its super fake-looking blood) to anyone whom I personally respected. If this film is really supposed to be a cult classic, then it's got to be one of the most shamefully over-rated examples of its kind that I've seen in a mighty long, long time.Yeah.So there. "},{"Title":"Worst Horror Movie I've Ever Seen!!! A Big Waste of time!","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just don't get it.After reading all the reviews and comments people made about this movie I decided to rent it and thought to myself,How the hell did I miss such a good horror movie? Well,after a promising 5 minutes or so where they introduce the American student in the airport and start off with the weird music score the movie turns into a big joke.Not only is this movie not scary at all,and I've seen a lot of scary movies in my life , it also has some serious dubbing problem and lip sync.When the foreigners in this movie speak it almost sounds like a cheap Kung Fu movie.The music sometimes just doesn't stop when it should.It gave me a headache!All the parts that are supposed to be scary are laughable and amateurish at best.The only reason I rented this movie was because John Carpenter who directed the perfect horror film in Halloween said this movie influenced him a lot.How can this crap inspire anyone????You want to watch a good scary movie? Go rent Halloween,The Exorcism,Hell Night, and The Exorcism Of Emily Rose which made my nights terrible for about 2 weeks...Don't watch Suspiria unless you don't know anything about horror films!!! 4/10! "},{"Title":"Overrated Argento. Still worth watching.","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have mixed feelings about Dario Argento. I haven't seen all of his movies, but the ones I have seen, great or not so great, have always been worth a look. I think he is one of the most original and interesting horror directors, and his films are usually superb from a technical point of view. There is always at least two or three sequences or shots that are simply outstanding. 'Suspiria', possibly his most acclaimed movie, is no exception. The opening sequence alone of Jessica Harper's cab ride in a rainstorm makes this a must see. But I have to admit after re-watching this about a month ago for the first time in about ten years, I was disappointed. It didn't impress me much this time around, and all I could focus on was its flaws. Many people have commented how Argento is generally more concerned about atmosphere than plot, and that he isn't an actor's director, and that is my main problem with 'Suspiria'. It is an extended mood piece and is best approached as a cinematic nightmare ala Herk Harvey's 'Carnival Of Souls' or David Lynch's masterpieces 'Blue Velvet' and 'Lost Highway'. Because as a HORROR movie it fails for me personally. I simply don't find it frightening. I know I'm in the minority on that score, and ditto with me finding (the usually outstanding) Goblin's music irritating and distracting.However, while I think 'Suspiria' is flawed, I would by no means totally dismiss it. It is compulsory viewing for fans of fantastic cinema, and probably the best introduction to Argento's work. When 'Suspiria' is good it is VERY good, just not consistent enough for me to fully endorse. "},{"Title":"I don't get it","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento's masterpiece continues to elude me 30 years after its release. I've seen this film I don't know how many times and I have yet to feel the least bit of tension or terror. Nominally the story of an American ballet student (Jessica Harper) who goes to Europe to study at an exclusive ballet school that is actually a coven of witches headed by three ancient sisters. The film makes little sense with Argento going for a feeling more than sense. There is suppose to be a dream logic, but I don't see it, I see numerous brutal set pieces and a style and sense that was clearly designed by its director for effect. Its a directors film with every detail perfectly placed. Its a triumph for the technicians and a failure for anything else. the film simply isn't scary. Worth seeing for those in love with set design and cinematography. All others need not apply. "},{"Title":"Dreadful Dull Boring Cult film for morons","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1 point for the interesting set. This is for old tossers-and I have nothing against older films- Rosemary's baby still holds up far better and it was made in 1968! Dreadful acting,the goodies fighting aggressive sheep is scarier than this film, blood that looks like paint, no suspense whatsoever, I watched it because i thought the reasonable score with the number of reviews may have been a good indicator of a classic film.....I was wrong...This is possibly the worst film I have ever seen...even bad taste and braindead were better than this film ...Dont waste your time...If you liked this movie Im afraid your taste sucks and you are either too old or simply haven't watched enough horror and suspense to know that this is an absolute yawn to the serious and prolific watcher...The music is dreadful-distracting, overbearing without any real or necessary effect on the watchers mood and sounds like a joke! Not to mention the poor sound quality even on the original version. I agree with the people who say they are sad they wasted 98 minutes on this rubbish... "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you watch the trailer for this movie, you'll say Wow! This looks incredible. The problem is all the spooky scenes are in the trailer, and in the movie all you get is a bunch of boredom in between those same scenes. In fact the skeleton in the trailer doesn't even appear in the film, so in a sense the trailer lied. The first kill in Suspiria is the high point of the whole movie. After that there's a lull in action and terror. So much for being a classic. I'm not too thrilled about seeing another Argento film after seeing his masterpiece. The movie also overdoes it with the colored lights. However in some cases the colors are an interesting feature of the movie. Still, it sucked. "},{"Title":"Same old Argento bright colors, stylish murders..and what about that Garfield on wings?","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What a load of crap this movie is. I suspect that those who go around calling it a masterpiece have seen only one film in their lives and that the movie was Glitter. Shallow, pretentious, overdone, are the first words that come to mind to define this thing. And then we got the atrocious acting all across the board&#x97;about which Argento couldn't have cared less, anyway, and that wasn't his first priority, not even his tenth. Somewhere along the line, during the viewing of this turkey, I had for the first time the impression that he was taking me for an imbecile; or for a 5-year old kid. Someone who would start jumping excitedly at sight of the lights in bright primary colors flung at him from the screen. Come on, I have seen better lightning effects in our subway system. Some people have said that the best part comes at the beginning, with those two killings, but I'd say that they rather show how tacky, nonsensical and shallow the whole movie is (even though I reckon I loved to see Pat running across the forest, I don't know why). About those two girls, they are true dolls but the dear things wouldn't look convincing slipping on a banana peel. And why in Heavens Pat would get even closer to the window and stick her face to the glass AFTER she has seen that awful vision in the outside? That's the kind of stupidity characters will keep doing over and over again in this movie. The whole killing scene that ensues is gross and totally lacking in subtlety, more proper to a filmmaker deprived of any talent, incapable of create an atmosphere of fear with subtle clues, foreboding (which makes the claim here by some Argento fans, that he's the Italian Hitchcock, the most ridiculous thing that has ever been said in film History). And later at the School, what about that inane hissing confrontation between the two girls, in a clumsy attempt to rip off from Fellini's Satyricon? (there is an identical confrontation there, during the roman orgy). And about the episode of the old woman and the kid who directs a beam of light in Suzy's face with some object? I'm not even talking about the possible meaning of it--given that it could have been put there to create a certain feeling&#x97;but to the fact that it was unable to evoke in me the slightest feeling or impression. But the nonsensical just keep piling up Is the worm invasion supposed to mean something? We'll never know. We only know that it will serve as a pretext for Argento to put all the girls together in the gym, where they'll sleep surrounded by his cherished bright red. One thing I notice right then is that, up to this point the movie HAS NO STRUCTURE, NOT PURPOSE. Everybody there could have risen from their beds at that moment, taken their personal belongings and gone home with no consequences whatsoever. They actually could have done it, as nobody was being forced to stay there, so there was no tension in the situation. So, at the 45 minutes mark the whole thing was still at point zero, if we exclude the two initial killings; which were of no consequence anyway, as nobody seemed to notice the girls' demises. But the ridiculous reaches the sublime later, in that silly argument between Miss Tanner and the blind pianist--but I reckon she's pretty funny screaming Good riddance!--which has no other purpose than serve as excuse for the next graphic, gruesome but utterly phony looking killing. Here Argento show us once more how little he knows, or cares, about human body's reactions to traumatic injuries. We had already enough proof of that when Pat's body drops a good dozen meters, hanging from the neck, without being decapitated. The blind pianist keeps his eyes sharply focused--which makes him look like a madman&#x97;while the dog helps himself with the man's neck, ignoring that in that situation they would have rolled up, turning white, as he loses conscience. That's the first reaction to a traumatic injury the eyes lose their focus and the victim loses control of his body's movements. The process by which the next girls is killed is even more stupid. The killer is trying to push up the latch on the door, and what does she do, instead of pushing it downward? She looks at it terrorized and then she goes to take refuge in a corner, rolling herself there! Man, only for that we can predict this girl won't go very far in life. And what about the room full of wire, simple, innocuous wire. That is the nadir in the whole movie and one of the most nonsensical scenes in the annals of cinematographic horror here we see someone defeated, condemned, by a few inoffensive rolls of wire lying around (you can clearly see it's ordinary wire, even though it may be meant to represent barbed one, who knows). Not to mention the clumsy assassination attempt later by the fat vampire, which rather than scare, or even alarm me, made me wonder how he ever managed to keep airborne. A true Garfield on wings, he should have never been capable of taking off her perch or tree. Ah, I was forgetting, that horrible soundtrack which makes things even worse, as all it does is overwhelm and annoy the senses rather than to help create an atmosphere. All in all, the best example of what some reviewers here have appropriately called Eurocrap; i.e. the work of pretentious continentals that are convinced that every one of them can be a Picasso, a Fellini, and that we have to put in a pedestal any piece of crap they'll deign to fling as us. 2/10. "}{"Title":"There must be better witch movies out there","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well considering the bloodshed that isn't actually that bad. I think the first killing happening pretty early in the movie is the most gruesome and graphic. The others weren't that bad but each of them took quite some build-up so that's good.The other thing I liked was female driven and pretty nice setting, really colorful especially towards the end. The mystery unraveling I always like that even though I knew pretty early on that the teachers and personnel were into witchcraft. That they put something in the girl's food to make her feel weak and tired reminded me a bit of Rosemary's Baby.But there were also some things I didn't like. The music I dunno if that is typical Argento but a times I think it was overdone while the atmosphere visually was good enough the music almost killed it. Biggest pain point for me was the storyline, I thought that was pretty weak. The characters stay pretty bland throughout the movie even the main actress. Also the ending seems rushed and quite easy solution. It's witchcraft all right but I think there must be better movies out there dealing with this theme.While it did have its strong points, as a story person I expected something more. "},{"Title":"Ted Munns Horror Film Reviews - Suspiria (1977)","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After Years of trying to get old of this film it finally happened. But was a dud VHS. So 5 years on I finally get it on DVD and hoped it lived up to its hype and yes it did so and soon entered my top 10 horror movies. Beautifully fantastic.Plot American ballet student Suzy Bannion arrives at a famous Berlin ballet academy, where she gradually comes to realize that the teachers of the school are not quite what they would appear.Hot or Not This film is brilliant and it was finally good to see a horror film that was generally really creepy and not focused on gore. It has a real atmosphere to it that draws you in like only the true great horror films have and this is all down to the brilliant directing of Draio Argento in what is his definitive picture. This films shows why he is the true master of Euro horror.The Music Is wonderful, a total score created by the Goblins. It is very creepy and is up there with the Halloween and Exorcist sound tracks. Thankfully Dario keeps away from the cheesy porn music that many Italian films tend to incorporate within their films. The main tracks really build tension.Yes the film does have some gore, but not to much and it is used in the right amounts. The good thing about this movie is that it doesn't need gore to carry it.The directing is fantastic, the use of colour is wonderful and real adds a surreal feel to the film that brings an unconscious creepiness, it feels like you re trapped with in a bad dream. The use of the camera is brilliant, especially in the opening scene.Birds and the Bees None what so ever. A films with loads of hot women, you would expect a little but no.Acting Jessica Harper (Suzy) Is really good and convincing in her performance, you really grow to like her. Joan Bennett (Madame Blanc) Plays her role as the strict teacher very well as does Alida Valli (Miss Tanner) both very good "},{"Title":"Spectacular eye candy mostly supports plot less giallo.","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ah, the giallo. A subgenre so distinct it gets its own name. The origin is Italian, and the films are characterized by unsettling atmosphere, abrupt audio cuts, insane quick-zooms into random objects, and of course, lots of blood. There are three directors that can be referred to as something of a holy trinity of giallo the Father, Mario Bava, the Son (Lucio Fulci), and he who must be the Holy Ghost, Dario Argento.Tonight, I consumed Argento's most famous film, Suspiria, the story of an American ballet dancer coming to study abroad at a prestigious academy in Italy. Almost immediately, strange things start happening. I'd go on, but that's literally all the plot we get. The tip on Argento is that he puts the 'gore' in 'gorgeous', and boy does this film ever deliver. The start of this film is not the story (watch the trailer, it has nothing to do with the film whatsoever), but the luscious, dazzling visuals. The opening sequence alone is such a sensory explosion; it has so many striking color schemes clashing with each other and somehow working that set decorators and cinematographers could study it for an entire semester. Almost never is naturalistic light utilized, and every scene is bathed in a different synthetic, supernatural light that the film manages to provide almost nothing of substance and still be extremely disquieting.Then suddenly a blind man is inexplicably murdered by his dog, and the film downshifts into a simultaneous combination infodump/slasher movie, as the mystery was made clear and the film started endlessly killing off cypherous side characters no one cared about. I was still interested in the film, but it was no longer the rapturous, offputting sensuality the film was pumping out by the gallon earlier on.Italian horror is one of the few areas of the film universe where I am still sorely lacking, so I'm glad to have seen another, and Suspiria was a clear improvement over my first Argento, his underwhelming, diffusive debut, The Bird with the Crystal Plumage. I've seen the handful of really big, famous, obvious ones now, but oddly enough, the best giallo I've seen BY FAR was the least heralded Pupi Avati's marvelous The House with the Laughing Windows. So that's my hope for this review If nothing else, I hope it intrigued you enough to see that excellent, underseen flick. Then, if you like that, maybe you can move on to Suspiria.But get that one first.Grade 8.25/10 (B+/B) / #10 (of 22) of 1977 "},{"Title":"a disappointment","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie because one of my friends told me it was among his favourite five horror movies. I have to say I was very disappointed The acting - most importantly the acting of the protagonist - was shockingly bad. The plot - as far as it even existed - made no sense and the dialogues were very weak, therefore there was no suspense whatsoever.I can understand what people like about this movie. It is praised for its inventive use of colours and music to create an intense atmosphere. I admit that this is true although the director overdoes it. But this is simply not enough to make a horror movie.If you compare this movie to the likes of Dance of the Vampires, Rosemary's Baby or The Exorcist you will have to come to the conclusion, that Suspiria, although obviously inspired by the aforementioned, has nothing new to add.I rate it a C-movie! p.s. The movie's title is Suspiria, not Suspira!! "},{"Title":"The most terrifying film that you have ever HEARD","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dario Argento is a cinematic genius and has often been called the Italian Alfred Hitchcock but this was one of the films that helped to put him on the map. It is an all out assault on your senses. As the ad-campaign says Suspiria is the most terrifying film you have ever HEARD! The soundtrack was impressively composed by the often overlooked group Goblin and is eerie throughout. The lighting and visual effects used by Argento were also extremely innovative for the time period. The story is chilling, Susy Banion, an American Balerina, travels to Europe to attend a very elite dance academy run by a coven of witches. The elaborate murder sequences in this film are not just horrifying, they are actually very artistically done which makes them almost beautiful...something no one has mastered quite like Dario Argento because even though the viewer is absolutely shocked, appalled and alarmed by what they see you simply cannot take your eyes off of it because of the way that it is presented. "},{"Title":"Art over story? Not bad","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My first Dario picture, not what I was expecting. Suspiria will leave a lot of people scratching their heads - why the fuss? I can understand why a lot of people think this film is overrated, I do too, but there's a still a bit to admire here.Visually, the film is very nice, there's a pyschodellic quality to them. The violence, well there isn't anything we haven't seen before, but I think the director should've made the film much more scarier by not showing too much. The dog and the blind man is a fantastic scene, well executed and shocking.The acting is not great and the dubbing is terrible.  The screenplay lacks a strong narrative, the ending is rather disappointing, but does keep you tense.The direction is okay, but way too much emphasis on style rather than acting and plot. The wide-screen frame is used very well, unwatchable in pan and scan.Overall, overrated, but a strange and interesting visual style. "},{"Title":"so well done and eary, you forget how weak the plot is","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this film was my introduction to the works of the italian director Dario Argento. the first murder sequence was one of the most riveting set pieces i had seen in ages and quickly set the tone for the rest of the film. the cinematography, sets, music (by the now defunct group Goblin) and murder scenes are so well done that you forget that the actualy plot is pretty flimsy and dumb. the ending is kind of abrupt as well. despite it's flaws, i feel this movie is a great example of style over substance that actually works. watch it in complete darkness to get the full effect of dread that this film creates. "},{"Title":"Argento at his best.","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suzy Bannion, a young American dancer, arrives at a school in Germany to complete her studies. However, she soon gets caught up in some strange events as the truth about the school is revealed...Suspiria has so many things going for it, it's hard to know where to start. Jessica Harper brings the right amount of innocence and charm to the lead role. It's key that her character works as for the most part she's on screen. And Harper gives an excellent performance. She's giving strong support from the rest of the cast.The look of the film is stunning. The use of colours, especially the reds, is incredible. It makes the film, while without doubt a horror film, seem almost like a fairy tale. In fact if you consider the opening voice-over during the credits, it does give the feel of an adult fairytale.But then we get to the two most important things about Suspiria. The soundtrack and Argento himself. The music by the band Goblin, with a credit for Argento is stunning. Even without the images and listening to it on it's own is an unsettling feeling. But put together with the images Argento puts on screen? Then you get a truly nightmare feel.For me this is Argento at the height of his power. The opening twelve minutes of the film are amongst the most stunning put in any film I've seen, not just horror films. And while the rest of the film doesn't quite match the start, it comes close, right up to the unsettling ending.Although not known at the time, Suspiria became the first film of what is knowing as the 'Three Mothers' trilogy. But on it's own or as part of the trilogy, this is easily one of the best horror films made, and a one of my all-time favourites. "},{"Title":"Suspiria casts a powerful spell on the viewer.","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Like the best films, Suspiria casts a spell with its beautiful imagery and color, and its excellent soundtrack.It has a dream like quality, like living in a nightmare fairy tale.I think this should be seen by anyone who loves cinema and wants to see unique and powerful ways of telling stories with imagery, color and music.It is a must see for fans of horror. For all its visual beauty, it is very scary. The ending sequence is terrifying, in my opinion, and this is as someone who is jaded by hundreds of horror films good and bad.The film is beautiful and doesn't have a dated look to it at all.I can't believe I've gone most of my life missing this film because the cheesy posters for most of Argento's films make them look like gory hack work when that's actually true of most of the other horror films I've seen since Suspiria was made.Don't you make the same mistake as I did. Please see this right away. "},{"Title":"Otherworldy","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For starters this is not your average Italian horror movie of the 70s (the vast majority were simply hideous). This movie is Argento's masterpiece and no one can deny it.The movie stands out not because of the story (which is not something extremely innovative) but because of the excellent mix of strange sounds, curious camera angles and abundance of color that make the viewer believe that he has entered another world from the moment the protagonist enters the ballet academy. It should be noted that there are some scenes that border on gore.Overall it is a movie that I enjoyed a lot because it was a very could mix of its elements and it is certainly one of the best horror movies I have seen. "}{"Title":"Nope, Still Don't Get It","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've tried, really I have. That's the third or fourth Argento movie I've watched and I understand this one is generally regarded as his finest work but I just don't get the hype.I get the fact that it's full of lush primary colours and I get the fact that the score is load and full-on and I even get all the reviewers on here describing it as some sort of 'feast for the senses' that concentrates more on atmosphere than actual horror. But (and it's a John Candy-sized but) the film, just like all the other Argento efforts I've watched, just leaves me cold.Key question for a scary movie - is it scary? Nope. The director has a few good moments (making an airport sliding door intimidating - that's clever) but they're so interspersed with long periods of blandness that they can't maintain any effect. Even the death scenes - not scary. The blind pianist being mauled by his own dog? Laughable. I know special effects in 1977 weren't exactly Avatar standard but surely they could have shelled out a few extra quid for a fake dog's head that actually looked vaguely like a dog's head? Very little plot - no problem with that - but what little there was got mangled by an atrocious language track.Not to say that this is a movie entirely without merit. The settings and colours are great to look at, Jessica Harper was good and the cook/housekeeper was suitably menacing. In the end though, this might be Argento's best work but that still doesn't make it particularly good. "},{"Title":"Horror without the Horror","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Looking at the cover of this film I was expecting to see something very sleazy, gory, and scary. This film had none of those three. Instead what I got was a classy kind of horror movie with some very atmospheric shots and amateurish production. I'm sure some people are going to down vote me for that last statement (which I honestly could care less about) but just hear me out. The melodrama in this movie was really something else. The main character would stare at the camera with her buggy eyes for 30 seconds or so for no apparent reason after someone was talking to her. I'm not sure what the point of this was. During one of the chase scenes the suspenseful music stops and the girl trips when stacking suitcases by a window. Neither of these added to the mood, they detracted from it. There is little left to say besides these scenes being amateurish.The atmosphere of the film is very strange. And how the viewer is supposed to interpret it is kind of ambiguous. We are constantly hearing screaming noises and flashing green and red lights throughout the movie. The characters don't seem to notice these things, but they are not the least bit subtle. I didn't really go for this too much. I'm sure people with disagree, but they are probably fans of the director (apparently he has a cult following of sorts) and don't appreciate reason. The film did have some good suspenseful scenes. The way the music builds up and interleaves with the characters' actions in climatic scenes is mostly well done.All in all you should see this if you like ballerina's and maggots. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Film, Bad Movie","Date":"2 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay. I watched this movie hoping to get scared. I wanted to find a film that really creeped me out. I knew that this was a famous and well respected horror film so I thought I'd give it a chance even though the other Argento film that I had seen had left me cold. I love films that do a steady buildup of suspense, but this one just didn't cut it. Yes, visually there was something completely haunting, and yes, the score was kind of creepy, but I thought it did a terrible job of building tension.Some of the acting was awful, the friend of the main girl in particular. It's hard for me to feel scared for someone when my brain is screaming oh somebody kill her already! She kept flipping out about all these little things. I got that she was scared, but I didn't have any idea what was so menacing about the situations that she kept flying of the handle about. So the teachers aren't going home, OK, why is that really a big deal. There was just this leap into fear that made her emotions seem irrational, and therefore, didn't make me feel frightened.My other issue with the characters is that they didn't seem too bright. To me it seemed obvious that the girl was yelling to someone inside the school. Why would anyone mumble that loud into an open door? All of their ah ha! moments seemed more like yeah, so?s And who in their right mind would stack boxes like that?! The final nail on the spine tingle coffin was the music. At first the song was so eerie that I really enjoyed it, but later it just seemed so loud. I couldn't make out footsteps. I couldn't make out breathing. There were times when I felt like they heard someone talking only to realize it was part of the song. Other times I didn't know if they were purposefully blocking out dialogue to add to the mystery or if there was actually just silence (pool scene if you were wondering). Ultimately it became a big distraction from the buildup, covering up the subtle terror of the quiet. The girls are creeping around and scared, but I can't even tell if they're in danger because I can't hear anyone coming... which made it so hard to put myself in their shoes.Suspiria is in many ways a beautiful film, but to me, a flop as a movie. "},{"Title":"A Non-Thinking Man's David Lynch","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 30th Anniversary, so I thought I'd pop for a viewing. In my view, this film is a suck city production hardly worth the investment in celluloid and paper mache. An exercise in cinematic chaos that only an Italian director could get away with. Alright, to be fair, Suspiria does exude a certain flair through its use of color, lighting and soundtrack that keep it just this side of the to-be-burned trash bin. But in cinema, any cinematic genre, there are basic things that we commonly refer to as 'story' and 'editing' that are utterly missing from this kaleidoscopic jumble of images. It is as if they'd had a few grappas one night and someone got out the scissors, asked for the blindfolds and said, 'How about doing it in strips of five feet?' They could have run this film backwards and it really wouldn't have made much of a difference. Amongst the numerous WTF scenes is one where Suzy rolls a dolly into the bathroom after her phone is cut. Silver platters with a late night meal (luxury room service in a ballet school?) or trays of medicine? Who knows? She proceeds to toss half the ingredients into the toilet bowl. Superfluous close-ups that show little more than a napkin (sanitary?) and then she flushes. Next, a glass of some red substance is poured into the sink. Poisoned tomato juice, blood? It looks like paint. Why didn't she just flush it down the toilet as well like you and I would? So that she could proceed to scrub away at the now red-stained sink. Close-up again. The substance doesn't rinse away and now her hands are 'soiled'. This matter-of-fact exposition should end with a moment of drama where Suzy reacts with either frustration, anger, tears or at least curiosity. Instead Suzy saunters off nonchalantly to open a window which allows her to be duly attacked by the fat pigeon bat instead. By the way, was it only my copy, or is the sound of her whacking away at the beast timed to the upbeat when the whacking chair is above her head. Talk about sound synch!As for the horrific stilted dialogue, it reminded me of something between the narration of a Soviet travelogue and a Cliff notes-based high school play translated into English from...English by the Buenos Aires marching choir. Everyone in this movie speaks as if they had just graduated from a U.N. interpreter's institute. Flat, grammatically correct yet lacking emotional inflection. No soul, no umphh. In fact this film was probably dubbed into multiple languages using the same language school people. Bargain! The textbook dialogue peaks in the scene where the Rosa Klebb-ish ballet instructor throws Jose Feliciano the piano player out of the institute with a parting...Good Riddance. Straight out of a 1930s comedy.Family affair that this film was, Suspiria might have been tag-titled Dario vs The Argentos for the gap between a vision and its execution. It's a shame considering the money and effort that went into the Art Nouveau sets and other production values. Perhaps, this multimedia maze of a movie would better have been released as a simple slide-show with the random-sequence option permanently enabled. As it stands it's best suited for MST3K material. The Beast from Yucca Flats--now there's a movie that takes dubbing to new heights! "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece!, And Argento's Absolute Best!(In My Opinion)","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a masterpiece of Horror, and Argento's absolute best in my humble opinion!. It's extremely engrossing,with some extremely scary atmosphere, plus the musical score by Goblin is just incredible!. It has lots of eerie sounds, and all the characters were great, plus the finale was very satisfactory in my opinion!. Sure it may have some bad dialog, and the story is a little confusing at times, however There is plenty of amazing stuff to keep you engrossed throughout plus there are lots of scary moments!. You really grow to care for the main characters, and the film is constantly unpredictable, plus the death scenes are just plain wicked!. It is a slow moving film, however it is extremely engrossing throughout, with awesome characters, and a really cool story!. This is a masterpiece, and Argento's absolute best! (In my opinion). The Direction is absolutely incredible!. Dario Argento does an incredible job here, with some amazing camera work, his unbelievable use of colors( blew me out of my seat),awesome zoom in's and zoom out's great close ups, great POV shots, constantly adding creepy atmosphere,and that's all i'm gonna say i won't spoil any more for you!. There is lots of blood and gore. We get gory stabbings,stabbing on a beating heart,impaling,glass in the face,bloody corpses,bloody nose bleed,flesh ripping,barbed wire fun, slit throat and lots of blood!. The Acting is awesome!. Jessica Harper is fantastic here, she is extremely likable, cute, was vulnerable, had good chemistry with Stefania Casini, was on top of things, and really gave a solid show!. Stefania Casini was very likable as the caring friend i liked her. Alida Valli is AMAZING here,as Miss Tanner she is extremely creepy, menacing, and that smile of hers is just plain scary!. Joan Bennett is great as Madame Blanc, she added lots of class, and was also kind of creepy. Udo Kier is good in his small role. Rest Of The cast do fine. Overall go see it now!, don't waste any more time, it's Argento's masterpiece!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Dario Argento's brilliant masterwork, the director's first effort in horror/fantasy genre after his giallo films","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dario Argento's greatest masterpiece among his many films is Suspiria from 1977. It is written by him and his future wife Daria Nicolodi, who knew/knows very much about witchery and black magic, and whose granny told her many stories and fairy tales when she was a child. Nicolodi got the idea for Suspiria when she remembered one real life incident what happened to her granny, who was a famous pianist; she once went to some music academy for audition and found out that also black magic was taught there and ran away immediately. Nicolodi has refused to tell the name of that academy for safety reasons (understandably), but she is sure that the story is true and bad things were going on in that academy.Suspiria's plot is similar American ballet dancer Susy (Jessica Harper, chosen for the role when Argento noticed her in DePalma's Phantom of the Paradise) arrives in Germany to attend highly appreciated ballet school with professional and talented teachers. She finally arrives there on one rainy night, but faces horrible incident in her way to the school, as horrified girl runs out of the school in panic screaming something. Soon comes one of the most famous and incredible scenes of the film, and by that time, the film has delivered incredible amount of style, darkness and atmosphere, and it has run only 15 minutes or so. Susy finally gets to the school next day and gets to know the staff and her fellow students. Unfortunately for Susy, but fortunately for the lovers of Argento's art, the real nature of the school is soon revealed to Susy and we are going to see one of the most horrific journeys to the gates of Inferno ever. The magic has begun.The magic of cinematography - The film is hard to describe with words since it has so many elements and merits that deserve to be mentioned and analyzed. I'll begin with the visuality of the film. The camera work by the director Argento and director of photography Luciano Tovoli is uniquely brilliant as hard to shoot camera movements and wild angles give incredibly powerful and brightly original visual punch to the viewer's eyes. They used one special filming style and gels (uncommon at the time) to create the unbelievable color world, that bloom also in Argento's another masterpiece and sort of sequel to Suspiria, Inferno. Suspiria's photography is mainly about colors, and also from long distance shots to extreme close ups, which are at their most brilliant in the guard dog scene at night. Tovoli said this particular scene was very difficult to shoot as it was night time and the lightning was hard to create. The colors and cinematography are one of the most important elements in Suspiria, and I think Argento's and Tovoli's co-operation in this film is among the strongest collaborations ever in the field and history of horror cinema.The magic of music - As important element as the photography in this film is, is Claudio Simonetti's and his music band Goblin's soundtracks and world created by music. It consists of different sounds like whispers, different and exotic instruments and of course the unique and immortal theme that starts in the very beginning of the credits and leaves the viewer only when the final frame of this unforgettable horror opera is rolled away. I can't mention any other horror movie that has an equally incredible use of music and an ability to create an equal feeling of horror and fear with the power of images and music. Suspiria demands to be seen and heard in big screen, but it is still very powerful experience in home and from video, too. Suspiria's soundtrack is the proof that Goblin is one incredible rock group and Suspiria's music is one of their greatest achievements, as they have admitted themselves, too. Fear has never been described this effectively before and after Suspiria, and Goblin is as important maker here as the director himself, and Dario himself appreciates music very much and always participates in the composing of his films' music. All the Goblin soundtracks are very great as they have composed atmospheric and immortal music for films like Profondo Rosso (Argento), Dawn of the Dead (George Romero) and Contaminazione (Luigi Cozzi); their music has no comparison in other horror film composers and since music is so important element in cinema, Goblin is among the most important pieces of history of this genre.The magic of details and scenes, very often dealing with water and colors - I have one particular segment in this film that is the one that sense-shocked me the most and stayed in my mind forever, and so is above all the other segments and pieces of cinematic power of this film. In the beginning when Susy arrives in Germany, the rain and water is captured so stunningly that it is impossible to make full justice with words. The zooms to flushing rapids/water falls and swallowing street drain are the kind of elements that make films like David Lynch's Lost Highway, Eraserhead and Takashi Miike's Audition so powerful the things that are not scary or threatening by themselves have been made very ominous and alive with the tools of cinema. The water in this beginning of Suspiria is among the greatest elements in the whole film, and the fact is that these details won't be revealed fully when first seen, as I noticed these incredible moments fully when I watched the film for a second time. Later on there is another little detail depicting water as it flushes down the drain when Susy is in her room. Water, colors and both together are the details Argento uses as greatly as possible and Suspiria shows this more powerfully than Inferno, which also has brilliant colors and water. The film is full of details, that almost all deal with colors someway, and this is the kind of cinema that can be and must be seen over and over again and it gives something new always and never becomes seen completely.The magic of atmospheric and beautiful, yet very hellish terror - There are horror scenes in Suspiria, that simply will haunt the viewer days and years after, and the most gruesomely effective scene is the maggot scene. Maggots and worms.. They are often depicted as the lowest form of life and so it is understandable they're used in here as an element of total terror and forthcoming opening of the gates of Hell, and the scene of maggot filled attic and old coffin stayed in my mind almost as powerfully as the mentioned water usage in the beginning of the film. The maggots are far more threatening than in Lucio Fulci's Paura Nella Citta dei Morti Viventi, a otherwise great horror film which has also a scene involving huge amount of maggots. The faces of characters are very important here as Argento uses very much a close ups of faces and face expressions. Jessica Harper does great acting since she is the focus in most of the scenes, and her face is full of innocence and childlike undisturbedness throughout the film, and she never shows signs of nervousness or other things connected to bad acting. But the most memorable faces are the ones that depict the forthcoming horror. The mysterious servant Pavlos and the mother and son are among the characters of evil that haunt throughout the film and as they keep silent all the time, it becomes far more disturbing. The scene where Susy is blinded by shining piece of glass by the mother/son duo, is again among the most memorable pieces of the film.The magic of all the aforementioned magic put together - Suspiria is perhaps the greatest Italian horror film, and is in my opinion ever greater than Mario Bava's often hailed masterpiece La Maschera del Demonio. Still these both films are masterpieces and I don't feel a need to compare them in any way. Suspiria's power lies in its music and visuality, so if I had to mention three most important characters that have created Suspiria this wonderful, I'd say Argento, Tovoli and Simonetti. Daria Nicolodi is also important as she gave her knowledge to the screenplay, but still I'd mention those three without leaving anyone out. The scenes of violence are horrific, but very aesthetic and never gratuitous or unnecessarily explicit. The opening double murder is among the most fierce murder scenes ever filmed and it wouldn't be as near as powerful without the Goblin music. The violence in Suspiria is perhaps little more symbolic and un-graphic than in Argento's other films, but since the power of Argento's films doesn't lie in gore, I cannot and don't want to concentrate too much on the violence as his films have their real merits elsewhere; violence is only one element that is handled and depicted with the power and magic of his most personal and unique styles and cinematic brilliance.People and so called horror fans tend to complain about plots in Argento films and they think always that plot is too thin or confusing or something like that. I really can't believe and understand those opinions since very often those people really don't find the real merits from Argento's films, the things Argento shows by using the plot only as a skeleton to be filled with the power of his art. If you are looking for great plot and entertaining twists and turns, forget Argento and please never judge his films without finding the real merits of them.Suspiria would be my choice among all the movies, if I had a possibility to choose one film that I would see in a movie theatre on big screen. This far, this is Argento's movie that suffers the most on television, being still very powerful and stunning experience when viewed on video. Suspiria is for horror genre what Gattaca by Andrew Niccol is for science fiction totally unique masterpiece of the genre and a film that is too often neglected or judged by wrong reasons. Suspiria is 10 out of 10 bright stars immortal classic and Argento has already earned his place in the history of cinema, alongside many other great masters in different genres, horror or non-horror.Magic is everywhere, all over the world. -Suspiria, 1977  "},{"Title":"Artsy?  Maybe.  Good?  Anything but.","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay. I sat down to watch this movie with a couple of my friends. I had heard it was interesting and was Dario Argento's masterpiece. I was not familiar with the director and while I'm not a huge fan of 1970s cult horror, against my better judgment I threw it into the DVD player. And then watched it. From beginning to end. Yeah. Okay. Now, first, before I go on a tirade about why and just how hard this film sucked, let me tell something to all your cult horror fans who love this movie. I understood it, it's not existential and complex, it just sucks. Just because something is bizarre, doesn't make it cool. All you artsy douche bags think that because it was rejected by mainstream media as trash, it must have some underlying genius. Somethings are just trash. And if you think I'm too Hollywood or mainstream, I like indies probably more than the next guy, but things become mainstream because they work well and i don't know... aren't giant piles of crap. Now, the plot of this film could be written out on the backside of a fortune cookie so I'll summarize it real quick. A young dancer Suzy (Jessica Harper) goes to a European dance school just as a a girl dies a gristly death and after a while realizes that the school is run by a cult of witches and the head witch is this invisible woman from the 1800s, but she's still alive (this is the kind of logic we're dealing with). Okay, did that blow your mind? It blew mine. The film grabs you with a totally bizarre and graphic opening death sequence, stabbed, hung and all kinds of crazy glass wounds. It's all down hill after that. I'll admit Suspiria has one thing going for it, Goblin offers a great soundtrack to the film, very chilling. Okay, back to why this film sucks ass. Most of the people who regard this film as a cult masterpiece because of the atmosphere it creates. Okay, the set design is creative, is it good? Hell no. Just because something looks crazy doesn't make it the best thing since sliced bread. And by the way, basking everything in technicolor lights isn't creative, it's annoying as hell. The film is visually interesting, but with the lack of plot and anticlimactic ending, it sucks on way to many counts to call this movie anything but bad. Are the deaths gory, yes but there are four of them and none are adequately explained. The villains motives are skipped over and the film just ends. I'm going to ruin it for everyone. Suzy stabs an invisible witch then the building begins to shake and bursts into flames just as she runs out the door. What about the children? Oh right, they were conveniently out at the opera or somewhere. In the end, this movie sucks. I can almost see the argument for why it's great, but I don't buy it one bit. This film is not scary unless you're on acid and atmosphere alone does not make a film. A great example of why when people think of film, they think of Hollywood, not crazy Italian drug addicts. Terrible on nearly every account. "},{"Title":"Great visual style alone doesn't make a masterpiece","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First off, to me this movie is not a ten!! For this, it has too many flaws. It is a good movie and I consider it as one of the best in Dario Argentos body of work. But as in other movies by the Italian horror maestro the main problem lies in the bad writing (which is even enhanced in the English version). The movie tells the story of Susie (Jessica Harper), a young American ballerina who arrives in Germany to study at a dance academy. After several bad things (including worms falling from the ceiling and of course some nasty killings) have happened there she finally finds out that it is run by witches. Yes, that's it, there is not much more of a story here!! Beyons these problems (bad writing and thin story line) Argento made a nightmarish masterpiece which he knows well how to orchestrate He uses great camera work, effective lighting and music to create atmosphere. "},{"Title":"The Three Mothers Trilogypart 1.","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After watching Umberto Lenzis sadly underrated Giallo film Spasmo,I instantly became a big fan of the Giallo film sub-genre,which led to me trying to track down as many of the films as possible.When I started discussing Spasmo with a friend, (who had kindly let me borrow the film) I was strongly advised that if I wanted to see some of the best that the genre had to offer,I should start picking up the films of Dario Argento.. From about the first five minutes of Argentos first film, (The Bird with the Crystal Plumage) I was completely gripped by Darios nail-biting murder-mystery Giallo screenplay,and by his impressive,inventive directing.Whilst watching the last in his Animals Giallo trilogy (the very striking Four Flies on Gray Velvet)I noticed that Argento seemed to be injecting a bit of a supernatural undertone into the film,with the main clue that helps the lead character solve the case,being one that is very much based in Sc-Fi/supernatural horror.Whilst searching round to find out about peoples thoughts on Argentos amazing Giallos,I was caught a bit off-guard when I started to realise that Darios Giallos seem to get all the attention taken away from them,with most peoples eyes being glued to his supernatural-horror films.As I kept reading up,I began to notice that a horror of his called Suspiria seemed to be the main film that people connected Argento with.Due to now being very interest in seeing why Suspiria is such a landmark (to most people) in Argentos career,I decided that this was a film of his,that I needed to see as soon as possible.The plotAmerican student Suzy Banyon grabs a taxi to take her to a new ballet school which she will be attending.At the front entrance of the door,Suzy is startled when a girl (Pat Hingle) comes running out of the building and yells something at her (which she is unable to hear properly,due to there being a huge thunderstorm) After running away from the ballet school,Pat finds a friend who is living in the town near by,who kindly offers to let Pat stay the night.Just as Hingle is about to get into bed.She notices two strange faceless eyes staring at her through the window.Getting closer to the window to try and discover who (or what) is looking at her,an arm breaks through the glass window and,pushes Hingles head against a side window until she is dead.Having killed Pat Hingle,the murderer gets hold of her friend,who ends up getting killed in an elaborate hanging. Meanwhile at the ballet school,Suzy Banyon is starting to wonder if something a bit wrong might be happening at the school.With having been forced against her wishes to share an apartment on the campus with a student (Sarah) who she is at first not that keen on.Suzy is then left with her jaw on the ground,when the teachers fire the schools pianist,after his dog had launched an unexpected attack on one of the teachers nephews. Later on in the night when all the staff have gone home and Suzy is trying to get some sleep ,she starts to hear some very strange noises that sound like they are coming from a hidden part of the school.The next day,she goes to Sarah to ask her what the sounds are,Sarah tells Suzy that a few days before Pat ran off,Pat had been telling her that she thinks the teachers are not going home at night,but are instead doing something very disturbing in the hidden iris corridors of the school..View on the filmFor the screenplay,the influence of Argentos then new partner Daria Nicolodi (who also wrote a huge chunk of the screenplay)is extremely noticeable.Whilst women characters had played a part in Argentos Giallos (especially with his fantastic twist endings) here they are given the role of the main protagonist,compared to his earlier films where they would mostly be there to play supporting roles,to the wrongly accused man.Although this excellent film is usually called a Giallo horror,I feel that Argento shows that, with this film he has clearly moved away from murder/mystery plots by giving the film an extremely enchanting atmosphere.Whilst the screenplay is a little bit loose,the fantastic mix of a atmospheric supernatural horror (with the first 30 minutes of the film,moving at a speed that will make you breathless)with a surprising fairy tale like Innocent,which is given a very strong presence thanks to the great Red Riding Hood style performance of Jessica Harper,makes the film completely mesmerising.Looking at the directing,Argento (and overlooked cinematography Luciano Tovoli) create a true work of art,with Argento turning the film into a living dream (or nightmare) by using colours to give a powerful feeling that the school is in another world.Along with spine tingling directing and the very original screenplay,the excellent haunting music by progressive rock band Goblin makes sure that the film grabs you from the very first moment,and pulls you deep into a strange enchanting world. Final view on the filmAn amazing supernatural horror film,with an unforgettable mood and astonishingly creative directing from Argento. "},{"Title":"Dance the dance demonic.","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was slightly disappointed considering Dario Argento's reputation. It is said SUSPIRIA may be the best Italian horror flick. The story line is not really clear at times and definitely not obvious. Special effects are pretty gory and the music is really good and sets a scary atmosphere. The opening sequence is a bit mysterious, but makes sense when the finale plays out. To be exact, the final fifteen minutes or so are the best of the whole movie. The sets resemble nothing I've seen before. Shadows usually nurture fear.An American dancer enters a renowned European ballet academy to waltz into an eerie situation. A secret door is opened and leads to the discovery that the staff is a wicked coven with intentions of gaining converts. It is sensed the newcomer must be eliminated and become part of the ever growing body count. Starring are Jessica Harper, Stefania Casini, Alida Valli, Flavio Bucci, Udo Kier and veteran actress Joan Bennett. "}{"Title":"Horrible Dialog & Dubbing Made This A Dud","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Some bring, interesting colors made this film fun to watch in spots and some of the violence was memorable. However, the dialog is so stupid and the dubbing so amateurishly done that you will not want to wade through all 98 minutes of this Italian film, at least on VHS.It was interesting to see classic film star Joan Bennett as an older woman. I had only really seen her in films of the 1940s. It's too bad her career near the end was in schlocky films like this!This horror story, featuring witches, is not usually my cup of tea but I could see where this would have been a very interesting film had made some changes in the dialog and did a better of dubbing. Better to have just gone with the subtitles. "},{"Title":"cheap and dumb but STILL very chilling and well worth seeing","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie looks pretty cheap and silly throughout. It is so amazing to me, then, that despite this and the rather predictable plot at times, the movie is so effective at scaring the viewer. So, it isn't really the plot, the acting or the special effects that make it a good film. Instead, the director, cinematographer and musical director deserve the kudos as the movie builds and builds and builds in intensity thanks almost completely to lighting and a suspenseful (though somewhat repetitive) score. Together, they create a visceral reaction that transcends the plot and acting--almost as if your mind is unaware of the terror while your body begins to react strongly with a quickening pulse and nerves that are on end. "}]