[{"Title":"A pleasant surprise for those who have heard it sucks","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"32 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Terry Gilliam's fantasy satire (looks like a spoof, but it's a satire) is halfway between Holy Grail and Time Bandits, and about half as good (which ain't bad).  The wit is sardonic, and the story pretty well reverses every rule of the fantasy genre -- a dimwitted champion, out to secure the hand of his 300+ lb. princess by killing the evil Jabberwocky that is making life tough for the local peasantry (but very pleasant for the merchants).  Great photography, decent production values.  The direction is very good, and although the script's wit is shining, there are not enough really funny jokes (mostly it's stuff you'd have to think about to laugh at).  I particularly like, though, how a lot of the good jokes come out of how the value of something is relative -- Palin carrying around a rotten potato discarded by Griselda, which he prizes for sentiment, but which the townspeople want for food.  Superior medieval satire shows Gilliam was on the right track towards his masterpieces. "},{"Title":"Comparisons to Holy Grail are inevitable, making Jabberwocky pale","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"40 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I've seen Jabberwocky a few times now over the years and I still can't say that I know where director/co-writer Terry Gilliam intended to go with the film. Without a doubt it's interesting. It has a good premise and varied interpretations can make the film intriguing as different kinds of satire. Unfortunately, it's not consistently entertaining or rewarding to watch, it has some technical, directing and editing problems, and it easily invites unfavorable comparisons to Monty Python. In the end, I had to give Jabberwocky a C, or a 7 this time around, although I found myself continually wishing that I could give it a higher score.Jabberwocky is really the story of Dennis Cooper (Michael Palin), a lovable dolt who is in love with Griselda Fishfinger (Annette Badland), the obese daughter of a local fisherman. It is set in the Middle Ages in England, probably around the 13th or 14th Century (partially based on a character identifying plaster as possibly being from the 12th Century). After Dennis' father dies, Dennis decides to head off to the grand city to find a job and make his fortune, so he can head back to his village in a state worthy to marry Griselda. However, things aren't going so swell in the city, either. Unknown to Dennis' village, there is a monster called the Jabberwock that has been terrorizing the countryside not far from the city. The city has been closed off and there's tight control over who gets in or out. People in and just outside of the city are starving; there is no work, and so on. Dennis finally sneaks into the city one morning and discovers the dire truth. The bulk of the film is a series of misadventures, focused on Dennis, as he tries to adjust to life within the city.Because Jabberwocky's release date was only two years removed from Monty Python and the Holy Grail (1975), because it was directed by Python member Terry Gilliam, who also co-directed Holy Grail, and because it has a similar setting, some similar characters, some similar scenarios, and some almost identical costumes, it easily invites comparison to its better-known brother. That's Jabberwocky's first major hurdle for anyone who has seen Holy Grail, which is likely to be a large percentage of the audience who would seek out and/or bother watching this film. The problem is that Jabberwocky isn't anywhere near as funny as Holy Grail, and I don't think that Gilliam intended it to be.For me, the most favorable reading of Jabberwocky has it as a fairly serious satire (so satire in the more academic sense) not of the Middle Ages, but of the popular 20th Century conceptions of what the Middle Ages (or the Dark Ages) must have been like. This is further enforced by Gilliam and Terry Jones' remarks on the Holy Grail DVD commentary (and maybe better enforced on the Jabberwocky commentary, which I haven't had a chance to listen to yet) during the scene when King Arthur encounters the peasants who get into a political structure debate. There, they explicitly state that they tried to exaggerate the popular misconceptions of how such peasants would have been, and acknowledge that more academic research has shown those ideas to be false. In Jabberwocky, Gilliam has his entire population as filthy, stupid gits with deplorable personal hygiene who can barely figure out how to survive. They resort to eating rats, scams that involve hacking off their own limbs so they can beg as a cripple, and so on.Monty Pythonesque humor of the less intellectual variety does enter occasionally, especially with the bits involving bodily functions or violating the sanctity of the body. That's not to say that Jabberwocky is not an intellectual film in any sense. But the intellect here comes with the interpretation above--in the skewering of our progress-oriented misconceptions about the past.As promising as some of that might sound, and as promising as it might sound to make concrete Lewis Carroll's Jabberwocky poem from Alice's Adventures in Wonderland (1865), the film has a load of problems. Even though the focus is ostensibly on Dennis, he always feels like something of a bystander in the film, making any desired focus, and the viewer's attention, drift. Gilliam has problems making scenes flow smoothly. His pacing seems off. The sets and the cinematography are not very attractive. In fact, at least on the DVD release, much of the film looks extremely murky (oddly, I thought the color on the included trailer looked better). None of the auxiliary characters quite click, and it's often difficult to decipher what they're saying/talking about. Some scenes are almost repeated in the film, and other scenes, such as those involving the princess in her tower, or Gilliam's cameo as he's talking to castle guards, seem like rejected drafts of similar scenes in Holy Grail. In fact, all of this is in sharp contrast to the excellence of Holy Grail.So despite all of the good points, including the opening, with its hilarious point-of-view of a Jabberwock attack, the fantastic extended final sequence, the more bloody scenes from the tournament, the sly jokes that work (such as accusing the innkeeper of cannibalism after Dennis disappears), and so on, I find my score gradually sinking throughout most of the film. Gilliam and Python fanatics will definitely want to check out Jabberwocky if they haven't seen it yet, but be prepared for a bit of a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Not Python","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I think the mistake a lot of people make is to see this as another Python film. It isn't, and one of the reasons it improves with each viewing is that you come to realise that. In contrast to Holy Grail which is essentially a series of sketches, this is a proper film with its own rules and a style which is based much more on gentle whimsy and sly satire than in-your-face Pythonesque clowning.High points are the cast of veteran British comedy and music hall actors - what a lovely swansong this is for the likes of Max Wall, Harry H Corbett and John le Measurier - the attention to detail, which is quite remarkable, and the constant reversal of expectations. And I love the deadpan little touches like John le Measurier addressing the King as Darling.This and Time Bandits are my favourite Gilliam movies, I always feel he works better on a small budget where his imagination has to do the work, rather than the somewhat overblown likes of Brazil "},{"Title":"Not one of the great solo-directing debuts of all time, but as a self-consciously stupid (dark) fantasy-comedy, it's mostly inspired","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Gilliam, in 1976, did something similar to a member of a rock band going off (while the 'band' not having yet broken up but on hiatus) and recording a solo album with his film adaptation of Lewis Carroll's poem Jabberwocky. However, like a solo effort, one expecting a full-on presentation of how the actual band plays together, might be disappointed. As it is with Jabberwocky, as Gilliam has said of it on the commentary on the DVD, (Jabberwocky) was a transitional film, from Holy Grail to the other projects. This comes with pros and cons for certain viewers, some with more cons than pros.The story is expanded upon from the original, surreal battle hymn of sorts from Carroll. The naturally funny Michael Palin stars (in only one role, following the narrative structure instead of the episodes of Python) as a son of a barrel-maker, who has to live on his own, wandering around for food. Meanwhile, a monster of demented, horrible proportions terrifies and slays the citizens, and the King (running his minions in a shamble), gets a tournament to decide who will kill the beast and marry the Princess. These two stories go side by side until the inevitable climax, when the silliness builds up to something very, very bizarre, but fun.The thing about Jabberwocky is that there are so many jokes going on, visual puns, basic physical gags, trademark 'British' innuendo and irony, and the awesome, brash, curious style of Terry Gilliam (director, co-writer, and bit-player). Sometimes the biggest laughs come from unexpected places, sometimes not. And, unfortunately, a good number of jokes either fall flat or are not exactly laugh-out-loud funny. But one thing that is pulled-off well is a sort of cartoon-like approach to the film as a whole; one could imagine this same material, more or less, being translated to the kind of animation that came in The Hobbit. For its low budget, Gilliam and his cinematographer (who also implied a similar visual look on Holy Grail) make this world seem extremely real, and go for being appropriately stylish with many of the moves. In fact, it's a very serious-looking film, and that it's a comedy is almost an after-thought.Jabberwocky at times is a mess, some of the story gets un-even in parts, and if you have any real taste in films it holds a facet akin to Monty Python in that it doesn't hold any real value intellectually. But it is also a medieval-fantasy-comedy, and it's also a display of a director testing the waters on his own. However, on some sort of gut level one was really struck by how the film moves, how it goes through its gags to the next best one even when a dud comes by or when Dennis is completely aloof. Even the monster is an inspired feat. And like Gilliam's other films, one may find more comic worth on a repeat viewing. B+ "},{"Title":"Gilliam's first solo venture","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A hit-and-miss post-Python affair, directed by Terry Gilliam and featuring former teammates Terry Jones (briefly) and Michael Palin (throughout), alongside a Who's Who of British comedy including Max Wall, Bernard Bresslaw, Harry H Corbett, John Bird, Neil Innes, John Le Mesurier, Warren Mitchell, Graham Crowden, and others.Jabberwocky starts off in a promising way, using the Lewis Carroll poem plus gory visuals as the monster claims its first victim.  After that it meanders along with the story of Dennis the cooper (a caricature very like Python's Arthur Pewtey) as he goes to the big city in search of fame and fortune.  Max Wall is delightfully funny as King Bruno the Questionable, but several of the gags fall flat and are just too silly to be funny. All this aside, it was a fine idea, done on a shoe-string budget, and has a lot of good amongst the dross.  Remembered with affection.  "},{"Title":"This early Terry Gilliam film is better than its reputation.","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This often neglected first solo directing effort of Gilliam's is certainly much better than its maligned reputation would have you believe.  While it is though sledding the first time through, it gains appreciably with repeated viewings, but does demand you pay attention.  Amongst all the excrement, garbage and filth, Gilliam and his co-writer actually have a little something to say about big business, but mainly JABBERWOCKY is very, very funny.  Strong stomachs are required, however. "},{"Title":"It'll turn your teeth, snow white!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film makes me laugh with every viewing.  The extreme attention to detail of hygene and costumes is excellent.  I have it on DVD and it's the only way to see it.  Listen to Terry Gilliam's commentary with Michael Palin and it gives you a whole new outlook to the hardships of making these kinds of movies.  And it tells you about some of the short cuts they used and they still are displeased with to this day.  Gilliam's Diamond Man steals both scenes he's in.  This is a forgotten movie.  I don't know too many people who remember it, but everyone I've told to rent it, have told me they really liked it.  It's not a Python movie, but it's got the Python humour and a couple of Python cameos.  Look for them.  It's a very funny movie and it's a blast to watch.  A real gem from Gilliam and company. "},{"Title":"My...God!","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Jabberwocky has more gore and mayhem than a mace fight, and that is its theme, purely and simply. It's an ode to carnivorous, vicious, rampaging monsters, exploding people, dismemberment, impalement, et cetera. The climax is met after what seems like endless rising action, loaded to the brim with blood and guts. That is its charm.The cinematography is grainy and bad, almost on purpose, but it's definitely not charming. What Terry Gilliam gives this film that works so well is a great intensity in its pace. It begins fairly slowly, but it sneaks up on you and accosts you.Its sense of humor is one of the most morbid I've ever experienced, and it's very funny, I must say. All of the things I said this film is an ode to are at some point played for laughs at least a handful of times in Jabberwocky.I suppose the verdict on Jabberwocky is that it's not a great film and it's not one that I care to see again, b ut during the time I was watching it, I was laughing and I was successfully bashed by its intense outpour of action, violence, and excitement, all in wonderfully bad taste. "},{"Title":"Well worth viewing, and viewing again!","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A Python spin-off, owing much to the earlier 'Monty Python and The Holy Grail', Jabberwocky is a fine film in its own right, featuring a tremendous cast of British stalwarts, a regrettably high percentage of whom have since died. Harry H Corbett, John Le Mesurier, Max Wall, Bernard Bresslaw and Brian Glover all feature and none is still with us.Disinherited by his father and therefore unable to win the hand of the appalling Griselda Fishfinger, who snacks on raw potatoes, gormless but optimistic Dennis Cooper (Michael Palin) sets off for the city to make his fortune. The city is somewhat under siege by the vicious Jabberwock(y), a beast influenced by Lewis Carrol's doggerel poem of the same name. Dennis, in the time-honoured tradition, is ultimately required to rid the city of the threat and accordingly claim half of King Bruno the Questionable's creaking kingdom and the hand in marriage of his beautiful daughter, notwithstanding the dubious but apparently lingering attractions of 'Greasy' Griselda.The riotous succession of eccentric characters encountered along the way is what it's all about, of course, with a memorable string of ridiculous situations and occurrences and liberal spattering of mud and gore to be undergone. This film rewards repeated viewing, when previously unappreciated subtleties emerge. The Fishfinger family's changing attitude to Dennis, according to his perceived fortunes, Dennis narrowly escaping death or serious injury on a regular basis, Gordon Kaye appearing briefly, dressed inexplicably as a nun, the kingdom by degrees collapsing, there's a beggar who attracts charity by means of auto-amputation, street-racing merchants, the King displaying only intermittent episodes of lucidity, characters who step out of line are suddenly and brutally eliminated - it's all great fun.Jabberwocky is less well known than the pure Python films, but none the worse for that. "},{"Title":"medieval buffoonery","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I was flicking through the stations looking for my favourite type of film - low budget comedies and b movies. Lucky me to find Jabberwocky!I missed the beginning but soon realised I had strayed upon a gem of a film. Michael Palin in a ridiculous outfit in a filthy wretched medieval city! The scenery is perfect and on one level is quite realistic. Starving people, outside 'toilets' and general squalor - but this is a comedy and the characters are hilarious!!!I noticed Warren Mitchel (Alf Garnet) and Bernard Bresslaw (from the Carry On's) in there too making for a very funny filmThere are many memorable scenes and the humour is in a monty python style with plenty of slapstick and toilet humourThe low budget wasn't really noticable, and I thought overall had a more produced feel than the holy grail which really was low budget film!I would definately recommend this film to anyone who likes crazy off beat comediesIts not exactly a kids film because its gory in places and the princess at one point seems to lose her clothes, but older kids will probably love it... a bit like how the Goonies was almost too scary to be a kids filmI give it 5 turnips out of 5 "}{"Title":"Underrated gem!","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  One of my fondest memories of my undergraduate college days is going with my frat brothers and various female friends to the `Midnight Movies' in the nearest civilized town (35 miles away). Of course this was usually during the school week, which somehow made it even more desirable. The trip was nearly always made to see Monty Python films.For years I have lamented that few seem to remember Jabberwocky from the Python canon. It was not until I scanned the IMDb site this week that I discovered that it officially was NOT one of the Monty Python movies. This is a pity, since it perfectly maintains the flavor and feel of their other movies-although it may lack some of the frantic pace and rapid-fire gags.I have just viewed Jabberwocky for the first time in several years and still find it to be an extremely enjoyable film. I still consider it a Monty Python film, whatever they say, and still consider it second in their canon, only to The Holy Grail. Like other Python films, Jabberwocky catches the essence of its time period. In these films, excrement, hunger, death and eminent danger are always close at hand-and well as some clever anachronisms. I'm not sure whether or not parodying the unrealistic romance of medieval times, as portrayed in movies, was one of the group's main goals. This certainly seems to have been a key point, though.In Jabberwocky, Terry Gilliam and Michael Palin continue their fine work from the Holy Grail-minus the rest of the gang, of course, just two years later. They tackle one of my favorite poems, Lewis Carroll's Jabberwocky. The film actually combines slapstick comedy, historic adventure and horror. We don't see the hideous Jabberwock until the very end.and then it is quite in keeping with Sir John Tennial's rendition of it. Borrowing John Williams' Jaws score as the monster approaches, just two years after the movie, adds a nice comic touch.To briefly summarize, Palin is Dennis Cooper, named so for being an apprentice to his father, a master cooper or barrel-maker (Paul Curran). Rather than his father, though, Dennis looks up to a neighbor and merchant, Mr. Fishfinger (Warren Mitchell). This finally leads to Dennis' father disowning him on his deathbed. Dennis bids good-bye to his true love, Fishfinger's fat, rude and uninterested daughter, Griselda (Annette Balland), before heading off to the big city to make his own way.Meanwhile, the Jabberwock has been terrorizing the entire kingdom, destroying whole villages and forcing panic-stricken peasants to flee to the giant walled city. The wonderfully named King Bruno the Questionable (Max Wall) is being pressured by his chief chamberlain (Jon Le Mesurier) to rid the country of the monster, while leading merchants urge him NOT to do so. (Business has never been better than during the panicked migration to the city!)Without giving out spoilers, let us say that Dennis finds more trouble than he had imagined in and out of the big city, including a jousting tournament to determine a champion to fight the Jabberwock (and a DELIGHTFUL means of finally choosing the champion after 2/3 of the nation's nights are killed or maimed in the competition) and several narrow escapes.The movie has wonderful absurdities, such as Dennis' unrequited love for the obnoxious and unattractive Griselda, compared to the amorous advances of the lovely princess (Deborah Fallender), the king's first long-winded herald (John Bird), and a cult of masochistic religious fanatics. Anachronisms like `rush hour' in the city, `rats on a stick' and Dennis' constant efficiency-expert suggestions ring out delightfully among the muck and mire of ye olden times.This film deserves neither to be forgotten nor to be trashed. It still provides laughs, chills and a somewhat thoughtful look (as in the true Python films) at history. Even the climactic scenes with the Jabberwock look pretty darn good for a fairly low-budget 1975 film! Check it out and enjoy.just beware the jubjub bird and shun the frumious bandersnatch! "},{"Title":"An unusual delight","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A word of warning spoilers within.I first saw Jabberwocky about five years ago. At the time I was not watching closely, and it rather passed me by I found there to be too few jokes, and not enough overt fun. Looking back I can see why I felt this, but there's no denying that many people, myself included, have seriously under-rated this film.The plot is simple, loosely based around Lewis Carroll's strange poem, quoted at intervals by a punch-and-judy man. A young, idiotic everyman, Dennis Cooper (Michael Palin), is disinherited by his father, rejected by the obnoxious fat girl that he inexplicably adores, and wanders to a squalid medieval city to find his fortune. Here, through a series of absurd adventures, he ends up meeting a dreadful monster that has plagued the countryside, the Jabberwock.With Gillian directing and Palin in the lead role, this would first seem like a spin-off from the Holy Grail. It is, however, subtler and more serious than Monty Python, and lacks much of the levity of the Grail. Personally, I find John Cleese vain and excessive, and Eric Idle simply too chirpy for Arthurian legend, so I don't miss the absence of the usual Python team, especially since they are replaced by the likes of Warren Mitchell, John Bird, Max Wall and John le Mesurier.This probably gives the impression that the film is somehow weighty and meaningful - it isn't. It is incredibly silly, and deeply crude. People wee off the battlements and eat rats on a stick. Deaths are frequent and ridiculously bloody. Many characters are consistently lecherous, and there is even a brief flash of total nudity from the gorgeous but crippling stupid Princess. Jokes aside, the squalor and baseness seems rather a feasible portrait of what life really was like in the middle ages. Goodness knows how it got a PG certificate!The humour is difficult to categorise. On one hand, it is silly and childishly base - on the other, a lot of jokes are easily missed if you aren't watching closely enough. Added to this, the film is well-directed but not beautiful - the world is drab, muddy, and swathed in mist, and I can think of people who would find the visuals alone a depressing experience. And the Jabberwock itself looks hilarious.All in all, Jabberwocky is a film that is very nearly a total success, and if it fails at all, that is only because there is so little like it that it doesn't fit easily into a slot. It feels as though a very silly don, or a rather scholarly child put it together, and it achieves that neat combination of the high and low that is rare in modern films. Overall, highly recommended and very unusual - and, if you watch carefully, at times very funny. 7.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Nearly unwatchable","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Anyone condoning this film is being really generous. Say what you want about who is in it or who did or how accurately it captures the middle ages. But at the end of the day the film is excruciatingly boring and entirely unmemorable. I saw the movie once and could not describe a single scene from the movie a week after viewing it. I can't imagine a more definitive way of recognizing a bad movie. It would be one thing if it evoked anything within me. I love Python and I know this isn't Python so this is not even a comparison. Forget who directed it or who's in it. Take it on its own merit and it becomes clear that it has none. "},{"Title":"Gillian's worst movie","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is dreadful. I was very dissapointed, being a big Pailin/Python fan I really expected much more than this. This movie was obviously made on a shoestring budget. The lighting and camera work are painful to watch. It's not very funny - and there's absolutely no point to the whole film. It's pythonesque, but is more like a cheap talentless Python copy.Do yourself a favour and give it a miss.  "},{"Title":"Real funny satire even on its low budget.","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Ah, the wonderful world of Terry Gilliam. Controlled chaos or just plain chaos? Jabberwocky is perhaps the one film buried deep in his filmography but it deserves to be unleashed and live among his most well known. Although it looks like its on a shoestring budget with most of its cheapness coming from the equipment rather than the production design, Gilliam still makes great use of his signature dutch angles to have it feel bursting with creativity. Rather than being a spoof or an all-out comedy, it's a tongue-in-cheek satire on these types of quest films, as a character is called Mr. Fishfinger and the biggest and best joke is that the protagonist doesn't even want the gorgeous princess. It's all entertainment, too silly to be thought-provoking or emotional. Although the jokes are funny, the momentum of the story needed some work. It sets up its concept early and then it doesn't pay it off until way too late in the game. It does kind of remind me that Gilliam has a very rigid formula for the stories of his films. Naive protagonist out of their depth, whacky side characters bouncing around them and a hectic journey of self- worth. Still, it seems his formula works even on the lowest of budgets.7/10 "},{"Title":"A medieval RIPPING YARNS","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Lately, I've found myself wanting to watch some films over and over. But there are also those films that, perversely enough, I take pleasure in watching-- KNOWING, with full intention, that I will never watch them again. Terry Gilliam's debut as director, JABBERWOCKY, is definitely one of those.Starring Michael Palin, it's like an extended episode of RIPPING YARNS, which was dull & tedious to begin with. It's filmed in the style of MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL, which means its view of the ancient world is filthy and disgusting and hopeless, but it isn't 1/10th as funny.The highlight is the DeWolff library tracks, among them, excerpts of both Night On Bald Mountain (when the champion is surrounded by The Black Knight's hoods, sworn to stop him so as to protect the monster for the benefit of the city's merchants), and Pictures at an Exhibition (heard when Dennis returns to the city in accidental triumph with the beast's decapitated head).The film's got some talented actors hidden in there... among them, it turns out, Harry H. Corbett, who was the and Son on England's STEPTOE AND SON, the younger partner of Wilfred Brambell, who played Paul's grandfather in A HARD DAY'S NIGHT. Because he's chasing after an innkeeper's wife, he gets Michael Palin to fill in for him when his master is chosen champion to face the monster.Also in there-- I KNEW I'd seen this guy before, but for the life of me could not place him-- was Graham Crowden as the head of a bunch of religious fanatics. He'd played Soldeed on the DOCTOR WHO story The Horns Of Nimon, and has long been accused of doing some of the worst over-acting in the show's history!! No wonder he seemed familiar, I knew I'd heard that raving lunatic voice somewhere before.Brian Glover (Lugg on CAMPION) was the city armorer whose shop is destroyed in a clumsy accident. And Kenneth Colley (who co-starred with Palin in an episode of RIPPING YARNS and was in the 2nd & 3rd STAR WARS films) is a fanatic who INSISTS he be catapulted to a violent yet glorious death. Insists!! Oh yeah, and the Black Knight (whose face we never see, of course) was David Prowse, who, the same year, became Darth Vader.See this only to satisfy curiosity... but if you do, go in with the lowest possible expectations. "},{"Title":"Better than some people give it credit for","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I rather liked this movie, it has that old cinematic appeal to it. Gilliam is a master at his craft. This is GOOD low budget stuff. If you like well done low budget film...There is a lot interesting history behind this movie that many people may not be aware of. This movie was being filmed at the time they were filming StarWars. And I believe Blake Edwards was filming A Pink Panther movie during this as well. I think they were trying to steal time on some of the expensive Edwards sets and got chased off.I found this movie funny. If your a Python fan you should like it.Best way is to judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies about a very dark and dirty age.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I first see this movie when I was 12 years old. I didn't understand anything. From then, I've seen it for 10 or 15 times. Now I  love it. It has a very interesting point of view about medieval age. I think Gilliam made an excellent work creating a ridiculous, cruel, funny and really discussing atmosphere. Visual effects are amazing for that time (1977), especially the opening scene and everything about the monster. The story is full of love, historical review, action, humor and mystery. Also, I would like to note that casting is perfect, as much as the magnificent art design (poor and discussing, but unsurpassable). "},{"Title":"HA! It grows on you (like mold?)","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  In typical Monty Python fashion, you need a certain mentality to truly appreciate this movie. The first time I ever saw The Holy Grail I hated it- now it's one of my favorites. I'm sure Jabberwocky will continue to grow on me, too. I think you should grab a beer, put your feet up, and chortle out loud when you watch this show. I do wish some of the scenes inside the castle had a bit more light- it was kind of hard to see at times. I love how everyone looks dirty and gross, complete with bad teeth, unlike other movies set in the middle ages where everyone looks like they're 20th (21st) century actors dressing up in old clothing. There are thousands of details in this movie that make repeated viewing a must!  "},{"Title":"For once, a mediaeval odyssey as it would have actually looked.","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Let's make one thing clear.  This, as most critics are quick to jump to, is NOT simply Gilliam trying to recapture Holy Grail.  I take it as more of Gilliam simply liking the mediaeval theme and elaborating on it a bit, this time with a more plot-driven tail.Palin stars as a kind-hearted bumbling son of a barrel maker.  After being denounced by his own father on his death bed and ousted by his love, he decided to leave his comfortable country existence for city life.  Only problem is that recently the city has been under storm by a very large and frightening monster.  Plain makes it to the city, where he struggles a bit before meeting a squire who gives him food, room, and a job. The king stages a tournament to see which of his knights is to fight the monster, and Palin eventually ends up chasing after it.The plot, sort of like BRAZIL, is presented in a bunch of confusing images. It's easy to get lost while watching this film, added to the confusing editing it the fact that most copies of it aren't of very good quality.Some of the humour falls flat, and the editing is a bit too confusing, but the harsh, overly-realistic set and costume design and the great Gilliam cinematography more than make up for it.  For once, a medieval odyssey as it would have actually looked.   "}{"Title":"At Last!  A film for the squeamish.","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Not one of Terry Gilliams best films and fans of Brazil and The Fisher King unfamiliar with Gilliam's earlier work may be disappointed but Jabberwocky is an interesting (if somewhat frustrating) early accomplishment from a master film-maker. "},{"Title":"Village idiot takes on the ultra-scary monster of legend","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Gilliam's first true solo directorial outing apart from the Monty Python crew, although their influence does show here.  Not as funny as Holy Grail and nowhere near as complex or engaging as his later films, although the kernels of talent are there.  Overall the narrative of the film is much more lucid than Holy Grail, for what it's worth.  There's also a clever bit with a tomato that suggests the sort of cunning POV camera work that Jean-Pierre Jeunet and Marc Caro would pick up over a decade later in Delicatessen and The City of Lost Children.  Disappointing for traditional Python fans, but for Gilliam devotees it's worth a look. "},{"Title":"Jabberwocky Is Hilarious - I Never Tire Of It","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I had no idea for the longest time that this was not a Monty Python effort. I thought it was the next movie following Holy Grail. It was different but to my mind that was a good thing. I didn't want Holy Grail - The Sequel.I really like the sets and the costumes. I don't know if they were all authentic or not, but the coracle, the round boat made from skins stretched over a wooden frame is very authentic. I loved the cap the trapper wore which was made from a pelt - stretched and dried into form.I really like the dreary skies and decrepit buildings - the dirt and filth seen everywhere; the poverty and the desperation of the beggars. I don't think life was a piece of cake then - I'm really surprised that we made it where we are today.I loved the silliness and the sly wit heard and seen throughout the movie. I laugh my guts out when the loud mouthed obnoxious herald gets beheaded for his continuous interruption of the king.This is a great movie, every bit as good as the other Monty Python flicks, just different. "},{"Title":"His teeth turned snow white overnight with fright","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Jabberwocky is Terry Gilliam's first feature film where he has sole credit as director. Gilliam had up to this point made a career as an animator, actor and occasional co-director for the Monty Python comedy team. Co-writing the screenplay with another python, Michael Palin, who also stars, this marks the humble beginning of what was to be an impressive career as director in his own right.First off it's strange that Gilliam and Palin decided to have their first non-Python venture in a medieval setting, seeing as Monty Python's first and at the time only film (Monty Python and the Holy Grail) was also set in that period. Jabberwocky is a very different film, but there's still a problem with the setting because it looks unoriginal and invites comparisons with Holy Grail.Perhaps surprisingly the biggest deviation from Monty Python is the style of the comedy. The Pythons mostly relied upon long drawn out comedy dialogues - the African Swallow routine, the anarcho-syndicalist peasants etc. In Jabberwocky each joke is a stand-alone &#150; one-liners, visual gags and most of all surreal and inventive ideas.The real trouble with the comedy in Jabberwocky is that it simply isn't very funny. Some jokes are nice but not laugh-out-loud funny, others are just cringeworthy. The actual attempts to be witty are appalling. The neat little ideas and odd ways of portraying things, while never hilarious are the only things that really sparkle comedy-wise. The knights, for example, are cumbersome, inhuman looking things that, after a duel, have to be serviced like cars.Jabberwocky's cast is a real treasury of British comedy acting, and not just the big names of the era either. There are a few older, respected figures like Max Wall and John Le Mesurier, alongside several rising stars such as John Bird and Gordon Kaye. Predictably, it is these supporting players who give us some of the best moments &#150; Max Wall's king in particular practically steals the whole show.One of Jabberwocky's greatest strengths is in the way it looks. The cinematography is stunning. Using mostly natural light and candle light Gilliam works wonders, with scenes at one moment reminiscent of Renaissance painting, the next fully conjuring up the atmosphere of the English countryside on a damp and foggy morning (an effect achieved largely by filming in Wales, which is damp and foggy all the time). For a first time director (albeit one with plenty of here-and-there directing experience) Gilliam shows a good eye for shot composition and detail. This also has to be one of the grittiest portrayals of peasantry ever seen on film, with far more dirt, dung and ugliness than in Monty Python and the Holy Grail.Jabberwocky is a film with plenty of good elements. It's just a pity the humour isn't one of them. It's a good thing that, after this, Gilliam's films were more driven by his unleashed imagination rather than trying to be out-and-out comedy &#150; his later pictures are much stronger as a result. The DVD release comes with a lovely, conversational commentary track from Gilliam and Michael Palin, and ironically this is actually far more entertaining than playing the film with its own dialogue. "},{"Title":"the genesis of Gilliam","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  There's been lots said about this film in relation to Python on IMDb already, so I won't bother making comparisons. Jabberwocky is a messy, but extremely entertaining film, full of sly satire and crass scatological slapstick. It's an extremely grotty movie - everything is squalid and grotesque. Even the King's palace is falling to bits, and all the characters are either stupid, violent, or both. The film spends a long time farting about, exploring various daft notions and barely-related events, before getting down to its titular business in the last 20 minutes or so. But there are some sublime jokes in there and it's an interesting Gilliam period piece. You can see the twinkle that later grew into the likes of Time Bandits, Brazil, Baron Munchausen etc.Watch out for Terry Jones doing a ludicrous cameo as a poacher, pulling some of the most ridiculous faces ever seen on screen.  "},{"Title":"Funtastic","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" What can i say about this movie, absolutely classic ! I must have seen this film around 50 times now, after a couple of beers and settling down after a night out with my brother we would watch this every time. Personally i prefer it to most of the python stuff ( except the holy grail ) because there cartoony bits get on my nerves.Yes this file was made on a budget, dodgy camera work, but wow, so stupidly funny and the sets and costumes are truly ... err gritty.The more you see this film, the better it gets. I have just dug this out of my tape archive, after not seeing it for over 5 years. And its still excellent ( grinning ).Time to buy the DVD i think ... "},{"Title":"Bewildering experience","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Even for a fan of oddball British comedy it is difficult to imagine a worse waste of time and money than this misguided and misdirected film. 95% of the jokes fall flat, the story is often incomprehensible and it is boring. The astonishing thing is that all this must have been obvious during production. The whole mess should have been left in the can. "},{"Title":"Delightfully Quirky","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A lot of people come to this film expecting Monty Python and The Holy Grail 2, and leave perplexed and disappointed. Understandably so. Come to this from Brazil, however, and it makes a lot more sense. For much of the same preoccupations that underlie Brazil underpin this film too, even if it is by no means as bleak and disturbing. Dennis, our hero, is a socially inept individual easily swayed by the attractions of materialism, albeit Dark Ages materialism - best symbolized by a rotting tuber gifted without care by his unappreciative muse. The society he blunders through is an incompetent bureaucracy, complete with venal merchants and a delightfully distracted king, played wonderfully by Max Wall. Despite the literally tumbledown state of his kingdom, King Bruno is more caught up in the romance of medieval adventuring than any practical measures to either renovate his decaying castle or, indeed, to fight the monster that provides the film's title.The world Gilliam creates for us, dirty, dusty, impoverished for most, echoes that of Holy Grail, but is altogether less lightly humorous and much darker in tone. The humor is black and often only really sinks in after repeated viewing. But it is there once the veneer is scrubbed away. Curiously veneer is very much a subject of the film, from the rotten vegetable treated as a precious gift to the character, played by Gilliam himself, who wanders around under the delusion that the ordinary rocks he has picked off the ground are diamonds. Shallowness and lack of perception permeate almost all the characters, so much so that when the monster is killed, essentially by accident, one almost feels a twinge of sympathy for the Jabberwock stopped forever in its quest to rid King Bruno's kingdom of its inhabitants. It, at least, knows what it really wants.It's not a perfect film. The pacing slows in places. Some scenes could have been cut or trimmed. Nonetheless, it is memorable and thought-provoking and well worth viewing. "},{"Title":"Somebody Killed Something, Said Alice, That's Clear At Any Rate-","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" He left it dead, and with its head, he went gallumphing back. really. that's pretty scary. sort of like that psychobabble lyric in that scary Beatle's song that goes,elementary penguins singin Hari Krishna man you shoulda seen em kickin Edgar Allen Poe. well that's Lewis Carroll's poem 'Jabberwocky' and the world of 'Alice', and it can often be a world of acidic insanity.surprisingly, there is a lot of down to earth, earthiness about Terry Gilliam's interpretation of the classic English poem. a lot of the dark ages was probably a lot like this. dirty, filthy, unromantic and diseased. i didn't find a lot of the comedy outrageously staged either, much of this was doltish and silly, but kind of probable. that's why it is often so screechingly funny. it has a eerie believability to it and the way it is filmed. the cinematography gives the scenes a natural lighting effect and a heightened sense of realism.the 'Alice' books were written back in the nineteenth century. but Gilliam is completely correct in the poem's depiction of a medieval dragon fight. it is the story of a medieval prince valiant type who sword fights a dragon like beast called a 'Jabberwocky'.Terry Gilliam is a cinema genius of sorts, at least in my opinion. his vision of fantasy truly transports through time and our collective thoughts through folklore or fairy poems like 'Wocky'. he is a artist of the caliber of a Ken Russell or a Richerd Lester with a little bit of Disney thrown in there for fun.much of this movie really doesn't have anything to do with Lewis Carroll or the poem. instead of a young prince, there is a corrupted knight in jaded armor. and the character of the silly fool squire, has little to do with the original storyline by Carroll.this film is very accurate history, and realistic, but also a very surreal and rambling, hallucinogenic dream of sorts. like a dream a young English scholar might dream about while dozing off during a history class. the film is deceptive and at times misleading. what can appear dull or rambling is often very funny and brimming with description.it's can be a hard film to figure out the plot, point or where it's going. but it has a funny conclusion full of perception. so much of this is intellectualized and seems incoherent on only one viewing. but hard as it can be to follow, like Alice said, one thing is clear, somebody killed something. "},{"Title":"Good If Uneven Python Outing","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Jabberwocky is Terry Gilliam's grimier follow up to Monty Python and the Holy Grail, set in a dirty, mud-strewn vision of the Middle Ages. A monster is terrorizing the kingdom of King Bruno the Questionable, and it falls to a young cooper's son to slay the beast. In the process, he must deal with an oversexed princess, a randy squire, his fat lover and her family, and enterprising beggars.Jabberwocky is a dirty, darker counterpart to the Holy Grail, with greater attention to the class issues of the Middle Ages. The cooper is faced with corrupt merchants who want to keep the monster alive, restrictions on entering cities, and terrible food. Furthermore, the monster's attacks are by and large played seriously, with considerable violence. Although all is this is played for humor, it's much less zany than the previous film.The film's main drawback is that it's overlong, with the Jabberwock not really playing a role for most of it. A bit of editing would have tightened the comedic timing, and made it funnier. Still, it is an enjoyable dark comedy and a good companion to the Holy Grail. "}{"Title":"Brilliant Gems ... But You Gotta Dig For Them.","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Gilliam's first Definitely NOT a Python Film (as it was advertised on the movie poster) is typical of an artist's early attempt to escape from the pigeonhole of an annoyingly successful run in a cult-followed genre. If you need other examples, I cite William Shatner and Douglas Adams. Though he put more gore and serious satire in this film, the comparison to Holy Grail cannot be avoided. Gilliam's goal of escape ultimately hurt this film as he tried to squash his own artistic intuition that nevertheless surfaces in a battered and gasping form.The satire of a war-driven economy is brilliantly done, cast starkly against the backdrop of a nonsensical poem brought to life. The choice to make real a completely unrealistic story to justify a society's reaction to hide behind religion and governmental protection at the cost of personal freedom and happiness is nothing short of genius. It serves as a contrast to today's society in which many have given up those same freedoms and taken refuge from a threat that is imaginary.A few bad points The film is low-budget and overstepped the limits of its budget in a few scenes. Film equipment makes an appearance here and there, and the Jabberwocky itself is a bit hokey. The costume and prop recycling from Holy Grail is glaringly apparent. I think if Gilliam had embraced this fact during its conception and production, this film would have gone in a much different direction. Better production? I couldn't say.Terry Gilliam is a brilliant director who has gifted us with gems such as Brazil, Fear and Loathing, and Parnassus. I hold no illusions that this has colored my review of this film and possibly even added a star or two to its grade. If I had seen this movie before other Gilliam works, I would have been a bit confused by some of the inappropriate zaniness of some scenes. As a study of Gilliam's early works, it is a great milestone in his transition from Python-to-Director.If you are unfamiliar with Terry Gilliam's later films, I recommend that you NOT see this as your first. Come back to it later though -- it's an interesting by-line to director who later found his own brilliance. "},{"Title":"A transitional film for Gilliam","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Jabborwocky is clearly a transition from Gilliam's work with the Monty Phyton environment to his own distinctive vision and style. There are elements of Phython that are probably over done in the film, but there is an emerging of what his work will mature to. His later works are essentially faerie tales, and allegories, often dystoptic, still based, in part on the absurd, but with more consistent themes and execution, less dependent on buffoonery and slapstick. He is capable of some very good, even classic, films such as Brazil, The Fisher King, 12 Monkeys, and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. You might think of Jabborwocky as a training ground for those movies.Without saying too much, the film is a fairie tale loosely based on Dodgson's Jabborwocky found in the looking glass by Alice. It is considered one of the greatest nonsense poems in the English language.And as in uffish thought he stood, The Jabberwock, with eyes of flame, Came whiffling through the tulgey wood, And burbled as it came!What struck me the most was the authenticty of the people, the costuming, the settings, and the lighting. He says in the film's commentary that he was heavily influenced by Durer and Brueghels. For example, The opening image of a tower is obviously inspired by Breughel's Bable. Other works like Brueghel's The Peasant Wedding or Durer's The Knight and The Devil probably influenced GIlliam too. I think Gllliam was also influence by Rembrandt and the other Dutch painters for his sense of lighting and composition. I think the lighting was excellent. Gilliam showed rooms lit by a single candle as essentially dark and dreary as they really are, not flooded with artificial light. Sometime light a single candle in a dark room and see how little it fills the room. Gilliam was sensitive to this as well as he was with the lighting in other scenes in the movie. Most movies do not really convey darkness very well. He could use lighting very well in other scenes too, most memorably the back lighting of the naked princess in the flimsy gown. I'm sure many will carry that image with them after seeing the movie.The people seem appropriate to the period and costumes as they were, not as we romanticize them to be. They were the common peasant, shop keeper, soldier, or beggar. Most directors today look for pretty faces. I don't know if you recall the early silent films. They were a wonderful collection of faces. For example, the actor who plays the king played without this false teeth causing his mouth to sink in, almost as if he were gurning. He truly looked old. The actors teeth had blackened teeth and costumes were dingy and dirty, as you wold expect from the period when the were no dentists and an aversion to bathing and they made the clothing out of scarce materials.The next thing I noticed was the language. There is the usual English country twang, but the words they use and how they use them are amusing, ironic, and witty, like Monty Phyton's high comedy or in Jeeves and Wooster or the like. To me, one of the highlights of the film is the interplay between the king and his chamberlain, high comedy at its best. It leads you to believe that the king and chamberlain were lovers (the word dear slips in once and awhile).I would recommend the movie, not as a work of art in itself, but to get a better into Gilliam as a director. On the DVD, watch both movie and Gilliam/Palin's commentary. The commentary is quite enlightening. "},{"Title":"Far from being completely devoid of laughs, but certainly not one of Terry Gilliam's strongest films","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This 1977 medieval comedy film, a largely extended version of Lewis Carroll's poem, Jabberwocky, was the first full-length movie directed solely by Terry Gilliam, after years of working as a member of the Monty Python comedy troupe, and he has gone on to direct a number of others since this one. Like several of his other non-Python movies, this one features other members of the groundbreaking comedy team in the cast. The lead role in Jabberwocky is played by Michael Palin, and Terry Jones makes a brief appearance. The film also features a small role from Monty Python contributor (not an official Python) Neil Innes. I first this film a few years ago, and couldn't remember much from that viewing. Watching it a second time, I think it did improve somewhat, but not quite as much as I could have hoped.Set in the Dark Ages, a kingdom is terrorized the Jabberwock, a dangerous monster that kills humans! Dennis Cooper is a young cooper who lives in a village which has been left alone by this horrible creature. He is in love with Griselda Fishfinger, an obese young woman who also lives in this village, but she doesn't seem to be too interested in him. On his father's deathbed, the dying man disowns his son and does not leave him with any kind words. After this, Dennis decides to leave the village and go to the city to find a new job. He intends to return after he has made his fortune and is ready to marry Griselda. Unfortunately, the young former cooper doesn't know how much trouble he is headed for on this journey! When he arrives at the entrance of the enclosed city, where people are well aware of the Jabberwock, the guards refuse to let him in, since he has nothing to offer, but he soon manages to sneak in through another door, and is in for a lot of chaos inside as he meets many different residents of this city! This comedy adventure doesn't seem that promising around the beginning, with the narration and such, though there are some mildly amusing moments. It could be funnier, and the scene with Griselda scratching her rump is a part that stands out as unfunny to me (though I've certainly seen worse). The deathbed scene made me laugh, and other early scenes might have as well, even if they weren't big laughs. The part when Dennis first comes to the entrance of the city and meets the guards might be funnier than anything that comes before it in the film, and there were many more times when I laughed during my second viewing, with the way Dennis sneaks into the city and many chaotic things that then happen while he's there. However, I also found the story for Jabberwocky to be somewhat dull and tedious. The film can also be a little hard to follow at times, and maybe a bit too noisy as well. Unfortunately, the laughs are not quite consistent enough to completely make up for the severe flaws.This movie was made in between two hit Monty Python films, Monty Python and the Holy Grail and Life of Brian. Because of that and the fact that the director and lead actor were both members of that highly influential comedy troupe, it's obviously hard not to compare Jabberwocky to the work of Monty Python, even if it's not quite the same idea. Even after seeing it twice, I still can't say I think it's anywhere near as good as Python, as much as I know many would disagree. In my opinion, it could have used a little more focus and is fairly forgettable, even if I can remember a lot more of it after my second viewing than I could after my first. I remember within the next year or so after I first saw this film, I saw several other non-Monty Python movies from Terry Gilliam, including Brazil and Twelve Monkeys, which are much more popular than this 1977 release, and I thought those two were much better. Some Python fans might dislike Gilliam's non-Python work in general, but if you're a fan of Gilliam as a filmmaker, then this film COULD be worth watching for some good laughs. I'll just say that you MIGHT not want to expect it to be one of his greatest films. "},{"Title":"Forget the tale. Gritty reality.  You can't handle the truth.","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A number of comments here seem to lament the squalidness of the settings of Jabberwocky. This is EXACTLY what keeps me coming back to this film.Above all else, I love TRUTH; genuine, unabashed, unashamed truth. I love the slop jar scene in Rob Roy. I love the hominid scenes in Body Heat. The Road Warrior and Quest for Fire are my favorite films. I don't desire the silly illusion that Medieval castles were scrubbed clean, opulently decorated, with long tables piled high with food and silver, while the whole place is lit up with aircraft landing lights. That's Hollywood BS. THIS is the truth! One could smell a town for a mile before arriving there.I don't even care for the Jabberwocky tale one whit. I didn't care for it in high school. I don't care for it now. If I could make my own edit, I would excise all references to the monster and leave a whimsical documentary of Medieval life, the easy dalliances of the superstars of that day, the daily quest for food and gain with few options, the birth of the middle class, the mores before Victorian times, the stumbling rebirth of pageantry, the cynicism of the clergy. God, SO MUCH to digest from one humble film! I love it so much, I want to soak in it. But, I think I'll avoid the fish. ;-) "},{"Title":"Yes, it's similar to Monty Python!","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I was expecting to watch Jabberwocky for a long time because of the comparisons which many people do between this movie and the Monty Python's Holy Grail. I really did like the Python's film so I was expecting something equally good in this one. I must say I didn't get disappointed.Jabberwocky is a medieval tale about a monster which was frightening the lands of King Bruno The Questionable, and it is, in a good measure, comparable to Holy Grail. It might not to be so hilarious and so funnily absurd like Python's movie, but it has a similar kind of humour and many (good) laughable scenes. Like Python used to do, it mixes an intelligent and corrosive humour to the foolish type and the result is quite good and entertaining.The settings and the costumes are also very nice, because they really create a medieval ambience. "},{"Title":"Fun, but somewhat of an acquired taste.","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of the many movies of my childhood, for which I still bear a fondness. If you would like some measure in comparison that list also includes Transylvania 6-5000, Monster Squad, The World's Greatest Lover, and the Ghost and Mr. Chicken. If you liked any of those even as a guilty pleasure, you may also secretly like this one. Jabberwocky is not intelligent comedy, it is more fractured thoughts which have been forced together into an incohesive montage which is still surprisingly fun to watch. However, this is one of those movies which may be of an acquired taste. This is but a prelibation to Gilliam's later works.Either way, I found it fun and it still has a place in my collection.It rates a 6.5/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"This film is great","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Do not watch this film expecting to see a python film.  It is not and is better for it.  Gilliam used this film as a testing ground for later ideas and much has been copied by other directors.  The characters are amazing and are acted very intelligently.  If you watch this film you will enjoy it. Just dont expect to see a python film, although Micheal Palin is fantastic as usual. "},{"Title":"Inferior to it's elder Holy Grail","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this on DVD and think in no way is it better than the Holy Grail but it does capture the Middle Ages in a more realistic way. The film looked dirty as if covered in a layer of grime. Even the King wasn't elegant which was as he would have truthfully been. This film shows how dirty and even disgusting the time period was. Unlike other films where it seems capped teeth and washing machines were available 5 centuries ago. The film is as strange but not funny. Most of the jokes fall thru and the bathroom humor is too prominent. I wouldn't call this film a waste of time but would rather enjoy the medieval fantasies of Holy Grail for the 100th time than watch this one again.6.5/10  "},{"Title":"Monty Python Weird and funny. Jabberwocky More weird than funny but give it a try anyway.","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is not an official Monty Python -movie even though its directed by the ingenious Terry Gilliam (he also plays a small part in the film), Michael Palin is in the leading role and viewer can also get a glimpse of Terry Jones. Jabberwocky is naturally made slightly in the spirit of Python but it's not as anarchistic, wacky and...well, not as hilarious. Therefore everyone who expects another Monty Python and The Holy Grail will be very disappointed. I just bought the DVD and I've seen the movie couple of times before. First time I didn't like it. It was boring, frustrating and just bad.Then I decided to give it a second chance and when I knew exactly what to expect it miraculously got better. I would like to warn all the people who love Terry Gilliam's fresher films, terrific masterpieces like The Fisher king and Twelve monkeys and are about to watch Jabberwocky in order to check out what he has done before this is not the same thing as those movies. Certainly not. I bought it because I'm a big Monty Python fan and this definitely has some of that Python-spirit in it like I said but if you don't like the type of a humor they got just stick with Gilliam's latter works. "},{"Title":"See this film more than once to appreciate it!","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'll bet you didn't like your first beer or maybe your first sexual encounter wasn't all it was cracked up to be but you probably found that with practice they got better and now you can't imagine life without them. I have seen Jabberwocky perhaps 20 times and it has gotten funnier with each viewing. I find that for most films repeated viewing just brings out the flaws. The opposite is true for Jabberwocky, the countless sight gags and humorous asides that you didn't notice the first time will gradually reveal themselves upon repeated viewing and pretty soon you will be laughing your head off! "}{"Title":"Visually good, but often dull.","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Don't expect any Python humour here. In fact, don't even expect that much British humour; this stuff is more French in nature, i.e. people tripping over each other, plus a lot of overacting/mugging going on. Most of the gags bomb, apart from the occasional genuine laughs such as the hilarious improved efficiency scene and the hysterically funny hide-and-seek-playing knights.Gilliam has often tended to be more interested in style than content, especially very early in his career (his contributions to Monty Python's writing have always been minimal; not surprisingly, he added much to the look of Python). Nowhere is this more apparent than in Jabberwocky, which is visually quite interesting, what with its greenish-brownish moody look - and considering the movie's pitiful budget it's nothing short of miraculous what Gilliam managed to pull off here. However, the script is mediocre and relies too much on the actors clowning around rather than on truly good ideas/lines. It's difficult to understand how Gilliam could have possibly thought that Innes banging a drum that was smashed on his head would be funny. (It may be screamingly funny to the French audiences, but then they'll laugh at anything.) Some of the dialogue is barely comprehensible, which doesn't exactly help matters.The feel and look of the movie as well as the costumes remind a lot of Monty Python's Holy Grail (some of the same costumes/props having been used in both films), but don't expect a movie anywhere nearly as good as Python's first feature film. This is more for fans of simplistic buffoonery than clever, original satire. "},{"Title":"Underappreciated and Astounding Film","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is in retrospect a far more substantial work than HOLY GRAIL, the film it most closely(superficially) resembles(because both films show the ugly, muddy, crap-filled medieval world one sees in Pasolini's CANTERBURY TALES, which heavily influenced the look of both films). I feel it gets short shrift because it's subtler and quieter. Don't watch this film if you're looking for quick, easy laughs.The film is about the way capitalism profits from panic. A monster who savagely devours people is terrifying the countryside; everybody wants to get into the city--the effect this has on things like agriculture & so forth is obvious. Prices go up, famine reigns, & the merchants & church couldn't be happier at having a captive market--so much so that when the king decides to find a champion to kill the monster the merchants hire an assassin to kill him. Does this sound at all like the world we live in now?Plus which it's a good insight into the medieval mind; substitute the Black Death for the monster and you have the situation in England throughout the 14th century. The presence of Palin is misleading. This is not a Python film and should not be seen as such. It's an original vision of Alverson & Gilliam's and well worth watching, several times. "},{"Title":"Oyes!  Oyes!  Oyes!","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought I was about the only person who had seen this movie and truly enjoyed it.  I've probably seen it a dozen times or so, most of which occurred over the summer of '87.  I agree with most opinions here that it got funnier with each viewing.The trumpeters' melodies, King Bruno,  the mention of Otto the Bent, the princess's horizontal glance as Dennis embarked on his glorious quest, I seen a glidin' hogfish once, but never a flyin' one, the total lack of sanitation, the ever-growing potato, the expressions of the first victim of the Jabberwock, et cetera, et cetera.  Every conversation in this movie is a riot.A pretty film, it is not.  But neither were the medieval times.  Low budget? Sure.  Who cares?! Don't see it expecting grandiose scenery and CG effects (personally, I like what Terry Gilliam did with what little budget he had). Watch it for the dialog - that's the heart of this gem.  And the scene where Dennis first meets the princess.  Yeah.  I like that one, too. "},{"Title":"Forgotten gem!","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Jabberwocky is a great, very funny film. If you like Monty Python you will like this. If you like anything by Gilliam you will like this. Jabberwocky has something that The Holy Grail hasn't - even though the Holy Grail is a great funny film it doesn't stand up to repeat viewings half as well as Jabberwocky does in my opinion! (and I've seen both films about the same amount of times in case you were wondering!) There's so many funny quotable bits in this film that I don't know where to start. Also - there's just about anyone who was British and funny in the 70s in this film as well! Its my dad's favourite film of all time (hes only slightly annoyed - still - because he was going to be an extra in this film and couldn't make it due to work!).Don't get me wrong, I love Holy Grail (Life of Brian is better) but Jabberwocky tops Holy Grail for me now.Give it a try...you might be surprised how much you like it! "},{"Title":"How can you not like this movie","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  After reading the other comments about this film, I am stunned by the negative reviews some have posted.  What in the name of God did they think they were going to get?  Are they really so offended by low budget films? Can they really not handle comedy that asks you to think?  Do they insist on the middle ages being in techni-color with Errol Flynn swinging immaculately through the trees?  How sad.Jabborwacky was a wonderful, challenging film, with so much impressive work done on it I agree with all those who say it is a tragedy how little remembered or seen the movie is these days.  Please give it a try.  You could learn how to appreciate films that are not run through a development committee. "},{"Title":"An English Film","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Jabberwocky is not a great film nor does it have any pretensions to being one. Instead it is a very English film of understated humour, ridiculous characters and farcical situations. Given that background, appreciating it also requires having some knowledge of the actors and their styles of acting. The film should be watched as several small vignettes of actions, with each nuance and phrase appreciated for the easy professionalism with which they are delivered.  "},{"Title":"A disappointment for Python lovers...","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the 2 movies of Monty Python members (the other one being 'Personal Services') that disappointed me. There are a few traces of the brilliant 'pythonian' wicked British trash humour left - but on the whole Jabberwocky does not work. On one side there isn't really much of the weirdness of the other Python flicks in this film that would make it a good comedy; on the other side however there isn't really a story that would make sense if you were to take the movie any serious (which certainly wasn't the intention of the director).To me it seems that Terry Gilliam wanted to make a few more bucks out of the highly successful middle age/knight & castle comedy theme line that was so brilliantly displayed in 'Monty Python and the Holy Grail' but the ran short of ideas.I'd rather watch the other Python movies or the TV series once again or have a good laugh watching the brilliant black British comedy series 'League of Gentlemen' than ever wasting my time with 'Jabberwocky' again.I rated 4/10 - because there are still a few laughs in it and I generally love British comedies - if you are not into that kind of black humour avoid! "},{"Title":"Absolutely my favourite film","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This medieval satirical fantasy shows Terry Gilliam's inventive imagination at its peak - although it seems to have more appeal to the British sense of humour than to others.  A fairly thin, standard story adapted from Lewis Carrol's 'The Jabberwock', is fleshed out by some wonderfully-staged humour and excellent performances by perfectly-cast veterans of stage and screen. Medieval nerd Dennis Cooper is besotted with love for the gross Griselda Fishfinger, but, disowned by his father on his deathbed, has to travel to the City to seek his fortune, armed only with the clothes he stands up in and a potato 'love'-token from Greasy. The city is besieged by the eponymous monster and King Bruno decides to hold a tourney to find the best knight to see the Jabberwock off. Of course, Dennis gets carried along and saves the day.The sets are just amazing, and the costumes, props and cast turn this into a delight for the senses. Most of the humour is very predictable - but done in such a way as to heighten the enjoyment at the protracted punch-line; eg the armourer, laboriously rivetting, is distracted by the well-meaning Dennis, setting off a chain reaction that just has one rolling with laughter. There are just so many of these staged interludes, it's amazing how they fit into such a relatively short film, but there are also some wonderful one-liners hidden in there; 'his teeth turned WHITE overnight...!' comments one carious yokel to his equally plaque-toothed colleague.Terry Gilliam's direction is at its peak here - even outshining the Monty Python films (and they are GOOD!) - but the casting is better than anything else I've seen; Max Wall is the epitome of the senile, decrepit old king who has occasional flashes of sanity; John LeMesurier as his long-suffering doleful chamberlain; Warren Mitchell as the slimy, money-grubbing Fishfinger; Harry H Corbett as the raunchy devil-may-care squire; and of course Michael Palin, who just IS Dennis. I never tire of watching this film, I'm just glad that it is now finally available on DVD (but only in USA, so far -(( ) "},{"Title":"A great much unappreciated film","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A top film that deserves more credit.  The humour is dark yet very clever. To truly appreciate the film please watch it more than once and look out for all the off camera humour.  I only wish Terry Gillam and Michael Palin would team up for more films "},{"Title":"Michael Palin's Best","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The best of Michael Palin's films. I found it funny right to the end. There was a sense of wonder in the country bumkin he played so well, too. It was also Terry Gilliam's best directing job. "}{"Title":"Not your typical Python","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Before Terry Gilliam directed The Fisher King and Brazil, he had Jabberwocky to practice with. A low budget comedy at its very best, Gilliam had an up hill struggle trying to direct a Python like comedy without many of his Python sidekicks.  Jabberwocky has its moments but fails to live up next to the classic Holy Grail and Life of Brian films. Although many of the scenes in Jabberwocky were done in one or two takes since they had very little cash to make the movie, the film falls short of anything great, but remains a good film. Like Python, most if not all the film is great. Each scene has something funny or down right ridiculous in classic Python fashion. In Jabberwocky, some scenes are not at all comical. This makes some of the film drag on, causing many Python fans to change the channel. "},{"Title":"unadulterated crap--I want my money back","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I think the biggest reason I hated this film was due to its EVIL marketing campaign. When it was released in America, it was deliberately billed as Monty Python's Jabberwocky in many theaters and newspapers. It was NEVER intended as a Python flick at its release, as it stars ONLY Michael Palin and is directed by Terry Gilliam. The rest of the Pythons are completely absent (with the exception of a BRIEF cameo by Terry Jones)--along with much of the humor. I wonder if my feelings would be quite as strong if it had marketed more honestly. Well, maybe, though the movie had many repellent aspects that would have surely turned me off anyways. The fair Griselda was a repulsive, fat pig of a woman and Palin's being so smitten by this wretch may at first be funny, but it is too unfunny a joke upon which to base most of the movie. Then, the beggar who saws his feet off to increase donations (out of pity) isn't funny either. There may have been funny moments, but sadly these are the only elements that have lasted over the years.In perusing the other reviews, I wonder if something is amiss. This was a bad film but the reviews are mostly favorable. Could this be a case of people rating a film highly because of their love for Monty Python? I love the show as much as anyone (I have all the episodes and films), but feel it's a bit dishonest to over-rate a film just because you like the director or starring actor! I've seen this happen with quite a few other films (a great example is ERIK THE VIKING) and I just wish the reviewers ignored other projects and focused on the specific film itself. Sentiment for past projects doesn't make a good film. "},{"Title":"Rubbish.","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Absolutely awful, staggeringly unfunny comedy may be worth watching for the weird fight scene between the heroes and the dragon, but that's at the last 10 minutes, and sitting through the previous 90 is an almost impossible mission. Director and lead may make you believe that this is some kind of Monty Python and the Holy Grail sequel, but you would be wrong that one was brilliant, this one is utter rubbish. "},{"Title":"Great film if you have the intelligence to understand it","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is great. Alot of ppl will not get the jokes because they don't understand intelligent humor. This movie should be made into a dvd. I don't know why the VHS is so hard to find and other Monty Python movies (I realize this isn't a Monty Python film but its the same ppl) are so easy to find. Some should do something about that ) "},{"Title":"Bonecrushing Display of Phosphorescence","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Rest assured that there is little relationship between this film and Carroll's poem about his father's crusade against French etymology.Instead, we have the first chapter in Gilliam's quest for an appropriate vehicle for his imagination. That imagination isn't comic in the ordinary sense. Gilliam's world is one which is architecturally cinematic, has lots of incongruous objects, and is governed by alternate laws of whimsey. The humor comes in the incidental overlaps between our world and his. These overlaps are accomplished by his commitment to various narrative tricks of folding visions, hallucinations, irony, invented memory.You can follow his quest - which is much like the quest depicted here - through episodes of social commentary, puppet shows, sexual innuendo and pratfalls. Nothing works in this film or in his career until `Fear and Loathing' which is perfect.If you insist on watching this, at least you can see his treatment of space. It is inexpert here, but you can see his respect for presenting the space of a scene. Some of these are bald theft from Eisenstein's Ivan films and Tarkovsky's nod to them `Andrei Rublev..'Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}]