[{"Title":"A strong cast and a well-written script","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Kathleen Quinlan plays Deborah, a very bright girl, who is institutionalized for three years in a psychiatric hospital. Though different from the book in some ways, this keeps the spirit of it quite well and with a much more satisfying ending than the book. Quinlan is a wonderful actress.  Deborah, who is diagnosed as a schizophrenic (though she probably wouldn't be today), has a long, torturous journey through her illness. Quinlan makes us believe that she will succeed. In addition, there is a strong cast of mostly women of many ages. I saw this film first when I was a teenager and the problems Deborah faced also resonated with me (despite not being in a hospital). I have never forgotten this film, though it has been out of print on video for many years and can only view it when it occasionally makes it on television. Catch it if you can -- especially if you are a teenage girl or ever were. "},{"Title":"an amazing performance pays homage to a book of overwhelming complexity","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I agree completely with Dara.  I was 20 when I saw it and I would recommend reading the book first, which gives you the background for Deborah's dreamlife.  The film can't even begin to show the cruel beauty of her inner world, and (perhaps appropriately) omits any reference to her ethnic and familial demons.When I think of this movie, I see the look in Kathleen Quinlan's eyes. Her performance is precocious and utterly...amazing, especially for an actress just into her 20's.  She seems possessed, wholly inhabited by the character of Deborah, and her scenes with Bibi Andersson are magical.  I would credit the director and cinematographer with the wonderful feel of the movie, but Quinlan's portrayal of a young girl marooned in a parallel universe of her mind's own devising is timeless. "},{"Title":"Devastating, complicated, harrowing...not an easy movie to like, but impossible to dismiss","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Hannah Green's popular book has become first-rate medical drama despite echoes of other hospital horror shows (which are probably unavoidable) and many disturbing, alarming episodes which cause a general lack of relief to be intensely felt. Kathleen Quinlan is remarkable in a unheralded tour-de-force playing schizophrenic, suicidal young woman admitted into a mental institution by her parents. Quinlan's Deborah Blake is not an innocent lamb being tossed to the lions--she's as deeply troubled and psychotic as the other inmates--yet her doctor (a warm, compassionate Bibi Andersson) detects a core of sound reasoning to Deborah's manner, and works carefully on rescuing the girl from the demons who plague her. Deborah's fantasy world, which takes place in what appears to be a prehistoric civilization of Indian mystics, seems wildly overwrought at first (and we never do uncover the connection between Deborah and these tribal warriors and lovers); however the structure of the film is quite linear and, as we move from one chapter to the next, we can sense what drives this girl to self-destruction without a lot of technical jargon. Supporting cast is also strong, particularly Norman Alden as a kind orderly and Martine Bartlett (who played the mother in Sybil) as a resident hysteric. Sylvia Sidney, as a returning patient who didn't make it on the outside, is typically a wonderful performer, yet she's never quite convincing in this part; her trained, poised style of acting tends to clash with the unbridled crazies who wander up and down the halls. Also, there's a small leap forward in time near the end which is momentarily confusing--perhaps another sequence with Andersson might have helped to prepare viewers for Blake's tentative recovery. Otherwise, a gut-wrenching achievement unblinking, hard to watch on occasion, but undeniably potent and well-made. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Ultimately, the setting becomes oversatured and the characters explored but not understood","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" But there is still a very interesting movie in here with a number of memorable sequences.The movie is about our protagonist, who to our understanding, is a teenaged girl, who apparently either hallucinates about some bizarre fantasy world (and not in a fun Terry Gilliam way but a seriously bizarre why would she even consider this superior way?) or merely is in fantasy about it in escaping from reality, it's not explained. It begins as she goes to a mental hospital in the countryside it looks and almost immediately our main character inexplicably stabs herself and gets thrown in a disturbed section as opposed to the initial summer camp section. It is here, where our story follows the rest of the film, a series of up and down spirals and looks at her interactions with the other patients.The thing about all of this is we never actually get to understand the characters at all. We are never told what they're about, why they feel this way, what their backgrounds are, and why they do what they what they do. They just are, and throughout the whole piece the audience feels like with any of the characters, it never surpasses the point of acquaintment because even, if the characters be developed, they were never characterized in the first place, so it's irrelevant. At the same time, though the movie certainly to its benefit explores the setting and situation in a very visceral way, by the movie's end, everything feels oversaturated, because it feels as though we have spent such time in this setting watching similar things with people that don't really mean much for so long that it just starts to wear thin. When the film end, we aren't really sure why the events have turned out as they did, because we aren't really sure why they were the other way in the first place. It just feels like a breath of fresh air to get a new sense of scenery.The thing is, though, despite that, the movie is still successful probably because the happenings themselves are rather interesting, the unflinching portrayal has the power to captivate, and there is claustrophobic intensity to the asylum as well as a general heterosexual male (being the viewer) to recessive female women appeal, which really adds a type of close-knit feel with the characters.So, it's not the most satisfying nor the most well-devised film of its genre out there, but if you be a fan of asylum films, this is definitely worth checking out. I also must note that out of all the mental hospital films out there, this is probably the most intense. This movie is 100% serious and very frightening and unsettling. There's no comedy nor light-heart in this movie. The tone is closer to a horror film (despite that it is a pure dramatic realism) than it is to One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. From that perspective this film is actually very unique. "},{"Title":"Who would have ever imagined that Roger Corman executive produced this?","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Right after One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest offered a scathing look at mental institutions, I Never Promised You a Rose Garden offered a similar sort of look. Portraying young Deborah Blake (Kathleen Quinlan) getting put in one and experiencing the unpleasant things there while Dr. Fried (Bibi Andersson) tries to help her, the movie makes you feel like there's a knife in your stomach. Certainly this institution is not any place where you're likely to become sane. But Deborah has to make her way through no matter what.There are some pretty disturbing scenes here, and they do a very good job with it. As a director, Roger Corman may be known for camp, but as executive producer here, he cooperated on a well done flick. Also starring Lorraine Gary (Roy Scheider's wife in Jaws), Sylvia Sidney (the Mars Attacks! grandmother) and a fairly young Dennis Quaid and Clint Howard. "},{"Title":"Every Rose has its Thorn","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Deborah Blake (Kathleen Quinlan) is admitted to a country institution by her high street parents, unable to cope with the ignominy brought upon them, by her erratic, anti-social behaviour. Taunted by her inner-demons (to which we're treated inventively from the mind's eye perspective), she's gradually cajoled from her psychosis by the unassuming, yet fiercely determined treating doctor (Bibi Andersson delivering a warm, sympathetic performance). Along the journey, there's a couple of plot diversions, some poignant, others hackneyed and exploitative, but then would New World Pictures ever have made this movie without a stereotypical bully nurse scenario? Unlikely.Roger Corman's production combines cinematic liberties with an at times reverent translation of the Hannah Green novel, creating a compelling B-movie drama and an unlikely companion in the mental illness sub-genre. A cynical viewer might postulate that Corman saw a payday following the success of One Flew Over the Cukoo's Nest, and to an extent, this remains exploitative cinema. Quinlan's performance on the other-hand defies that brand, her characterisation personifies trauma and while often intense, isn't overcooked.You have to commend New World Pictures for commissioning this release against type, especially when you consider it was straddled by Hollywood Boulevard and Piranha in the production line. Has a tendency to stigmatise in its representations of the subject matter, and not as sophisticated as, say, William Friedkin's ultra disturbing Bug, Rose Garden thematically, probably nestles in between Caged Heat on the left, and Cuckoo's Nest on the right. A curious comparison to make, nevertheless, an enjoyable film in spite of its flaws. "},{"Title":"Interesting and solidly acted.","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Kathleen Quinlan portrays Deborah Blake, a teenager taken to a mental hospital after a suicide attempt. While she moves in and out of reality - she has a very rich fantasy life - her dedicated psychiatrist, Dr. Fried (Bibi Andersson), tries to reach her.I Never Promised You a Rose Garden earns some points for being so brutally straightforward about what it does. Director Anthony Page obviously tries to be as realistic as possible in portraying the day to day lives of women with severe mental issues. It's easy to see why some people would consider it disturbing. It's fairly powerful stuff.A lot of credit goes to the actresses. Although, unfortunately, we don't really get to know any of these characters that well, the ladies all leave an impression. Young Quinlan delivers a performance of incredible maturity. Rather than creating a traditional, sort of artificial performance as a crazy person, she feels completely authentic, as do her co-stars. Susan Tyrrell, Signe Hasso, Sylvia Sidney, and Nancy Parsons all do creditable work.Lots of other familiar faces turn up in roles big and small Ben Piazza and Lorraine Gary as Deborahs' parents, Reni Santoni as a cruel orderly, and Norman Alden, Dennis Quaid, Robert Viharo, Diane Varsi, Lynne Marie Stewart, Clint Howard, Jeff Conaway, and Richard Herd as well.One criticism this viewer had was that things seemed to get wrapped a little too quickly and neatly as Deborah finds her salvation. Still, it is a relief to get a respite from the oppressive hospital environment in the films' closing minutes.So, while not all that satisfying, this is still a decent and well intentioned production with some sobering moments. It really stands out from other New World product of the time.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If you've already read the book this film is a disappointment. If you haven't read it you are better off skipping the film and getting the book. The film removes too much of the book and basically makes little sense.The film implies that Deborah's urethral cancer caused her schizophrenia. Which does a disservice to both the book and to the understanding of schizophrenia. Her other world is quite boring in the film and much richer in the book.The cast is a good one which is why it warrants stars at all. And they do a good job at acting with what they had to work with. "},{"Title":"You won't cure me with words, Doctor","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This isn't a film that always works, but when it does, it finds its way so deep under your skin that the pain is surprising. The acting is what stands above everything else here. I suppose I'd seen Kathleen Quinlan before, but I can't say I've ever really noticed her. Maybe it's because she's so young, so human here that it stands out amongst everything else she did before and after this. Her performance is wild, heartbreaking, intensely realized. Other performances, like Bibi Andersson, are great, but not as essential as Quinlan.This is ground that has been covered with perhaps more consistency (in a cinematic sense) with films like Girl, Interrupted but never with the same emotional depth as here. Anthony Page makes a lot of strange, even bad directorial decisions perhaps, but he captures a crazed, uneasy tone in the cinematography and performances that brings it all together. The only odd points are the off-center dreams/hallucination sequences and out-of-place soundtrack. If you can overlook these, this is a truly great film. It really tore my heart out. "},{"Title":"The female version.","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I thought that this was an excellent movie about a woman named Deborah who ends up in a mental hospital. It's like a female version of One flew over the Cuckoo's Nest. Compared to the other patients in the hospital, Deborah seems pretty normal but she is still really sick. With the help of her doctor, Deborah starts therapy to feel pain. As the movie goes along there are ups and downs in her treatment and the way that the other patients are being treated. The acting in this movie is so incredible that it seems like it was really filmed in a mental hospital. While One flew over the Cuckoo's Nest had an awesome ending, this movie's ending is just average until the very last part. In real life, not everything is a rose garden. "}{"Title":"Pretty good film, although not that pleasant to watch","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pretty good film, although not that pleasant to watch. This was done the year after One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest swept the major Oscars, so it might have been an attempt to cash in. Kathleen Quinlan was outstanding, though she was so young, I might not have recognized her if I hadn't known. She played the mentally disturbed extremely well, largely by not over-doing it, passing on the chance to chew the scenery. The story is about a young girl (16 or so) committed to a mental hospital in what looks like the 1950's. Bibi Anderssen as the psychiatrist seemed to be a follower of Freud, who has since been discredited. A previous commenter said that Deborah would not likely be considered schizophrenic today. I have not read the book that this was based on, but the movie portrays Deborah as profoundly mentally ill. Seems schizo to me. "},{"Title":"Interesting for the cast...","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a film which came too late.Anybody who sees it is going to compare it to Anatole Litvak's the snake pit (1948).But that was then and this is now and the evolution is barely discernible.If snake pit was (unfairly) dismissed as obsolete,what can we say of a movie which was produced thirty years later and (roughly) depicts the same milieu? The most interesting thing in that average-to-good foray into psychiatry is its cast.Bergmanian Bibi Anderson is ideally cast as the shrink who tells the disappointed heroine I've never promised you a rose garden.But there are also former glories such as Signe Hasso and Sylvia Sydney and future stars (Dennis Quaid). "},{"Title":"Catch early performances of other actors","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Check out Dennis Quaid as the baseball pitcher, and Ron Howard's little brother as the catcher.  Also credits at the end of the movie for The Mystic Knights of the Oingo Boingo with Dan Elfman.  This is the earliest public mention of that entity that I know of...This is Danny Elfman of course from Oingo Boingo(Dead Man's Party/I like little girls), who now does movie soundtracks such as Batman, TV shows The Simpsons, and Tales from the Crypt.  He is also Jenna Elfman's(Dharma and Greg) uncle.  Have fun with all the degrees of separation here. "}]