[{"Title":"Nobody does it quite the way you do","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"49 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" You don't review James Bond movies, you evaluate them, rate them according to how well they meet expectations. There are certain things one has come to expect, even demand of a Bond film and each individual effort either delivers or it doesn't. So, here are ten elements that make a Bond film a Bond film and how THE SPY WHO LOVED ME rates on a scale of 1 to 10Title THE SPY WHO LOVED ME The title seems more appropriate for a Harlequin Romance novel, and if suitable at all for a Bond film, it would have been a better title for ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE. Yet, it does finally work the word spy into the title of a Bond film. 7 points.Pre-Credit Teaser It's all very nicely done Within a few minutes, we see a submarine stolen and its crew kidnapped; we meet the Soviet's top agent, who just happens to be -- surprise! -- a woman; and we get the added treat of one of Bond's greatest stunts, the great skiing-skydiving trick. A pretty cool way to kick off the film and set up the various story lines. 9 points.Opening Credits Arguably the silliest of all of Maurice Binder's efforts, the opening sequence finds 007 bouncing around on a trampoline while various miniature, and apparently naked, babes do gymnastics on the barrels of guns. (Pity he didn't come up with that idea for THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN.) Bordering on self-parody, it is nonetheless naughty and fun and colorful and oh-so very James Bond. 9 points.Theme Song No beating around the bush here, the song gets right to the point Nobody does it half as good as you, Baby, you're the best. Just what Bond is best at is open to interpretation. The music by Marvin Hamlisch is swanky and matched by Carol Bayer Sager's dreamy and only slightly sarcastic lyrics. And Carly Simon's vocals bring it all home. Maybe not the best Bond song, but right up there. 9 points.Bond, James Bond Moore finally makes the role his. The number of smug one-liners have been trimmed, yet he still invests the character with humor -- plus some warmth and charm, and unexpected sadness. And we get to see a bit of Bond's vanity as he matches wits with a female agent who is his equal and not impressed by his stock-and-trade flirtations. Moore's best appearance as Bond. 9 points.Bond Babes The prevailing notion has always been that Bond Girl equals Bimbo, which is only partly true. Most of the women Bond encounters are highly skilled professionals -- as well as being bimbos. But Soviet agent Major Anya Amasova, a.k.a. XXX, is the first Bond Girl to give James a run for his money. She's smart, sexy, capable, resourceful and it takes her almost the whole movie to actually fall in love with Bond. What will power! As played by Barbara Bach (a.k.a., soon-to-be Mrs. Ringo Starr), Anya ranks as one of the best Bond Girls, easily worthy of 9 points.Bond Villain Karl Stromberg (nice villainous name, by the way) is one of those mad billionaires who hopes to create a new world order by mass genocide and building a new society, this time underwater. It is pretty much a cliché character and unfortunately Curt Jurgen plays the part like a grumpy old man and can't seem to muster up even a maniacal laugh. 5 points.Bond Baddies Oddjob look-a-like Sandor, played by Milton Reid, puts in an appearance long enough to die a memorable death, but it is Richard Kiel who steps into the limelight as Jaws, one of the great Bond villains. If being a hulking, seven-foot tall muscle man weren't enough, he also has steel teeth and an amazingly obsessive desire to kill 007. Playing Wile E. Coyote to Bond's Road Runner, Jaws earns 9 points.Sinister Plot Stromberg steals a Russian and a U.S. sub, as well as a British one, with the hopes of starting World War III and destroying the civilization as we know it today. Been there, done that. 4 points.Production values Romantic imagery, clever lighting effects and intriguing camera angles make this the most visually appealing Bond film. In the past, the emphasis was always on the most effective way to film action sequences, but here director Gilbert Lewis strives for that little bit extra as far as mood and romance. 9 points.Bonus Points Connery had his Astin Martin and Moore gets a Lotus Esprit. It is not nearly as snazzy, but it does turn into a submarine and you never know when that will come in handy. 5 points.Summary It had been hinted at in the three previous Bond adventures, but a new sense of style is fully apparent here. The roughness and grit that many of the purists loved about Connery's films are pretty much gone in favor of a polish and panache. Whether that is being suave or merely superficial is open to interpretation, but it does set the tone and the expectations for all future Bond adventures.Bond-o-meter Rating 84 points out of 100. "},{"Title":"Bond, Back to Basics...","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"50 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the critical and commercial beating taken by THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN, producer Albert Broccoli, now solely in charge of the 007 franchise, had to re-evaluate the series for the third time in less than ten years. Certainly, Roger Moore would never be believable in a Sean Connery-type Bond film, but couldn't some of the series' best elements be restored, and the comedy reduced a bit, to make Moore's Bond a bit more believable?The research, which became the basis of THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, took over two years to complete, and the script went through many writers before the final draft, by Christopher Wood and Richard Maibaum. With a renewed emphasis on more realistic action, Broccoli brought back Lewis Gilbert to direct; his earlier Bond effort, YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE, while not a major 'hit', had featured the most spectacular action sequences of the series. With Gilbert on board, the production became very reminiscent of the Connery film (Even the concept of a supertanker 'swallowing' submarines echoed YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE, and the spacecraft-'eating' SPECTRE capsule). As the villain, esteemed German actor Curt Jurgens was cast as Karl Stromberg, an ideal choice, as the actor, with his bulging eyes, 'fit' the role of a fish-like megalomaniac. Playing his henchman, Jaws, in an inspired piece of casting, giant Richard Kiel, complete with 'bear-trap' steel teeth, would provide Moore with the greatest danger he'd ever face as Bond. Kiel was, in fact, so good in the role (possibly the most popular villain of the entire 007 franchise), that he would return in MOONRAKER, to bedevil Bond some more. Less successful, dramatically, but still astonishing to watch would be Stromberg's 'hit woman', Naomi, played by voluptuous Caroline Munro.In an effort to 'update' Bond into an era of feminists, the strongest, most independent love interest to appear in at Bond film to that point was introduced. Major Anya Amasova, played by Ringo Starr's wife, the exotically beautiful Barbara Bach, was Bond's opposite number on the Russian side, an equal to 007 in every way. In a pivotal scene, she would display a knowledge of Bond's past that even included his dead wife, Tracy (the first time Bond's marriage had been mentioned since ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE). Moore's reaction to her comment would be both emotional and abrupt, and demonstrated that he could do far more than just deliver witty one-liners.From the spectacular ski chase pre-title sequence, climaxing with a parachute free fall off a cliff (love that 'Union Jack'), to Bond and Anya's confrontations with Jaws, in Egypt (reminiscent of Bond's fights with Oddjob in GOLDFINGER and Tee Hee in LIVE AND LET DIE), to the amazing Lotus that would do service on land and in the ocean, to the massive tanker battle while Bond disarms a nuclear warhead (shades of GOLDFINGER), THE SPY WHO LOVED ME would do homage to 007's previous adventures, and utilize humor in support of the on-screen action, instead of spoofing it (other than the brief use of the LAWRENCE OF ARABIA theme...you'll spot it).And to top things off, Carly Simon's rendition of the film's title tune, Nobody Does It Better, would become a Top Ten hit, worldwide.Critics and audiences loved THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, hailing it as Moore's best work, and one of the better Bonds of all time. Things were, again, looking up for 007...but STAR WARS was about to debut, and things would go dreadfully amiss, when Broccoli decided to send Bond into space, in MOONRAKER...    "},{"Title":"Exceptionally good Bond film","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"41 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just like the highly disappointing Die another day is a regrettable class example of how to do everything in a James Bond film completely wrong, legendary The Spy who loved me is a prototype of a perfect 007 adventure. Everything seems to work here.First of all this was the first Bond movie that really showed what a modern pre-credits sequence should look like. After all in Roger Moore's first two flicks Live and let die and The Man with the golden gun we don't even see 007 until after the credits.From the opening ski chase to the underwater car, stunts are amazing. In many ways this has to be one of the most imaginative Bonds. Story is excellent, especially because it doesn't only deal with Stromberg's evil plot against the unaware world but because it has a pleasant little sideplot about 007's relationship with Major Anya Amasova. Villains are of course splendid, why should I even bother to mention that (almost literally) larger-than-life character Jaws is perhaps the most beloved bad guy James Bond has ever been against with. Curd Jürgens also gives a magnificent performance as the insane mastermind Stromberg.I'm one of the people who thinks that in the end Sean Connery is the one and only true James Bond. Nevertheless, The Spy who loved me is still better than some of Connery's Bond movies. At least it surpasses From Russia with love, Thunderball and Diamonds are forever and I must admit these films are most terrific experiences too.Everyone should see this film, not only the big Bond fanatics. Why? Simply because The Spy who loved me is not only a significant film in the movie series, it's much more than that. It's an important part of the pop culture. "},{"Title":"One of Moore's finest.","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"43 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Undeniably one of the finest James Bond films to star Roger Moore, the film has plenty of excess, top notch special effects (for 1977) anyway, the humor less overt and left over for puns and one liners, and one of the first strong and independent Bond women, paving the way for future love interests like Jinx and Wai Lin. The Spy Who Loved Me scarcely puts a foot wrong. Sure the plot is far fetched to the extreme (an underwater building and a villain looking to repopulate the earth in his underwater city), but it has plenty of charm and is frequently enjoyable. Moore looks very confident in his performance as Bond, the one liners oozing effort and confidence, showing he has hit  his stride in this, his third appearance as the character. His chemistry with Barbara Bach is in full swing, despite her odd Russian accent, and the two of them make for a great on screen couple.This is a return to the values of many of the Bond films that were missing the last  time around. The extravagant sets are back, the villain has plenty of henchman for Bond and the cavalry to fight and the gadgets are in full swing. Everything from a parachute with the Union Jack on it to the Lotus with just about every conceivable gadget at Bond's disposal. The emphasis on sight gags and overt comedy is gone and replaced with moments of genuine suspense, just check out Bond having to steal the detonator of a nuclear weapon, not to mention the superb theme tune Nobody Does it Better by Carly Simon.It's an apt song for a series that found its footing and gave its lead actor his first classic Bond film. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore rated this as his best Bond film. I don't agree, but it's certainly an entertaining and spectacular one.","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"28 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore has always maintained that The Spy Who Loved Me is the best of his Bond films. Personally I prefer Octopussy and For Your Eyes Only, but this one certainly has its moments. The original novel by Ian Fleming was an odd-one-out in the book series, describing as it did how an off-duty Bond saved a female hotelier from a couple of nasty hoodlums. However, in this film adaptation the novel has been completely jettisoned and replaced with a story about Bond thwarting a megalomaniac from achieving world domination.Bond (Moore) is partnered with Russian agent Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach - most beautiful of all the many Bond girls) to solve the mysterious disappearance of two nuclear submarines, one British the other Russian. They follow the clues to the underwater lair of Karl Stromberg (Curt Jurgens), an elegant and educated psychopath with a plan to destroy the world in a nuclear holocaust and retreat to his undersea empire. To add to their complications, Anya learns that her recently killed boyfriend was eliminated by Bond during an assignment.The pre-credit sequence is among the better pre-credit sequences in the series, involving an extraordinary ski stunt which many consider to be the most breathtaking stunt ever devised for a Bond film. Moore is good as Bond, Bach stunningly attractive as his partner (though not very convincing as an actress), and Jurgens provides a suitably over-confident villain. The location work in various locations, most notably Egypt, is nicely photographed. Marvin Hamlisch provides the music, marking a change from the usual composer John Barry, and Hamlisch's score is decent enough though it does have a dated '70s quality to it when listened to nowadays. The plot is totally implausible and self-parodic (if they'd stuck to the plot in the book though, it would've been almost impossible to make a Bond movie in the expected sense of the phrase), but director Lewis Gilbert cleverly plays it with tongue-in-cheek so that the absurdness of the on-screen events becomes curiously endearing. The Spy Who Loved Me is silly, entertaining and extravagantly spectacular. "},{"Title":"Q supplies 007 with 'Wet Nellie,' one of the most remarkable vehicles ever entrusted to Bond's tender care since Goldfinger's DB5...","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 10th James Bond film, 007 does not always win and this makes him more human... His relationship with a resourceful and beautiful Russian agent is something new for the Bond films...Lewis Gilbert's film provides direct allusion to David Lean's epic movies, bringing back a Blofeld-type character... His name is Karl Stromberg, a shipping tycoon who despises every aspect of terrestrial civilization...Stromberg (Curt Jurgens) enjoys hearing classical music while plotting to decimate the human population... He hijacks atomic submarines belonging to the British and Soviet navies, and plans to use their nuclear missiles to destroy both New York and Moscow&#133; Stromberg's aquarium, of sharks and other deadly fish, is his pride and passion... 'For me this is all the world', he declares, 'There is beauty. There is ugliness. And there is death.'Stromberg's three killers are Jaws, Sandor and Naomi&#133; Jaws (Richard Kiel) steals the show as the most menacing and fearsome henchman Bond has ever faced since the mute Korean assassin Oddjob in 'Goldfinger.' Equipped with stainless steel teeth, Jaws is a giant of a killer on the loose who can't be stopped or killed&#133; Sandor (Milton Reid) is the bald, muscle-bound assassin who tries to kill Bond at Aziz Fekkesh's apartment in Cairo&#133; Naomi (Caroline Munro) is Stromberg's luscious assistant and helicopter pilot who shows her 'lovely lines,' giving Bond a lewd while trying to shoot him and Anya down from the air...Bond and his very fine Russian ally Anya are sent to Egypt to identify the traitor who is putting the microfilm of the submarine tracking system on the open market... Each agent thinks the other is behind the hijacking... They play a game of spy versus spy in the land of the Pharaohs, until it is revealed that a third party has been playing them off against each other in typical SPECTRE style...Bond is seen sensitive and a little bit incredulous about certain topics... He is waylaid in the Alps by a posse of Russians on skis... He shots a KGB agent using a ski-pole gun, and goes over a cliff and falls and falls and falls... Roger Moore again adopts a naval commander's uniform... He orders a Baccardi on the rocks for Anya, and impresses her when describing her life story... He comments that he maybe has misjudged Stromberg referring that Any man who drinks Dom Perignon '52 can't be all bad.Barbara Bach had some unfinished business to settle with 007... Her role of Anya Amasova brings the feminine touch and talent to the action... Bach is attractive, classy, stylish, intelligent, confident, very sexy, and absolutely wonderful... The film also marks the appearance of Walter Gottel as General Alexis Gogol, head of the KGB, who (unlike M) possesses somewhat of a sense of humor... Gogol has a deep attraction for beautiful women, and would become a regular character... Edward De Souza proves to be wonderfully ironic as the Cambridge-educated Sheikh Hosein, whose harem includes a little treasure of whom our 'man of action' announces his intention to 'delve deeply into. The Spy Who Loved Me deserves its popularity for its exquisite design for Atlantis, its lovely music score, and its humorous touches&#133; The real names of both M and Q are revealed in the movie&#133; "},{"Title":"Bond Explodes Back To Action","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me put the 007 epic back on truly epic grounds after the bitter disappointment of Diamonds Are Forever and the mixed measure of Live and Let Die and The Man With The Golden Gun.  Spy adds vast new spectacle to the Bond epic along with strong interplay with some interesting new characters and a major improvement in the series' production values. The idea of Bond meeting his match is the starting point for The Man With The Golden Gun, but here the match is in a rival and ally from the Soviet secret service, Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach, who admittedly is over her head here but holds her own overall).  We see in Anya the direct counterpart to HMSS, complete with omnipresent leader in General Gogol (Walter Gotell, who becomes one of the series' best supporting characters) and a pretty secretary.  The Bond series also revisits the SPECTRE days in a sense, in that the antagonist is a self-contained independent force, shipping magnate Karl Stromberg (Curt Jurgens).  Stromberg owns a vast experimental undersea headquarters, Atlantis, and the world's largest container ship, the Liparus.  Stromberg becomes linked to the disappearence of several nuclear missile submarines, through a schematic of a submarine tracking system stored on microfilm.  Just what Stromberg's role entails becomes the mission for both James and Anya, and both find allies in the US Navy attack boat USS Wayne, under the command of Captain Scott Carter - here is a rarity in film, a supporting character who steals the show, here thanks to the splendid performance of Thunderbirds' own Shane Rimmer.Another supporting cast member steals the show as well, and would do so in the next Bond film.  Richard Kiel joins Harold Sakata as the most memorable of James Bond's offbeat villainous henchmen - where Sakata's Oddjob killed with a rapier-sharp bowler hat, Richard Kiel's Jaws uses steel alloy teeth as well as his own gigantic height; Kiel even brings back memories of Robert Shaw's Donald Red Grant in one of the most memorable stages for a Bond fistfight - the Orient Express.The film is scored by Marvin Hamlisch rather than John Barry, and Hamlisch adds a surprisingly effective disco touch to the Bond series, one that modernizes the series without disrupting the power of the tried-and-true music cues of before.  But the biggest quality in the film is the vastly improved production values.  Shane Rimmer was not the only Thunderbirds alumni to work in the Bond universe - SFX master Derek Meddings had worked with John Stears on Man With The Golden Gun, but here he takes over the SFX unit and greatly improves the scope and quality of the effects work, aided greatly by enormous and effective sets at Pinewood Studios that combine the best of Dr. No, You Only Live Twice, and especially Thunderball.The relationship between James and Anya is the primary drive in the tension of the film.  At first both try to one-up each other, such as in decoding the microfilm, identifying an obscure logo on the microfilm, and in the famous Lotus chase sequence when she reveals she stole blueprints for the design years earlier.  But the real strain lies in the film's prologue, when Anya's lover, himself employed by Mother Russia's security service, crosses paths with James - a confrontation James may not live down now.  His own feelings for Anya, however, put what is past fully in the past, and it leads to a showdown with Stromberg amid a threat of annihilation.It all adds up to an enormously entertaining spectacle, a highlight of the Bond epic. "},{"Title":"Before the movie XXX, there was the agent XXX.","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"26 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This particular James Bond movie is one of my favorites, perhaps the favorite. Though it is in a particularly close battle with another of Roger Moore's films, For Your Eyes Only for the top spot. Bizarre that these two are the two Bond films vying for top spot as they are both a bit different as far as the plot goes. Here the entire world is in danger whereas in that one, they are only going after a decoding device which sank in a ship. While The Man with the Golden Gun features my favorite Bond villain in Scaramanga, this one features my favorite henchmen in Jaws, played by Richard Kiel. His Jaws is also one of the few bad guys to return in another film. Granted, Blofeld did as well, but I do not believe he was ever played by the same person twice. So this Bond film features a lot of action, a very attractive Bond girl and a very awesome henchman whose sheer size is intimidating enough, but then they add metal teeth to the equation! It all adds up to be one of the more fun Bond films ever and a film where the action almost never stops! The story has both a British and Soviet submarine going missing. Bond is the man sent to find out what happened to the British one, while a female Soviet agent codenamed XXX is the one who must find the Soviet. They begin their search in Egypt where they learn of a submarine tracking device, but there is more to this than mere missing subs. Seems a very rich man who has a very strong affinity to the sea is somehow responsible and it will take a joining of the two agents who work for opposing companies to find out what this man's ultimate goal is before it is too late! The villain here is pretty good, but Stromberg is just not as equal a foe to Bond as was Scaramanga. He is the villain who must rely heavily on others to get what he wants which is why he has two henchmen, though Jaws definitely was more up to the challenge than was Sandor. Roger Moore once again does great as Bond and Barbara Bach as XXX is absolutely stunning. She looked absolutely gorgeous at the end as her outfit got wet! This movie also features my favorite Bond vehicle, the Lotus. It is a very cool car and they actually have a rather cool chase before it plummets into the ocean where we learn of its other special functions. Just a lot of good things here as the story is much improved compared to the previous film which had great characters galore, but not the strongest story to bring it all together.So this is a favorite Bond film of mine. It often baffles me how people complain today of all the action in movies with very little plot development as I see too many films these days that do not do all that much action and have way too much plot. This film was action sequence after action sequence, while take your typical comic film of today. Lots of people crying and doing nothing with maybe three action sequences at best. Yet these films apparently cost 200 million plus while this film has action and set pieces galore using more people and props because on cannot simply craft a special effect with a computer. This Bond film had it all and makes most of the films today seem very slow paced by comparison, then again as the song in this film says, nobody does it better! "},{"Title":"Commander James Bond, recruited to the British Secret Service from the Royal Navy. License to kill and has done so on numerous occasions.","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved Me is directed by Lewis Gilbert and adapted to screenplay by Christopher Wood and Richard Maibaum from the novel written by Ian Fleming. It stars Roger Moore, Barbara Bach, Curt Jurgens, Richard Kiel and Walter Gotell. Music is scored by Marvin Hamlisch and cinematography by Claude Renoir.Bond 10. Allied and Soviet nuclear submarines are mysteriously disappearing from the waters and causing friction between the nations. MI6 and the KGB have a notion that a third party is responsible and stirring up trouble for their own nefarious means. 007 is partnered with Soviet spy Major Anya Amasova (Agent XXX) and the pair are tasked with getting to the bottom of the plot before the crisis escalates.During the whole run of the James Bond franchise there have been a few occasions when it was felt it had run out of steam. 1977 and on the back of the mediocre reception and by Bond standards the poor box office return of The Man with the Golden Gun, now was one such time. With producer Albert Broccoli striking out on his own, the stakes were high, but with a determined vision forming in his head and a near $14 million budget to work from courtesy of United Artists, Broccoli went big, and it worked magnificently. The Spy Who Loved Me is Moore's best Bond film, not necessarily his best Bond performance, but as a movie it's near faultless, it gets all the main ingredients right. Gadgets and humour were previously uneasy accompaniments to James Bond as a man, but here they serve to enhance his persona, never taking away his tough bastard edge. The suspense and high drama is back, for the first time in a Roger Moore Bond film things are played right, we don't think we are watching an action comedy, but an action adventure movie, what little lines of humour are here are subtle, not overt and taking away from the dramatic thrust.For production value it's one of the best. Brocoli instructed the great Ken Adam to go build the 007 Stage at Pinewood so as to achieve their vision for The Spy Who Loved Me. At the time it became the biggest sound stage in the world. With such space to work from, Adam excels himself to produce the interior of the Liparus Supertanker, the home for a brilliant battle in the final quarter. Vehicles feature prominently, the amphibious Lotus Esprit moved quickly into Bond folklore, rocket firing bikes and mini-subs, helicopter, speedboat, escape pod, wet-bike and on it goes. Then there's Stromberg's Atlantis home, a wonderfully War of the Worlds type design for the outer, an underwater aquarium for the inner. Glorious locations are key, also, Egypt, Sardinia, Scotland and the Bahamas are colourful treats courtesy of Renoir's photography. Underwater scenes also grabbing the attention with some conviction.The film also features a great cast that are led by a handsome, and in great shape, Moore. Barbara Bach (Triple X) is not only one of the most beautiful Bond girls ever, she's expertly portraying a femme of substance, intelligent, brave and committed to the cause, she is very much an equal to Bond, and we like that. The accent may be a shaky, but it's forgivable when judging Bach's impact on the picture. Jurgens as Stromberg is a witty villain, but he oozes despotic badness, sitting there in his underwater lair deliciously planning to start a new underwater world. Kiel as Jaws, the man with metal teeth, he too moved into Bond folklore, a scary creation clinically realised by the hulking Kiel. Gotell as Gogol is a presence and Caroline Munro as Naomi is memorable, while Bernard Lee's M and Desmond Llewelyn's Q get wonderful scenes of worth. They forgot to give poor Moneypenney something to chew on, but in the main it comes over that the makers were reawakened to what made Bond films great in the first place. There's even a candidate for best title song as well, Nobody Does it Better, delivered so magically by Carly Simon. The grand vision paid off, handsomely. It raked in just over $185 million at the world box office, some $87 million more than The Man with the Golden Gun. Not bad considering it was up against a record breaking Star Wars. Critics and fans, too, were pleased. It's not perfect. It's ironic that director Lewis Gilbert returned for his second Bond assignment, because this does feel like a rehash of his first, You Only Live Twice, only bigger and better. Hamlisch underscores it at times and John Barry's absence is felt there. While if we are being particularly harsh? Then Stromberg could perhaps have been a more pro-active villain? He makes a telling mark, we know he's a mad dastard, but he only really sits around giving orders and pushing death dealing buttons. But small complaints that fail to stop this Bond from being one of the best. Hey, we even get an acknowledgement that Bond was once married, and the response from Bond is respectful to that dramatic part of his past. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Just like Carly sings it....","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With Roger Moore making the part his own by this his third bond film, Albert R. Broccoli had to come up with a strong action-packed epic, if they were to attract audiences that had been spoilt rotten by 'Star Wars' the same year.'The Spy Who Loved Me' offers no new scenarios, in fact you could easily dissect each key scene and match it to something that's been done before. There's an underwater battle like the one in 'Thunderball' a ski chase not too dissimilar to the one in 'Her Majesty's...' and even the final big shoot out is not unlike the one in 'You Only Live Twice' (which was also directed by Lewis Gilbert) but 'The Spy Who Loved me' is more than merely a sum of its parts, and when each part is handled as expertly as these, you don't seem to care if it has indeed been done before.The film like Moore exudes a certain charm, and provides a certain amount of nostalgia looking back at it now, with it's lively 70's fashions, even Bond's theme gets the disco treatment quite superbly. Ken Adam's stunning larger than life sets fit the film's extravagant, big budget flavour perfectly. Appreciative nods must also go to some fantastically attractive women, Caroline Munro playing the enticing Naomi has to be one of the most seductive looking femme fatales to steam up a wide-screen, and more's the pity that she didn't grace it longer. Barbara Bach is equally alluring, and a fine match for Roger Moore in all sense of the word . The film also offers a wealth of laughs while not forgetting the chills and spills, Richard Keil providing all as the relentless and unforgettable Jaws. The scene where he tears open a Sherpa Van like a sardine can is particularly memorable, as is him brushing himself off after plummeting into a farmhouse from a flying Mercedes. Some fine touches of drama too, Bond's response to XXX's remarks about his career and wife are handled with compassion and reverence.   So in all everything is here you could possibly want in a 007 adventure; top stunts, beautiful women, cool villains, those gloriously huge Pinewood sets and THAT car, wrapped in an exciting globe-trotting story line where Bond has to save the world from certain destruction, accompanied by Carly Simon sveltely singing 'Nobody does it better' it's not surprising that the 'Spy Who Loved Me' is one of the most memorable of all Bond films. "}{"Title":"One Of The Best Bond Movies (And Theme Song) Ever","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"28 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a nice surprise this was, a change for me since re-viewing some of these old Bond movies. With the exception of Goldfinger, I've been disappointed in the rest....but not this one. This film seemed far better than I had remembered, one of the best James Bond movies I've seen. My first look in over 30 years at this stunned me. I couldn't believe how entertaining and fun it was to watch!It's enjoyable right from the start and features my all-time favorite Bond song - Nobody Does It Better, By Carly Simon. It's sung or palyd throughout the movie.This was Roger Moore's third attempt at playing James Bond and he really hit his stride with this, being a natural as the suave spy. The action is plentiful but never seems too much or gets boring with an excess. It never quite crosses that line, although it comes close a few times.Curt Jurgens is very low-key as the villain Karl Stromberg. His role really isn't all that big. You don't see much of him until the end. Who you DO see is the seven-foot, two-inch giant Jaws (Richard Kiel) the main with the iron teeth. He is fun to watch, and is almost indestructible, like the evil cyborg in Terminator 2. Jaws just keeps coming back no matter what you do to him.Overall, this Bond film is attractive because it has just the right mixture of action, suspense and humor, and another pretty leading lady in Barbara Bach. I'm not sold on her Russian accent as Major Anya Amasova but she is nice the eyes. The accent made her appear sub- par as an actress. Otherwise, no complaints.The cinematography in here, too, is above-average. There are very nicely-filmed scenes with interesting camera-work. Good work, all-around! "},{"Title":"Moore Comes into his own as Bond","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to admit that I have a soft spot for this film as this is the first James Bond movie that I anticipated and then saw in a movie theater (I did see both The Man With the Golden Gun and Live and Let Die as the 2nd feature at a drive-in, but they don't count). So, I was a little apprehensive about re-watching a film that is a cherished memory.I am happy to report that this movie holds up. From the tremendous ski off the mountain opening shot, through Maurice Bender's always terrific opening credits to Richard Jaws Kiel and villain Curt Jurgens underwater hideout, I was entertained throughout. True, this movie has to overcome some truly tremendous 1970's synth-pop soundtrack, but add in Barbara Bach's wonderful turn as Agent XXX, andyou have the quintessential Roger Moore Bond movie.So, why is that? I think it is because Moore finally came into his own as Bond. In his third movie, Moore (and director Lewis Gilbert) dropped any attempt at Moore copying Sean Connery's roguish toughness and started cultivating Moore's natural tendency towards comedy. This comedic bent will, ultimately, overcome Moore's portrayal of Bond in future installments, but in TSWLM, they strike exactly the right tone.Go back and checkout THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, you'll be pleasantly surprised on how good this movie is.7 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank (of Marquis) "},{"Title":"Moore's 'Goldfinger', excellent in every way","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" To me, this has always been Roger Moore's 'Goldfinger' a brilliant James Bond film and one of the most definitive of the whole series. It really sets the standard.When Russian and British nuclear submarines are stolen at sea, the two countries immediately assign their best agents to find out what happened. James Bond 007 and Russia's Major Amasova XXX try to track down those responsible before the other does. They are later ordered to join forces and stop the villain's larger plan escalating into world war.This film has some of the most fantastic action and settings in the series. Unlike weaker Bonds, the story never comes second to needless stunts. It moves along at a spanking pace while feeling completely unhurried. A few have called it a 'remake of You Only Live Twice' but the film feels like nothing of the sort. Truly one to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Where The Spy Who Loved Me Stands","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved Me was one of the more successful Bond films because of its originality, style and best Bond henchmen of all time JAWS. It had very memorable moments, great car, great Bond girl. Roger Moore improved on being Bond since The Man With The Golden Gun (1974) and even surpassed his great acting in his first role. The Spy Who Loved me has awesome action scenes but Im not sure why it took 3 years to make? The Spy Who Loved Me stands 8thon my list where I have ranked the 007 movies from worst to best. There is a flawless opening title and is a very memorable Bond film for many.The spy who loved me will always stand 8th and will always be in my top 10.THE SPY WHO LOVED ME.007. "},{"Title":"Lavish 007 Adventure but Balanced and Better","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A megalomaniac named Stromberg plans to destroy the world and create a new civilisation. British Mi6 agent James Bond teams up with a Russian agent Anya Amasova to stop him.Quintsessential Bond that encapsulates adventure, fantasy and excitement. A strong score, cast and storyline help Roger Moore's 1977 outing sidestep other Bond shadows with a fine script that feels more suited for Moore's gentleman killer spy. Barbara Bach while distant (possibly due to her steely character Anya) is a fine Bond girl addition who is given more purpose and motivation. Strongburg is played perfectly by Curd Jürgens who portrays the ultimate antagonist. The locations are interesting, acting as a fitting background, the Egypt segments are particularly atmospheric and well filmed, veteran director Lewis Gilbert deserves credit for crafting such a lavish 007 adventure to the screen. As expected Ken Adams sets are superb, the effects, miniatures and stunts are outstanding, notably the Pre title ski jump.  Maurice Binder's titillating titles are a highlight coupled with the wonderful theme tune.Debatably Spy has the best James Bond score (composed by Marvin Hamlisch) to complement the action and emotion. The sound design is bold at times, fitting and also not afraid to be silent.  With Bond girls galore, celebrated series characters are all present- KGB Head, M, Q and Miss Moneypenny. All are reliable as ever putting in great performances and Jaws has his debut. While not the most serious or hard hitting in the franchise, this instalment is the most fulfilling and entertaining. It's a captivating experience with a wide audience appeal catering for young and old. Its a spectacle, sharks, gadgets, underwater cars and hideouts, submarines, helicopters, henchmen with metal teeth and a fight on a train, it's Moore's Bond at his most balanced and best. Extraordinary, a must see. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore=Bond","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved Me (1977) is the tenth film of the James Bond film series as well as being Roger Moore's third outing as the famous gentleman agent. This is the first film to be solely produced by Albert R. Broccoli (Due to Harry Saltzman's outside investments creating huge debts that prompted him to sell his rights to United Artists, thus breaking his partnership with Broccoli) and the first film that is not adapted from a Fleming novel (besides the title of Fleming's tenth novel of the same name). The plot focuses on two nuclear submarines (British and Russian) being stolen by a megalomaniac Karl Stromberg (Curt Jurgens) to exterminate the world and create an underwater society. Both governments send their top agents Bond from the British and Agent Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach) from the Soviet. The on-screen chemistry between these two characters is really fun to watch, with Moore's sterling humor and Bach's stubbornness as a female agent. The two eventually fall in love during their mission, but is cut short when Anya discovers that Bond killed her KGB boyfriend (seen in the pre- titles sequence). Another great element in this film is the henchman Jaws(Richard Kiel) who kills people with his metal-rimmed teeth. His indestructible presence was scary in the first few moments, but then gets really amusing towards the end of the film. Bond's Lotus Esprit was a cool car that could transform into a submersible vehicle, unbelievable, but not too corny either. The music was great, with a fantastic title song sung by Carly Simon and a disco-oriented Bond theme conducted by the great Marvin Hamlisch.This film was a tremendous financial and critical success during it's theatrical release and is considered to be one of the best Bond films of all time. This film had also firmly established Roger Moore as Bond. I give this film loads of credit to Moore (who was 50 at the time of this film's release) for his usual nonchalant performance as Bond who can also get away with a couple of awesome fight scenes. Barbara Bach was probably one of the most attractive Bond girls of all time and Curt Jurgen's cool performance as Stromberg was pure Bond villainy. Some fans and critics compare this one to Goldfinger (1964), but this film is way more sophisticated and Bond-like. The sets (particularly the tanker set by Ken Adam) were one of the best in a single Bond film. The Spy Who Loved Me is a great film which never bores you no matter how many times you watch it. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my favorite James Bond movie, and definitely one of my favorite movies overall. Why is it so good? Well for starters, it contains literally everything that was cool about the cinema James Bond in its running time. Charismatic and cool hero? You bet, as Roger Moore turns in his best and one of his most complex interpretations of James Bond. Evil antagonist with an insane, over the top plot? This movie has it in Curt Jurgens genuinely creepy,(even if he was sparsely used)villain who plans to blow up the world, and create a civilization under the sea; it does not get much more over the top than that. Evil henchman? Oh boy this movie delivers there with probably the best one of the whole series with Jaws, who is scary and fearsome in his role (unlike in Moonraker). How about the gadgets and car? They are also among the best with the submersible Lotus Esprit; which is pretty much tied with the DB5 as the best Bond car ever. Is there exotic locations? Yes, Egypt and Sardinia fit the bill nicely. Lastly, and most importantly there are several drop-dead gorgeous women, like Barbara Bach, Valerie Leon, and (my personal favorite actress) Caroline Munro. The Spy Who Loved Me is like a greatest hits collection of Bond, but what pushes the familiar elements over the top is the level of execution, polish, and creativity shown here. There have been ski-chases in the series before, but oh my none of them before or even after have lived up to the jaw-dropping chase and stunt that was in the opening teaser, it perfectly set the tone for the movie as an action packed thrill ride, which it definitely is. There have also been massive conflicts that pit the evil mastermind's forces against the good guys before in the series, but few have ever lived up to the titanic clash in the submarine hold near the end of the film. That is what makes the movie great, everything is bigger, better, and bolder than virtually everything else in the series. Even the story is somewhat familiar, as it hearkens back to You Only Live Twice, but once again it is improved on. The entertainment value in this movie is through the roof with some of the best stunts and fights in the series, and the story itself is good enough to keep the viewer interested until the conclusion. To top it all off this movie has one of the best opening songs in the entire series with Nobody Does It Better, a departure from other songs before this movie in style and name, but it is a beautiful piece that arguably sums up why James Bond is such an awe-inspiring cinema legend for over 50 years This film is just amazing ,and any true fan of the movies will love this piece of classic cinema. "},{"Title":"It's Bond... and beyond","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"21 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved Me was the first Bond film to be produced solely by Albert R. Broccoli, after Satzman's decision to sell his share of EON productions to United Artists. Although I think Broccoli was not aware of what Bond really stood for, paying far more attention to action and stunts than story lines and scripting( Moonraker attests to that), he nevertheless managed to produce some outstanding Bond movies. The one under discussion here also features an exceptional performance by Roger Moore, who proved he could really rise to he challenge of playing the world most famous secret agent in his own way.Despite having a thin plot( which Bond film doesn't?), Spy is still a grandiose adventure, with a romantic edge to it that works wonderfully. The initial section of the film, set in Egypt, though slow-paced, allows for a delightful romance between 007 and Russian female counterpart XXX. There is real chemistry between Roger and Bach,rendering the film believable they are just the world coolest secret agents, and they naturally fall in love.However, the movie has still its share of thrills and mind-boggling stunts. The Lotus Sprit is perhaps the coolest car to ever grace a Bond movie and the final confrontation on board the Lyparus, a gritty and crisply directed sequence ,remains one of the series highlights. Jaws makes his first appearance , and all of his showdowns with Bond have a real sense of danger to them.As for Lewis Gilbert, after having crafted the sheer spectacle of You Only Live Twice, he is equally comfortable here dealing with the romantic side of the story, as well as the humorous, light-hearted touches spread throughout the film. (An special mention should go to the priceless scene of the Lotus Sprit emerging from the water before the amazed tourists' eyes).While many so-called Bond fans despise this comic relief, I think it is necessary to balance the moments of seriousness and violence. Marvin Hamlisch's Oscar nominated score effectively helps Gilbert to create the special mood that permeates this film.But perhaps the most compelling aspect of this movie was Moore's performance, possibly the definitive portrayal of Bond. He is witty and seductive ,but he is ready to kill unhesitatingly if necessary. Check out the Egyptian rooftop fist fight sequence and you will know what I mean. The gesture of coldness and anger of Moore is unforgettable. He obviously wants to kill the guy, but still waits a few seconds to get the information before dropping him.Where did all this go? Moonraker, for all its entertaining moments, seems a self-parody,not to mention the slapstick in Octopussy. Fortunately, this approach to the character was recovered in For Your Eyes Only, not as brilliant as this movie, but still worth a look.All in all, this is Moore's best and definitely ranks up there alongside Goldfinger and You Only Live Twice "},{"Title":"Roger Moore Era Peaks.","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the super movies of the 70's. So I've heard from fellas at work who were in their teens when this James Bond movie came out. Such space adventures as Star Wars and Close Encounters must have been hard to compete with this year, but 007 was to be down to earth for one more act, then surrender.I myself can't find that many flaws in this film. All the necessary essences are there, such as the thrilling ski-jump of the opening scene. British - Russian collaboration (and love story, of course) spice it up, to crush a common enemy who wants the world population to start all over again, below and beyond the sea, after the usual destruction of the world as we know it. (Got it/heard it before?)Great tour to Egypt and Sardinia, among places, on the way. Script-entering the hit-man Jaws ( R.I.P Richard Kiel) went out so well that he was to return, not being annihilated here. The beautiful,wedge-shaped, sporty and sexy white Lotus S1 (actually a poor developed, unfinished and doubtful car, according to the memories from one Roger Moore) became such an addictive must-have car in public. The era of the flashy Seiko LCD watches, for which you have to put up some hard money getting one at E-bay in these days, started around here. ( Model 0674 in this movie, I think.)Yes, I think this film represents the 1970's James Bond movies to the fullest. A little shallow, a little plastic, mostly speculative. But as wonderful as a Bond movie could have been at the time. Kind of moderate acting from some of the casts is aided by all the action and gadgets, and the beautiful women. (There's really one in EVERY corner, wherever James Bond's feet takes him.)I find it fun - as of just 40 years old, today - imagining heading for the cinemas in 1977 as a teenage boy for this super adventure. Exhilarated, excited and a little bit stressed for the experience to come, I would have taken several rounds to the Men's room in the lobby, just to avoid such interruptions during the show.And before the 70's was over, the audience still had the pleasure to wait for, and be presented to, by then the most expensive, lavish and extravagant Bond movie ever. "},{"Title":"An almost Perfect James Bond XXX with style","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore redeems himself in perhaps his most throughly complete James Bond. This is Bond how I expect it to be done-right from the get-go, exciting cutting edge stunts, beautiful cinematography, great locations, gorgeous women at ever turn and a not too far fetched premise with the classic villain that just won't be reasonable.The sets for this film are James Bond supervillain worthy and one wonders if it's costs are matched by anything done today? Lacking in CGI tech this film shows us that attention to miniature work is just as impressive and frankly it is a bit refreshing as Hollywood has a track record lately of screaming CGI overkill that sometimes comes at you like a Digital Blob of our times.On viewing this film, I have come to wonder? has conventional movie making been slowly abandoned or are we just rushing out the product so fast now-a-days that we cannot recognize organic film making for the craft and skilled labor that makes a movie like this stand the test of time.It was great revisiting this movie after so long, I simply miss this form of popcorn entertainment that Hits on all cylinders and roars across your screen in excitement. My only critique would be that it's ending is a little too long which makes for a bit of an exhausting final show down, this keeps it from earning a straight 10. But don't let my nitpicking stop you, Calling XXX, I'd like to apply for your Siberian survival course.Don't miss it! "}{"Title":"The Best of the Roger Moore Era, and One of the Best of the Entire Series","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a spectacular addition to the series and, in my opinion, the best James Bond film since Goldfinger. It completely washes the bad taste of The Man With The Golden Gun out of your mouth.Roger Moore has perfected his take as James Bond by this outing. He is suave, sophisticated, and delivers the one-liners with aplomb. He is proving to be a worthy successor to Connery. He also doesn't try to be Connery, which is a very good thing.Anya Amasova/XXX, played by Barbara Bach is one of the very best Bond girls. Her Russian accent is incredibly fake, but she's so beautiful and has such an engaging personality that I didn't mind it. She had great chemistry with Moore.The plot, while essentially a reworking of You Only Live Twice, is very fun and engaging and Lewis Gilbert (the director of Twice), continues his style of crafting big, epic set pieces that leave you in amazement.Carl Stromberg is a pretty awesome villain, but he is completely overshadowed by his henchmen. Jaws is a classic villain. He is super intimidating and is pretty much invincible. Bond is never quite able to put him away. He even kills a shark. Oh, my!The action is almost non-stop and keeps you on the edge of your seat. For instance, we get to see a thrilling chase with Bond using the Lotus Esperit, the best Bond vehicle ever next to the Aston Martin, and there are many tense fight scenes with Jaws and a heck of a climax at Stromberg's lair. Let's also not forget the opening sequence with Bond skiing off a cliff. Crazy.A fantastic addition to the series very much deserving of its classic status. Arguably Moore's best Bond film (just a hair ahead of For Your Eyes Only), and one of the very best of the series as well. As Carly Simon says in the wonderful theme song, Nobody does it better than James Bond.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Why'd you have to be so good","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's some kind of magic inside this movie. It's a flawless bond film that will never exhaust you even after watching 100 times. How can anyone dislike this movie? It's to Roger Moore, what Goldfinger and Goldeneye are to Sean Connery and Pierce Brosnan, his absolute best. This movie is even better than Goldfinger by having a villain with a bigger plan, an even more memorable henchman, an even more memorable Bond girl, much better locations and in my opinion a better Bond. From Egypt to Italy, this movie is stunning and shows why Lewis Gilbert is my all-time favorite Bond director. You can spot some similarities to my favorite Connery's film You Only Live Twice, but it never feels like a rehash. Instead of John Bary, we have an equally great Marvin Hamlisch as the composer of the film. Nobody Does it Better is one of the greatest if not the greatest Bond song ever written, it's only competition is You Only Live Twice. The song perfectly captures who Bond is. Ken Adam somehow topped his sets from You Only Live Twice in this one, it's almost twice as good. Stromberg's underwater base - ATLANTIS is his masterful work. He also had a bit of help from Stanley Kubrick as well. The plot is a classic cold war story, that again has some similarities to You Only Live Twice, which doesn't bother me at all. And I haven't even talked much about the main cast yet. Roger Moore as Bond is perfect, you really feel like he's Bond. Barbara Back plays agent XXX - Anya Amasova. She is one of the greatest Bond girls of all time, even know she's not one of the best acted ones. Curd Jurgens plays a cold-hearted, menacing, dark villain - Karl Stromberg. Richard Kiel plays what is quite possibly the definitive Bond henchman, you know he's not someone to joke around with. He has big metal teeth that can even bite Sharks. Walter Gotell plays Gogol, a Russian equivalent of M who was so good, that he became a recurring character for the rest of Roger Moore Bond flicks. This movie always keeps you excited, entertained and thrilled. I give The Spy Who Loved Me a perfect score of 10/10 because nobody does it better, though sometimes I wish someone could. "},{"Title":"Keeping the British end up.....","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Both the British and Russians are perplexed when a submarine from each country disappears and the only link is a microfilm, detailing the movements of the British submarine, meaning that somehow a submarine can be traced. The British send Bond and the Russians send Anya Amasova. After first fighting against each other over the microfilm, the two agents are ordered to work together against the real enemy, billionaire Karl Stromberg who plans to use the submarines to destroy the world so he can finally create his dream world beneath the sea. However, James must also defend himself against Anya as she finds out that James had killed her lover on a previous mission...Bond movies are never remembered for their narrative, they are remembered for the opening sequence, the villains, vehicles, and gadgets, and this one has them in droves.After a slight back step with Golden Gun, this is the film that waved goodbye to Connerys shadow, and Moore became Bond, rather than play him, and in its favour it has some wonderful moments, and of course, the introduction of probably the most iconic Bond villains of all time.......Jaws.His first proper scene in the pyramids is still shocking to this day, he's a cold blooded killer, plain, and simple, but on this viewing, I kept asking myself 'why on earth didn't Fekkish just stay where he was?'.But even though he's a killer, he's also one funny character, and the scene ending with the Egyptian builders quip, isn't just a funny scene, it's also somewhat of a relief, knowing he couldn't be real, at all.Unfortunately, it's dated badly, and it has some terrible green screen. Great miniatures, terrible green screen.So all in all, it's the film that Moore became Bond, rather than playing him, and owns the role, even though the films after this went a little too over the top, and in turn, downhill. "},{"Title":"Old-School Bond!","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Believe it or not, The Spy Who Loved Me is actually the first James Bond movie I have ever seen outside of the latest versions starring Daniel Craig. I may actually have to check out others if this film is any indication. Compared to modern Bond, this version is more cheesier and invested in gadgets, but I liked this Bond. The plot was preposterous, but then again I think it was meant to be. This film is meant to have fun, and you know what? It certainly succeeded. This Bond adaptation has 007 teaming up with an Russian operative named Anya to investigate the disappearance of a nuclear sub. They track the disappearance all the way to a billionaire magnate who has intentions to end the world with these stolen nuclear missiles. I think Roger Moore made a rather good Bond. Sure he seems a little older, but I liked his sense of humor and his savvy attitude towards women. Barbara Bach made a beautiful Bond girl and I think she held her own opposed to Moore. Finally, Richard Kiel as the professional killer Jaws was very good. Despite his obvious clumsiness, he made for quite an intimidating character. Overall, The Spy Who Loved Me has me curious in checking out the other old-school Bond films. This was an action-packed film with high use of explosions and gadgetry. I also noted this was one of the few films released during the Cold War that actually has Russians and Western nations as allies. A solid, if not spectacular entry in the James Bond franchise. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Wildly Entertain and One of the Best Bonds","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the disappointment that was The Man with the Golden Gun, Eon Productions bounces back with one of the series' best films. The Spy Who Loved Me improves on its predecessor in almost way bigger battles, more elaborate sets and effects shots, prettier scenery, and a more beautiful- and much more assertive female lead. If only Christopher Lee had been in this movie, instead of Golden Gun, we'd have a film to rival Goldfinger.The storyline is suitably over the top. After an alpine ski chase which ends in one of the most spectacular stunts ever performed on film, Bond (Roger Moore) is called back to London on urgent business. One of the Royal Navy's nuclear submarines has been hijacked! A microfilm in Cairo may hold the key to solving the mystery, so it's off to Egypt. But Bond soon discovers that those connected to the microfilm have an alarmingly low life expectancy, and that he's not the only one seeking it. His rival is KGB major Anya Amasova (the stunning Barbara Bach.) Before long, the two have joined into an uneasy partnership, which is made tenser for the viewer by the knowledge that he's killed someone close to her, with neither one yet realizing it. The clues eventually lead to shipping baron Karl Stromberg (Curd Jurgens), who is planning nothing less than global domination.Besides being absolutely gorgeous, Anya is one of the toughest women Bond has ever come across. More than just a sidekick to drag along, she can hold her own in a fight, and even gets the better of Bond on occasion. Of course it wouldn't be a Bond movie if he didn't have to save her at least once, but we never get the feeling that this is going to become a pattern. The subplot about Bond having killed Anya's boyfriend adds an extra dimension to their relationship, and we tensely wait for them to put two and two together. The confrontation is well handled when it comes, and opens the possibility that she may kill Bond if the bad guys don't.Speaking of bad guys, TSWLM introduces one of the series' best villains yet, Jaws. Played by the massive Richard Kiel, Jaws is by far Bond's most physically powerful opponent, and practically indestructible to boot. No matter what happens to him, he just keeps coming back like the lead in a mad slasher, and indeed, during his early scenes he provides a real feeling of horror. Jurgens also does well with his role, coming across as intelligent, ruthless, and deeply insane. He's no Blofeld, but he comes fairly close.This movie is also very well made from a technical standpoint. The battle sequences towards the end are quite impressive, as are the effects shots, including the now-legendary scene in which the car turns into a submarine. The visuals are excellent as well, with wonderful location shots, especially in Egypt, and top-notch set pieces.One of the biggest problems with Golden Gun was the use of comic relief. The attempts to get laughs were laid on to heavy, and instead of providing a few chuckles they slowed down what should have been exciting scenes. Fortunately, the filmmakers have learned their lesson this time around, and deliver laughs without overdoing it. Most of the film's humor comes from Bond's quips and one-liners, although the funniest moment relies on a bit of automotive trouble that puts our hero completely out of his usual element. And I challenge you to keep a straight face when the closing theme rolls.There are of course ancient clichés and plenty of improbabilities, but we knew that coming in. The Spy Who Loved Me may not be high cinema, or the kind of masterpiece that filmmakers will seek to emulate for generations to come, but if it's entertainment you're looking for, count on it to deliver. "},{"Title":"A classic Bond","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of all of the James Bond flix this one has to take the cake. It starts out so artistic and moving you just know it's going to be a doozy from the get go. The soundtrack, the skiing, the water, Egypt, it has it all. All James Bond flick's should have this story line. Some of the other James Bond films have such weak story lines and this one really is quite a wonderful surprise. I love the fact that you have a Russian spy and a British spy getting it on and believe me stars collide. We all know James Bond is a serious schmoozer and again he does not disappoint, I mean he goes to town. On the flipside he can kick butt and take some names. I also love all the gadgets in this movie, there seem to be more gadgets here than in other James Bond movies. And finally I just love the song in the movie from Carly Simon, if it wasn't for that song I would have to lower the score a couple points because it is such an inspirational part of this movie. "},{"Title":"The complete package...","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***Warning! Spoiler Information Inside***The Disaster that was The Man with the Golden Gun (1974), prompted an extended break as the Bond franchise pondered its next work. In summer 1977 they released The Spy who Loved Me.Agent 007 is recalled to London to retrieve information on the tracking of submarines by a fence in Cairo ,Egypt. Not only does Bond discover formidable foes, but competition from Russia as well, in the form of agent Triple X (Barbara Bach).This is a big budget gamble that paid off big time for Broccoli and Company. Director Lewis Gilbert is in top form in his second outing of Bond. The script is fast paced and the cars and gadgets hold interest smoothing all film time. First time supporter Richard Kiel (Jaws) is spectacular as the nemesis of Bond and Triple X.Four stars(of 5.) "},{"Title":"Great Globe-Trotting, Spectacular Locations, and... CAROLINE MUNRO","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore did more official James Bond films as secret agent 007 than any other actor. He started the role in 1973 when he was 45 years old and ended his 7-film run at the age of 57 in 1985. His fourth film was THE SPY WHO LOVED ME released in 1977. I used to believe this was the best film of his stint, but after seeing all the Moore pictures recently I no longer feel this way. THE SPY WHO LOVES ME has some aspects that are as good or better than any of the other films in Moore's stint, but it also has a couple of weak elements that make it one of the worst. Allow me to explain as I point out the films strengths and weaknesses THE PLOT James Bond teams up with female Russian agent XXX (yeah right) to prevent world-hating Karl Stromberg from starting World War III by stealing nuclear subs. Stromberg doesn't care if the world kills itself because he lives as a mad recluse on a crab-like submersible dream home called Atlantis. The giant steel-toothed Jaws assists Stromberg along with the beautiful raven-haired Naomi.WHAT WORKS The top item I demand in any Bond flick is exciting globe-trotting and, consequently, great locations. THE SPY WHO LOVED ME delivers in spades. Heck, the opening teaser starts with a thrilling ski chase that culminates in a spectacular jump from Baffin Island's Mt. Asgard (Canada). The DVD is worth owning for this incredible stunt alone. From there we get the Sahara desert, Cairo, the Nile River and the great pyramids of Giza, as well as the Italian Mediterranean island of Sardinia, Scotland and the Bahamas. These are all fabulous locations to say the least.Richard Kiel as the giant Jaws is both intimidating and amusing. The on-going joke is that NOTHING can stop or kill him.Barbara Bach is good as Agent XXX and certainly possesses an exotic beauty, but watch her get blown out of the water by the gorgeous Caroline Munro when she is introduced as Naomi. Many cite Ursula Andress' coming out of the water in a white bikini in DR. NO as the ultimate Bond-babe moment but Caroline's introduction here is a serious rival; it's, at least, the second best Bond-babe moment. The only problem with Caroline's role is that it's too brief. Check her out in THE GOLDEN VOYAGE OF SINBAD (1974) to see her in a more prominent role.Some editions of the DVD include an over-40-minute documentary on THE SPY WHO LOVED ME that includes a fairly recent interview with Ms. Munro. Believe it or not, she's almost as beautiful today as she was back in 1977, not to mention she has a vibrant, pleasant and humble personality.Another great aspect of THE SPY WHO LOVED ME is that its fun globe-trotting sequences give it an undeniable Indiana Jones feel, even though it was made four years before the first Indiana Jones flick. WATCH OUT for the great sequence where Bond's car turns into a submarine as he attempts to flee Naomi in a helicopter.WHAT DOESN'T WORK Many compositions in Bond films are timeless, like FOR YOUR EYES ONLY from 1981, but the disco score to THE SPY WHO LOVED ME is horribly dated. Still, it doesn't personally bug me that much. I can live with it. Others can't.The main problem with THE SPY WHO LOVED ME is that Stromberg and his mad scheme fail to sustain the viewer's interest. Every time I see this film I run out of interest by the 90-minute mark (with a full 35 minutes to go). Don't get me wrong, the many globe-trotting sequences are fun and exciting, certainly some of the best in the entire series, but the story as a whole runs out of steam about an hour and a half into it. The last 30 minutes contain numerous fight/action scenes but they're boring; the viewer simply doesn't care about the outcome. By contrast, the other six Moore films retain the viewer's interest from beginning to end with no problem, yes, even THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN, MOONRAKER and A VIEW TO A KILL.So THE SPY WHO LOVED ME is in some ways the best film of the Moore era, but in others the worst. Regardless, it's a mandatory purchase or rental if you're in the mood for a mindless, high-energy Bond flick.As for Roger Moore's take on Bond. I guess you either like him or you don't. I like him. Regardless of his age Moore always looked great and perfectly convincing as 007 throughout his run.Back in 2003 I saw most of the Bond films (the ones I didn't see I was already well familiar, like GOLDFINGER) and concluded that Roger Moore's seven films are the most consistently entertaining. Yes, Sean Connery is great and his stint is generally more serious, but who can deny the color and vibrancy of the Moore films? All of his pictures are incredibly entertaining and were hugely successful at the box office. Even the heavily maligned MOONRAKER and A VIEW TO A KILL are great. They may have more goofy or amusing elements, which are actually funny by the way, but they remain essentially serious stories; they rarely go overboard into the rut of parody or camp. Seriously, I get sick of hearing all the complaints about Moore's stint in the series. All of his films are great Bond adventures. There's not a dud in the bunch. GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"I spied another fascinating Bond adventure.","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved Me brings back more action, adventure and mayhem than the previous Bond film, returning once again Roger Moore as Agent 007 on a mission where he investigates the hijacking of British and Russian submarines. Those subs are full of nuclear warheads, threatened to be fired at sea by mastermind Karl Stromberg (Curd Jürgens).Moore gave us a full supply of funny one-liners, and gave an electrifying performance, carrying out his mission with wit and style and taking out bad guys left and right. There are more thrilling action and suspense, from the ski chase in the beginning of the film to the introduction of the silver-teethed Jaws (Richard Kiel), Stromberg's top henchman. Him tossing Bond around with his gigantic hands was hilarious to watch.The chemistry between Moore and Barbara Bach were great, which proves to be more of a tense and unpredictable relationship as Bach's character is both helping Bond in bringing down the bad guys, and wanting to avenge Bond for her boyfriend's death. This is a suspenseful subplot on the side that keeps the film interesting. One of the more action-packed and exciting Bond films, this one ranks as one of Moore's best and one of 007's best altogether.Grade A "},{"Title":"Fine Title Song & Return To Glory.","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore returns as James Bond 007 in this tenth adventure, finding him trying to track down two stolen nuclear submarines, being used in the plot of billionaire Stromberg(Curt Jurgens) who lives in an underwater fortress, where he plans to plunge the world... Soviet agent XXX(played nicely by the beautiful Barabara Bach) assists Bond in his quest.A return to form for 007 after three disappointing entries, is fun & exciting, with well staged chase sequences(memorable ski chase that opens the film, to a car that turns into a mini-sub, among many others). Grand escapist entertainment, with Roger Moore finally making the part his, punctuated by the excellent title song by Carly Simon, and memorable first appearance of Richard Kiel as hulking hit-man nicknamed Jaws. "}{"Title":"What is the music when the Stromberg subs set off?","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" HiI've been trying to identify what music is it that plays whe the subs set off from Strombergs tanker. I have the impression its a fairly well known classical piece but I just can;t place it. I've scanned the sound track on iTunes and its not in that (or at least at the beginning of those pieces).If anyone knowns, I'd love to know.Thanks very much,Best regardsdeclan88PS The Lotus coming out of the water is perhaps the favourite part of the film. The director lets the shot slowly unwind which is nice too. "},{"Title":"Keeping the British end up sir","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved Me was what the series needed after three disappointing Bond outings. From the memorable teaser that had audiences get up and cheer for Bond again to the thrilling climax on board a supertanker the action never lets up.The storyline involves a reclusive megalomaniac named Stromberg who plans to destroy the world and create a new civilization under the sea. Bond teams up with a Russian agent Anya Amasova aka XXX to stop Stromberg. Along the way is a nice subplot which involves James and Anya working together and Anya finding out that James killed her lover earlier in the film. Will she take revenge or will she let it go?In this film Roger Moore hits the mark with James Bond who manages to be cool, suave and dangerous with a dry quip afterwords. Barbara Bach as Anya is just terrific and one of the best Bond girls having great chemistry with Moore and is not only beautiful but is a strong and capable counterpart agent that gives James a run for his money. Curd Jürgens is good as the reclusive Stromberg but the seven foot tall Richard Kiel steals the show as Stromberg's henchman Jaws. Jaws like Oddjob and Red Grant before him never speaks and is incredibly menacing in every scene hes in and uses a pair of hard silver teeth to kill his victims.To direct is You Only Live Twice's Lewis Gilbert and for screenwriters long time Bond writer Richard Maibaum and Christopher Wood. Lewis Gilbert's direction got the series back on track after The Man With the Golden Gun with epic action and scale. The screenplay is much better written with better globe trotting storytelling and a good mixture between camp and adventure that feels like a mixture between Goldfinger and From Russia With Love. Helps that Christoper Wood was also a fan of Bond.The Spy Who Loved Me is a great and fun addition to the Bond series and a lot of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Bond Back In Action","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" By 1977, the James Bond series had been on life support for the better of a decade as it went through three different actors, a shift in tone and behind the scene difficulties that saw co-producer Harry Saltzman leave the series in the hands of Albert R. Broccoli. All this meant that The Spy Who Loved Me would be the film that would decide the future of the series. Thankfully it was a film that would see Bond return to heights the series hadn't seen in years and would prove to be best Bond film of the 1970s.The success of the film begins with Roger Moore's James Bond. In this film, Moore finally found his Bond. This Bond was suave, charming, seductive but nevertheless capable of great intelligence if not being downright coldblooded. Bond's humor is also more contained or, at the very least, serves the story rather then dumped onto of it. As a result, Moore gives one of his best performances as 007.Also bringing about a change was Barbara Bach as KGB Major Anya Amasova. Anya would prove to be almost as much a foil for Bond as a romantic interest for him. She one ups Bond on numerous occasions, yet proves to be believable as the two character's eventually get together in the way Bond films work. After such pretty but dumb Bond girls as Tiffany Case and Mary Goodnight, Anya would prove to be one of the best Bond girls of the series and a definite bonus to the film as whole.Completing the main cast was of course the villain Curt Jurgens as Karl Stromberg. Stromberg comes from the Goldfinger school of Bond villains in that he basically just gives orders throughout the film. Yet Jurgens plays Stromberg with a strong sense of menace with the occasionally charm, something that is apparent throughout the first meeting between hero and villain. Stromberg proves that, despite not being a physical menace, Bond villains can work with the right actor in the part.The supporting cast is excellent as well. Richard Kiel makes his debut as the henchman Jaws and comes across as an actual menace throughout the film, though this is somewhat undermined in a couple of places by some inappropriate humor. Moving on, the supporting cast ranges from Walter Gotell as KGB General Gogol, Geoffrey Keen as Sir Frederick Gray, Caroline Munro as henchwoman Naomi and Edward De Souza as Sheikh Hosei. Many of those characters only appear in a scene or maybe two but make quite an impression nevertheless. That isn't forgetting regular supporting cast members Bernard Lee as M, Lois Maxwell as Moneypenny and Desmond Llewelyn as Q. The result is one of the best supporting casts of the series.The production values of the film are stunning. Production designer Ken Adam, famous for his work on previous Bond films, returned for this film to do some of his best work of the series ranging from Gogol's office to the interiors of Stromberg's Atlantis laboratory to the truly incredible set inside the Liparus tanker. Adams' earned an Oscar nomination for his work and it's a shame that it didn't win for it. Backing up Adam's production design is the equally exquisite model work of Derek Meddings which makes the most incredible parts of the film exactly that incredible. The cinematography of Claude Renoir remains some of the best seen in the series to date. The result is one of the best of the Bond films on a visual level.The action sequences of the film remain some of the most iconic of the entire series. The film begins with a classic Bond pre-credit sequence with a well filmed ski chase that leads up into one of the best stunts the series has ever produced. From there the film showcases excellent fight scenes, a car chase/underwater sequence that turned the Lotus Esprit into an iconic Bond car and a pitch battle with the fate of the world hanging in the balance. These action sequences hold up well even three and a half decades later, something that is remarkable for any film let alone Bond.The heart of the film really lies in its script by Richard Maibaum and Christopher Wood. The script moves away from the largely jokey and predictable formula of the early 1970s Bond films and hearkens back to the Bond films of the previous decade. In particular, the influence of You Only Live Twice can be felt but the film manages to improve upon that film by bringing it down to Earth. The script mixes the fantastic with the believable as it ranges from a webbed finger villain with a tanker capable of swallowing nuclear submarines, yet also plays with the Cold War and the tensions between those on opposing sides. It's also a script filled with excellent dialogue and humor, something that definitely improved upon on the previous film in the series.The only really mixed element of the entire film is the score from composer Marvin Hamlisch. It takes the John Barry influence and adds a disco feel to it, something that makes it an oddity. There are moments when it genuinely works but it is very much a product of its time, with the result being very dated today. Yet the score also gives us one of the best theme tunes of the series Nobody Does It Better as sung by Carly Simon. The song, combined with Maurice Binder's fantastic title sequence, is superb and is also put to good use in the score itself. Yet despite the song, the dated feel makes the score a rather mixed affair.The Spy Who Loved Me proved to be the film that would finally the Bond film's off life support. Even now, it is a film full of good performances, excellent production values, fine action sequences and a good script. Bond was back in action and rarely has he been better. "},{"Title":"nobody does it betterthan Roger Moore","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" this review may contain spoilersWhile the man with the golden gun was largely a flop both critically and commercially,lifeless,silly and had virtually no plot,The spy who loved me is the complete opposite.The spy who loved me is the third outing of Roger Moore as James bond,and the film is named after Ian Fleming's tenth novel.the storyline involves an old maniac by the name of Stromberg,who has a plan to destroy the world and create a civilization under water, what a brick.As the film progresses bond comes face to face with Jaws,a massive henchman sent to kill him by Stromberg,for possessing a microfilm which contains plans for a highly advanced submarine tracking system.He hijacks submarines belonging to British and soviet navies and wants to use their missiles to destroy the world,but in the end unfortunately his plans take a u-turn.the film is very exciting and it is a massive improvement since live and let die and the man with the golden gun.It was highly acclaimed by critics and received three academy award nominations so the results were more than positive.Jaws, played by Richard Kiel,was a good addition to the series.This guy is a vicious assassin who kills people by biting them with his steel teeth,and boy did this human monster scare the crap out of me when i first saw the movie years back as a kid.He will then reappear in the next James bond Moonraker.the motion picture is mostly known for Bonds sports car the famous Lotus Esprit,and the famous scene where he drives under water with it.The car was named the second best car of the series right behind the Aston Martin db5,and rightly so,it is such a beauty.The spy who loved me is one of the best bond movies of1) the Roger Moore era,2)the whole series 3)and it has what it takes to step alongside classics such as from Russia with love,goldfinger,you only live twice and thunder ball. there are good scenes,good acting,visuals and especially hot girls such as Caroline Munro so its pretty worth the watch.my vote.7/10 "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's most well known Bond film","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved Me (1977) is one of the most popular and influential movies in the James Bond series. Aside of title it has nothing to do with the Ian Fleming book. The film is directed by Lewis Gilbert, his first Bond movie since You Only Live Twice.A British submarine holding nuclear missiles disappears without a trace. The Secret Service suspects the Russians and sends James Bond to investigate. Meanwhile KGB wants to avoid World War III as well and sends their own top agent, Major Anya Amasova, whose lover Bond had killed in a previous mission, to investigate. Bond and Amasova meet in Cairo and ultimately end up suspecting Karl Stromberg, a reclusive billionaire.Roger Moore, and many Bond fans, many times claim this to be the best of his Bond movies, and while I don't agree (I prefer For Your Eyes Only) I can understand why. While the movie has a serious tone it has great bit of humor as well, without becoming silly. It's very action packed with memorable moments, characters and gadgets. This is the film that starts with one of the most daring stunts made in films and has the famous car that can go underwater.As the title suggests, this movie also has romance between Bond and Amasova, and it is an interesting concept of having British and Russian spy in a love affair during cold war. Moore and Barbara Bach both play the parts really well and there seems to be real chemistry. Curt Jurgens does well as the villain Stromberg, an incredible a-hole with illusions of grandeur and hatred for human race. However, it is the gigantic Richard Kiel as silent, intimidating and nearly indestructible metal-teeth henchman Jaws that steals the scenes. This is also the first film to feature Walter Gotell as General Gogol, the head of KGB. Gotell would reprise his role in five following Bond films.The Spy Who Loved Me is an entertaining action film with memorable characters and lots of excitement, and it is remembered as one of the best Bond films made. While it isn't among my own top 10 I do agree it has lots of good going for it and is warmly recommended. "},{"Title":"One of Roger Moore's Strongest 007 Films","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While GOLDENEYE was my first exposure to the world of James Bond (the video game and then the movie), it was the Roger Moore films where I first really dove in to the series. Moore was the most productive actor to serve in the role of the legendary secret agent with seven films and, while they certainly suffer their fair share of issues, there was some real good stuff from his run. THE SPY WHO LOVED ME was probably his best film as the character. It's got a perfect blend of action and humor, the Bond girl is gorgeous and well developed, and it introduced one of the most iconic henchmen to the series. In the movie, a nuclear submarine has gone mysteriously missing from both the British and Russian navies. James Bond (Moore) is brought in when MI6 believes someone has developed a system for tracking submerged nuclear submarines and is using it for nefarious purposes. Bond's mission will force him into a partnership with Major Anya Amasova/Agent XXX of the KGB (Barbara Bach), which leads to tension when a late revelation puts the two agents at odds. Their mission will take them from the Great Pyramids in Egypt to the beautiful ocean shores of Sardinia as they investigate Karl Stromberg (Curd Jürgens), a shipping magnate with an obsession for ocean life, and his magnificent laboratory dubbed Atlantis. And it should be noted that the movie is directed by Lewis Gilbert, who was responsible for my favorite Sean Connery 007 film as well (YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE).Roger Moore has always been considered the campiest James Bond, as his movies spent more time mugging to the camera and quipping one-liners than giving us a serious secret agent on a world-threatening assignment. With Moore, you don't want to go too far on either end of the humor spectrum, and THE SPY WHO LOVED ME fell perfectly in the center. This is Moore at his 007 best, before he got to be too old to really take seriously in the role. He's suave and serious, but he's got his moments of levity we've come to love from him (e.g. the moment when he and Amasova are attempting to escape Jaws in a utility van). His counterpart in the film is Major Amasova, played relatively well by Barbara Bach. Bach has got the beauty for the role (and then some&#x85;she's absolutely stunning) but her acting feels a little stunted. I'm not sure if she was dubbed in post production (which happened a lot in the early films) or if she was just having a lot of issues with her Russian accent but her line delivery doesn't sound all that genuine. The character, on the other hand, seems better developed than some of the previous Bond women who existed solely to swoon over the hero and find themselves in danger. Amasova in essentially Bond's equal within the KGB. She's resourceful and dangerous in her own right, occasionally out-smarting Bond himself. And she's got her own motivation; in the opening sequence, Bond kills a Russian agent in a mountain ski chase with close ties to Amasova and she's not happy about it.But enough about the heroes. Jaws (Richard Kiel) is the coolest part of THE SPY WHO LOVED ME. Who doesn't love Jaws? He's one of the most iconic 007 henchmen, right up there with Oddjob from GOLDFINGER. He's the only henchmen who was beloved enough with audiences for the filmmakers to bring him back for another round in the following movie, MOONRAKER. He's a cold-blooded, silent killer with steel teeth who's method, as impractical as it must be, is biting a person's neck (Pinching off their jugular? I'm not sure&#x85;there's rarely blood involved.). As threatening a presence as the 7.5' Jaws is, he's got some funny bits too. Let's face it everyone remembers Jaws in this movie. Fewer people remember the actual villain, Karl Stromberg. And it's not because he's lame. He's just overshadowed by his hired goon. Jürgens is actually real good as Stromberg. He's certainly got some Blofeld elements to his character&#x85;stoic, calculating, and egomaniacal. His plans are sort of a blend between Blofeld's in YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE and Hugo Drax's in MOONRAKER. Eliminate the world's major cities and crumble society so that he can rule what remains from his beloved ocean. From the characters to the locations to the gadgets (I love the submersible Lotus!), THE SPY WHO LOVED ME is Roger Moore at the top of his game and a classic 007 film. I highly recommend it to any fans new to the series who want a good taste of what Moore can do as James Bond. "},{"Title":"Moore Gets It Right!","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved Me was definitely Roger Moore's best Bond.From the opening sequence he flows with confidence and delivers his lines immaculately. This was Moore's third outing playing the Suave Super Spy, and this time he gets it right! The film was perfect in a sense it allowed Moore to play to his strength of charm,balanced aggression,humour,and wit. This worked well and helped it to distinguish it from the Connery Bond movies, a mistake which they made when Lazenby replaced Connery in the role briefly.Lewis Gilbert did I wonderful job of directing Moore after previously directing Connery in You Only Live Twice.The movie boasts some great set pieces particularly where Moore(Bond) is pursued by Jaws (Richard Kiel), and in a helicopter by Naomi (Caroline Munro). Munro's chase with the helicopter as she pursues Bond's Lotus until it drives into the sea and turns into a submarine, is one of the highlights of the movie.Kiel makes an excellent henchman and German actor (Curt Jurgen)makes a good baddie as Karl Stromberg, who is hell-bent over world domination and creating a new civilisation under water.Barbara Bach is a beautiful companion and female agent who teams up with Moore in the movie to play Russian Agent Anya Amasova.Credit should also be given to Moore's timing of humour in the film. This is what he does well out of all the actors that has played Bond (Connery, Lazenby, Dalton, Brosnan, and Craig). There are some good action pieces with him and Kiel (Jaws), and it works well and shows some vulnerability in the character, whereas when Connery played the role it felt that Connery had too much armour on.Tribute should also go to late Cubby Broccoli in the sense that when his working partner Harry Saltzman left the Bond Franchise there would have been questions raised if Broccoli could succeed on his own and he succeeded! Without a doubt, this is Moore's best outing as Bond and ranks as my second favourite in the whole series.Rating9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Spy Who Loved the Girls, the Actions and the Locations","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can you expect in a good Bond movie other than action, gadgets and gizmos, bad guys, hot babes, exotic locations, and sex? 'The Spy Who Loved Me' has all these ingredients. This is definitely one of the more enjoyable Bond flicks. Moore is cool, confident and funny as 'Bond'. Bach looks so hot...who cares if she can act or not? Though unlike most bond babes, Bach is portrayed as an independent women who herself is an agent. She and Moore do share a sizzling chemistry. Kiel is scary and Jurgens is sort of a funny villain who wants to create earth in the sea. Ken Adams's set design is mind-blowing. The gadgets are brilliant. Special effects are superb (for its time). Carly Simon's theme 'Nobody does it Better' remains one of the most memorable Bond tracks. Director Gilbert does a fine job. If you're looking for a good action movie, check this one out. I think you'll like it. "},{"Title":"The Fall of the Bond Empire","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moore's third outing as Bond, and the one that began the series descent into mediocrity.Not as good as the previous Man With The Golden Gun-not a great entry in itself-but it tried to retain the character and essence of Bond, this one threw all caution to the wind and gave us a comic book Bond. The faults are many.The film is overlong and you wait too long for anything really exciting to happen. The Soviet agent, as played by Barbara Bach shows no real emotion and is never seen as a threat. There is a 7 foot tall henchman named Jaws- with steel teethyeah right and superhuman strenght.Watching him take apart a truck is unbelievable and embarrassing to the viewer at the same time. What were the producers and writers thinking when they came up with him. There is a Lotus sports car that converts into a submarine- you have to see it to disbelieve it! And the plot has yet another megalomaniac trying to dominate the world. Anything new here? On the positive side, there is his underwater lair, a crab like structure that rises and submerges, and the finale set inside a large oil tanker containing 3 hijacked nuclear submarines is quite good. The set is well designed and detailed and almost redeems this mess, even though it owes its concept to the SPECTRE missle base in the dead volcano from You Only Live Twice. This disco era Bond, now reduced to a middle aged punster would go on to do Moonraker 2 years later. The less said about that, the better.After doing For Your Eyes Only in 1981, it seemed the series was trying to get itself back on course and back to basics, but after the wretched  A View To A Kill and not much better Octopussy, Moore's stint as Bond was over.At least Timothy Dalton bought a new edge to Bond, but he only lasted for 2 films.On the plus side is the theme song sung by Carly Simon-one of the best in the series. "},{"Title":"Bond&#x85; Underwater Bond!","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every film installment in the long-running James Bond series, regardless of its overall quality level being good or just mediocre, has at least one element that is unique and downright fantastic. Whether it's an unforgettable filming location, a legendary flamboyant villainous character or absurdly inventive gimmicks; ALL Bond movies are worth checking out in order to discover the particularities. In The Spy Who Loved Me, it's the presence of a trio of exceptionally beautiful ladies and &#x96; to make it even more special &#x96; all three of them are iconic cult/horror wenches! The primary Bond girl, Barbara Bach, is an unearthly ravishing Italian actress who appeared in several genre highlights like Don't Torture a Duckling, Island of the Fishmen and Big Alligator River. But there's also the feisty Caroline Munro (Maniac, Captain Kronos Vampire Hunter) as one of the evil opponent's most remarkable accomplices, and there's a sadly way too small supportive role for the exquisite Valerie Leon (Hammer's Blood from the Mummy's Tomb) as a luscious hotel receptionist. On average 007 sleeps with 3-4 women per film, but in this one he even has severe difficulties to lure just one into bed, and that probably is because they're all way out of his league! Anyways, I think I'm in a minority, but The Spy Who Loved Me is one my most favorite James Bond titles in the entire series! The film features a fantastically over-the-top evil mastermind, with a fantastically over-the-top evil plan to destroy the world and receives help from a couple of fantastically over-the- top evil accomplices (the aforementioned Caroline Munro but obviously also the legendary metal-toothed and indestructible Jaws). When both an English submarine and a Soviet submarine simultaneously vanish from the radars under inexplicable circumstances, the two nations naturally blame each other and each assigns their finest secret agent to investigate the case. 007 and his yummy female Russian counterpart Triple-X quickly discover &#x96; in Cairo &#x96; that both underwater vessels and their entire crews were hijacked by the multimillionaire marine biologist Karl Stromberg He turns out to be a dangerously deranged version of Jules Verne's Captain Nemo (from 20,000 Leagues under the Sea) who built a bizarre beautiful hi- tech headquarters in the middle of the ocean from which he catapults his enemies straight into an aquarium where hungry tiger sharks finish them off! But contrary to Captain Nemo, who merely just turned his back to the world, Stromberg intends to destroy the world with nuclear missiles and create a brand new Atlantis type of community under the sea! Delicious Bond- material, in other words, brought to an even higher entertainment level thanks to a wide collection of great gimmicks (the transforming Lotus car is awesome) and numerous impressively staged action sequences. The battle beneath the sea, between the freed submarine crew and Stromberg's troops is very spectacular as well! I always wonder how these evil geniuses manage to recruit so many docile and disposable employees who are practically volunteering to get slaughtered. The casting of Barbara Bach in a substantial role also results in an interesting sub plot, as she has a secret and very private mission to search for the bastard who killer her KGB-lover&#x85; And can you guess who that is? I'll give a hint he fled from the scene hanging from a giant Union Jack parachute! This is Bond at his very best, and did I mention it has sharks!?! "}{"Title":"My thoughts are like Stromberg bubbles","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Where this film is concerned, they float, and bobble, and burst all over the fluted glass. I daresay the leap from ancient Egypt to the Ocean floor in a team-up, mash-up with the busty Russian Agent, and a pre-jaws, Jaws, before he became even more 'Jawsy' in a later installment is about as heady as Hedy Lamarr would have even liked it! Coming across Sir Roger's Auto of his Bio very recently, it caused me to blush, then tremble as I recall just how advanced the good Mr. Bond is, nowadays, and whatever time we've left let's give it to fighting the good fight. If only Russia & the West could get back on a cooperative footing, the Cold War doesn't look so 'cold' after all, from this vantage. Barbara Bach-- Aah, what can one say... she was never the same after this. Hm, neither was Ringo, come to think of it < "},{"Title":"Spy vs. Spy","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was never that big on the Roger Moore years, but THE SPY WHO LOVED ME stands out as a pretty fun big-budget spectacle. It's got everything killer stunts, an outlandish villain with a sweet aquarium hideout, a slick spy car, all the big action setpieces (Alps escape, Egyptian ruins, underwater lair). The Bond girl's gorgeous (my god, Barbara Bach in that blue dress!), the gadgets are cool and Moore rocks the glib sense of humor. You've gotta love the disco score, and there's a hokey charm that seems to work to the movie's advantage.Solid entertainment.7/10 "},{"Title":"A template for many movies to follow . . .","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" . . . including the recent PHANTOM submarine flick and the 007 series' own recycled later effort, TOMORROW NEVER DIES, best describes this 10th Eon Productions James Bond outing, THE SPY WHO LOVED ME. Ironically, Sir Roger Moore already had spoofed his future James Bond character by name as being entangled with a counterpart Russian female agent about 20 years earlier for a British TV mid-summer replacement sketch comedy show. Barbara Bach, Moore's co-star in this feature-length expansion upon that brief parody, was in diapers when this Bond plot was originally presented on TV. Carly Simon's rendition of the theme from THE SPY WHO LOVED ME--Nobody Does It Better--is the number one highlight of this film. On the other hand, the set pieces in the Alps and Egypt look pretty cheesy by 21st Century standards (black & white epics from the 1920s generally hold up much better than 1970s-era special effects in color). This flick's plot, in turn, borrows heavily from the fifth Bond (YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE) in its use of a secret privately-owned monster vehicle swallowing up vital Russian and American craft in crazy attempts to deliberately provoke super-power conflicts (also the story line of TOMORROW NEVER DIES and probably several more Bond films). But Hollywood's formula for a successful sequel always has been do it again the same way; just change a few faces and places. "},{"Title":"Moore Gets It Right on His Third Try","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" With 1977's The Spy Who Loved Me, Roger Moore finally came into his own as James Bond, after two mediocre trial runs. Director Lewis Gilbert helmed what is arguably Moore's best outing as Bond in a fast-paced episode with enough humor to qualify the script for a Writer's Guild Nomination as Best Adapted Comedy. Claude Renoir's beautiful cinematography captures the colorful Egyptian locations and the Oscar-nominated sets, which are better designed and more convincing than those in most early Bond films. Marvin Hamlisch's score includes Nobody Does It Better, which ranks high on the list of best Bond title songs.Roger Moore would never fully replace Sean Connery, but he did develop his own interpretation of 007 and infused the character with his own style of humor; while Connery dropped dry quips as asides, Moore smirks and more consciously delivers the comedic lines. Physically, Moore appears too slight for some of the stunts, which undercuts their credibility, and he lacks Connery's smoldering sex appeal; Moore comes across as too prim, tidy, and well groomed to muss his hair. As the expected super-villain Karl Stromberg, hellbent on global destruction, Curt Jurgens is adequate, but not memorable, and he is easily overshadowed by Richard Kiel, who plays Stromberg's henchman, Jaws. The 7-foot 2-inch Kiel, equipped with polished steel bridgework, ranks among the most memorable Bond villains and even merited a return engagement in the next Bond, Moonraker. Unfortunately, like the principal villain, the Bond girls in Spy are not indelible; Barbara Bach is only passable as the Russian Agent XXX, although Caroline Munro's Naomi does raise temperatures in her few brief scenes.The pre-title ski chase through the Austrian Alps gets the film off to an exciting start, and, following the customary Maurice Binder credits played against Carly Simon's title song, the action weaves through disappearing submarines, cat-and-mouse chases among Egyptian antiquities, and intrigue in an underwater hideaway. A running joke returns from earlier Moore Bonds when M, Q, and Miss Moneypenny turn up in an unexpected on-location headquarters. The jokes and off-hand comments lend a lightness to the proceedings, and nobody seems to take things too seriously, even the detente-inspired Russians. Despite a few imperfections, The Spy Who Loves Me is an upper-tier Bond with a great villain in Jaws, an outstanding title song, an excellent screenplay, a terrific pre-title chase, and top-drawer art direction and cinematography. If this film had been Moore's first outing as Bond, he would have been considered a fine successor to Connery and avoided the critical and fan barbs he endured. "},{"Title":"Spy Who Loved Me...Another Russia With Love ***1/2","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When missiles are stolen, the British and Soviets team up to discover who the culprit is.Curt Jurgens is such a person, living in splendor along a sea world, and ready to commit mayhem. He literally feeds people to his sharks.Unknown to the two fighting him, Roger Moore and Barbara Bach fall for each other in the interim, but it finally comes out that 007 had killed her lover, another agent in a previous encounter.As with any James Bond film, there is plenty of action and violence. We have the usual smash-ups and the car becoming a boat in an exciting scene.It is so true that nobody does it better. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly made, and with a really involving core relationship playing out at the heart of it, Gilbert's Bond entry is a more than effective espionage thriller.","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the more endearing qualities of The Spy Who Loved Me is its subversive attitude to its source material combining near-effortlessly with an ongoing audience demand for what it was the Bond franchise had evolved into by that of 1977. When, at around about half way through, Barbara Bach's Soviet agent Anya Amasova points out that the film's enemy is thriving off a Capitalist ideology of supply and demand, and that the wealth he has been allowed to accumulate has essentially enabled him to reach the position he has done, it's a wonderful moment featuring the makers poking fun at the riches that come with their own franchise as well as the placing of the Russians at the forefront of humanised, logical rationalising instead of stock antagonists. Such is the nature of the piece, a really well made 'buddy' spy thriller feeding off the usual Bond formulae of darting from exotic place to exotic place and encompassing that of numerous women in the process, but never drawing attention to these things and never entrusting these characteristics to merely carry the project.The film begins with a snapshot of life on board a British submarine; we sense not a lot goes on, the crew appear tired, even bored. Suddenly, with the plunging of the frame into some blood red hues, something finds them and it is enough to make the Captain react in the horror that he does. Such a dramatic opening is followed by that of the standardised introduction of franchise protagonist James Bond, the pre-credits sequence being transpiring into a ski chase followed by cliff jump resulting in one of the more powerful, more memorable openings to an entry. Bond, reacting to the disappearance of the submarine, is placed on a collision course with Bach's character; an agent we're informed is the Soviet Union's best and is introduced, like Bond, in the action of passionately embracing someone. The Soviets too have had a submarine taken from them, and she is following up the same leads catapulting them into a collision course with one another and some unseen elements.If Amasova's introduction strikes us, it's down to our own brutal misconceptions; we are informed the Russians will place their best agent on the job, the male Amasova is spending her leave with lies in the foreground thus effectively shot as the composition's key figure in comparison to what appears to be just another photogenic Eastern European woman required for a love-making scene positioned in the background. We doubt their best agent is anything other than the male, but are swiftly corrected and enjoy the vibrancy Bach's character brings to proceedings; her matching of Bond's abilities as well as the playful seduction on board a crude fishing boat when the prize lies in British hands each making for good value. In spite of any other claims, Bach brings a fair deal of authenticity to the role; when told by her superior, (the head of the K.G.B., no less), that her lover has later been killed, she reacts with just the right amount of grief, anger and restraint required for a professional of her ilk given the place and the company she shares, in what is an admirable performance. Within five minutes of being on screen, we like her more than Goodnight.One of the better villains in the series arrives in the form of Karl Stromberg (Jürgens), a man whose physical capabilities pale in comparison to that of the previous entry's Scaramanga, but whose antagonistic qualities towards our leads greatly excels that of the las villain when we recall the little reason for Christopher Lee's aforementioned character to even go up against Bond. We observe Stromberg, a shipping industry tycoon, sit in a lavish undersea base rich in paintings and affluent mise-en-scene. He is rich; rich enough to pay two business cohorts ten million dollars each but then brutal enough to organise their demises shortly thereafter. We watch him dine with a female accomplice, and note they must be rather close for her to be this near to him; but her betrayal of him sees him eliminate her with a merciless precision to the juxtaposition of classical music, wholly instilling a clinical and brutal sensibility about the man. Later, his line questioning the need to conquer outer-space, when two thirds of our (underwater) world remains undiscovered acts as an odd prelude to the following entry's Moonraker; an entry barely at all on the filmmakers' minds at this point.For the most part, the film feeds off a duelling between Bond and Amasova; this oneupmanship between rival British and Soviet spies makes for great value during the film's opening act in Egypt, energy that is meticulously maintained by the director Lewis Gilbert when initial elements of distrust are fought through and the film pushes onwards into an adventure we sense is fleshed out. We enjoy the three way causality led squabble between these two and Stormberg's hulking henchman, arguably the greatest Bond henchman of them all, in Jaws (Kiel); we enjoy Gilbert's shooting of Roger Moore's silhouette amidst the towering, centuries old architecture as he peers upwards whilst in Egypt and the inferring that he is dwarfed by his locale or is out of his depth and that he may struggle with his surroundings. The varying parties chasing this lone MacGuffin in a heated, sweltering location calls to mind that of a Peckinpah or a Leone western, whereas the rising antagonism between Bond and Amasova barely ever dissipates, the circumstances of her lover's death rearing up just as it seems they've put differences aside thus pushing their relationship down another route of strife. Everything aside, the film makes for a fine thriller and is probably one of the best of its canon. "},{"Title":"Bond and Beyond","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the lackluster commercial and critical performance of The Man With the Golden Gun, Brocolli and his team decided to go back to their drawing room and flesh out a more exciting Bond that would appeal to movie audiences that were besotted with the magical action of Star Wars and the heart stopping thrills of Jaws.In fact, the future of the James Bond franchise depended on the outcome of their project. The Bond team was well aware of this fact so they decided to make it bigger, more action packed, higher stakes, etc. And it worked.In Roger Moore's third entrance as James Bond, The Spy Who Loved Me revolves around two missing nuclear submarines belonging to Britain and Soviet Union. James Bond is dispatched to locate the submarine by finding the person who is offering to sell the submarine tracking system to the highest bidder. Of course, the Russians too are interested in finding the tracker and send their KGB agent played by Playmate Barbara Bach. A so so actress.Both agents are forced to join forces to find their common enemy. However, unbeknownst to them both, their lives already shared an intersection when Bond killed her former lover in self defence. An interesting twist which was disappointingly, not exploited to its full potential.Their mission takes them to the deserts and pyramids of Egypt, and the beaches of Sardinia. In their journey they encounter one of Bond's most famous nemeses, the man who replaced Oddjob as the scariest henchman. The person is none other Jaws who made his chilling debut in this movie and was effectively played by the giant, Richard Kiel. Aptly named Jaws, the killer sports a row of steel teeth that can cut a metal chain or padlock. On human flesh, it was put to effective use.As the movie progresses, it becomes more apparent that the person responsible for the disappearance of the submarines is not interested in money but in using the subs to provoke World War III. Why? So that he can create a world beneath the sea. Talk about perverted ambitions. The person was megalomaniac billionaire Stromberg, a man obsessed with the sea and actually lives on or beneath the sea. Curd Jurgens who plays Stromberg was quite effective in his role but not exceptionally menacing as Donald Pleasance's Blofeld in You Only Live Twice.The film was action packed. From the pre credit breath taking ski chase on the Alps to the combat fistcuffs in Cairo, from the amazing car chase (featuring Bond's outstanding gadget, a Lotus car that can turn into a mini submarine) to the climatic battle on a submarine dock cleverly disguised as an oil tanker, the movie breathes with explosive action and stunts.Roger Moore was in one of his best performances. Still cracking with his wit and one liners, he still exceptionally showed a gritty edge that bordered on cold blood murder. An example is when he throws a helpless man from the rooftops after collecting useful information or when he executes the defenseless Stromberg. Sorry for the spoiler guys, but we know that Bond always kills the bad guys.And we know the bad guys maybe smart enough to implement a world domination operation but still dumb to know they should kill Bond once he is captured. Don't they ever learn? Haven't they watched enough Bond movies to realize that their predecessors' biggest mistakes was to use elaborate schemes to kill Bond instead of keeping things simple and put a bullet through his head? And the operation itself like in all Bond movies lacked subtlety. Since their intention was to destroy the world, and repopulate it beneath the sea, where are the women that will be used for the procreation? After all, it was just by happen stance that Bond's female accomplice happened to be around when the operation was being launched.What was the strategic benefit of hijacking the submarine belonging to the Americans? And when captured, why not kill all the seamen at once? A man wanting to destroy the world will feel no qualms murdering sailors.As I said before, Bond movies are all too fantastic. But still they are a lot of fun and this movie stands out in the fun department.Featuring a solid score Nobody does it Better and the haunting lyrics of Lawrence of Arabia, abound with tight packed action, filled with gorgeous women (like the helicopter pilot who still has time to exchange air kisses and winks with Bond as she tries to kill him,) elaborate sets, it was no surprise that TSWLM was a commercial mega hit, and saved the Bond franchise from extinction.It was really golden Bond and Beyond! "},{"Title":"The definitive Roger Moore Bond","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After two films and three years since his last outing, Roger Moore returns for his third Bond film. After two absolutely horrible films and one border-line film, The Spy Who Loved Me is the first truly classic Bond film since On Her Majesty's Secret Service in 1969.The Spy Who Loved Me is Roger Moore's most definitive Bond film, even though it isn't my favourite of the lot that he starred in. Everything works here, from the submarine lotus and the henchman Jaws to the classic pre-title sequence of Bond falling off a cliff with the Union Jack on a parachute and Moore coming into his own after two films. Furthermore, the film embraces the epic scope of Thunderball, You Only Live Twice and On Her Majesty's Secret Service that was surely lacking in the last three films. Lastly, the climax of a shootout with Bond and a private army raiding the villain's lair returns in this film.After two films, Moore finally comes into his own and shows that you don't have to be Sean Connery to be a good Bond (though Lazenby in On Her Majesty's Secret Service does a creditable job also). The film is noteworthy for it's villains. Jürgens's Stromberg is one of the best villains of the Moore era and gives a great performance of the aqua-loving villain. However, the film belongs to Richard Kiel as the 7' 2 henchman Jaws.A somewhat minor but important issue I have to pick with the film. At the Oscars for 1977, this film is the only one in the series to get a nomination for best original score. Many of the Barry scores, particularly On Her Majesty's Secret Service, were very much in deserving a nomination whereas this film is the only one of the lot to actually receive said nomination. I know this has more to do with the series as a whole, but I feel that I should mention it as many of the Barry scores were fantastic and were deserving of a nomination.Simply put, The Spy Who Loved Me is Moore's most definitive Bond film and deserves it's status as a classic film in the series. "},{"Title":"Fabulous nonsense, superior to all the previous Roger Moore Bonds, with an unforgettable villain","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Bond (Roger Moore) teams with a sexy Russian agent (Barbara Bach) to stop a web-fingered megalomaniac (Curd Jürgens) from destroying the world and rebuilding it as a new Atlantis.The Spy Who Loved Me is fabulous nonsense, superior to all the previous Roger Moore Bonds, even with the obvious model shots, process shots and the occasionally corny background music by Marvin Hamlisch, who also wrote the music for the theme song, Nobody Does It Better. (It's popular, but you can have it.) The gadgets, sets, stunts and one-liners are more outrageous than ever. Jürgens makes a good villain, and so does the shark he unleashes on traitors; but the bad guy everyone remembers is Jaws&#x97;not another shark, but a metal-mouthed giant played by Richard Kiel. He is Jürgens's best henchman&#x97;not good enough to outmatch Bond, but enough to survive for the next Bond adventure. "},{"Title":"One of the better Bond movies","Date":"16 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" With over twenty James Bond films in the official canon, it can be difficult to keep track of them all. This is the one with the Egyptian pyramids, the female Soviet agent, the metal-mouthed henchman Jaws, the magnificent underwater lair (complete with shark tank), the U.S. submarine crew, the amphibious sportscar, and the silly opening ski scene. The title song (a.k.a. Nobody Does It Better) is sung by Carly Simon. Roger Moore returns as 007 for the third time, with Barbara Bach as the pretty Soviet agent.What's interesting about THE SPY WHO LOVED ME is that it gives a human face to the Cold War enemies. The British Secret Service and the KGB must work together to thwart a common threat. James Bond meets his match in his female Russian counterpart. But we see that for every anonymous agent killed in the spy games, there's someone back home left heartbroken.This is one of the better Bond films, in my opinion. Probably not my absolute favorite, but one of the good ones.The villain is a fanatic who wants to create a new world of underwater cities. This movie gives us some of the over-the-top lairs that the Bond franchise is known for. There's the submersible marine observatory (a grand sci-fi structure with a classy, sophisticated interior) and the military base within an enormous ship (with war room, cylindrical corridors, and a legion of guards in orange uniforms).We also get to see the beautiful Egyptian landscape and the famous ancient Egyptian temples. The British-Russian romance is kind of cool, and Barbara Bach is certainly nice to look at. There's some nice undersea cinematography as well.The ski scene in the opening has always seemed a little silly to me. Mostly because of the god-awful rear-projection behind Roger Moore in the close-ups. Moore is clearly standing still, cool as a cucumber, while the snowy mountains fly by in the background. I also think part of my attitude has to do with Moore's yellow and red skiing outfit, which makes James Bond look a lot like Ronald McDonald to me. But there's nothing silly about the stuntwork done in that sequence. Especially the jaw-dropping free fall off the cliff. That was amazing.THE SPY WHO LOVED ME has got to be one of my favorite Roger Moore Bonds. It's such a classic James Bond adventure and Moore really seems to act the part in this one. We see Bond follow a trail of information, combat some thugs, match wits with his rival, and meet all sorts of beautiful women. (The usual James Bond stuff.) The script is full of double entendres and sexual innuendos, as well as the occasional cheesy one-liner.This tenth Bond movie is a winner. There's a lot of James Bond espionage goodness, with very little that takes away from it. Many Bond films have their good points and bad, but there isn't much that is too cringe-worthy here. Just some classic James Bond action in the signature style. Solid the whole way through. "}{"Title":"Nobody does it better","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The things I liked about this movie 1. The main theme song (Nobody Does It Better), one of the best Bond theme songs ever, actually I liked the whole music video which was shown in the beginning. 2. Jaws (who is so hard to kill) and some other colorful characters too. Actually Jaws was the reason why from 22 Bond films I choose to watch this one today. 3. Some original ways to get rid of the people. 4. The story. This is probably one of the most romantic Bond movies, I really liked the love story between Bond and Anya. So it's kinda good Bond movie, the only thing that was disappointing was that there was too little of action. Actually the action was quite good. There was one impressive stunt with skis, by performing it stuntman almost killed himself, the underwater chase scene was pretty impressive but still there could be more action. "},{"Title":"Competent, well paced Roger Moore Bond adventure","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This seems to be everyone's favorite Roger Moore Bond. Mine is 'For Your Eyes Only', but 'The Spy Who Loved Me' is a more than competent entry in the Bond canon. Roger Moore is at his relaxed and charming best, the plot is the usual one of a super villain craving world dominance, with the twist of competing British and Soviet secret agents falling in love. The film is well paced with good action set pieces. Bond's love affair in this film certainly isn't a serious matter, what with Moore's constant one-liners. It lacks the emotional resonance of Lazenby's 'On her majesty's..' Jaws is a formidable opponent in the henchmen category in Bond films and he makes an appearance here.Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"The audience who loves Moore","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved is the best Bond of the seventies and arguably one of the better ones of the whole series.Moore returns for a third time as Bond and has grown very nicely into the character. Moore proves to be a decent replacement for Connery with this one.The Spy Who Loved Me marks the first truly outrageous escapism Bond movie ever and more would follow. The audience loved it, as The Spy Who Loved Me became the most successful Bond movie ever financially (up to that point).The seriousness of the early Bond movies is completely gone and it suits Moore, who never took the character that seriously. "},{"Title":"007 entering the computerized age&#133;","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved Me starts off slow with a less than impressive opening scene but ultimately is one of the better films in the series. It's about a supervillain named Karl Stromberg who has isolated himself from society in a massive underwater lair that reminds me of the Nautilus from Jules Verne's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. Like Captain Nemo, Stromberg prefers an ocean life because of the peace and tranquility of the underwater world. When he meets Bond, he asks him, Why do we seek to conquer space when seven tenths of our universe remains to be explored?But even his lofty his goal of creating an underground city is not his master plan. He has also built a super-tanker large enough to open up the jaws of its bow and swallow entire nuclear submarines and use them for his own ends. When the British and the Russians each find that they're missing a nuclear submarine, a massive hunt is started to find out what happened to them. The concern, needless to say, is understandable.I am curious as to why the subs didn't have ANY kind of tracking system installed in them. I mean, I realize this was before the time of LoJack, but these are not old Hondas, they're nuclear freaking submarines! Maybe the most amazing thing in the movie is that both the British and Soviets somehow overcame the embarrassment of having lost one of the most powerful and expensive pieces of military technology in their mutual arsenals long enough to realize that the other had the same problem!I'm just imagining the conversation &#150; Yeah, London? This is Moscow. We seem to have misplaced a nuclear sub, so if you run into one, could you give us a holler?....What? You're missing one, TOO?! Oh, thank God! We thought we were the only ones!Bond is obliged to team up with Russian agent XXX, a beautiful woman who's fiancé he killed in the movie's opening sequence. It's a tense relationship, as she tells him that as soon as their mission is accomplished, she will kill him too. Also notable about this movie is that it is a bit more violent than most of the Bond films, especially the more recent ones. Bond kills a surprising number of people, some of them almost in cold blood. The Spy Who Loved Me is the movie that introduced the unstoppable henchman Jaws, a steel-toothed giant played by Richard Kiel. Jaws was so popular that he was brought back for the next Bond film, Moonraker, although he never once utters a word. I'm guess it's because it would be so hard for Kiel to get anything out around those alloy dentures. I loved the wild villanousness of the bad guy in The Spy Who Loved Me. No simple murder mystery or enormous embezzlement scheme, this Stromberg wanted to start a war between Britain and the Soviet Union, knowing that global destruction would follow, paving the way for him to, as Homer Simpson once put it, start a new life under the sea.Of all the outlandishly nutty schemes! This is the kind of thing that could only ever exist in a James Bond movie, and it makes for one of the more entertaining entries in the series. "},{"Title":"True Spies","Date":"20 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Connery started out with three fantastic Bond films and it seems as though Roger Moore did as well. I think it's quite clear that The Spy Who Loved Me is the biggest Bond film to date yet (1977). Traveling to deserts and oceans across the globe to go along with having the most explosive and destructive climax of the series, this film is first actual blockbuster in Bond's history. The plot deals with yet another villain wanting to change the course of the world living secluded in a mysteriously unique construct. Seriously, I feel like 85% of the Bond films have this plot. Anyways Bond is after stolen submarines that may contain nuclear weapons along with the help of the KGB.The presence of the KGB gave us perhaps the best Bond girl yet. Not because she's the best looking or most seductive, but because she is the most useful love interest yet for 007. Barbara Bach, who plays said love interest Major Anya, served as a great counterpart to James. Way more so than the charming yet out of place Ms. Goodnight of the previous entry. I appreciated that Anya didn't just succumb to Bond's charm right away. It felt a little more realistic this time.I also enjoyed the change up of having MI6 team up with KGB for the greater good. So often Bond works on his own and only his own in these films. Considering the bigger stakes that are at hand, it's only necessary 007 gets a little help.The Spy Who Loved Me is also famous for having one of the most iconic Bond villains of all time. Stromberg was great as the big baddie, but he was far overshadowed by Richard Kiel's Jaws character. Sure, he is basically Michael Shannon meets the giant from Big Fish, and yes his scenes were very over-the-top and maybe even tonally off. But I had a ton of fun watching Bond and Anya try to take him down.Everything from the set design inside Stromberg's ship to the desert scenes filled with Lawrence of Arabia's music, this was Moore's best outing and better than most of Connery's entries. It took the typical Bond plot and brought terrific visuals, set designs, and one bada** Bond girl. The Spy Who Loved Me is one of the best films of all time.+Everything looks better+Set designs+Anya is actually capable of doing something+Jaws-Perhaps change up the villains motivations for once8.0/10 "},{"Title":"Moore recaptures the Magic.","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Finally, after a few hit and miss films, the Bond producers and Moore were able to create a Bond film that was able to rival some of Connery's better films. We have the locations, the Bond girl, the gadgets, the car, the villain and the Henchman. We even have the insane plot, that yet somehow we can happily believe. And, in several scenes, we see Moore drop the comical side for a more serious approach, and he proves that he's not just a one trick pony. A British submarine has disappeared in the middle of the ocean. Totally impossible, you may think, until a lead turns up in Egypt that suggests someone has been able to design a program that can successfully track down Western and Soviet submarines. James Bond of MI6, and Anya, Agent XXX of the Soviet union, are sent to investigate, separately at first, then together later on when it turns out they are facing Carl Stromberg a man hell-bent on creating a new world under the sea. Working together, they are able to find Stromberg's lair, break into it and discover how he has been able to capture the submarines, and why he has done so. This leads to a fairly classic finale, and a moment of ruthlessness from Moore's Bond. We also have the pleasure of being introduced to the best Henchman since OddJob, in the form of Jaws. Where the previous film, The Man with the Golden Gun failed, The Spy who Loved me succeeds. The plot focuses on one main objective - to stop Stromberg - and though there are some subplots,the script and film don't the mistake of trying to do too many things. The result is that the production is far neater and far more enjoyable. Moore gets to exercise his ability a bit more, we have charming yet ruthless Bond girl, and we have such a good henchman in Jaws, who steals every scene that he's in. In terms of Moore's Bond, this film is an important step. He was good in Live and Let Die, which had a decent plot and decent script. But he couldn't really do anything with Bond in The Man with The Golden Gun because it was too muddled. In this, we see him ruthlessly kill in the same way as Connery once did, and he really does give the character of Bond some edge. This was a great return to form for the Bond franchise, and I think it's worth an 8/10 for its effort. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's best Bond film","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore, who currently holds the record for most times portraying James Bond in the Eon series, not including Never Say Never Again, didn't have a better Bond film that The Spy Who Loved Me. The film, while it does have its silly moments, had a great story, in my opinion the best Bond girl, one of the best opening songs, and one of the greatest entertainment values. Another thing that works in the film is the villains. Stromberg comes off as a little scary and intimidating, but not as great as Goldfinger and Dr. No. But the villain that we all know and love, of course, is Jaws. He's great, and that's about all I have to say. Yeah, the plot may seem familiar by now, but the action is fantastic. From the opening ski chase to the car chases to the brawls to the end two-part end battle, it never fails. I wish Roger Moore had made half his Bond films like this. "},{"Title":"The Best Bond movie","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For me this is by far one of the best Bond's ever, it combines action, humour wonderful locations and the awesome gadgets such as the Lotus Esprit Underwater car and it was the first time that a water bike was showned in movies and you can see that Bond is still touched by the death of his wife, mentioned by the original agent xxx Anya Amasova a Russian agent played by actress Barbara Bach. Also it has a great plot the women are beautiful there are great locations and it's by far Roger's best outing as 007! I think that only better than this one, only the upcoming Skyfall which I hope I can go to its premiere in October! "},{"Title":"Possibly the best Bond film of the Roger Moore era","Date":"15 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this film Bond is once again trying to save the world; this time from a megalomaniac, by the name of Karl Stromberg, who has found a way to track nuclear submarines at sea, disable them and capture them intact so that he can use them to start a nuclear war that would leave the seabed the only inhabitable place in Earth. Of course his intentions aren't known at first; in fact when a Royal Navy submarine vanishes at sea it is assumed the Soviets are involved somehow; then one of their subs disappears as well. Shortly afterwards news gets out that the tracking technology is being offered for sale in Cairo; M dispatches Bond straight away and his Soviet counterpart sends his top agent; Major Anya Amasova. At first they work against each other to acquire the technology for their respective countries but ultimately it is decided the two countries will work together. Having discovered Stromberg's involvement they set off to Sardinia and get a less than friendly welcome; ultimately though they will have to get on a submarine if they want to get inside Stromberg's giant sub-stealing tanker and thwart his plans.This instalment of the Bond franchise drastically reduces the comedy elements found in Roger Moore's first too outings; Bond still has a quip for every occasion but gone is comedy character Sheriff J.W. Pepper and instead we have Stromberg's steel-toothed henchman Jaws who seems to survive every disaster that befalls him; he provides some laughs but is a proper bad guy&#x85; I recall being terrified in the scene where he bites somebody's neck when I first saw this as a child! Richard Kiel is great in the roll even if he didn't utter a word. Curt Jurgens does a decent job as Stromberg; the character is clearly mad but doesn't go over the top. Barbara Bach makes a likable Bond girl; it is nice to have a female character in these films that is as skilled as Bond. There is plenty of action including a chase where Bond's car converts into a mini-submarine, numerous fights and a spectacular shootout aboard Stromberg's tanker. Definitely a film to watch. "},{"Title":"My favorite Bond film","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is no wonder that Lewis Gilbert's The Spy Who Loved Me is Roger Moore's favorite of his 007 films. To my mind, it is the ultimate Bond film, complete with the best Bond girl (Barbara Bach's Agent XXX), the best Bond car (Lotus sub), the best Bond villain (Curt Jurgens' Stromberg), and the best Bond song (Carly Simon's Nobody Does It Better).Ken Adam's set design and Maurice Binder's main title design are fantastic. The film is very funny! Richard Kiel's Jaws is a superhuman monstrosity that can tear apart a van, but struggles a little when wrestling 007. He is way over the top, but it works.I don't see it leaving my top 100 anytime soon. "}{"Title":"worth viewing several times over","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spy Who Loved Me easily gets a high rating for several reasons. Now before I get on with those reasons, let me state as I did in a previous James Bond review that Roger Moore is the least of my preferred portrayals of the character. Still, this particular film is not only one of Moore's best outings as the 00 Agent it is also one of the best Bond films period. Moving on to why I like Spy Who Loved Me so much For one, the pacing of the film is near perfect. I wasn't bored for a minute. Secondly, The Russian Agent known as 'Tripple X' (ha ha) is Bond's equal in just about every way. Third, one of my few all time favorite Bond villains makes his first appearance in the series... JAWS. This guy is so unique that the movie is almost worth seeing just for him (and for Tripple X too). Fourth, Moore's character of Bond is more humanist and less egotistical. Fifth, the opening song to Spy Who Loved Me is the fourth song that I really like in the 007 series with the others being Goldfinger, Live and Let Die, and Man with the Golden Gun. Moving on to the plot of the film... To be honest, it is nothing unique. In fact, the only minor complaint I have is that the lesser Bond villain is very bland and fortunately doesn't get much screen time unlike the bland villain of Thunderball who got way too much screen time. OK, back to Spy Who Loved Me... JAWS gets a good portion of screen time as he should and interestingly enough JAWS doesn't speak a word throughout his entire presence. Well truth be told, he doesn't really need to say anything. I could possibly be overrating Spy Who Loved Me but I don't care. It delivers good thrills and is top notch in the 007 library. "},{"Title":"Eye-Popping, Crowd-Pleasing, Wham-Bang, Action-Packed, Top-Notch, Blockbuster James Bond Film","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When both a British and a Russian nuclear submarine disappear without trace, suave MI6 spy James Bond and beautiful KGB agent Anya Amasova must temporarily join forces to solve the mystery.This is one of my favourite Bond flicks; like Gilbert's prior outing, You Only Live Twice, it's gloriously excessive, over-the-top and enormous fun all the way. It's got a mad villain with an insane looking undersea secret base, a sexy Russian spy called Agent Triple X, an unflappable silent movie giant henchman who bites through anything and anyone that gets in his way, a supercool Lotus Elise which turns into an underwater submersible, not one but two classic Hammer Films babes (Munro and Leon) and a humungous oil tanker which eats submarines. In terms of plausibility it may be a tad lacking, but for sheer jaw-dropping action entertainment it's rarely been topped, with a stunning ski-chase opening, a memorable fight in the Abu Simbel temples, a fantastic car/motorbike/helicopter chase along the Costa Smeralda and a huge finale dust-up in villain Stromberg's vast Atlantis base. Ken Adam's production design, particularly for the latter, is just breathtaking in its scope and grandiose comic-book stylings - Adam built the largest soundstage in the world, flooded with a million gallons of water, for the amazing sequences where the subs are captured by the Liparus. Okay so the movie may have a few too many jokes about sexual proclivity and the plot doesn't really bear much scrutiny, but it's everything a Bond movie should be; stylish, action-packed, exotic escapist fantasy, transporting you to some glamorous other-worldly universe of spies, arch-villains, wild gadgets, dangerous women and international intrigue. It's sensational, with a great cast, terrific photography, neato special effects (by Derek Meddings) and a goofily enjoyable string-disco score featuring one of the most memorable theme songs of the series (Nobody Does It Better). Everyone has their own favourite Bond films and eras, but I think this one is pretty undeniably one of the best (both Moore and producer Albert Broccoli cited it as a favourite). Some weird trivia; there is a gaffe in the end credits citing For Your Eyes Only as the next film in the series (it was actually Moonraker), Stanley Kubrick was an uncredited lighting / technical consultant on the big stage shots, and by most accounts this was the last movie Elvis Presley saw. Shot in Egypt, Canada, Scotland, Sardinia and at Pinewood Studios, this is blockbuster British action cinema at its best. "},{"Title":"Probably my Favorite Bond Movie","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't think you'd get much argument from Bond Movie-goers that The Spy Who Loved Me is Roger Moore's top picture, and reportedly his favorite movie done as Bond. The viewing experience backs up both. The Spy Who Loved Me has everything going for it with great action and adventure, a serviceable plot, excellent locales (particularly Egypt), good villains and one of the best henchman introduced in cinema, as well as in my opinion the top opening sequence of any Bond movie. And who could forget the strong performance of Bach as well. For me this movie belongs in the top echelon with the other best James Bond movies created to date. Although I enjoy Sean Connery's physical presence as James Bond, I like Roger Moore's humor and line delivery as what I've grown up with and define as James Bond. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Perfect Bond","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A James Bond film with everything, including a side-story involving the Bond girl, played by sexy Barbara Bach as a Russian spy, with a secret personal agenda to kill the glib, dapper spy as revenge for her boyfriend's death, care/of 007, during an intense downhill-ski sequence one of many terrific chase scenes that occur practically non-stop from beginning to end.Kurt Jurgens is nicely understated as the main villain dictating an undersea compound, but it's Richard Keil as Russian henchman Jaws, a mute, silver-toothed seven-foot-plus unbreakable thug, who poses the real threat.The action, roving from one near-death sequence to the next, keeps outdoing itself and, despite a dragging climactic battle involving the English Navy, and the cheesy seventies porno-type soundtrack, this is topnotch 007 through-and-through. "},{"Title":"Everyone Kind Of Resents Jurgens Marineland Earth He's Got Planned","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore as James Bond has got another assignment involving the fate of the whole world. British Intelligence never gives him anything less. This time he's investigating this disappearance of both British and American nuclear powered submarines while on duty with no trace at all.The evil genius behind it all is Curt Jurgens playing the role of an Onassis type billionaire shipping magnate who wants the world made to order for him. And in this case he believes mankind should start all over again in an undersea world which of course he will run. Just another case of a guy with all the money in the world thinking that entitles him to decide how everyone else should live and behave. Jurgens has the resources to make it stick unless 007 can do something about it.With both the Russians and the British working on this, the powers that be which in this case is General Walter Gotell of the Soviet KGB and M of course played by Bernard Lee have decided to stop working against each other. In this case it means Moore working with beautiful Russian agent Barbara Bach and you know of course she'll be Bondified before the film is over.Probably up to this point the most dangerous foe that James Bond ever faced was Odd Job in You Only Live Twice. But when Richard Kiel as Jaws made his appearance, he took that title away and retired the crown as far as I'm concerned. That is one menacing dude, 7'2 with a mouth full of steel teeth that finish off most people. Of course 007 ain't most people. The Spy Who Loved Me garnered three Oscar nominations for Best Musical Score for Marvin Hamlisch and for Best Song with Nobody Does It Better for Hamlisch and Carole Bayer Sager and one for Art&Set Direction. I'm not sure, but this might be the most recognition the Motion Picture Academy gave a Bond film.And this film review is dedicated to Tom Golisano, another megalomaniac billionaire who thinks he ought to be running things. We're well used to the type in my area. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, Not great (ratings in comparison to other Bond FIlms)","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A very good Bond movie overall, sometimes overrated. Maybe it is looking back after so many Bond films, but this one kind of suffers from the overuse of the tired Bond formula- super-villain out to conquer the world through extreme measures. The plot is a perfect midpoint between Thunderball and Moonraker- stolen nuclear missiles and a megalomaniac who wishes to wipe out the world and start anew.The plot centers on the release of stolen plans which show that someone knows how to locate nuclear submarines, thus making them easy to destroy. This technology piques the interest of the UK and USSR who both send their top agents, 007 and XXX who first battle each other, but then must work together. Unfortunately, the competitive part is silly and childish, and Barbara Bach's XXX is rather silly. Another plot point which doesn't help is that Bond killed XXX's lover on a previous mission, and she has vowed revenge. The clues lead to a demented shipping magnate and deep-sea genius named Stromberg (Curd Juergens). Stromberg introduces one of the more famous Bond henchmen- Jaws (Richard Kiel)- who could have been a great heavy, but becomes a bastion for some poor puns and jokes.The usual big-bang action is here and the super-stunts and chases are back, returning the Bond world from espionage to near comic-book superheroism, which to me is a weakness in many of the films. All in all the storyline is solid enough and the plot flows well, but the stilted acting of the Jurgens and Barbara Bach (not a good actress, overacts, and awfully poor accent) get tiresome quickly. However, Roger Moore is as at ease with the role as he can be and balances the drop-offs of Bach well enough. There is still enough espionage and spy work to remind the viewer that Bond is a secret agent, not a superhero and the excessive puns of later movies is more subdued here. "},{"Title":"Spectacular outdoors,hectic action and megalomaniac villain in  a new  enjoyable outing Bond","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This time James Bond-Roger Moore third outing and best entry ,he join forces with female Russian agent named Anya Amasova(Bach)to eliminate a nasty villainous(Curt Jurgens)and his henchman, a giant steel-toothed named Jaws(Richard Kiel).He schemes to utilize captured US and Russians atomic underwater with objective to destroy the world.For the first time nuclear submarines from Russia,Britain are sailing side by side.It may look like the beginning of WWIII,but don't worry .As usual,intervene Q (Desmond LLewelyn),MonneyPenny(Lois Maxwell),M(Bernard Lee) and Russian general Gogol(Walter Gotell).Roger Moore plays perfectly the master spy,Moore tells about his Simon Templar,The Saint, that he was a private person doing things for other people to help them and was rather a boy-scout following the rules of television and James Bond is an assassin licensed to kill.He's right,the tone is perfect for the times and for Roger Moore's brand of James Bond.Times have changed and for example, the Ian Fleming book based the film ,has nothing to do with cinematographic adaptation.His beautiful co-star is Barbara Bach and of course no Bond movie would be complete without the gorgeous Bond girls(Caroline Munro,Valerie Leon,among others).The movie is an agreeable blending of frenetic action,spectacular and exciting sets and humor with tongue in cheek.The film contains the world's largest sound stage specially constructed by production designer Ken Adam.In the inauguration day was even as special guest,former Prime Minister,Sir Harold Wilson. The motion picture is shot in Sardinia, Cala Volpe.There appears the car Lotus Esprit,¨Sweet Nellie¨, with weapons and rapidly become in sub.There's a very funny scene when the Lotus comes out of the water,but in order to avoid seeing the car underwater,Kem Adam had a speedboat doing waves .The scenes were really very simple attached a cable under the van to the front of the Lotus and pulled the car out the water.The Lotus could function underwater,but had to wear breathtaking equipment inside.The producer Albert Broccoli tells that they went to Egypt in the mid-1970s,tensions were hight in the Mideast.It took some careful negotiation to get out crew into Egypt.They had to submit the script in advance and an Egyptian government official had to be present during the shooting to make Egypt certain and did not portray the country in a negative light.The most challenging sequence was the night shooting in pyramids Giza,where was re-staged the ¨Son et Lumiere¨,despite the dramatic lighting effects much of the show had to be recreated in studio(Pinewood) using special effects.While the Bond films are not travelogues ,the producers do like to take viewers to spectacular places and show them things in a way that they've never seen before.The producers gambled that audiences were ready for a more fantasy-laden Bond film.Egypt(with an impressive temple of Karnak) was a great location for cameraman Claude Renoir,made it look elegant and exotic,Claude was the nephew of the great director,Jean Renoir.He helped photograph many Renoir's great films,like the ¨Grand illusion¨.He also shot second unit on ¨Cleopatra¨and photographer the 60s cult classic,¨Barbarella¨.This is his last major film as cinematographer.The film is well directed by Lewis Gilbert who had previously directed¨You only live twice¨a decade earlier.This picture is one of the more memorable Bond-Moore. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the best entry in the series.","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    No arguments, The Spy Who Loved Me is Roger Moore's best outing as British superspy James Bond, 007. After the box-office failure of The Man With The Golden Gun, Cubby Broccoli realised the stakes were high for the 10th film in the 007 franchise. Another failure could easily destroy Commander Bond. Did Broccoli succeed? You bet. TSWLM proved to be a thrilling, gloriously spectacular Bond adventure, featuring ground-breaking sets and the latest special effects.  The plot is essentially a reworking of You Only Live Twice - but greatly improved. Whilst in YOLT the plot was easily lost in between action sequences, in TSWLM the plot builds up gradually with the presence of a microfilm containing details of a submarine tracking device, which Her Majesty's Secret Service suspect the villain is using to capture US and British submarines. Storyline consistency is always important in a Bond film and Spy strikes it just right.  Note also that in this film an entirely new breed of heroine is introduced in the form of Major Anya Amasova, aka Agent Triple X, played with a stunning visual presence by Barbara Bach. She becomes 007's reluctant ally as they cross Egypt and Sardinia picking up clues, but I mean reluctant, and she certainly matches Bond every step of the way, and even gets ahead at times. No mean feat. Speaking of Mr. Bond, Roger Moore clicks into his role and doesn't let us down. His performance here is effective in that he alternates between subtle humour and (unbelievably) seriousness. There are standout scenes such as when he lets a henchman plummet to his death from a rooftop, and at the end of the film when he kills Stromberg, when Moore displays genuine lethalness. But there is one scene in particular that sticks in my mind. In the pre-credits sequence, Bond kills Anya's lover, Sergei Barsov, who is pursuing Bond on skis. Later in Sardinia Anya confronts Bond about her lover's plight. In this scene, Moore drops every sign of light-heartedness, speaks quietly and thoughtfully, and comments on the philosophy of being a spy It was either him or me. The answer is yes, I did kill him. Anyone who suggests that Moore was incapable of acting seriously should pay attention to that scene.  Then there is the villain and his master plan. Karl Stromberg (Kurt Jurgens) is a billionaire shipping magnate who is capturing nuclear submarines using his giant front-opening supertanker, the Liparus. From here he plans to use the submarines as instruments of Armageddon to destroy Moscow and New York, thereby creating a nuclear holocaust after which he will preside over a new undersea kingdom ruled from his underwater base, Atlantis. Rather like Michael Lonsdale in Moonraker, Jurgens plays Stromberg with an understated sense of fear and has plenty of ideas on how to get rid of Bond.   Spy also features two elements that will rank as two of the most enduring images of the series the appearance of the gadget-laden Lotus Esprit that tends to swim, not sink, and the introduction of the seven-foot-four, steel-toothed Jaws, played by Richard Kiel, who not only uses his teeth to deadly effect but can survive ANYTHING (including a building falling on top of him)! Note why does Bond choose to shoot him in the teeth, of ALL places?  The Spy Who Loved Me revived the franchise, no doubt. You look have to look at the pre-credits sequences to see that, what with Bond skiing over a cliff - a great thrill to begin to begin a Bond film with! The rest of the film is just as impressive, in no small part due to the return of director Lewis R. Gilbert. Spy is both thrilling and enjoyable, and even those who wrote off the series after Connery's departure should like this one.Roll on Moonraker.   "},{"Title":"One of Moore's Coolest and Most Slick Outings as Bond,","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy who Loved Me is a great movie with a well developed storyline and a talented cast. I would certainly consider it to be one of the finest of Roger Moore's Bond films, he had moments where he seemed in top form, and other times he just appeared to be growing tired of the role (A View to a Kill), but he is superb in this movie, he has some of the best dialogue we've ever seen delivered from Bond, and after two movies, he seems very comfortable in the role. I think the love story between Bond and Agent XXX is the poorest aspect of this film, it felt a bit unnecessary and certainly overused, there wasn't enough chemistry between Moore and Barbara Bach, and because of this their passionate scenes together really just left me wanting more action. This film marks the first of two appearances (the other being Moonraker) by Jaws, a henchman superbly played by Richard Kiel, I've always enjoyed his performance in both films and he certainly leaves a mark as one of my all time favourite Bond characters, their fight scenes are very well choreographed and, particularly the fight in this film, remain one of the most memorable moments in the franchise. It's not the finest Bond film, but it's certainly one of the most memorable, a must see for fans and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good action or adventure. 007 joins forces with his female Russian counterpart when U.S. and Russian submarines begin vanishing from the ocean. Best Performance Roger Moore Worst Performance Caroline MunroIf you have any recommendations on films/TV series I should watch or review,or any questions to ask me,just tweet me @DillonTheHarris "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's best Bond, and one of the best in the series","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nevermind the fact that the screenstory has next to nothing to do with the original novel (excluding its title and the villain's two henchmen) , I had a LOT of fun with this one, Roger Moore's best turn as Bond. He appears to be having a great time here, and never let it be said that his Bond wasn't a tough guy watch as he holds his own rather well when up against the rather helpful chap on the rooftop, in one of the series' best scenes; and also with the two thugs outside the pyramids after Fekkesh is found dead, the fight in the gypsy dancer's room, and when up against my 7'3 tall screennamesake. The screenwriters took that character from the original novel, a simple thug with steel-capped teeth, and exaggerated the details of him dramatically and created one of the most memorable henchmen the series has ever had.The music score to this one was great also, very effective, and also it relies on ambient noise, to great effect, during Bond's fight on the rooftop, and when Bond and XXX are searching for Jaws and the microfilm at the pyramids, and, most notably, during the pretitle ski-jump, one of the best stunts the series has ever pulled off. That gives the film a more intimate, small scale feeling during those scenes, which sets it apart from many other Bonds. "}{"Title":"That's Moore like it.","Date":"18 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As with Doctor Who, people tend to have an affinity for the James Bond they grew up with; in my case it was Roger Moore, and the first Bond film that blew my socks off as a nine-year-old was The Spy Who Loved Me (I may have seen The Man With the Golden Gun earlier, but that film is not a patch on this one).Having just sat down with my eight year old son to watch the film for the first time in decades, I can happily say that the passing of over thirty years has done nothing to reduce the level of enjoyment I can experience watching Moore mercilessly mocking Barbara Bach's driving skills, a Lotus Esprit transform into a submarine, Richard Kiel getting his teeth zapped with a broken table lamp, the gorgeous Caroline Munro being blasted out of the skies, or several hundred boiler-suited henchmen throwing themselves off metal walkways amidst explosions and gunfire.Opening with an iconic sequence guaranteed to stir feelings of patriotism in any Brit, ending with a classic 'exploding Bond villain lair', and with plenty of gorgeous girls, gadgets and gratuitous sexist quips packed in-between, this is THE quintessential 70s Bond movie. And yes, I guess I am just a tad biased. "},{"Title":"Moore is in the Driver's Seat, but his Surroundings Don't Offer Much Horsepower","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore stares down a cooperative Russian spy with a faint British-American accent and an evil mastermind so unimportant, he merely makes a cameo in his own finale. Barbara Bach, who plays the aforementioned Russian, is easy on the eyes but thoroughly grating as an actress. It's a shame the subplot involving her ex-lover, who Bond unceremoniously ends with a rocket-propelled ski pole in the pre-credits sequence, is brushed aside so casually - I was looking forward to the tricky questions that situation seemed destined to explore as the two, naturally, grew close. Loosed from that more serious-hinted stake in the ground, the film seems free to sail as far from reason as it pleases. There really isn't all that much to the plot, nor even anything particularly incriminating about the web-fingered evil genius Stromberg, but such shortcomings are somewhat propped up by another set of fresh locations (Bond in Egypt is an appealing prospect as a standalone), an appropriate number of nasty hired hands (steel-toothed tweener Jaws debuts in this film) and a welcome return to the gizmo-enhanced trickery of earlier chapters. The series is beginning to show its age at this point, though I think this is the fourth such adversary to dispense with his human trash by way of a shark tank. Brisk and spirited, but not especially memorable. "},{"Title":"The Curse of Bond","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is there a Curse of Bond? The theory is occasionally put forward, largely in the British tabloids, that winning a part as a Bond Girl will act as a permanent blight on the career of the actress concerned. This theory is, of course, exaggerated; starring in Bond films does not seem to have harmed the careers of, say, Honor Blackman, Britt Ekland or Diana Rigg, who later went on to become a Dame of the British Empire. Indeed, some hitherto little known actresses (Ursula Andress, Jane Seymour, Kim Basinger) have been able to use the role as a starting-point for their rise to stardom. Nevertheless, there may be some truth in the idea; Daniela Bianchi, Claudine Auger, Lois Chiles and Carey Lowell are among those Bond Girls who are little known for anything else. If there is a Curse of Bond, it certainly seems to have affected The Spy Who Loved Me. Its heroine may have stayed in the public eye because of her marriage to one of the Beatles, but Can you name two films starring Barbara Bach? would be a question to stump all but the most obsessive film buff.The Spy Who Loved Me seems to have been one of a number of periodic attempts by the Bond producers (dating back at least to Pussy Galore in Goldfinger) to answer feminist criticism of the series by providing heroines who were strong and capable as well as sexy. (Neither of the two previous heroines, the passive and fatalistic Solitaire in Live and Let Die and the endearingly incompetent Mary Goodnight in The Man with the Golden Gun, fitted that particular bill). The plot has Bond joining forces with Major Anya Amasova, one of the KGB's top operatives, to foil a sinister scheme by the villain, a shipping tycoon named Stromberg. Stromberg hopes to start a nuclear war which would wipe out nearly all life on land, leaving him free to found a new underwater civilisation, and to this end has captured two nuclear submarines, one British and one Russian. (The Anglo-Russian co-operation shown in this film may reflect the growing mood of détente in the mid-seventies).There is an extra twist to the plot in that on a previous mission Bond was responsible for the death of Anya's lover, another Russian agent. This means that Anya's character is, emotionally, considerably more complex than that of the average Bond Girl. On the one hand she hates Bond; on the other she finds herself falling for him. It is therefore unfortunate that such a weak actress was cast in the part, in my view the weakest ever cast as a Bond Girl. Handicapped by the need to assume a phony Russian accent, Bach seems quite incapable of showing any emotion, and delivers all her lines in a flat tone of voice and wearing the same wooden expression. Her main qualification for the role seems to have been her looks. (Despite the difference in colouring, she bears a close facial resemblance to Britt Ekland, who had played the heroine in the previous Bond film). It is perhaps unfortunate that the role did not go to Caroline Munro, as attractive as Bach and far more animated, who played the villainess Naomi.There are, however, some good things about this film. I have always regarded Sean Connery as the best Bond, but this is one of Roger Moore's better contributions to the series, characterised by a greater seriousness and less jokiness than some of his outings, with some moments of genuine emotion, such as when Anya refers to his dead wife Tracy. Curt Jurgens's Stromberg is not the most memorable Bond villain- I preferred Michael Lonsdale' Drax in Moonraker, a man with a similar scheme and similar motives- but the film did introduce one of the best villains of the whole series in the form of Richard Kiel's Jaws, an immensely strong assassin with steel teeth. Unlike most Bond villains who end up dead, Jaws survives to make another appearance in Moonraker. There are some good chase sequences, such as the one where Bond and Anya escape in the amphibious Lotus Esprit (a good combination of excitement and humour) and the opening ski chase which ends in the famous Union Jack parachute jump. Unlike many of the pre-credits sequences, this one does have some relation to the main plot, as it is during this chase that Anya's lover is killed. With a stronger heroine, this could have been one of the best of the Bond films. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Directed by Lewis Gilbert, and produced by Albert Broccoli (Harry Saltzman left the franchise after the collapse of their personal finances), has script Richard Maibaum and Christopher Wood and is the tenth film in the franchise.In this film, James Bond investigates the disappearance of American and Soviet submarines, a situation that is generating a great discomfort in the already strained relations between the two nuclear powers. In Egypt, after several setbacks, the secret services of both sides decide to join forces and Bond ends up collaborating without trust with Amasova Anya, the Soviet agent Triple X. The tracks drag the unlikely duo to Sardinia in order to investigate Stromberg, an industrial mysterious, passionate about the sea, living in a kind of underwater station in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea.Regarded by many as one of the best achieved movies during the Roger Moore as 007, he received a script that is completely different from the original book Fleming and gives the film so many similarities to You Only Live Twice and Thunderball that comes to be confused with them. Again, this film back to pick up the American and Soviet rivalry, still very current and already quite focused on previous films in the franchise. However, this time, and the style of détente, both countries are aware that something is happening and want to avoid open war. And it's funny to see the distrustful relationship that arises between Bond and Amasova in which both seek to be one step ahead of rivals. One of the iconic scenes of the film is the sequence filmed in Luxor, where both seek to steal a microfilm and defeat Jaws for then if they steal and fight each other for the prize. Machines and inventions are also part of this film, with an amazing amphibious car and a hollow tanker, capable of containing inside an authentic naval base. A positive note also for the opening credits, with the song Nobody Does It Better sung by Carly Simon.In this film, apart from central casting inherited from the previous films, Barbara Bach gave life to the bond-girl Anya Amasova, Caroline Munro played Naomi, Curd Jürgens was the villain, Stromberg, Walter Gotell played the Russian General Gogol and Richard Kiel gave soul the ruthless killer Jaws. "},{"Title":"The Case of the Missing Nuclear Submarines","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After a gunfight in Austria leaves one Soviet agent dead, James Bond (Roger Moore) is recalled from there to London on an assignment involving a missing British nuclear submarine. At the same time a Russian agent named Major Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach) is also called to Moscow and given a similar mission involving a missing Soviet nuclear submarine. Since the cases are almost identical the British and Soviets agree to pool their resources and send both agents to investigate the case. What nobody knows is that the Russian agent James Bond killed just happened to be the lover of Major Amasova and she is determined to get revenge on whoever is responsible. Now rather than reveal any more I will just say that this particular James Bond movie had several interesting novelties which greatly enhanced the overall film. First, it introduced the character known as Jaws (Richard Kiel) who appears on a couple of other James Bond movies after this. It also had a very unique car which doubled as a submarine which I thought was rather nifty. Likewise, it featured two attractive actresses by the names of Valerie Leon (as the Hotel Receptionist) and Caroline Munro (Naomi) who are also featured in a later James Bond film as well. In short, although I don't believe that this ranks up there as one of the best James Bond movies ever made, it does have its interesting points and because of that I have rated it accordingly. Above average. "},{"Title":"My joint favourite Bond film and the one which really establishes the Moore formula","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember watching this in the cinema and being utterly blown away by it. My treasured Lotus which turns into a submarine was one of my favourite toys although frustratingly you always lost the little red plastic missiles it fired (got more with my Moonraker helicopter a couple of years later).So many great things in this, Roger looks fantastic in the role and especially in his RN uniform (we actually see him at Faslane where I was based for a while). The action set pieces are amazing and still hold up in these days of CGI, the great ski chase and terrific parachute jump are wonderful, always raises a smile (and EXTREMELY dangerous, you can see how close the falling ski comes to collapsing the canopy and he doesn't have a reserve). The Lotus chase/submarine sequences are marvellous and absolutely adore the scenes where Bond frees the submarine crews and they take over the tanker, stonkingly good battle. We see Bond's ingenuity time and again, from using the lamp to electrocute Jaws to killing Stomberg's henchmen with the harpoon gun and convincing the submarines to nuke each other. Another great favourite is using the shaped charge from the nuclear warhead to penetrate the control room, so well done. The sets and model work all round are truly brilliant, I always figured they used a real tanker and submarines for the long shots but knowing that they are all special effects makes them all the more extraordinary. Great Bond girl, Barbara Bach as Anya is truly terrific and a real woman of action, gorgeous and finally able to give Bond a run for his money in both terms of action and wit. It's a great mislead when General Gogol contacts his top agent and we think it's the handsome George Lazenby lookalike she's in bed with only for it to be revealed to be Anya herself. Caroline Munro is also very good as Naomi and the little hostility sequence between her and Anya on the speedboat is subtle yet side-splittingly funny. Valerie Leon also makes a big impression in a small role.Lovely theme music too, Carly Simon never lets you down. Roger seems to be very comfortable in the role and employs his natural wit to a superb degree, especially in the Egyptian scenes. But he also gives a more serious portrayal in the moment where Anya reminds him off his dead wife, it's not all played for laughs. Him chucking the heavy off the Cairo roof also shows the more ruthless side behind those famously expressive eyebrows. So for me this ties with Moonraker for the best ever Bond and Roger is the king! "},{"Title":"When one is in Egypt, one should delve deeply into its treasures.","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lewis Gilbert returns to the series and while his first effort, You Only Live Twice, was a bland and plodding affair he manages to keep things afloat in The Spy Who Loved Me. The opening sequence is probably the best of the series, with a fast and frenetic ski chase culminating in Bond diving off a cliff before deploying a parachute. Things do start to falter in final act however, the extended action scene feels slow and poorly edited although it features some impressive stunts. Possibly the most memorable image from the film is the Lotus Esprit turning into a submarine. This is typical of Gilbert's camp and over the top sensibilities although it isn't too bad here as it follows a rather good car chase on land before going underwater for laughs.Roger Moore is again on good form as Bond and has a particularly cold blooded scene as he essentially throws a man off a rood after interrogating him. He purposefully drops another henchman, Jaws, into a tank full of sharks &#x96; all good stuff. The aforementioned gigantic metal-toothed henchman, played by Richard Kiel, makes his first appearance in TSWLM and is quite threatening despite being somewhat ridiculous. Curd Jurgens as Stromberg is a great main villain with a particularly nasty streak. In his first scene he feeds a woman to sharks, it is a relatively disturbing scene for a PG action adventure, which is why it's so good! One of the most gorgeous woman I have ever seen,Barbara Bach , plays 007's love interest Anya Amasova, a Russian spy. It seems when they make Bond's female companion Russian they seem to cast the sexiest women imaginable, Bach and Daniela Bianchi from From Russia With Love are easily the two best looking leading Bond girls of the series. This is the first film in the franchise to feature Geoffrey Keen as the Minister of the Interior and Walter Gotell as General Gogol, both of whom would become recurring characters, although Gotell previously made an appearance in FRWL as a S.P.E.C.T.R.E agent.This is also the first film to directly address Bond's marriage to Tracy in On Her Majesty's Secret Service. Amasova prods Bond with it as a way of sizing him up and Moore's 'don't talk about that' reaction is a touching, sombre moment from the man who all too often went for raised eyebrows and daft expressions.For all the good Gilbert does however, he is still the Bond director who stands out as lowering the bar when it comes to daft humour. From the 'comedy' music that plays as Bond and Amasova's van breaks down, to the double take and look at his bottle of beer a man does upon witnessing the Lotus exist the water, to the Lawrence Of Arabia music that plays as our heroes walk across a sandy plain, the film is chock-a-block full of groan-out-loud moments as the audience's intelligence is insulted with childish humour. While it is not enough to make the film as bad as say Diamond Are Forever, the sometimes grating attempts at comedy coupled with a disappointing finale make this Moore's worst entry in the series so far. Controversial that may be but I've always had a soft spot for The Man With The Golden Gun, which although I give the same star rating I feel is a more consistent and enjoyable film. TSWLM is a great outing for Moore and Bond and I feel with a more serious tone and well constructed finale it may have been Moore's best. Oh well. "},{"Title":"Bond At His Best With Roger Moore","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The tenth official James Bond movie, The Spy Who Loved Me, had virtually nothing in common with Ian Fleming's novel about a girl at a remote hotel menaced by thugs. Bond shows up at the hotel because his car has a flat time and bails her out of a deadly predicament. The novel dealt largely with the heroine and Fleming contrived the idea that he had awakened and found the manuscript on his bedside table. Happily, director Lewis Gilbert and scenarist Christopher Wood deviated entirely from the novel and Spy replicates the usual world-in-jeopardy plot pitting Britain's best against larger-than-life villains.It's Bond and Beyond, proclaimed the advertising campaign and Spy certainly lived up to the hype. Like Gilbert's first Bond epic You Only Live Twice, Spy was a military Bond with military hardware conspicuously on display in the form of British nuclear-powered submarines. Moreover, Bond appears in his naval uniform as he did in Twice and would appear later in Tomorrow Never Dies. Indeed, Spy inverts the outer space formula for Twice and relocates the action underwater with Max Stromberg, a villainous sea expert who wants to precipitate World War III between the superpowers so that bring about an Armageddon. Unlike Twice, James Bond doesn't have to undergo plastic surgery and masquerade as a foreigner. Furthermore, Spy contains more exciting action sequences that make it one of the five best Bonds ever made. For the record, Roger Moore has called it his favorite Bond. The cinematography by August Renoir's son Claude is absolutely gorgeous and John Glen's editing is stupendous.Just as Twice opened with Blofeld capturing an American space capsule in orbit, Spy opens with a British submarine mysteriously losing power while the sub commander peers incredulously into the periscope and utters Oh, My God. Unlike Twice, we don't know what has happened to the submarine. Later, a similar fate occurs to a Soviet sub. At this point, we get one of the most memorable James Bond stunts. When M (Bernard Lee) learns from the Navy that they have lost a sub, M orders Bond to pull out. Predictably, Bond is in the middle of making love to another beauty in a cabin on a high mountain slope. As he skis off to saw the world again, he runs into several Soviet agents who try to kill him. Bond races to a cliff and plunges off it, plummeting to sure death below until he deploys a Union Jack parachute. Meanwhile, we really don't know who is causing this unrest until we are introduced to an entirely new adversary, Ernst Stromberg (Curt Jurgens of The Enemy Below) who supervises an undersea kingdom and has quite unrealistically managed to turn his hands into webbed fingers. He has paid for two scientists, Dr. Bechman (Cyril Shaps) and Professor Markovitz (Milo Sperber), to devise a means of tracking British nuclear submarines cruising. As soon as they have proved that their system works, Stromberg kills them in a tragic helicopter crash at sea that he has engineered.The Soviet equivalent to M, General Anatol Gogol (Walter Gotell of From Russia with Love), summons Russian Agent XXX, Major Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach) to find their own missing submarine. He informs her that her lover, Sergei Barso (Michael Billington) has died on a mission involving a British agent. Eventually, she learns that Bond was the culprit and vows to kill him. The trail leads to Cairo and the two agents find themselves in a biding war with an Egyptian who has special information. As it turns out, Stromberg has dispatched agents of his own to deal with informants. Bond kills one of the bad guys, but he misses another, a seven-foot tall giant named Jaws (Richard Kiel) who has metal teeth and likes to bite his victims vampire style on the neck. Sure, Spy is pretty outlandish, but Lewis Gilbert maintains a serious tone despite the puns. The two opposing spies team up in an example of detente with M and General Gogol meeting in an Egyptian pyramid as a command center. Bond and the girl masquerade as Mr. & Mrs. Robert Sterling and visit Stromberg who makes speeches about how neglected the sea remains. Eventually, when Stromberg's helicopter Naomi (Caroline Muro) tries to kill them during a From Russia With Love style chase, Bond surprises his co-hort and leaps his Lotus into the sea and we watch as it turns into an underwear vessel, shades of Little Nellie the micro-helicopter in Twice. Stromberg kidnaps an American submarine, the Ranger, and we see that he does these abductions using giant supertankers with bow doors that open and gooble the vessel. Marvin Hamlish replaced John Barry on this Bond adventure and he provides a lively, atmospheric score that underlines the suspense. Carley Simon sings the title them Nobody Does It Better and this held true for this Bond entry. The ending with Jaws escaping after he kills a shark is a hoot. Although Spy is hopelessly far-fetched, the film looks fantastic and Gilbert paces it perfectly. More than either Live and Let Die or The Man With the Golden Gun, The Spy Who Loved Me restored Bond to the high standards of the Sean Connery Bonds. "},{"Title":"Bond keeping the British end up.","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The tenth Bond film is a personal favourite. The series always engaged in a brinkmanship with itself, each successive film attempting to top what had gone before with something more outlandish and more breathtaking - and THE SPY WHO LOVED ME follows the Bond blueprint but is consistently imaginative and inventive. Whereas the preceding film THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN lacked the big epic set pieces which makes people watch the Bond films, THE SPY WHO LOVED ME reinvigorated the series. At the start of the movie Bond ski jumps off an Alp and floats down on a Union Jack parachute. There's a megalomaniac millionaire who lives in a submersible lair. An oil tanker with a submarine pen hidden inside and even a Lotus Espirt which turns into a mini-submarine.Released in 1977 at the time of detant (an early thawing of the Cold War), the plot involves the disappearance of British and Russian nuclear submarines. The British Ministry of Defence are understandably alarmed as their Polaris sub has 16 Polaris missiles on board, so 007 (Roger Moore) is dispatched to pursue the tracking device which enabled the villains to locate the submarines in the first place. This leads him to Eygpt and an encounter with his Russian opposite number Anya (Babara Bach), and then to Sardinia and an encounter with the megalomaniac shipping magnet Stromberg (Curt Jurgens) and his indestructible henchman Jaws (Richard Keil with metal teeth). Stromberg's aim is to launch a nuclear strike at the US and USSR and cause World War Three. Eventually Bond leads the British, Russian and US navies in a climactic battle on board Stromberg's oil tanker HQ/submarine pen and eventually averts a nuclear holocaust by using the tracking device to get the villain's two submarines to destroy each other.The film's inventiveness is matched by some wonderful Ken Adam sets. A terrific exchange of gunfire and grenades inside the submarine pen reminds you of how good screen battles used to look before GCI turned them into extensions of computer games. A very suave and witty Roger Moore - whose urbane presence recalls an earlier age of English leading man - is certainly a far cry from Daniel Craig. The film has a kind of fish and chips patriotism about it, with its Union Jack parachute and an early scene in which the blonde girl Bond is leaving in a ski chalet says But James, I need you and he replies So does England - that's part of it's charm. MOONRAKER, two years later, attempted to repeat the formula, but was leaden and empty. "},{"Title":"The spy who reinvented himself...","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following 'Golden Gun', some thought Bond may have run his course. Roger Moore returned, but put a stop to such thoughts, for a while.'Spy' takes all the good points of Cold War paranoia and makes light of them, all while making a really good 007 effort. It's not one of Moore's best Bond's but a good Bond vehicle all the same.Originally premised as a Goldfinger re-duex, the story unfolded from maniacal twin brother who loves the water out for revenge, to just maniac who loves the water with nuclear weapons. Although light on the gadgetry and heavy on the vehicles, there just wasn't enough Spy caper to make up for it all.This film does, however, open with what some refer to as the best '007 opening montage' of all the films. Add a Marvin Hamlisch score... Definitely a popcorn movie. "}{"Title":"Bond #10 Somebody ate my submarine!","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Admittedly I have a special fondness for this Bond because it was the first Bond I ever saw at the cinema. I remember I was really impressed with the Lotus car which could drive under water. From a certain age onward, I'd rather remember the movie for Barbara Bach and Caroline Munro ;-). The Spy Who Loved Me was also the first Bond which used nothing but a title by Fleming and built the whole story from scratch. Apparently not a disadvantage (yes, I've read the novel and it was boring).Stromberg (Curd Jürgens) has built Atlantis, an underwater refuge from the world he never liked and intends to destroy. Bond (Roger Moore) must stop Stromberg, but needs the help of Russian agent Anya (Barbara Bach). Now Bach has a great role here because Anya is a very intelligent woman who knows how to take control if she has to. You did save my life, Bond once says, and she replies We all make mistakes, Mr. Bond... Richard Kiel as Jaws was such a popular villain he'd return in Moonraker. This movie has it all the characters, the spectacular show, beautiful women, stunning locations (especially at Egypt), the action and gadgets... Classic! "},{"Title":"Some Quality, & Some Nonsense","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a typical Moore outing in the series. It is not as good as For Your Eyes Only. but it is slightly better than Moonraker which followed. The scenery at the pyramids in Egypt are the best of the travel log footage this film has to offer.Casting Richard Kiel as Jaws is the most inspired piece of casting. The action sequences while looking more realistic than some films (particularly some of the later ones whose computer animation has gone into over-blown fair-tale effects), there are some effects which have not held up well over time in this film. At least Stromberg (Curt Jergens) does a good job in his role. Carly Simon sang well with the theme but her voice is so low & soft you have to turn up your stereo in order to hear half of the theme song. Don't think her heart was in this as her voice seemed strong on other hit songs she sang. Maybe she thinks 007 is too vain? Overall, while not Moore's best, this film did not hurt him as he went on a few more years in the series. Interesting that both the female leads have done no film work since the early 1980's. This was their last real mainstream effort in the US. "},{"Title":"The spy who loved me-Nobody does it better","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my favourite Roger Moore Bond movie followed by Moonraker. The ski sequence was simply spectacular, I would call it one of the best. The Carly Simon song Nobody does it better is one of my favourites. The plot was very strong and the action was very well executed. Then we have two great villains Karl Stromberg(played by Curt Jurgen)and Jaws(Richard Kiel). Out of all the Bond villains Stromberg had the most coolest headquarters, filled with rare fishes. Released in 1977 this was Moore's third Bond movie, Live and let die was his first and The man with the golden gun his second. Coincidentally at the end of the movie it was announced that For Your Eyes Only would be the next Bond but due to the hysteria of Star Wars Brocolli opted for Moonraker. "},{"Title":"One of the best Bonds","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The most sophisticated spy in cinema returns for one of the best Bonds of the 70s as Roger Moore reprises the role as the British agent in Lewis Gilbert's action adventure.007 travels to Egypt to find out who is behind the mysterious disappearing of submarines and he is helped by Russian agent Major Anya Amasova (Bach)This is probably one of Moore's best performances as the secret agent as he delivers a lot of sophisticated lines and jokes into the role. His attitude towards the mission and the situations which arise are brilliant and his partnership alongside Bach is one of the best Bond partnerships ever made.The plot is consistent and very interesting to see the relationship between the two agents grow and become tense and intriguing with twists all the way through.As per usual for Bond films there is a healthy dollop of action sequences, none more memorable than the underwater car and the scene in Stromberg's water building.The lighting and settings are used to great effect, especially having a lot of scenes take place in the middle of the sea, which makes it tense and open.Richard Kiel makes his Bond film debut as Jaws, perhaps the best ever Bond Villain with his metal mouth a great semiotic of evil and danger. This film has one of the best openings to a Bond film with a great ski chase and a patriotic moment following.The film justifies the genre, its humorous, action packed, exciting and engaging throughout with good acting and is one of the best Bond films that have ever been made. "},{"Title":"Best Bond film of the 1970's","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After a string of disappointing films starting with Diamonds are Forever, the chances of there being a particularly good Bond film in the 1970's were looking slim at best. Luckily the producers had something up their collective sleeve in The Spy Who Loved Me, easily the best-written and most tightly-plotted Bond film starring Roger Moore. It has some issues with pacing, and although the funky score by Marvin Hamlisch is not anywhere near the worst of the series (George Martin's Live and Let Die score wins that contest), it is somewhat problematic. It's not the best script ever written as far as dialogue goes or as far as some of the humor goes, but why dwell on such things when we have a movie which easily outclasses all other Bond films of the 1970's, and which is just a really good time? I will never like Roger Moore as James Bond. I will always find him aggravating in the role and I will never believe that he could be a spy. However, I have come to accept that this is a matter of taste and that it is pointless to argue with others about it. Many people want Bond to be an ultra-suave superhero, while others prefer more physical portrayals, and portrayals more in tune with Ian Fleming's character. If The Spy Who Loved Me had been made with any of the other Bond actors it may very well have been a superior entry to this, as Moore looks misplaced and silly in the action scenes, while someone like Connery could balance both the suavity and the physicality necessary. Moore looks tired just throwing a punch. As I mentioned earlier the film is easily the best-written of the Moore era. The plot is good, the villains are good and incorporated well into the story, the Bond girl is given much more to do than in the past few entries, and is one of the better Bond girls overall both looks-wise and character-wise. Of course, there's Jaws who is not wasted here as he would be later on.The visuals here are exemplary. Lewis Gilbert returns to direct this one and not only keeps the pace of the film moving well but creates outstanding, well-orchestrated, and memorable action scenes with wonderful use of aerial shots. Unquestionably an improvement over Guy Hamilton's work on the preceding 70's Bond films. The Spy Who Loved Me boasts a solid, tight screenplay, good supporting characters, a great henchman in Jaws, and excellent visuals. Easily the best of the 70's Bond films.8/10 "},{"Title":"Nobody does it better. Well not on this one.","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bond saving the world again, in glorious fashion from a megalomaniac and his steel claptrap henchman and no to forget wooing along the way a ravishing Russian spy. What a life. The Spy Who Loved Me was the tenth of the franchise, and would be Moore's third appearance. Definitely an improvement over the rough Live, and Let die and disappointing The Man with the Golden Gun, as there was a nice balance of dependable action, adventure and yes&#x85; humour. He was quite straight for the first two performances, but Moore seemed at home with the role for this outing (for better or worse), and then he lost-out to self-parody, slap-stick in Moonraker. Sure The Spy who loved Me might have a cheeky side, but never did it feel out-of-place or become mocking. However he would go onto deliver an exceptional turn in what I believe to be his most-worthy Bond performance that's For Your Eyes Only and followed by the solid Octopussy. Now back at the topic at hand. This is a very fun, zany and gimmicky James Bond adventure with cartoonish decors, novel inventions, exotic locations and a casually suave, smooth talking Roger Moore. However stealing the limelight here is the most infamous James Bond foe, Richard Kiel's imposing, claptrap blue-suit wearing henchman Jaws and how about a sparkling, strong Bond girl in the shape of the fabulous Barbara Bach. For me those two stole every frame they're in. Curt Jurgens' cold, but eccentric villain is richly enjoyable and Caroline Munro makes a quick appearance. Lewis Gilbert's confidently smooth direction laces it with a plastic feel, but still packs the set-pieces with random thrills (like a chaotic onslaught for a climax) and outstanding stunt work that's pure fantasy. The lumbering clashes between Bond and Jaws are always memorable, and there are few visually eye-catching novelties. The pacing works and the humour seem to naturally roll and never take centre stage. Leading the way, and if not one the classic known Bond opening theme songs; Carole Bayer Sager's Nobody Does It Better. Marvin Hamlisch's original music score takes flight, with a whimsical splash with some jive currents. The story can be rather unpredictable and moody, even though some of its ideas are taken from other Bond entries and twisted. Quite a handsome, stylish and colourful Bond mission of imaginative escapism and quick wit. "},{"Title":"Bond Bounces Back On Top","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I could not stand the previous entry The Man with the Golden Gun; too camp, too plodding and just plain dull. It is a delight then that The Spy Who Loved Me manages to be an excellent film and a return to form for Bond.Bond goes up against Stromberg whose ambitions lie with the sea. His base is Atlantis and he plans to destroy the world and build his new one in the ocean.The Spy Who Loved Me takes a sensible approach in comparison to Moore's previous two efforts. He may be my least favourite Bond, but this time I realised that the writing was to blame. Moore was given double entendre laden dialogue and there's not much that anyone can do with a lack of decent material. This time around it's kept to a minimum making The Spy Who Loved Me, Moore's greatest Bond adventure and ensuring that it ranks up with the best that the franchise has to offer.If there is one small downfall that is to be had with The Spy Who Loved Me, it's that Stromberg does not hold his own as a villain. As a source of menace he is frequently overlooked by the more intimidating and threatening Jaws. But if that's all that one can say against the film then why frankly bring it up at all? It is thrilling, fun and exhilarating. The action scenes come thick and fast. If you thought there was nothing that could surprise you, this being the tenth entry in the franchise then you are severely mistaken.The pacing of the film helps the picture move forward, never slowing down or slacking. As Bond, Roger Moore at least works this time around because he does not behave ridiculously or look lost like he does in the majority of his other films as Bond.Baraba Bach as Anya Amasova proves that she can be taken seriously as a Secret Service Agent working for the Soviet Union. Perhaps the only time in Bond's history where the Bond girl proves to be a danger and hindrance to Bond as she has her own ulterior motive. The 70s enthused music is catchy and has a disco vibe. Unlike other times John Barry's absence is not missed and it lends the film a varying flavour.The Spy Who Loved Me is a strange Bond film sandwiched between two greats; On Her Majesty's Secret Service and The Living Daylights. If one happens to come across Moore's best Bond flick they should not take the experience lightly. Very few Bond films were granted this extravagant treatment; Grande, intelligent, sexy and above all thrilling from the opening gun barrel sequence to the final kill. "},{"Title":"Greatest Bond Villain Ever","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is possibly the best Roger Moore Bond movie of all times. It introduces the iconic Bond villain Jaws (Richard Kiel) and a great Bond girl. A British Royal Navy Polaris submarine with 16 nuclear warheads is lost at sea. Bond investigates and joins with Russian Agent XXX Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach). Little do they know that Bond killed her lover agent just weeks earlier. Barbara Bach is one of the greats as far as Bond girls, but there is no equal to Bond villain Jaws. The underwater hideout with the shark tank is just a superior Bond set. The Egytian locations are just outstanding. But it's the tanker that swallows submarines whole that's the most impressive. The vast set is just one big playground for the pyrotechnics later on.Curd Jürgens plays the evil Karl Stromberg with the plan. As far as gadgets go, there is nothing better than the underwater Lotus. If there was one complaint about 'The Man with the Golden Gun', it's that there wasn't enough action. Well, there's no such complaint in this one. They certain didn't skimp on the budget in that regard. It's bigger and louder and more explosive than ever before. "},{"Title":"An entertaining movie with perhaps the most memorable henchman...","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bond movie #10 of 23This is the first Bond movie where producer Cubby Broccoli no longer has Harry Saltzman sharing the duties. The DVD I saw of this movie had bonus features...one of which goes into why Saltzman fell from being a producer.As for the movie, Moore continues on his way to become the best Bond that he can be. It's not his fault than in his first outing as James Bond he came across as a fop and a dandy...gosh...those dressing robes and powder blue suits of his back then! In his 3rd movie as Bond, he delivers another good performance like he gave in his 2nd outing.Exotic locations - Austria, Egypt etc.Plot -U.S. and Soviet submarines go missing. 007 is revealed to be the pre-eminent 00 agent and he is tasked with finding out what happened to the submarines. In the U.S.S.R. the top Soviet secret agent Triple X (!) is also tasked with finding out what happened to the missing Soviet submarine...and they have to do it together...but can they trust each other? Does one of them have another agenda?Bond movie clichés Pre-title sequence - This movie is the first GREAT opening sequence in the Bond franchise. From this point on - especially with Moore's films - they become an event in themselves. In this movie the scene features some great action on the snow. You can hear a funkified Bond theme here too...Bond '77?The Bond theme - The first classic song of the Moore era...by Carly Simon. Still stacks up well today as a song in it's own right. Carole Bayer Sager wrote the lyrics.Q - Q is revealed to be called Major Boothroyd in this movie. Q Section's contribution in this movie will no doubt excite many...boys especially...it's a white Lotus car that...M - M's name is Miles, I think...he's referred to as that by General Gogol.Points of interest * General Gogol...I think that this is his first appearance in a Bond movie. He'll appear in at least two others, from memory. He is the Soviet Union's equivalent to M. Hmm...he sounds a bit like Sean Connery times at times...maybe that's just me! M calls him Alexis in this movie.* Is there no language that Bond can't speak? He speaks some Arabic in this movie. Connery's Bond spoke Japanese in You only live twice. Hmm.* After Connery's last film in the role (to that point) pretty much pretended that On her majesty's secret service never happened, it's nice to have this chapter in Bond's life finally recognised in this movie. Triple X brings up the topic.* It's a nice twist on expectation to find out that Triple X is actually...* Note to self...Bond says to Triple X na zdorovye...this isn't translated in the subtitles though.* Arguably the greatest henchman of all time is introduced in this series. The bonus features mention some interesting facts about the make up trials for the person playing them.* There is a particularly good dynamic between 007 and Triple X, after 007 meets Agent Borzov in the pre-title sequence.* I like the music in the underwater sequence to this movie...it's a pity that such incidental music hasn't found its way onto Bond soundtrack compilations.* In polls I've run on the franchise, Major Anya Amasova is quite popular as a Bond love interest...one of the most popular, behind Tracy and Vesper.The 2nd in a string of entertaining outings by Roger Moore in the role...he's had more good Bond movies than anyone else, in my opinion...yes, even Sean Connery! "},{"Title":"Nobody does it better.","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The spy who loved me is an excellent Bond film. I can tell that there is true chemistry between the bond girl(Barbera Bach) and Bond (Roger Moore)himself. The spy who loved me has an excellent theme song by Carly Simon. The spy who loved me has an understandable plot and a lot of excitement. The spy who loved me also introduced my favorite Bond villain Jaws. There are great action sequences and The spy who loved me is great fun. Not that the chick in For your eyes only did a bad job, but there wasn't much chemistry between her and roger Moore. There is between Roger Moore and Barbera Bach and the two work well together. The spy who loved me is a great film. I didn't think it was the best Bond film, but it's still a great film. Big thumbs up.The spy who loved me****/**** "}{"Title":"Nobody does it as good as him, but still not the best.","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Since 1962, 5 different men have stepped forward to play the role as British Secret agent, James bond. one of them was Roger Moore, who isn't my favorite James bond (That award goes to Pierce Brosnan, sorry Sean Connery!) but he still was pretty good.During one of his sexcapades on an Austrian mountain, James bond is called to MI6 to help solve the mystery of a missing submarine. however, he is set up by the girl he's sleeping with (Hell hath no fury like a woman you couldn't finish.) and he ends up killing a Russian man who chases him. What he doesn't know is that the beautiful Russian agent Anya (Barbara Bach) was the man's lover, and that he has to work with her, taking on a hungry tiger shark (that ate a blonde girl and left her hand in the tank) a modern day Captain nemo, and the best bond villain of all time....Jaws! This bond film in my opinion was too oversexed. To make a perfect bond film, you need an equal balance. a lot of bullets and guns, one or 2 visits to the bar for a martini, shaken, not stirred, no more than 2 sex scenes if at all possible, a lot of Q's kick-ass gadgets, and a brutal death to the main bad guy. but in this film, the women and sex overflowed too much. there could have been more shooting and a bloodier death scene for the girl and the tiger shark.However, the majority of music in the film is funky and awesome. (bond's theme is done like it's 1977 and the film's theme song sounds like something in my grandma's LP collection.) the parts that had action were good, and it was great to see jaws for the first time. and it was awesome to hear bond say He just dropped in for a quick bite. In Conclusion, The spy who loved me is worth a rental, or a purchase if you're collecting all of the bond films.7/10 "},{"Title":"By far Moore's best film!","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved Me was a film that I had always wanted to see and upon finally seeing it I can safely say that it is the best film in Roger Moore's run as James Bond. It is full of humor, wit, and charm, as well as action that was true to the Connery films of the 1960s (something that was lacking in Moore's previous films, Live And Let die, and The Man with the Golden Gun). It involves a plot to hijack nuclear submarines by shipping tycoon Karl Stromberg, who lives in a underwater lair...But who cares about him! The only villain you people really want to see here is iconic henchmen, Jaws. Yes, that towering man with a metal teeth who fits his job description well. This is jaws. He kills people. Of course they should have said And cars, gates, sharks, chains, wires...pretty much anything he gets his hands or teeth on.Of course James Bond has to stop this from happening, so after teaming up with the very attractive Russian agent known as Triple X Moore jumps into action (I wonder what Bond and XXX will be up to by the end of the film...). Together they face against the best that our dear friend, Stromberg, can throw at them, ranging from Jaws to random assassins. By the end, in true Bond fashion, our hero and a team of soldiers take on an army of henchmen in a giant supertanker while (of course) fighting against the clock to the facility's self-destruct timer. Like any Moore film The Spy Who Loved Me is just plain fun and you can sit down and enjoy watching every second of it. It isn't as good as the Connery films, but at the same time it isn't at all a bad Bond film. Personally, I think if you're someone who generally dislikes Moore this is the Bond film for you. It is the closest of Moore's outings to the original Sean Connery adventures and several moments are even able to bring out the charm of those earlier films.So if you're not a fan of Moore you don't have to see *all* his outings as James Bond, but if you have to choose a single Moore Bond film to own The Spy Who Loved Me takes the cake as his most professionally done 007 film.Trust me; you don't want to miss out on this one. "},{"Title":"Nobody does it better.","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Undeniably one of the finest James Bond films to star Roger Moore, the film has plenty of excess, top notch special effects (for 1977) anyway, the humor less overt and left over for puns and one liners, and one of the first strong and independent Bond women, paving the way for future love interests like Jinx and Wai Lin. The Spy Who Loved Me scarcely puts a foot wrong. Sure the plot is far fetched to the extreme (an underwater building and a villain looking to repopulate the earth in his underwater city), but it has plenty of charm and is frequently enjoyable. Moore looks very confident in his performance as Bond, the one liners oozing effort and confidence, showing he has hit his stride in this, his third appearance as the character. His chemistry with Barbara Bach is in full swing, despite her odd Russian accent, and the two of them make for a great on screen couple.This is a return to the values of many of the Bond films that were missing the last time around. The extravagant sets are back, the villain has plenty of henchman for Bond and the cavalry to fight and the gadgets are in full swing. Everything from a parachute with the Union Jack on it to the Lotus with just about every conceivable gadget at Bond's disposal. The emphasis on sight gags and overt comedy is gone and replaced with moments of genuine suspense, just check out Bond having to steal the detonator of a nuclear weapon, not to mention the superb theme tune Nobody Does it Better by Carly Simon.It's an apt song for a series that found its footing and gave its lead actor his first classic Bond film. "},{"Title":"Best Moore Bond","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Once apon a time Bond was awesome like D. Craig is hot onto it now. For all those far from fame and fortune pay well to the efforts made in this film. -TSHLM- achieved great things. The stunts were conceived long ago and the gags have been made so many times repeated in TV far and wide. The fact remains that that this motion picture is really tight in essence and picture quality. Anyone who can challenge such vast location changes and keep the smooth peacefulness of Moore's happy nature is far from home! This is a good example of fine movie making with remarkable collaboration between all parties. Do not underestimate the sincereity that holds the story together, masterfully bound by extortionate sets and Roger's panache. "},{"Title":"The best Bond movie and my Favorite Bond movie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my favorite bond movie. The plot is fantastic, although it's almost the same with the plot of You Only Live Twice (1967) and it has the same director (Lewis Gilbert). This movie should be rated higher than the other precedents and successors. Roger Moore really showed us what Bond really is and what he can do to entertain us. I highly recommend this to the people who loves to watch old fashion spy films. When I first watch this film, I was totally entertained and I watch it again and again. The villains have great acting especially Stromberg (when he kills Doctor Beckman and Professor Markovitz). This is the first film which introduced us Jaws (played by Richard Kiel), he has a sharp razor teeth like a shark. Jaws is the tallest of all the Bond henchmen. Jaws also was invulnerable to attacks like punches and kicks maybe that's why James Bond had a hard time fighting him. His soviet counterpart partner Major Amasova/Triple X is one of the best Bond girls. Also the opening sequence is well prepared and planned (with a great escape), jumping off the cliff and launching a parachute. This movie is great that's why this movie is one of my favorites and I gave it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"James Bond versus Jaws!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is Roger Moore's first James Bond-film that combines all of the many standard 007-elements into one story!  We haven't seen this great mix of action and intrigue since the first James Bond-movies with Sean Connery (of which Goldfinger is still his very best).  They're the most enjoyable ones because of the many wonderful locations, beautiful women, exceptional action-sequences and a few interesting baddies.  All of this plays an important role in the storyline which is kept very simple.  Because if they make the story too complex, they might lose sight of the action.  And action is the one thing a James Bond-film truly needs.  In the end, every one of these films is a one-dimensional 'cat-and-mouse-game' between James Bond and the bad guy(s).  Nevertheless, this is the way I like it the most!Roger Moore's first two Bond-films did not contain all the necessary 007-features mentioned above.  Live and let die is nearly as good as this one here, but it's set in a different, almost 'non James Bond-like' atmosphere; while Moore's previous Bond-film The man with the golden gun does indeed take place in such a familiar environment, but it simply isn't a good movie because of the lack of the required action.  So you see there are certain rules to successfully make a good James Bond-movie.  And The spy who loved me has done so.Despite the many wonderful action-scenes in this film, there are other things far more interesting to look forward to.  First of all, there's James Bond who must work with his female Soviet counterpart Major Anya Amasova.  She is not your typical James Bond-girl who has to be saved every five minutes or so; she's an independent woman who's more than a match for the British secret agent.  This has never been done before.  Women have always been portrayed as victims in the James Bond-series.Secondly, there's this mean character named 'Jaws'.  He is not the real enemy, but merely an amazing almost indestructible henchman sent out to stop James Bond.  Of all the villains that came and went through the years, this human version of Spielberg's unstoppable evil is one of the most fascinating baddies in the whole James Bond-series.  That's why they implemented this character in the next Bond-film as well. A pity however is that his boss and therefore the real criminal of this film is such a monotonous character who only seems to be able to give orders instead of joining the action himself.  If it weren't for Jaws, this film would've only been half as good. As usual, the action scenes in this film are very good.  This is due to the many ingenious tools created by Q.All in all, The spy who loved me is a pretty good action film that brings you a bit of all the necessary 007-aspects. "},{"Title":"New, different life.","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Returning from a three-year absence, the James Bond movies got new life, and a lot more energy with this entry. The plot is far out, of course, but the story is far more inspired and energetic than it had been for years. The production and action are both very high, the highest since You Only Live Twice. The movie on the whole is pretty fun, but, unfortunately it does prove that Roger Moore successfully turned the series into comedy/action, and the addition of the silly giant Jaws doesn't help. The gadgets go too far, squeezing out all the soul of James Bond, and the villain is once again boring. Also, Barbara Bach's retarded personality in this movie destroy the intellect battle that she and Bond try to have. "},{"Title":"The Best Bond of Moore, 70's, and Ladies","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Saw it the other day...Though made appx. 23 years ago, Spy who Loved Me is the best bond movie in the 1970's period as well as Roger Moore's best outing as 007.  At least in this one he is just right...not too old like in A view to a kill and Octopussy but more mature than Golden Gun and Live and Let Die.  Plus Triple X (Barbara Bach) is such a great foil for Bond.  Bach does a remarkable job as the spy the bond did love.  Though at times Bach's fake russian accent is broken, her acting was top notch and better than most Bond girls in the other flicks.  Not knowing much about Curt Jurgens, though I know that Stromburg was adequately portrayed in my view...he needed that heavy accent and old aged style mentality---something that Jurgens had at the time.  The Music rocks as well....ok ok its the late 70's disco is here yada yada yada but i gotta admit, this is the best non-John Barry Score by far.  The music complements the action sequences perfectly and it fits the tempo of the movie...oh yeah, JAWS RULES!   8.75 out of 10 "},{"Title":"part 10 is better then the first 9","Date":"8 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is part 10 to the James Bond movies and it is better then all the ones that came before it. All the James Bond movies are great. Sean Connery and Daniel Greg are great as James Bond. But Roger Moore is better. There are better James Bond movies at came after like Moon r.a.k.e.r. For your eyes only is also better. O.c.t.o.p.u.s.s.y is also better. But still this a great movie. It has great acting. It has a great story line. See it. It has one of my favorite soundtracks. Live and let die is the best one. That was Paul McCartney so you know it's good. A view to a kill is better. Living daylight is also better. License to kill is also better. Still this is a great movie see it. See all the James Bond movies. "},{"Title":"Moore & Bach..........A Perfect Match","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The two best Bond movies are Goldfinger and The Spy Who Loved Me. Its true that Roger Moore was always a poor actor, but in this Bond film ...he seems to get away with it. Barbara Bach is equally sub-standard as a performer, and therein lies the secret. They were good to-gether because they both...could not act. After Moores 7 appearances as 007, Timothy Dalton..then Pierce Brosnan tried...but failed as Bonds...as they both lacked charisma. Along comes the cavalry who promise to save the Bond franchise. They have Daniel Craig as a hard nosed Bond and long boring sequences of the type of action we see in the Bourne movies and the Mission Impossible stuff. The laconic Sean Connery (best Bond ever) style has gone. Bond played as an action hero is not what 007 is about. The idea does not work. James Bond is a sophisticated charmer, who is a HUGE womanizer and a great one liner champion. He saves the world in every movie - with the minimum of fuss. We all knew it was fun...but it ain't fun now. Just because they can do anything with special effects, doesn't mean the movies are better. Connery must laugh (or probably cry) when he watches Craig destroying the real James Bond. "}{"Title":"My favorite Bond adventure.","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take Bond at his best. Action-packed, fun and funny. Long considered by Roger Moore as his favorite Bond performance, this isn't just Moore's best, it's one of the best Bond adventures. If you ask me, THE SPY WHO LOVED ME is the closest (on Moore's Bond films) we will ever get to a Sean Connery's classic Bonds. But it still has to be my personal favorite Bond adventure. They don't make 'em like this anymore! Like most of the Bond films that preceded it, Bond must once again come face-to-face with a megalomaniac plotting global domination. This time, it is a crazed marine specialist (Curt Jurgens) who plots to flood the world and create a kingdom beneath the sea, from which he will rule. Two agents were sent to thwart the plans. Of course we know one is 007, who's lying in bed with another girl in a ski resort. England needs me. He might have said, as he speeds off. On the other side, we also have Triple X, also in bed. If you think Triple X is the man, that is what the director wants you to think. We soon find out that she's actually the woman. Really named Anya Amosova, Triple X is played by Barbara Bach, more than a perfect match for Bond.THE SPY WHO LOVED ME is a step-up from Moore's lesser effort THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN, and pays much closer to the Connery episodes that the said film and LIVE AND LET DIE. Moore has improved from his pseudo-Connery Bond performance from the previous film, which doesn't work by the way. Moore is much better here, being more what he is rather than trying to be Connery. Yes, he still isn't the great Bond we know and love, but thankfully, he doesn't try to. Which is good enough.The rest, including the set design, stunts and special effects were all great. The scenes inside a warship, with its elevators, computers and submarines, is a real show of the talents in creativity and originality. The stunts, including the wonderfully shot ski chase and the excellent chase sequences with Bond's new Lotus against helicopters and cars, were all inspired and terrific.But besides the gimmicks, the film doesn't forget the true importance of characters and story. Although the plot is indeed stuff that could only happen in Bond pictures, it's in good style and tradition. The characters, of course, are very memorable. The most memorable, of course, is Jaws (Richard Kiel), the nearly-indestructible metal-mouthed menace. Moore and Bach have good chemistry, which is a very important element in a Bond film.To those who haven't seen it in a long time, or to those who haven't seen it, I greatly recommend a rerun. Sure, it is made a very long time ago, but who cares! I award it the perfect rating of *****.Rating ***** out of 5. "},{"Title":"awesome  James bond movie.","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another awesome James bond movie and for all the same reasons has lots of action it it has a good screen play to it Roger Moore does James bond awesome once again the acting is good in it and the actors are good in it the villains are good in it i love richard keil as jaws he did it awesome. This is my favorite roger Moore James bond movies I'm sure you will not be disappointed with the spy who loved me. I'm sure that you will have a good time watching it and you will watch it again and again. Great adaption of the spy who loved me. So make sure that you buy or rent the spy who loved my because it is awesome.Overall score ********* out of ********** **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"A British spy in love with a Russian?  Detente indeed!!","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Welcome to the most successful film on release in Britain in 1977. Over in the U.S.A., 'Star Wars' was breaking box-office records, but would not be seen here until the end of the year. The new Bond therefore had the summer blockbuster field all to its itself.Following the disappointing 'The Man With The Golden Gun' in 1974, something drastic was needed to save the franchise. Cubby Broccoli, now sole producer of the series following Harry Saltzman's departure, made 'Spy' a throwback to the '60's Bond blockbusters such as 'You Only Live Twice' and 'Thunderball'. Various writers worked on scripts, amongst them Anthony Burgess and John Landis, until Christopher Wood ( of the 'Confessions' series ) came up with a workable screenplay. This was the first Bond to boast an entirely original storyline, not based on anything written by Ian Fleming. The novel of the same name was rightly deemed unfilmable. Wood later adapted the script into a novel which, in my view, was better than any of the John Gardner/Raymond Benson works.'Spy' opens with a British submarine disappearing at sea. Bond is sent for and, in an exciting ski chase, is pursued by gun-toting Russians, among them one Sergei Borzov ( Michael Billington ). Bond kills Sergei and makes a spectacular getaway by skiing off the edge of a precipice. This opening was cheered by audiences worldwide.Someone has developed a means of tracking submarines. The Russians have lost one too. Bond goes to Egypt to make contact with Fekkesh, who represents someone wishing to sell the blueprints. Bond is not alone in his quest. An impossibly tall and strong henchman with steel teeth, who goes by the name of 'Jaws', has orders to kill everyone who comes into contact with the microfilm.Bond meets his opposite number - a highly desirable agent called Major Anya Amasova ( Barbara Bach ), codenamed 'Triple-X'. They decide to join forces to recover the microfilm...With this film, the public finally warmed to Roger Moore as 007, and the renewed interest in the character thanks to the films being shown on television, put Bond back on the celluloid map.Ken Adam returned to produce some of his finest sets, most notably the interior of the Liparus supertanker. A special sound stage, the biggest in the world, had to be constructed at Pinewood.Curt Jurgens was the best Bond villain in years as 'Stromberg'. Many will tell you he was 'miscast', but don't believe them. Barbara Bach made a suitably liberated Russian agent, while Richard Kiel stole the show as the sinister 'Jaws'. He returned in the next Bond - 'Moonraker'.Marvin Hamlisch's music has some of John Barry's style, but adds a more modern sound, most notably with 'Bond 77'.Lewis Gilbert, whose last Bond was 'You Only Live Twice' in 1967, was brought back to direct, and once again did a highly professional job, orchestrating the various elements with great panache. Instead of a mini-helicopter, Bond was given a Lotus Esprit which could turn into a submarine. A boy became the envy of the country when he got to travel in the car as part of a 'Jim'll Fix It' show that year. The Open University did a fascinating series covering the making of 'Spy', which to my knowledge has not been seen anywhere in years. It is a pity as it covered every stage of production including music and editing.Before it turned up on I.T.V in 1981, I saw 'Spy' a total of three times in a movie theatre, and thoroughly enjoyed it each time. Even Alan Partridge ( Steve Coogan ) described it as 'the best movie ever made'. By saying that, he was, to quote Bond; keeping the British end up!. "},{"Title":"Great Car, Great Baddie, Great Girl, Great Movie","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy who loved is one of the finest Bond Films, The White Lotus Esprit that turns into a submarine, Barbara Bach (Damn Sexy) and dare we forget the introduction of everyone favourite Baddie (Jaws).Now fully into the role as Bond, Roger Moore is really good, his humorous side gives the Bond character a good edge.Action packed and crammed with gadgets and beautiful women, this is in essence what Bond films are about.Pure, Secret Agent Fun.8/10 Roger Moore's best outing as Bond "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's best movie","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To some of you my opinion wont matter i may just be 14 years old but ive loved james bond since i can remember i have every james bond novel and movie ever made and i must say that out of all the james bond series this movie has to be the best and some of the most memorable villains and allies from the whole series jaws (Ritchard Keil) is the best villian on the silver screen and of course James Bond 007. Roger Moore was the best choice harry saltzman and albert r broccoil ever made to play the role of james bond some of the special effects were the best of their time when i am older i will own a lotus esprit of my own i love every james bond movie but The Spy Who Loved Me would have to be the best "},{"Title":"The Best Bond film, one of the best films ever","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"       Roger Moore, my favorite 007 by a lot, stars in this spectacular Bond outing. This is a relentlessly entertaining, stunt-filled joyride filled with beautiful women and great humor. All of the Bond ingredients are in top form. You have Moore, my favorite Bond. Also, the film has the best opening with the ski jump. Not to mention the best finale with the battle on the Liparus and Bond rescuing Anya from Atlantis. The submarine car was awesome as well. I cannot think of a bad thing to say about this movie. Roger delivers his humorous lines well and Barbara Bach is the best Bond girl of the series. She's gorgeous but, at the same time, a capable woman who represents an interesting companion for Bond. The villains are top-notch. Curt Jergens is excellent as Stromberg and Richard Kiel's Jaws is one of the most memorable henchmen of the series. The action in this episode is incredible and, interestingly enough, far superior to the scenes found in the latest entry Die Another Day. Moore also has some very good dramatic scenes in this film as well, most notably while telling XXX that he killed her former lover. This is a tremendous film and should not be missed. 4 STARS out of 4. "},{"Title":"Somebody's Done It Better, But Still Okay","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The tenth James Bond film is a decent if formulaic actioneer that is one of Roger Moore's better outings in the role. Agent OO7 teams up with a beautiful KGB agent (Barbara Bach) to track down missing British and Soviet nuclear submarines. The trail eventually leads to an ocean-obsessed shipping magnate (Curt Jurgens) who plans to destroy the surface world and build an undersea kingdom.The plot of The Spy Who Loved Me is very similar to You Only Live Twice, with the bad guys hijacking subs instead of space capsules as part of a plot to heat up the Cold War. The pre-credit ski chase is reminiscent of On Her Majesty's Secret Service and a fight on a train is like the one in Live and Let Die, which itself was a rip-off of From Russia With Love. Basically, you won't find originality in TSWLM. It does what it does quite well though.I've never been a big fan of Roger Moore. I always thought he was the worst Bond. However, here he's not only tolerable but quite good actually. He doesn't look too old, he handles himself in the action sequences, and he occasionally gets to show some depth. Like many a Bond Girl before and since, Barbara Bach looks good but she sure wasn't cast for her acting prowess. Richard Kiel inspires fear as the giant, steel-toothed assassin Jaws (a role he would reprise in the abysmal follow-up Moonraker), although his seeming invincibility strains belief and turns into a running gag. Curt Jurgens' head villain is yet another pale imitation of Blofeld and Goldfinger.TSWLM boasts big sets, big action, and nifty gadgets -- including a car that turns into a submarine. It isn't too campy either. On the minus side, the disco-influenced score is dated, as is Bond's garish yellow and red ski suit. You can do better (I recommend From Russia With Love, Goldfinger, and On Her Majesty's Secret Service), but you can also do much worse.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"THE BEST BOND FILM EVER!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From the plot, direction, acting and sets this film presents itself as  THE classic Bond. Many people prefer the more subtle Sean Connery offerings but I personally believe this has all the elements a 007 film should have but only BIGGER AND BETTER! Of course as always, Roger is on top form in this, his third time round as JB. How can any man be soooo cool is beyond me. He really is amazing - I truly believe he is an indestructible secret agent. I will even go as far as saying he is the greatest actor ever! His comic timing, presence and delivery is flawless. Whats more the classic elements mentioned above are, in my opinion at the hight of cool - the late 1970's. First of all I MUST mention the beautiful Lotus Esprit. I am quite sick of people mentioning the tired old Aston as the best Bond - mobile. Lets face it - the Lotus beats it hands down! The Esprit is still being made today & tells you something about its quality. The fact that its also a sub-marine makes it even better! My parents had to restrain my fits of laughter when i first witnessed Roger driving it out of the sea over the beach. Then of course the music - the title song sums up all of Moore's wit and charm. Carly Simon sings it beautifully and even the camp version at the end seems appropriate. The disco score for the rest of the film gives it energy and sets it firmly in its decade.Then of course there is the LOVELY Barbara Bach - she is so pretty, by far one of the best looking Bond girls ever. The relationship Moore and Bach share is excellent also and is no more evident than in the van scene...his line which, i shall not spoil is probably THE BEST FROM ALL  THE BOND FILMS!!!The bad guys, Jaws and Stromberg are also wonderful and the final battle is pure bliss. Give me men in orange boiler suits! Give me a big under water city! Give a ship that swallows nuclear subs! give me Caroline Munro - GRRR, Give me really really English guys, Give me the final love scene! Give me THE BEST BOND FILM...Give me THE SPY WHO LOVED ME! "},{"Title":"Best Bond Movie !","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The endearing, detective and urbane image boasted by Roger Moore as Simon Templar in TV series, The Saint reached its highest mark in this memorable spy thriller of the seventies. The story, action packed direction, romantic charms of Roger Moore and Barbara Bach being intermittently disturbed by Jaws makes it very interesting. The stereotyped image of James Bond  got a good standing from Major Anya Amosova who acted like a Mini James Bond. While addition of a mighty villain called Jaws with steel teeth added new dimensions to the heroism of James Bond. The car chase sequence in streamlined sporty Lotus Esprit outclass the one in Diamonds are Forever and For Your Eyes Only as well as in Goldfinger. Finally, the storming of the huge liner with its belly filled with US submarines is picturized with full action and adventurethus opening new avenues for Bond action which definitely proved challenging for later Bond movies to imitate. "},{"Title":"phenomenally grand","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A slick Bond epic made with energy and verve, but which is ultimately overdone by its own revisionist approach on the franchise it belongs to. It is essentially a greatest hits package, and as such it provokes a feeling of nostalgia for a bygone era; a feeling that finally acts against the movie's favor. The action sequences, the production design and the locations are all phenomenally grand and spectacular. But within this whole vastness, the film lacks that distinguishing cheesy texture -the guilty pleasure of a bad vice- that made the Bond movies urgent entertainments. Still, great fun. And Jaws is a terrific henchman. "}{"Title":"Third Time Lucky Moore's Most Spectacular 007 Outing","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore is unfortunately remembered for some of the worst installments in the now-47 year old Bond franchise, including the mediocre Octopussy and the God-awful Moonraker and The Man with the Golden Gun. Sadly, these less than perfect films have largely overshadowed some of the better work Moore did as the world's greatest fictional super-spy. The Spy who Loved Me is undoubtedly the most spectacular and fun-filled of all of Moore's outings as the suave, sophisticated and near-invincible James Bond, agent 007 of the British Secret Service. While it comes no where close to matching the content value of his debut Bond film, Live and Let Die, it is nevertheless highly enjoyable, with everything you can expect from the best of Bond movies; from spectacular chase sequences, to glamorous Bond girls, to exotic locales and death-defying stunts and of course, a new spin on the classic 'world domination plot'. While the basic plot of a third party sparking a world war between two rival superpowers was previously introduced in the Connery Bond film, You Only Live Twice; TSWLM can be credited with the innovative idea of Bond actually collaborating, and even enjoying a fling with a female Russian agent. The relationship between Moore's Bond and KGB agent Anya Amasova (played to perfection by Barbara Bach) is quite dynamic and natural, rather than the 'too good to be true' and 'easy' affairs of past Bond films. Indeed, this plot element was carried forward to the Brosnan Bond entry, Tomorrow Never Dies, which released twenty years after this film! Also noticeable was the interesting, if somewhat outlandish twist on the classic 'world domination' plot, though, to the credit of the screenwriter, even this largely implausible detail appears at least mildly plausible to the audience. As with all Moore outings, the humour is present continuously, however, it is far more subtle and therefore can be better appreciated. Moore, in a rare departure from his light-heartedness in the role, even briefly displayed Bond's cold and brutal side in a brief scene in the first half of the film, which was brilliantly filmed and is one of the movie's minor highlights. Finally, TSWLM is a historical film in the Bond canon as it is the first Bond film to have no connection whatsoever to an Ian Flemming novel, with the exception of its title. It marked the independence of the Bond film franchise from the literary series and was thus a 'coming of age' event of sorts. Sadly, this newfound independence did not really benefit the franchise much in subsequent years and lead to a laughable era of space opera, explicit humour, pathetic one-liners and terrible TERRIBLE plot construction... So in a sense, TSWLM was the last of the 'great' Bond films for a fairly long period of time! "},{"Title":"The first two Bond films starring Roger Moore are good, but this third one is better","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Released in 1977, this was the tenth installment in the official James Bond movie franchise, and the third one starring Roger Moore, of seven. His first two, Live and Let Die and The Man with the Golden Gun, are polarizing with Bond fans, but I was reasonably impressed with them, and knowing that The Spy Who Loved Me, Moore's third, was generally thought of as superior to its two predecessors, I had higher expectations before watching it, not that I was exactly expecting Goldfinger. After watching it, I think I can say my expectations were met.A Royal Navy Polaris submarine containing sixteen nuclear warheads vanishes while on patrol, and the same happens to a Soviet submarine! So, it is time for James Bond to once again set out on a mission, and this time, the culprit is Karl Stromberg, the successful owner of a shipping firm who lives a secluded life in an underwater palace and has plans to destroy the world! On the mission, Bond meets Major Anya Amasova (a.k.a. Agent XXX), a Russian agent who has also been sent on a mission after the abduction of these submarines. At first, they are against each other, fighting over the microfilm that contains Stromberg's tracking system, but eventually, they are assigned to work together to try and foil Stromberg's evil plans. More than once, they will have to face Jaws, Stromberg's giant henchman who is very strong and can kill people with his metal teeth!While Moore's third Bond film is no shorter than the first two, it is a tad more consistent. Personally, I think I found less tedious moments in this one (even if some sequences are quite long, they usually kept me intrigued). As one would hope for in a James Bond flick, The Spy Who Loved Me has a good amount of action and some delightfully suspenseful moments, obviously including some fights, as well as some other memorable ways Bond risks his life in his attempts to save people! In addition to that, there's also quite a bit of humour, including the part where Jaws tries to destroy the van as Bond and Amasova attempt to get away in it, as well as many other scenes, some very funny and some just mildly amusing. Bond also goes to a number of different places on his mission in this movie, from Egypt to the ocean, so some parts have a different feel to them than others, which I would say is a good thing.Now, I will admit this film does have its downsides, such as a slightly disappointing and maybe a tad lazy ending, but overall, the fine combination of suspense and humour for much of the film makes up for the flaws. Apparently, Richard Kiel, who played Jaws in this film (a memorable Bond villain, also featured in Moonraker), got to play the character again in the lacklustre 1999 Disney film, Inspector Gadget (based on the cartoon show of the same name from the eighties), this time referred to as the Famous Big Guy with Silver Teeth, but even though I've seen the movie, I can't remember that. I guess that shows how forgettable that Inspector Gadget film is. However, The Spy Who Loved Me is certainly not a forgettable film, and the Jaws character is now permanently etched in my memory, just like a number of other aspects of this tenth official Bond film! "},{"Title":"The best bond ever.","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore's best performance. Bond film number 10 has every thing, Skiing chase, car chase with the famous Lotus Esprit, aqua fight, best bond, best bond girl, best bond bad guy, best bond co-bad guy,Jaws, great music, great ending (Bad guy death) and great locations.The Lotus Esprit is definitely the best bond car so far, the reason is that its a cool car and a submarine and still it has all of those gadgets.Carl Strongberg is my favourite baddie because he has a cool base. Plus like You Only Live Twice the nuclear submarines get captured by a opening hatch at the front of the ship only on You Only Live Twice the space shuttle opens.Lewis Gilbert directs two of the best films in James Bond, The Spy Who Loved Me & You Only Live Twice. In fact these are my favourite Bond Films, From Russia With Love, You Only Live Twice, OHMSS, The Spy Who Loved Me, For Your Eyes Only, Octopussy, A View To A Kill, The Living Daylights, Licence To Kill, Goldeneye, Tomorrow Never Dies & Casino Royale. "},{"Title":"Moore finally hits his stride","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the best of the Moore entries finds him finally hitting his stride with a film that is (at last) able to play to his strengths without sacrificing everything that is Bond.Bond Moore is at a peak here. He has nice chemistry with his leading lady and ably balances the humor and the more fantastic elements of the story.The women Barbara Bach is alluring as a Russian colleague thrown together with Bond on a mission. She handles the banter well and is one of the more competent and sexy Bond heroines.The villains Curt Jurgens is adequate in a Goldfinger-ish role as a megalomaniacal villain obsessed with creating an undersea kingdom. Richard Kiel makes his first appearance as the memorable baddie Jaws, with his intimidating steel teeth.Despite a ludicrous concept, the film is a fast-paced delight that never takes itself too seriously, but never falls into camp either. One can take it at face value or simply kick back and enjoy. Carly Simon's title track is one of the more memorable Bond songs and the film features a whopper of an opening. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore finally hits the top","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moores third Bond film finally gives him his chance as Bond, James Bond. Submarines are disappearing and MI6 and KGB joining forces to stop Karl Stromberg (Curt Jurgens) whose plan is to send a nuclear bomb to USA and Moscow. Firstly the story is a very well crafted piece of writing, and the first Bond film to hardly have anything related to the novel. The cast have been well selected, with Barbara Bach playing a good Russian Bond girl, and Richard Kiel portrays a wonderful menacing Jaws.The gadgets again are the highlight and fondly remembered from Jaws' metal teeth to the unforgettable Lotus Esprit. This show on display is outstanding. The action is memorable with the highlight being a clash between Bond and Jaws on a train carriage. John Barry doesn't return for this film, but the legacy of music the Bond films have continue, thanks to Marvin Hamlisch, and Carly Simon sing one of the most memorable Bond themes.There's nothing bad you can really say about this film. Nobedy does it better than Bond.James Bond will return in Moonraker. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore IS James Bond","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having looked forward very much to seeing how Roger Moore would be as James Bond -- I have to say in short -- that for me his performance in Live and Let Die and The Man With the Golden Gun seemed slightly detached and cold -- therefore unlikeable -- humorous of course -- maybe my expectations were too high. There was the longest break between films up to that point while Albert R. Broccoli took over as sole producer. I first saw  The Spy Who Loved Me  in the summer of 1977 and was blown away by it! From that opening ski - chase to that death defying leap of a parachute jump -- the whole audience cheered as one. The story is quite a simple and familiar one with echoes of  Y.O.L.T.You see its not so much the plot structure that is important here -- but the execution of it! Here we have characters we immediately care about . All credit to Lewis Gilbert for making Roger Moore find his voice as James Bond -- It is a joy to watch him in the early scenes as a naval commander -- he is utterly convincing and he seems to have an urgency about him. We have Anya played Barbara Bach who is also excellent in bringing out Bond's vulnerability and dare I say sensitivity. There is Jaws -- the best henchman since Oddjob and Curt Jurgens as as a subtle megalomaniac. For me Roger Moore's strongest 2 moments as James Bond in all the films he did -- are the fight sequence with Jaws-- where he (Jaws) is forcibly trying to get to his jugular -- the TERROR in his eyes doesn't look like acting and the scene with Anya where she threatens to kill him -- suddenly he is disarmed -- no banter -- no raised eyebrow -- just a very truthful and moving reaction. With this film the bar has been raised -- you have great performances right down to the captain (Shane Rimmer) and the crewmen especially around the intense and exciting nuclear warhead sequence -- the whole film is brilliant at mixing the balance of the spectacular with the smaller moments. "},{"Title":"Best Roger Moore Bond by far","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very enjoyable film.  Heavier action than other Bond movies...particularly toward the end.  The villain is pretty good, the giant henchman is even better...Ms. Bach also looks smokin'.  Some good one-liners as well.  This was Moore's third outing and it's way better than the first two.  Even has a funky disco-ish version of the typical Bond score.  Only complaint is that it's a bit long at 125 minutes.  Still a great movie overall.  "},{"Title":"nothing wrong with it","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  it is not the best Bond film ever, but it is certainly a fun film with a great opening sequence down the ski slope and his aqua car which is just cool. But it is the theme song that makes it good 'Nobody Does It Better' is just a super song  from  Monty Norman! It makes the film one of my favourite Bond film! "},{"Title":"A NON STOP ACTION AND ROMANTIC VISUAL FEAST","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the true classic moments for bond fans in the 1970's was this film. After years of let down's and missteps the bond makers came back with this film. One wonders why such easy wit, drawn out characterization and really sensual women and excellent action scenes we're missing from the previous bond efforts since thunderball with the exception of on her majesty's secret service. This film has a scale and feel to it that is truly epic. The film was shot by the nephew of the great French film director Jean Renoir who's family art ties return's to the impressionist era of the Renoir family. Truly a visual feast. The action in the film is believable and characters memorable with bond doing battle not only with a truly classic bond villian but also with a Russian Female agent that is his equal.  "},{"Title":"Bond 10","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me (aka Bond 10) is one of the very best Bond movies of the 007 series and the second best for Roger Moore (after 1983's Octopussy). After disappointing most critics and fans with his first two 007 outings Live and Let Die and The Man with the Golden Gun, Moore gives probably his strongest 007 performance in this film. This time 007 teams up with a beautiful Russian agent and together go after a shipping magnate intent on world domination. One reason why The Spy Who Loved Me works so well is the strong performance by Barbara Bach as Anya Amasova (aka Triple XXX). This is one of the very best of the Bond Girls (or should I say Bond Women), a woman who's smart, sexy, and intelligent. Another reason why this film is so good are the villains, and this Bond film has two memorable ones Curt Jurgens as Karl Stromberg, the reclusive shipping tycoon; and Richard Kiel as Jaws, the indestructible steel-toothed giant (who would reprise the role in the 007 follow-up Moonraker). Plus, The Spy Who Loved Me is a very well made movie. It has plenty of action, excitement, humor, exhilarating locations, and a well told story. And for once, Roger Moore doesn't disappoint. I liked Roger Moore as James Bond, though he's not the best 007. However, many people consider The Spy Who Loved Me as Moore best Bond film. Well I still say Octopussy is his best, but The Spy Who Loved Me is right behind it. Excellent film with classy direction by Lewis Gilbert, who also directed two other 007 adventures 1967's You Only Live Twice and 1979's Moonraker. ***1/2 (out of four)  "}{"Title":"The biggest and best Bond film from the 70s","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dalton is my favourite Bond player, but Roger Moore has a special place in my film heart, I grew up with his films, so I'm a little biased when it comes to his lesser efforts.The Spy Who Loved was when Moore really made Bond his own, in the previous two he tried too hard to be like Connery. Moore becomes a little less rigid and more fun.The plot is a re-hash of You Only Live Twice, but it's still very enjoyable. The film is the biggest Bond, huge sets and big stunts.The Pre-credit sequence is fantastic and began a new era for Bond, subsequent films always try and be bigger than the last.Moore is on fine form here, some consider this his best. Barbara Bach is nice to look at but rather weak actress. Richard Kiel is excellent at being a henchman who just shows his teeth! The villain lacks strength in character development.The script is okay, but the direction and technicians make a bigger difference. British film-making is awesome, Hollywood can't compete with this!The film score is a major disappointment, except for the title song and Bond77 theme, the rest is garbage!The gunbarrel sequence changes for the wide-screen format and remember, Widescreen is the only way to enjoy this film, destroy pan and scan!This Bond is just fun, enjoy Moore at his best. Roger Moore as James Bond does return in Moonraker.  "},{"Title":"Why watch any other Bond film?","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is simply the best James Bond film of the ENTIRE series, I know its more comic book than Fleming's novel, I know the overworked gadgets and Jaws make it seem less realistic - but it is so damned enjoyable I don't see why anyone should bother watching another James Bond movie.Moore puts in a near-perfect performance (it'd be topped in For Your Eyes Only), and although Connery had charm, seductiveness and deadliness, Moore had the campiness and the charm that the 70s needed.Who cares which bond you enjoyed the best?  If the film is enjoyable (which this CLEARLY is) - then why argue amongst yourselves who was the best bond?The lighting in the ship is amazing (thanks to Kubrick!), the villian masterfully played, the stunts and action amazing to watch.  Nothing is wrong, except perhaps Moore's one liners.Okay, so this may be a rehash on You Only Live Twice, but this sure makes up for Connery's bored state.My Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's Best Bond","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At a time when the James Bond series needed a home run to keep it out of the grave, Roger Moore, Lewis Gilbert and company delivered.  The Spy Who Loved Me is Moore's best Bond movie, a fine mix of action, humor and innuendo in the classic Bond formula.The story is fast and clever (yes, the plot is a retread of You Only Live Twice, but at least it's entertaining.)  Roger Moore, in his third Bond outing, has found his footing with the character.  He can be charming and funny, but sometimes you see the killer instinct in his eyes.  The gadgets are good (the submarine Lotus is a classic).  Richard Kiel's Jaws is a henchman right up there with Oddjob, truly menacing without becoming a cartoon (that would wait for Moonraker.)  And that opening skijump stunt in the teaser... priceless.Is it a perfect Bond movie?  Well, no.  Barbara Bach, while pretty to look at, can't quite give her character enough weight to be Bond's rival and peer.  Curt Jurgens' Stromberg comes across as a garden-variety megalomaniac, without any of the unique qualities of Dr. No or Goldfinger or Blofeld.  Also, Marvin Haimlisch doesn't cut it as a Bond composer, and his disco-styled riffs get old fast.  But Spy's good points easily compensate for its flaws.  Overall, The Spy Who Loved Me is one of the most fun Bond movies ever.  Moore's style is unique to the Bond series, and an acquired taste for some, but in this movie it's a perfect fit.  Spy was designed as a fun romp, and as such, it knocked one out of the ballpark. "},{"Title":"It's the biggest-it's the best. It's Bond-and beyond (possibly.)","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is possible the biggest and best Bond film. Well, maybe it isn't-but it comes close. Strongberg is a great villain, the film has the best Bond theme song in existences, and it has a Bond girl who is the first (and possibly only) Bond girl who is a match for Bond. 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Best Bond Ever!","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Roger Moore, my fave of the James Bond actors, shines here in his best outing as Bond, James -- well, you know.  This film is delightfully over the top, violent, sexy, funny, outrageous and totally implausible.  Everything a James Bond should be.  They haven't made a good Bond film since Moore left the series in my somewhat less than humble opinion.  You'll also dig the great Carly Simon theme song and Marvin Hamlwhateverhisnameis' score. "},{"Title":"My favorite Bond film of the seventies.","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Following the Bond film trend of staying with the times we have the women's lib female equal of James in the form of Major Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach). Despite the constant reminder of how she is Bond's equal she get's her butt kicked by Jaws on a train and ends up getting rescued twice by Bond. Still, for the time it was a major breakthrough over ditzy Bond sidekicks like Goodknight (Man With the Golden Gun). "},{"Title":"Somebody did it better","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the best Bondmovies in the worst decade of the series. The late seventies films were filled with action but lacked a good story. Gladly this is compensated by a fine performance of Moore, with his touch of humor and the return of a megalomaniac villain Stromberg with his seemingly scary but funny aid Jaws. The gadgets are fine like a car turning into a submarine. Bach is playing an intelligent Russian major, who has sex-appeal and a who's beside Bond instead of under him. 3 out of 5 because of the solid music score and the lovely Bach.  "},{"Title":"The best Bond film (Roger Moore's, that is...)","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is, obviously, Roger Moore's best bond flick. It exceeds Moonraker, let me tell ya! Second to On Her Majesty's Secret Service, Mookraker has to be the lousiest excuse for a 007 film ever!! Anyway, getting back to the movie on hand, TSWLM has great performances, fun action sequences (especially the beginning parachute scene, it'll make your jaw drop!), and a logical plot. Moore does his dapper, debonair role with class as usual, Curt Jergans is probably the weirdest Bond enemy with his ugly webbed hands, and Jaws (played by the huge Richard Kiel) first appears, who without a doubt, is a dentist's worst nightmare!  "},{"Title":"Nobody Does it better?","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yeah- right. Let's face it folks. Generation X may be the largest generation in existence at the moment, which means that for most of us, our first James Bond experience was with Mr. Roger Moore. And of course, this would imply that this second rate actor with the aged pretty boy face will always hold a special place in our hearts- I know he does with me. BUT- Out of all the Bonds- and I do mean all of them- Moore comes in behind everyone except Jimmy Bond (played by WOODY ALLEN in Casino Royale) and the trained seals with the 007 tag on the collar around their necks, also in Casino Royale.  Now don't get me wrong- The Spy Who Loved Me, along with For Your Eyes Only and Octopussy are among the best of the series- but this is proof that, like Batman, the actor playing Bond is not as important as the character himself. A good choice for the character only enhances the role.TSWLM is, as has been pointed out, sort of a cinematic Greatest Hits album with alot of derivative action. The train fight with Jaws is derivative of the fight with Tee-Hee in Live And Let Die, which was, itself, derivative of the classic, the train fight with Grant in From Russia With Love. The giant lair for the villan, along with the basic plot of the film and particularly the last 30 minutes, is a total re-hash (almost a re-make) of You Only Live Twice, right down to Little Nellie being replaced with Wet Nellieand the inclusion of a monorail in the villain's hideout, etc.Moore, by this time, had grown into the part of Bond, at least his interpretation of it. His quips range from the inane- All those feathers and he still can't fly! to the very clever- What a helpful chap. He even is forced to act in a few scenes- when Anya makes mention of his dead wife and when Anya realizes that he's reponsible for the death of her lover. His performance ranks just behind FYEO and Octopussy, which tie as his pinnacle in the films. Barbara Bach makes a perfect New Style Bond girl, appropriately vulnerable, yet self-reliant and tough enough to get the job done, albeit with some misogynistic help from 007. Of course, as MAD Magazine said of another Bond Girl, her acting talent lays somewhere between Erik Estrada and a Gravy Ladle, but who cares? She's got great cleavage, and she looked positively smashing in that black evening gown in the Mujaba Club Sequence. Lastly, I just want to comment on something that some previous reviewers have mentioned. The argue that they like their Bond with a proper English accent, rather than Connery's Scottish burr or Lazenby's perceived Australian accent (which is, in truth, totally non-existent) but the truth of the matter is- JAMES BOND IS NOT ENGLISH!!!!! According to his creator, Ian Fleming, 007's Father was, in fact, A SCOTSMAN! Therefore, Connery is the only Bond so far that at least sounds like one might think Bond sounds like. So everyone get off your high horse on the English James Bond (aka the poncy, poofy, pretty-boy fop) James Bond was, as he himself stated in one of the novels, a Scottish Peasant! "},{"Title":"Roger Moore at his best","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is probably Roger Moore's best outing as James Bond 007.  Barbara Bach joins his side in the fight against a billionaire bent on moving civilization to sea.  Even though this plot was done a mere few years ago with Moonraker, this movie is more realistic and is pulled off in fashion. Barbara Bach cannot act very well in my opinion, but I consider her one of the better Bond girls, as she can withstand on her own, and doesn't swoon for Bond every five minutes.  Carly Simon's Nobody Does It Better is one of the best theme songs in the Bond series.  Very good installment in the Bond series, as it was entertaining and slick at the same time. "}{"Title":"Jaws 5!","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rodger Moore`s 3rd appearance as James Bond is perhaps his best Bond movie! James Bond has finally met his match in this great movie, the colossal nearly 7 feet tall Jaws, played, brilliantly may I add, by Richard Kiel. The Iron man first meets James Bond, properly, in the Egyptian castle ruins, and it is there in which Bond realizes that the only way to have a real effect on him is to kick him in the most sensitive part of the male body!.Bond also meets up with a new woman, whom he of course ends up sleeping with.And I was glad to see that Bond still remembers his dead wife Tracy,when he is talking to his lady friend, who ends up being a spy just like him.A very good film and a great Villain in the shape of Jaws, it was a shame Stromberg wasn`t as Blofeld type as...... well Blofeld.I give it a Jaw breaking 7 and a half out of 10  "},{"Title":"One of the top three Bond movies","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know what to expect from a Bond movie - and this has everything you'd expect done extremely well. Moore gives his best performance, the action scenes are great, the gadgets and vehicles are fantastic, Jaws is an awesome opponent for 007, and Barbara Bach is one of the most beautiful women ever to appear in a Bond movie. However, she isn't really a strong female character - she needs saving from everything by Bond, and he constantly outwits her and gets the better of her, and she eventually succumbs to him. Still, who cares. The action scenes are especially outstanding, far, far better than in any of the previous movies - the helicopter/Lotus chase and the clashes with the seemingly unstopabble Jaws being the highlights. Fantastic stuff,  "},{"Title":"Beautiful music and cinematography","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Roger Moore is really the coolest of all Bonds - he never sweats. And I prefer my Bond with an ENGLISH accent - not Scottish or Australian. The Spy Who Loved Me I found very slow-moving during its first hour, kept alive mainly by the beautiful music and cinematography. But the second hour I found absolutely irresistible. The scene of the Lotus Esprit turning into a mini-sub must be one the most unforgettable Bond sequences. 007's romance with the beautiful and intelligent Russian agent was one of the best, and the ending of the film was a hoot! I wish the current Bond films would include some of the more stylish villain henchmen like Jaws. "},{"Title":"Somewhat of a Let-Down","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although it doesn't reach the levels of the next Bond flick, Moonraker, in some ways Spy is a let-down.  Say what you will about Moore's first two Bond movies  at least he had some enthusiasm and decent villains to work against (Katanga, Scaramanga).  Here Moore has matured, but ends up looking rather nonchalant about the whole thing.  Stromberg is the least interesting of the Bond villains (ooh, lots of money and webbed fingers).  That leaves Jaws to take up the slack, who seems to have wandered in from a Batman film.The set-work is impressive, and the romantic pairing between Bond and Amasova is interesting (why haven't they ever brought her back? - she would have been an improvement on Tanya Roberts in A View To A Kill and we would have been spared the upteenth repeat of the line Grab my hand, Stacy!). Amasova is definitely the first modern/80's Bond girl.Basically, however, Spy is a lesser remake of You Only Live Twice.  In both, the villains are stealing special-environment vehicles from opposing foreign powers, and have a really big base where they keep it in, and the final confrontation boils down to a last-minute countdown.  And Bond has a really great vehicle to engage in a special-environment chase sequence or two.  The similarities here aren't surprising, since the producers were considering using SPECTRE until they realized they couldn't get around McClory's ownership of the rights.Overall, Spy really signalled the dip in 70's Bond that resulted in Moonraker. "},{"Title":"Nobody Does It Better","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  By 1977, women were realizing independence in the Bond films as well as the  real world.  No longer would the typical Bond girl have to be saved time  and time again by 007 and at last offer a helpless oh James...  Major  Anya Amasova is more than a match for Commander James Bond as she gets the  upper hand time and time again before Bond realizes its a new generation of  women he's dealing with.  Q offers Bond his third company car - the Lotus  Espirit (Wet Nellie) which although draws glances, is no match for a good  old Aston Martin.  Stromberg is presented as a good match for Diamonds'  Blofeld - an aging villain who would rather sit and listen to music while  he is taking over the world than throw a few punches.  Luckily, Jurgen's  Stromberg has an amazing henchman - Jaws, who represents more of an  opponent for Batman than for a realistic James Bond. "},{"Title":"A important Bond film for the franchise","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" With Diamonds Are Forever and The Man With The Golden Gun the Bond franchise has taken some beating and was losing it's edge in the film industry and at the box office. So this was a important and critical Bond film, where the success of this film played a important part in keeping this franchise relevant. And also keeping it going with the back up it's been getting. So they were really banking on this movie to succeed, and you can clearly see it from the intro with a ski chase scene that ends with a parachute jump. The action in this is way better crafted while keeping the Bond essence going. They really tried to modernize and renovate the franchise, this could either work or fail and for the most part it worked for the better. They took certain elements from the previous Bond films and made a bigger and more action packed. The main drive of this film is of course the chemistry between a female spy Agent Triple X or Anya. She was a decently written female lead, well at least for a Bond film anyways. Unfortunately the actress that played her was very robotic and lacked any flare. She was suppose to a competent spy but came off more naive than anything else. If there was more build up between Bond and Anya during their escapade this film would surely have been classic Bond film. Don't get me wrong this is still a very good Bond film with Roger Moore in the lead role. Add in a kick as Bond intro song and you got yourself a noteworthy Bond movie. It even has one of Bond's most iconic villains Jaws (Richard Kiel) who also appears in the next installment.8/10 "},{"Title":"7 - Good","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After this film, there was no question that Roger Moore was a great successor to Sean Connery. His wit, humor and a gentle romantic side make him a unique Bond fitting for the détente era. Agent XXX (Bach) is one of the few female leads in the 70's to actually have character development and an independent scene. Some scenes like the sunset, underwater aquarium and the parachute scene have been done to perfection. Stromberg is not a bad villain at all and the burly expressive Jaws is one of the series' most memorable henchmen. It's a grandiose adventure epic for Bond, but some of that grandiosity hasn't aged well. The soundtrack lacks energy, the beginning is a bit slow, and the plot follows the standard Bond formula with few surprises and curve balls. It feels a little bloated with gratuitous chases in almost every vehicle imaginable, though I have to admit the amphibious Lotus car chase was quite epic. At the end of the day, it's a solid adventure and exactly the hit that Roger Moore needed to firmly establish himself in the role. "},{"Title":"A better Bond","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Aaah James, I cannot find the words. Well let me try to enlarge your vocabulary.And we're back. Much better opening this time. Spectacular skiing/parachuting sequence. And Carly Simon's vocals on the theme song are top quality.It's now 1977 and we're in Cold War territory. M and Q (Lee and Llewelyn) are back on form. The brown suits are less in evidence.Jaws (Richard Kiel) is the new henchman. He's big and nasty and has sharp teeth. Doesn't move too well though.Barbara Bach as Anya Amasova is beautiful but her voice appears clearly overdubbed and as for acting ability...Caroline Munro is also beautiful but, if anything, worse. However, this is Roger Moore's best acting performance in a Bond film up to this point.The Leyland Sherpa Van also deserves a mention. I remember fondly my University had one between 1976-1979. And Valerie Leon makes the most gorgeous hotel receptionist ever in a brief appearance. What a waste.All in all a much better film than the last outing even though the formula is already looking a bit tired. "},{"Title":"The spy who entertained me","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bond Review.Title Suggest adventure and romance, at this stage pretty much what Bond is all about.Pre-Titles Both the British and the Soviets have submarines disappear. Meanwhile Bond escapes some Soviet agents in a ski chase and by parachuting off a mountaintop. This is the perfect set-up for the story and it gives us the background details. While it also features an exciting ski chase and a brilliant stunt with Bond leaping to safety via a Union Jack decorated parachute. A classic opening.Theme Song 'Nobody Does It Better' by Carly Simon oozes class and is one of the most well-known Bond themes. Simon's soothing vocals and the elegant composition, along with some really smart and catchy lyrics, blend together seamlessly to create a truly excellent theme.Plot After the submarines are lost the British and Soviets team up their two best agents, Bond and Anya Amasova, to discover what happened to them. This leads Bond to an egotist shipping magnate and he is forced to hide secrets from the other side. This is a straight- forward plot and it flows flawlessly, with Bond travelling to many locations and having to deal with a number of obstacles. For the most part the film moves along at a good pace and it doesn't really slow down until the last third. We get plenty of action throughout and some really good dialogue heavy scenes. That said, Stromberg's plan of a civilisation under the sea is far-fetched and pretty stupid even for Bond.James Bond Moore puts in one of his best performances here. He's incredibly suave and his charming persona is put to its best use given the mission. He looks great too, while many of his quips are delivered naturally and he handles most of the action scenes with fresh flair.Bond Girls Barbara Bach does a very good job as Soviet agent Anya. She is believable in the role, looks fantastic and also comes across as confident when she could have been another ditzy agent. Most importantly the chemistry between her and Moore is fantastic, easily one of the best in the series and you genuinely care about her. Villains Curd Jürgens is a weak point as Stromberg. He just isn't given anything interesting to do and in nearly all of his scenes he just has an annoyed look on his face. He isn't a physical threat and he doesn't appear to be that smart either, so he ends up being pretty bland. Richard Kiel is easily one of the most memorable henchmen in the series as the steel-toothed and seemingly indestructible Jaws. The design is very unique which gives it an edge, but what really works is that fact that Jaws is both intimidating and funny in equal measures without the humour ever feeling forced. Caroline Monro is also enjoyable as Stromberg's attractive assassin Naomi. Support Bernard Lee is great again as tries to keep the British end up and seeing him backing Bond completely is kind of heart-warming. Walter Gotell is decent as KGB head Gogol and shares some fun scenes with Lee.Action There's some excellent, varied action throughout the film. Bond is forced to take on Jaws a number of times, including in an intense encounter in a train carriage, which are always very entertaining. The car chase where Bond must evade Naomi's helicopter is really exciting too and the Lotus going under water is silly yet really impressive. The climax is a bit dull however. It moves along really slowly with an overload of gunfire and explosions, while Bond defeats Stromberg with so much ease that it's actually pretty pathetic.Score Marvin Hamlisch provides a decent and diverse score. There are a lot of disco influenced compositions which aren't great, but many of the tracks for the action scenes fit in really well and strangely none of the music ever feels out of place despite some of the varied arrangements.Production Values Lewis Gilbert returns to the series and he does a good job here. Some of the shots are absolutely fantastic, especially in Egypt, with the scope of places like the pyramids captured so well. The cinematography is pretty good and while it isn't that eye- catching it goes for a more grounded look that pays off and suits the films tone. Some of the effects are a bit ropey, but for the most part many are very impressive and have aged rather well. The locations are varied and suitably exotic, with Sardinia and Egypt both being used well. Stromberg's underwater lair 'Atlantis' is a really unique design and makes for an effective base. The many underwater scenes are shot really well and look glamorous.Conclusion I'd say that The Spy Who Loved Me is one of the best Moore Bond films. It has the right balance of adventure, action, romance and humour with all of them bouncing of each other almost flawlessly. Moore finally found his feet here and is a lot fun, Bach makes a great Bond girl, Jaws is a memorable enemy and the direction is really competent. Some weak points like Stromberg and the overlong climax harm the film, but don't do too much damage. If you're looking for the Bond film that does a good job of balancing out all the different aspects then this is the one. "},{"Title":"Considered Moore's best","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rating-7/10The Spy Who Loved me is possibly Moore's best Bond movie, and boasting a song that is possibly at the same level of Live and Let Die you can't help but like this movie. With a yes absurd plot, it is fun and has all the elements Bond had in those days and includes all what we expect from Bond as well, plus we see some of the most memorable things from the Bond film series. I felt this film was safely a Good film and below is why I felt that about it.The story is as I say an absurd plot and if you watch this you will see what I mean. A villain to match Blofeld, the film boats big things and does it well with stunts, great fight sequences and some fantastic sets and locations. I did feel the pace was medium, not too fast but when it gets slow it suddenly speeds up again and is just pure if not occasionally silly entertainment, but nevertheless is really entertaining. Finally the story is also witty with Bond's humour shining through and making the film fun even with such horrible villains around all the time.Moore is at his best here and by many miles he acts best in this one with a solid performance that can seriously be classed as a rival to Connery. The film has many women who you are not sure if they are the Bond girl or not but it yet again is solid for Bond and his girls because whoever he is with, he suddenly has chemistry and Bond hasn't like the girl this much in years. I did feel the support and villain were sometimes over the top but look over it all and the film is hugely enjoyable and acted well.The sets and props used are marvellous and some of the best if not the best ever, even compared to more modern Bonds, Ken Adam does a wonderful job and sometimes, just sometimes you can enjoy the sets more than the plot going on. Jaws of course is a character I can't not comment on and his teeth are a work of greatness and a thing in this movie that in just one of the unforgettable moments and props, such as a certain underwater car that may or may not be used in this film.The film has it's more dull moments and can drag just a little at times but it doesn't make you hate this film or anything, it makes up for it in the end. I did feel that although I felt it was a good movie, it cannot move upwards much because it just isn't great or very good enough to go there and succeed until the end, some will love this I bet, but I know for a certain fact that some would give this 1/10 because they hated it that much, it is worth a watch to see what you think though.Bond film fans I feel will and should be pleased by this as it doesn't run away from the Bond usual's but puts a nice twist on them all and makes them more fun and humorous to suit Roger Moore's portrayal of Bond. People should also enjoy this for it's varied action, adventure and crime which is the personification of Bond films really and always let people enjoy the film.A 7/10 from me as I felt it was safely a good film but was nowhere near a very good film, but it started to pull way from being just Kind of Good. Just watch it, see through the more cheesy lines and just enjoy Moore at his best, also those who like Moore's bond the most should love this as this has to be his best as I said, just see what you think go with the flow and see the memorable most recognisable Bond movies for years. "}{"Title":"See Egypt And Die.","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I guess Marvin Hamlisch wrote the theme song and it sounds as if it's sung by Carly Simon. Nobody Does It Better. I rather liked it and its slightly racy lyrics. It must be tough to write a good song or even a bearable one. Sound is infinitely variable. We hear notes from about 20 cycles per second to close to twenty thousand cycles per second -- and everything in between, with no natural cut-off points. Out of that vast array of sounds a composer has to pick thousands and fit them together in a way that pleases the listener. It must be like filling in a crossword puzzle in hundreds of dimensions.The song may be the best thing about the movie. Of course it's always reassuring to see Roger Moore wandering around the pyramids so spiffily dressed. Barbara Bach is a beautiful KGB agent and, like all the Bond girls, is easy to look at, even though she can't act. But she doesn't have to. BOND BEDS BACH, BEARDS BOLSHIES.As the evil, filthy-rich mastermind, Curt Jurgens is suitably wicked and makes appropriate wisecracks as he feeds his enemies to the sharks, but his heart isn't in it. Well, he was never a very expressive actor to begin with. Richard Kiel, the behemoth of a henchman with the steel teeth, is amusing in a comic-book sort of way. That's probably why they reintroduced his character in another ongoing episode of this franchise.Yet the entire string of James Bond movies -- up to and including the most recent -- puzzles the mind. Back in the early 60s, Sean Connery was perfect as the icon of 1950s values. He was like Hugh Hefner. He oozed charm and easily seduced women after trading a few double-entendres. Ian Fleming described his Saville Row wardrobe in exquisite detail, the way Hugh Hefner advised Playboy readers about the merits of various expensive pipes and neckties. The enemy was always SMERSH. The early films, and the novels they came from, were entertaining. John F. Kennedy read Ian Fleming, who had been a genuine spy.But everything has changed in the last fifty years. I doubt that many people read Ian Fleming's spy novels much. They were never more than divertimento's. And still the cinematic Bond soldiers on. And in movies with colossal budgets too. The producers may or may not be stirred but they're certainly not shaken by the changing times. "},{"Title":"Somewhat uneven, but it gets there in the end.","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved me is a bit of an odd duck in the James Bond canon. By this point, Roger Moore had had two successful, if more light-hearted outings as Bond and had settled comfortably into the role. The series was being played more for laughs now, catering to Moore's light comedy strengths. You never quite buy him as a deadly killer (especially after Sean) but the upped the sophistication and the banter to compensate. However, the villains had been a bit weak, though Christopher Lee made the best of an attempt to shoehorn an assassin and megalomaniac into one character. When the scriptwriters were stuck, they could look to the books for inspiration. Here, that wasn't a possibility. The novel had been an experiment that didn't satisfy Fleming or most of his fans, so he barred any use of the plot, only the title.The film had a troubled road to production, as the script was reworked several times. Reportedly, at one point, the film was to start with a new generation of SPECTRE murdering their predecessors. That didn't happen. Instead, we got a rehash of some of the plot to You Only Live Twice, mixed with a revenge story (ala From Russia With Love). It creates a bit of an uneven film, though the bumps are smoothed out by the third act.Moore seems fairly comfortable with the role, so he handles things fairly smoothly. He gets plenty of quips and quite a bit of action, and he is still young enough that he seems viable in the physical stuff. Catherine Bach has a nice turn as the Russian agent who both wants to stop the villain and kill Bond for the death of her lover. She gets to do a bit more than the average Bond girl, which is a treat. Curt Jurgens plays the villain, which appears to be a bit of a mixture of Bloefeld and Dr. No. He has cold blooded down, but doesn't quite rise to charming. He pretty much falls in the middle range of the Bond villains; not quite Goldfinger, still better than Mr. Big/Kananga. Shane Rimmer is back as a sub captain and the MI-6 gang are around for some fun, with the Q scenes setting the tone for the next several movies, where they are played mostly for comedy. Richard Kiel makes the first of two appearances as Jaws, the first truly memorable henchman since Oddjob.The locales, as is usual, are great and they are showcased well. The stunt pieces are exciting, with the Lotus submarine car showcased at the heart. Ken Adams provides some more great sets, and the plot, generally moves right along. The only real quibble is that the early stages of the film are a bit uneven. The teaser starts things off with a bang, with the epic ski chase and parachute jump, then settles in for the exposition. There is intrigue in and around Cairo, but it mostly seems like marking time until we get to the bigger stuff. Too many of the stunts here are played for laughs, though nowhere near as badly as later films. Once we get Bond and Amasova on-board a US ballistic missile submarine, things really kick into high gear. The battle on-board Stromberg's ship is probably the best action sequence since the air assault on Piz Gloria, in On Her Majesty's Secret Service. There is tension, while Bond leads the combined submarine crews in an attempt at gaining control of the ship's command center and stopping the launch of multiple ICBMs. The film would also end with what would become another recurring gag Bond caught by his superiors in a compromising position. So, in the end, you get a fairly entertaining movie, though it takes a little time to get going, after the teaser. Moore is well settled in the role and has an above average leading lady and a fairly decent villain and a mcguffin worthy of 007. The comedic moments are under better control than in the last film and certainly moreso then the films that follow. You have memorable scenery and sets and outstanding stunt pieces. All in all, a strong entry in the series and certainly one of Moore's best episodes. "},{"Title":"Great Bond movie with a great plot","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is probably one of the greatest plots of all time. A woman vows vengeance upon the man who killed her lover, only to find the man does not warrant killing. This plot would make a movie great in itself. Add to that the super slick adventure of a classic Bond movie, with all the wit, and you've got a masterpiece. There is plenty of Bond action in this one. There is plenty of Bond wit. There are plenty of Bond women. And the chief ingredient of Bond movies, the scenery. The attractive, exotic venues, are there. We have the desert, the ocean, the ski slopes of the snowy mountains, submarines, underwater, pyramids, Egypt, the Nile, and we even have trains. All that's missing are the volcanoes and outer space. And we also have the great characters from Bond's group and the KGB in enlarged roles. Characters we can't get enough of. The KGB leader, Q, and M are outstanding. A hundred years form now, this movie will still be a must see. "},{"Title":"BOND#10 Can't Do it Much Better Than This","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" MASTER PLAN begin a global holocaust and start a new civilization under the sea. Third time is definitely the charm for Moore as 007. The scope was greatly expanded from the rather small adventures of the previous two Bonders, returning Bond to the world arena of confronting some threat of global proportions. This is impressed on the audience immediately, at the beginning of the teaser, when nuclear submarines (with 16 missiles) are targeted, involving both British intelligence and the Soviet KGB. When Bond (Moore) first appears in that cabin with his latest female conquest, it comes across as typical, even corny, Bondish mannerisms. But, very quickly, we are catapulted into a great ski chase, recalling the better scenes of On Her Majesty's Secret Service. Though such scenes, repeated later throughout the film, seem to only copy earlier Bonders, there is a grace and energy to these which somehow surpass much of what came before. Nowhere is this more evident than at the conclusion of the teaser, a genuinely eye-popping visual thrill that elicits gasps, wonderment and applause from even hardened Bond enthusiasts. I still remember seeing this a couple of times in the theater back in '77 and how the audience was just blown away - you just don't see too much of such surprising twists on film, building on a scene to such a crescendo - THIS is how you begin a Bond thriller! The song over the spiffy credits, by Carly Simon, is beautiful, containing a longing and a melancholy not heard before in the Bond movies.In some ways, all a Bond film has to do to be superior is present the three key elements in exemplary fashion the master villain, the femme fatale and the unbeatable henchman. And, this one does it - better than most. The villain (Jurgens) has a grand plan - monstrous yet glorious in its scope. He, Stromberg, points out to Bond, late in the story, the essential difference between himself and the extortion methods of Bond's past primary nemesis, SPECTRE rather than a simple plot to acquire money, Stromberg intends to reshape the world in his own image. He's the deranged genius with a god complex, following along the lines of Dr.No and Goldfinger, yet with even more ambitious plans. His henchman, Jaws (Kiel), is a giant, unstoppable force out of every agent's worst nightmare no matter how many times you stop this monster, it will always be temporary. By the middle of the film, we can't wait to see the next confrontation between Bond and this ultimate killer. And, when I first saw this guy, he really seemed to be a terrifying opponent - so much so that I really wondered whether Bond would get thru this mission in one piece. This was finally a match for Connery's ultimate foe, Oddjob - Moore's own super enemy (try not to think of Moonraker when watching this, or, better yet, don't see Moonraker). Bond's KGB counterpart (Bach) here is female - she is Bond's equal in every sense, not the stumbling Bond girls we'd seen in previous Bonders (as in The Man With the Golden Gun). We finally see the women's liberation movement make itself apparent in the Bond universe and it made for some interesting storytelling, resulting in entertaining competition between the two agents and even a subplot about how Bond may be looking at some payback from his ally.All the other elements which we've become accustomed to in a Bond adventure are realized to near perfection in this one the exotic locales, beginning in the snowy mountains of Austria, then in Cairo, Egypt and Sardinia, are exquisitely shot, accentuating the action scenes in each. M and especially Q have more screen time, actually helping to move the plot forward, besides the usual sidelines with gadgetry (unfortunately, Moneypenny's scenes are very short). The Lotus automobile even does the Aston Martin from Goldfinger one better, able to convert to submersible vehicle besides the usual offensive weaponry. The giant sets and models of the villain's science fiction lair strive to outdo all previous Bonders in this regard - there's a truly epic feel to the proceedings. There's even a second femme fatale (Munro), a gorgeous villain whose screen time is all-too-brief. But, what really stands out about this Bonder is the storytelling the pacing, the plot turns and the style. There are no real slow spots and plenty of surprises, with unexpected twists to the chases and fights. The stuff with the sharks was getting stale by this point, but with a brute named Jaws, I suppose it was inevitable. And I especially liked the various stylistic flourishes, such as when Bond first meets his counterpart and future love interest amid the shadows of the pyramids - it's a case study of properly using the musical score to heighten the classy tone of this superlative adventure. This is unquestionably the best Moore Bonder and one in which he was fully in command of the situation. Bond and Jaws would return in Moonraker. Bond9 Villain9 Femme Fatales9 Henchman10 Fights9 Stunts/Chases9 Gadgets7 Auto9 Locations9 Pace10 overall9 "},{"Title":"A Highlight of the Series","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's virtually impossible to include spoilers in a James Bond review. Everybody knows that the world of Bond is the ultimate hero fantasy the good guy will thwart the villain and get the beautiful girl at the end. We know what he'll do before the movie starts; we just don't know how he'll do it.In his third outing as 007, Roger Moore finally hits his stride. In his first two Bond films, the production team treated him as just a replacement for Sean Connery. Here, Moore is finally accepted on his own terms. LIVE AND LET DIE and THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN played like holdovers - or rejects - from the Connery era. THE SPY WHO LOVED ME is the first film written specifically for Roger Moore. It is certainly the best of the Moore Bonds, and arguably a highlight of the series.THE SPY WHO LOVED ME has all of the classic Bond elements beautiful girls, fancy gadgets, international intrigue, exotic locales and a megalomaniac villain armed with infinite manpower and resources. A truly great hero needs a worthy adversary, a foe capable of defeating him. Harry Potter has Lord Voldemort. Sherlock Holmes has Professor Moriarty. Bond has a line of evil schemers bent on global domination. They are, in fact, so proud of their plots that they always boast to 007 late in the film, giving him just enough info to save the world at the last second.This time around, the megalomaniac villain is shipping magnate Karl Stromberg (Curt Jurgens). Using a high-tech tracking system, he has hijacked British and Russian nuclear subs. Bond must join forces with an elegant Soviet spy, Agent XXX (Barbara Bach) to thwart Stromberg's plan for global domination. Like all great Bond villains, Stromberg has an army of paid assassins armed with an impressive array of weapons. He lives in Atlantis, an elaborate submarine house off the coast of Sardinia.THE SPY WHO LOVES ME takes time to soak up the exotic flavors of its locales, even as the plot zooms ahead. Austria is an icy wilderness of mountains and glaciers. Egypt is presented as a romantic desert full of impressive monuments. (The movie even pokes fun at LAWRENCE OF ARABIA.) Sardinia is a tourist's paradise of sun-soaked beaches and twisting coastal roads. The ocean floor on which Atlantis rests teems with strange and beautiful (but deadly) life forms. The scenery change sets us up for the film's grand finale, one of the biggest mega-battles in the entire Bond series.The film also makes excellent use of Ken Adam's magnificent set designs. The sets for the film were so elaborate that the world's largest sound stage, the 007 stage at London's Pinewood Studios, had to be built especially for the movie. The awesome sets earned the Bond team an Oscar nomination for production design.This is one of the best Bond films ever made. It gives us several of the most memorable villains, gadgets and adventures in the history of the series. It's a vast, elaborate production. Most of the gadgets and stunts stretch belief, but the Bond films were never meant to be realistic. This is one of the ultimate spy fantasies. This is classic James Bond. "},{"Title":"THE turning point in Bond history!","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If Goldfinger defined how Bond movies would look in the 60's, then The Spy Who Loved Me has defined Bond from 1977 to the present day. The spectacular pre-credit sequence, use of many exotic locations, huge sets and a henchman to equal Harold Sakata's Oddjob - neither have ever been bettered. On DVD, Spy is a joy to watch, the clean, slick action looks sharper than ever. ...The first of the Bonds to use the Cold War as the main thrust of the plot, sets Bond up with Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach), a Soviet agent to find two missing submarines stolen by ocean-obsessed Stromberg (Curt Jurgens) and stop him destroying the world and drive the human population into the sea. This is a spectacular romp which hasn't really dated much in the 23 years since its release. This is also Roger Moore at his best. Moore's Bond is much-maligned by Bond afficionados but here he catches the perfect mix of smooth sophistication, cutting one-liners and hard arrogance. He has no problem flicking his tie to send a villain falling to his death, something Moore's Bond would later find uncomfortable to do. The one-liners are better than ever and Moore delivers them with aplomb. The supporting cast are exceptional, Bach isn't the best actress (watch out for her trying to contain her laughter in the final scene with Moore) but she carries the job off well, and looks fanatastic alongside the stunning locations, and Curt Jurgens is a suitably megalomaniac villain. But it is Richard Kiel as Jaws who steals the show, as the henchman with stainless steel teeth. Kiel manages to bring both menace and humour to the role and without one single line of dialogue. It is unfortunate that the producers of Moonraker chose to hang this character out to dry with a terrible denouement.Bonds journeys from the Austrian alps, and quite probably the best Bond-stunt - dare I say movie stunt - ever with a death-defying ski-jump off a mountain to reveal 007's Union Jack parachute which has all and sundry cheering wildly,(no CGI technology here, the Bond producer's philosophy still stands, if it cant be done in real life, then don't do the stunt!)and continues to Egypt, Sardinia and the mid-Atlantic in his efforts to save the world and stop Anya killing him for avanging the death of her lover at the hands of Bond.Marvin Hamlisch handles the score beautifully with a delighful mix of classic Bond and modern tunes and one of the best Bond theme songs to boot.Its all great stuff and the DVD sharpness adds to the beauty of the Great Pyramids. In fact this movie is best suited to DVD as it has a sharp style to it throughout, be it the sleek Lotus Esprit that turns into a submarine, or Jaws deadly razor-sharp teeth, a joy to watch.The extras are excellent, an extended documentary covering all aspects of production and a well-earned tribute to Ken Adam who's work on the Bond films have set the standard for the series and who's ideas have been used for the likes of Austin Powers and True Lies.This is a must for lovers of Bond or even just action movies. This film defined action movies for years to come, being made at a time when quality action movies were few and far between, this is a stand-out! Get it folks, because nobody does it better! "},{"Title":"2nd best bond film","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'The Spy Who Loved Me' is easily the best bond movie of the 70's and second only to 'On Her Majestys Secret Service' as being the best film in the series. Funny that - the two best films and no Sean Connery! ( Although 'Goldfinger' comes 3rd!). Roger Moore's 3rd appearance shows he has finally settled into the role and aside from 'For Your Eyes Only' this is probably his finest performance as 007, crisp and cool all the time, charming when needed and a bastard when necessary, he really is good in this. This was the first time the producer (Now Albert R. Broccoli on his own) had to come up with a new story - only Ian Fleming's title was used- and it's brilliant. Similar to 'You Only Live Twice' in some aspects (same director, same scenario almost), the plot takes full advantage of gorgeous locations, outstanding stunts, stunningly beautiful women (Barbara Bach, Caroline Munro, Valerie Leon) and the series best villain Jaws (proving so popular the producers didn't kill him off as was originally written and brought him back in the next film). Also noteworthy is Marvin Hamlisch's score which is again amongst the series best and THAT theme tune, bettered only by 'Live And Let Die' as the best Bond theme ever. Everything clicks in this movie, the production values are amazing and as pure escapism it's very hard to beat, even the car is sexy! My 2nd favourite Bond film. 10/10 "},{"Title":"one of the TOP 3 roger moore bond films","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is considered by most bond fans to be the film where roger moore comes into his own; gives the character his own personal style. 'spy' is the quintessential bond film, the leading lady is smart and sexy, the villain is an evil mastermind, and jaws is by far the best evil henchman of the entire series. bond also visits some of the most exotic locals of the series, spanning from the deserts of Egypt to the shores of the mediterranean, there is enough globe trotting in this film to keep any fan happy. along with 'for your eyes only' and 'octopussy', 'the spy who loved me' is one of roger moore's best outings as agent 007. "},{"Title":"Everything that a Bond Film should have","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film has everything that a good Bond film should have, as well as my favourite James Bond ever, Roger Moore. Bond films are about suspension of reality, stunning stunts, massive explosions, numerous exotic locations, impossible gadgets/vehicles, and wise cracks when most sane people would be panicking. The Spy who loves me has all these, and is superb fun entertainment from start to finish. Richard Kiel is an excellent steel toothed killer/thug/assassin with a slight hint of vampire tendencies, probably the toughest tough guy James Bond ever faced. The octopus like Atlantis is truly awesome as is the massive submarine swallowing tanker. The bad guy could perhaps have been a tad more evil, and of course there are the normal unrealities, the things that make you say that could never happen!, or why doesn't the bad guy just kill the good guys ? etc etc. But this is normal with Bond films, and part of the fun, if you want a spy adventure that could really happen then you don't normally watch a Bond film. I highly recommend this film as good fun entertainment with a large dose of humour. "},{"Title":"The Spy Who Loved Me 1977","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" TSWLM was Roger Moore's 3rd Bond film and boy did it deliver. Along with Goldfinger (1963) and Thunderball (1965) this ranks as one of the best Bond films to date.Although there is some comedy in the film like the character Jaws and over the top locations like Stromberg's sea structure it does boost a complex storyline and strong characters.Most striking of course of the scenes in Sardinia and Switzerland. This film did not have a SPECTRE member in it but did have a memorable villain Carl Stromberg who was excellently played by Curt Jergins.As usual M, Q, Gogol and Miss Moneypenny are all present. Watch out and listen to M and Gogol call each other by their Christian names (Miles and Alexis respectively)) when they are in Q's pyramid laboratory.TSWLM ranks up there as one of the best Bond films ever made! This with Octopussy (1983) and For your Eyes Only (1981) makes this the most successful 3 Bond films that Roger Moore did.Overall Grade - A "}{"Title":"My Favorite Moore Bond","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bond returns to what made Bond great and Moore finally fits the character. This was a watershed film for Moore's Bond. Prior to this one, he seemed awkward in the role, not the suave super spy Connery made. After this one, the character degenerated into something of a farce, poking fun at the genre while cracking bad one-liners with every bad guy knocked off.The friction between the two competing spies (Bond and Russian super spy Triple X) is genuinely sexy and engaging. Of all the Bond babes, I've always felt Moore had the best chemistry here.The bad guy is good too. Reminiscent of Thunderball, he is out to conquer the world with nuclear bombs so he can start his own civilization under the sea. After the risible Live & Let Die, it's good to see that hardcore megalomaniacs are still able to be found.If you're new to Bond, I highly recommend you start here. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best James Bond Films Starring Roger Moore","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although Live And Let Die (Roger Moore's first Bond film) was a good 007 movie, The Spy Who Loved Me is superior to it in many ways. The acting, the plot and the action sequences in this classic Bond film are all excellent and Curt Jurgens plays a wicked Bond villain. However, it is Curt Jurgens' henchman Jaws (aka Richard Kiel) that really steals the show. In addition The Spy Who Loved Me has one of the best Bond theme songs ever song extremely well by Carly Simon. If you are a James Bond fan or if your a fan of action movies, I highly suggest that you see this epic film! "},{"Title":"Undeniably Moore's best Bond film (SPOILERS)","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's an old saying that states that third time's a charm and in the case of the James Bond series, this saying rings especially true. There's a consensus that Sean Connery's best Bond film is Goldfinger, while Pierce Brosnan's is The World Is Not Enough (even though I personally don't agree with this assessment). The same can be said of Roger Moore's third 007 epic, The Spy Who Loved Me. Featuring an excellent script, top-notch performances and some of the best action scenes to ever come out of the series, the film consistently places in critics' lists of the top five Bond films ever made. While the movie eventually became a critical and commercial success, the road leading to this praise was very difficult. After the failure of The Man With The Golden Gun, producer Albert R. Broccoli was determined to bring the series back from the dead. It took about two years to get a script ready and to secure financing, but Broccoli managed to put together something he hoped would be a success. With the tenth Bond outing, he wanted to create a spectacle unlike any of the previous nine films. To that end, Broccoli recruited You Only Live Twice director Lewis Gilbert, series regular Ken Adam as the production designer, and screenwriters Christopher Wood and Richard Maibaum in the hope of producing the biggest and best Bond of them all. The plot of the film centers on a mad shipping magnate, Karl Stromberg (played by Curt Jurgens), who uses a huge tanker to kidnap British and Russian submarines. Stromberg's plan is to launch the nuclear warheads found on board the subs at Washington and Moscow, sparking a World War that would eventually destroy all of humanity. While war is waging above sea level, Stromberg plans to live underwater in his enormous HQ, appropriately named Atlantis. After the dust had settled, all that would remain is Stromberg's only true love, the undersea empire he had created. If all of this sounds strangely familiar, it is because the movie is drawing on You Only Live Twice for inspiration. A lot of elements are similar in both films (right down to one vehicle swallowing another) and this should come to no surprise because a lot of the crew in both films, as in all the Bond films, is the same. These resemblances are not necessarily a drawback as long as the film itself is enjoyable and TSWLM delivers in that regard. Right from the opening moments (where Bond infamously skis off a sheer cliff face), the film is almost declaring itself as a spectacle of massive scale. From then on, the film becomes pure entertainment and contains more extravagant action sequences than all of the previous films combined. Credit must be given to Lewis Gilbert for managing to fit everything into a two-hour period. The pacing of the movie is absolutely perfect and there are no slow spots to speak of, with the plot unfolding naturally. Gilbert also balances the comedic aspects of the film well; because it's a Roger Moore film, there are a couple cringe worthy gags, but they're not as prevalent and lame as they were in the previous effort. Aside from direction, other technical aspects are also of note. Marvin Hamlisch, temporarily replacing series regular John Barry as the film's composer, creates a fine score that perfectly captures the mood of every scene and adds a 1970's flavour to it. Carly Simon's ballad Nobody Does It Better is a recognizable classic that goes together flawlessly with one of Maurice Binder's best main title sequences. Ken Adam's set design is awe-inspiring, on par with some of his earlier Bond efforts. Finally, Claude Renoir's cinematography is lush and clear while the film's special effects are amazingly lifelike. Richard Maibaum and Christopher Wood produce a screenplay that, while not brilliant, moves briskly and disregards complicated plotting in favour of a simple escalation in events. What the script excels in is dialogue and nearly everyone gets to say something witty at one point or another, with a lot of the good lines going to Stromberg. Jurgens' delivery of the dialogue is spot on and while the actor fails to make any real impression, one at least comes to dread him; Stromberg's fierce determination and unwillingness to negotiate makes him an imposing presence, even though his plot is highly implausible and the character is otherwise fairly bland.Most critics recognize the real villain of the film as being Jaws, played by 7'2 Richard Kiel. Next to Oddjob, Jaws is probably the most iconic henchman in the whole series. While slightly unbelievable, the confrontations between him and Bond are entertaining and Kiel plays the role with the right mix of menace and lightheartedness. On the side of righteous, Roger Moore finally finds his feet and delivers his best performance as James Bond. After testing his limitations as an actor in his previous two efforts, Moore nails the character down and makes him his own. The same cannot be said of the leading lady, Barbara Bach, who plays Soviet Agent Anya Amasova. While the character is more independent than most of the previous Bond girls, Bach is unable to infuse the character with much personality. After a batch of mixed successes, Cubby Broccoli finally managed to revive the ailing Bond franchise with the best film since On Her Majesty's Secret Service. TSWLM is a classic film in every sense of the word and, being one of the first Bond films I saw, it possesses a certain nostalgia factor for me and I remember watching it a countless number of times. It used to be my favourite Bond film (it is now #3), but I still hold it in high regard and appreciate how Broccoli pulled out all the stops to make the film a hit. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the Best (Or the one with the oil tanker!)","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everything about this instalment is impressive, the huge oil tanker interior set, the special effects, the locations, the beautiful Barbara Bach (with looks like that we will overlook some of her slightly dodgier acting moments here!) and of course the pulse rousing Bond 77 music!!Then there is the eye-popping opening ski parachute jump &#150; it's a pity these days this would have been bodged together with poor CGI.Only the Bond films could possibly get permission to film inside the docks of a real nuclear submarine base in the height of the cold war - now that is cool! Worth watching out for here was the first appearance of Robert Brown as Admiral Hargreaves, he would later go on to become the second M in later instalments.  Also returning to the series is Walter Gotell as General Gogol.Yes there are a few hammy moments and some of the one to one scenes between Bond and Anya are cringingly badly scripted and more hammy than a pork chop but if you can overlook these minor faults then this is most definitely one of the best of Moore's instalments.  "},{"Title":"The Goldfinger of the Moore Bonds","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although I don't agree with them, I can see why many people regard this as the best of the Moore Bonds. It sticks to 'the formula' established by Goldfinger but does so in the most satisfying way of all the Moore Bond films. XXX (not Vin Disel!), while more serious than Pussy Galore is a good foil/partner for Bond. Jaws (wonderfully rendered in the Nintendo 64 classic, Goldeneye) is a great henchman in the tradition of Oddjob. And the underwater car made for a great update on the Aston Martin made famous in Goldfinger. Although Stromberg isn't quite as intriguing as Auric Goldfinger, it's difficult to compare them because the tone Lewis Gilbert is aiming for is different from the one Guy Hamilton's film. The skiing stunt is also one of the best ever in the series. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"*Stuntman to Lewis Gilbert* You want me to do WHAT?!!","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After a few lacklustre 007 adventures, to paraphrase the lyrics from the theme song, we weren't looking but somehow he found us and a good job too because this is the best Bond in ages and the best of Moore's epoch spanning stint in the role.From the shamelessly jingoistic opener which sees Bond ski over a cliff with a union jack parachute, and probably the best stunt of the entire series its all go with Bond forced to collaborate with his Ruskie counterpart to investigate the dissapearance of some neclear submarines. The plot is the same as always with Carl Jurgens as chief bastard Stromberg who although lacking in personality can at least boast an aquatic base and a ship capable of swallowing subs which means a welcome return to the enormous sets of old that always get destroyed at the end. Surely they can't all be rigged to explode if a small fire starts somewhere? Steve McQueen would shake his head in disguist and demand proper anti-fire protection be installed.If Stromberg is thrift when it comes to safety he at least doesn't stop short of spending the money on proper hencemen. Enter Jaws, 7ft of muscle and metal teeth. What he lacks in brains he makes up for in destructive potential and provides much enjoyment particularly in the scenes in which he gets to chew more than just scenery. The look on Moore's face is worth 20 puns. TSWLM has plenty of those however, and balances big sets, gadgets and humour with a great deal more fun and verve than previous Moore outings.I don't know about nobody doing it better but this was the best entry of the 70's and provided the fun of old backed up by an appropriate budget and plenty of tounge in cheek humour. A spike on the flatline of Moore's Bonds. "},{"Title":"Big splash","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A complete departure from Fleming's source novel, but none the worse for it, The Spy Who Loved Me is a return to combating conventional megalomania after the peculiar cockfight of The Man With The Golden Gun. It even has the old Cold War thematics reinserted, if with a twist. It's often held up as one of the best, although I think the lows cleave as far as the highs.It's also a rather modern Bond, a film released on the cusp of the 1980s rather than in the middle of the 1970s. This film successfully rides the new event-cinema wave, coming in after (and referencing) Jaws and managing the same epic spectacle as Star Wars. The grand gestures of the pre-title opening stunt and first-half locations in wide shot are met with the best battle set piece (in the Liparus) since You Only Live Twice. This latter scene also boasts some above average acting from British extras and the only truly good acting of the film from Shane Rimmer (Commander Carter of the third submarine).Alas, the bulk of the playing from the rest of the cast is outsize - entertaining but arch. Barbara Bach, a poor actor, is not even this, though of course her remit is not exclusively characterisation. Moore is required to make more of Bond than usual as the script hints at not only his deceased wife but also the central issue of his having killed an opposite number. This he accomplishes, although he looks relieved to be able to get back to grinning.The film is sprinkled with plot holes and odd editing (not to mention wooden choreography). But with the beautiful Hotel Receptionist (Valerie Leon) and Stromberg's Naomi (Caroline Munro), both 'acting' Bach out of frame, some daring scoring decisions featuring both classical and synthesized music, and the introduction of the greatest henchman of them all, Jaws (who, in his final shot recreates the final shot of his namesake) there's plenty to chew on, however indigestible. 5/10 "},{"Title":"This is the best 007 movie i've ever seen so far and Moore's best!","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a James Bond fan for almost all of my life. I've seen all 007 movies, from Sean Connery in Dr. No to Pierce Brosnan in Die Another Day. To me, this is the best 007 movie i've ever seen and to me Moore is the best bond of all. This movie has it all on an 007 movie. It has the best henchman of all the bond movies which is Jaws. Their are a lot of good scenes in this movie like the car chase scene and his can turning to a submarine and going out from the waters to the beach. Also, the last scene was the best part because it has the best action scene where Bond found the ship who takes submarines. Also what i like best is the last scene is where he went in a big robot octupuss-like lair. The funniest scene though is when Jaws ate and killed the shark..   "},{"Title":"A classic, and arguably the only good Bond Movie Roger Moore did.","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After missing the target big time with the first two Bond/Moore movies, the Bond team did a great job with the Spy Who Loved Me. Despite the fact that this movie is basically a remake of You Only Live Twice, it was VERY good. Entertaining from beginning to end, from the unforgettable opening scene to the classic ending in the sea with the girl. I am a fanatic of the Bond movies and novels, and to me, this is one of the best. I don´t like the campy style Moore gave to the Bond Character, but in this movie he was perfect. Too bad the producers / writers / directors never did the same again with Moore. If you like Bond Movies, don´t miss this one, a truly classic. I gave it 9/10. "},{"Title":"Moore's best. . .","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has one of the best henchmen of all time in Richard  Kiel's Jaws. Great. A bit campy at times, this movie is still darn good. Women, cars, gadgets, it has it all. First rate! 8/10. "}{"Title":"My favorite movie by far!! Awesome!!","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved the movie! Great characters, great Bond girl, great Bond car, great villains, GREAT EVERYTHING!!! AWESOME MOVIE!!! My favorite was the Bond girl. She was pretty, and could really kick butt!! I truly recommend that anyone see this movie!! It is the best Bond movie in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Solid Fun","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best, and at the same time most underrated Moore Bonds. It's got just about every trademark going for a classic Bond yarn, and they're all ranking in at least the top third of valuations. A top notch villain in Curd Juergens - one of the VERY few able to emanate menace from a comfortable chair. A setting bound to leave indelible images - the Villain's (under-)water station alone makes this movie rank right up there with Blofeld's hollow volcano from YOLT. The introduction of the most memorable piece of 'muscle' during the entire Moore era Jaws.... and the most evenly well written script since 'Thunderball'. This was Moore's TRUE entry into the world of Bond. As good as Live & Let Die was, TSWLM was the first decent follow-up to Goldfinger. Moore was now firmly settled into his own definition of Bond. It's of no use to compare him to Connery..., or you'll loose half the fun. Welcome to the 70's. This is the movie to carry them off with ease.Schogger13 "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best Bond film ever!","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Magnificent sets! Great action! The best opening action scene in any Bond film to date. Great humor. The best henchmen (JAWS). Barbara Bach as XXX! She's the REAL XXX! What a beautiful woman! Vin Diesel eat your bald headed heart out! Roger was on the money! The Lotus spy car was awesome! This movie has it all! 5 stars out of 5!!!!! ***** "},{"Title":"You'll love this movie!","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I sat down to watch this movie, I didn't think it could have given Goldeneye a challenge for best Bond film(So far, at least I've only seen five). But by the end, I loved it. It ran so smoothly and had great sequences, a good theme song, and another classic Q scene. It had perfect villains such as Karl Stromberg and the unforgettable Jaws. I give a lot of credit to Richard Kiel for his spectacular performance as Jaws. Not only did he do a good job, but I became a little more accustomed to Roger Moore. I enjoyed Live and Let Die(The first Moore film I saw), but after two Brosnan films, I slightly questioned his role as Bond. But it was great in this one.The story is about two submarines that mysteriously disappear. James Bond of MI6 and KGB agent Anya Amasova are both sent on a mission to locate them by acquiring a special microfilm. The interaction between these two characters is very funny and is one of Bond's best relationships. From Egypt to the Atlantic Ocean, the film keeps you excited and entertained with well done scenes, including Bond's car battle with Stromberg's henchmen. And the scene on the Luparis is awesome, with a lot of action that will keep you on the edge of your seat. The Spy Who Loved Me also has a great ending scene, but I can't say what it is! You'll have to find out for yourself.So if you're looking for a Bond movie that's fun to watch, or if you just want a great show, get this movie. I'm not sure whether it's better than Goldeneye, but it's too good to be true. Out of five stars, I give it four.   "},{"Title":"Nobody does it better ...","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me (1977) was the third appearance of Roger Moore as James Bond and at least a bit of a return to the old 007 glory of the sixties. The trashy Diamonds Are Forever (1971) with Sean Connery and Moore's previous 007 movies Live And Let Die (1973) and The Man With The Golden Gun (1974) left the formula of cold war paranoia, political conflicts and spies who came from the cold and turned their plots to more current topics like drug dealing, martial arts action, blaxploitation, rock music and seventies fashion to attract a younger audience.In TSWLM (the short version of the film title) Moore's Bond returned to fight the post-Blofeld super villain Stromberg who dreams about a superior human race ruling future life from the grounds of the oceans. Together with the Soviet agent Anja, it is Bond's turn to fight the mad scientist with an anglo-soviet power force which leads our couple to the Austrian Alps, Sardinia, Egypt and the Mediterranean Sea.As usual, the cast is superb with Germany's grand actor Curd Jurgens as Stromberg, seventies model star and Ringo-Starr-wife Barbara Bach as Anja, and finally Richard Kiel in his first appearance as super killer Jaws - the giant henchman with teeth made of pure steel. He appeared again in the the next part of the series, Moonraker (1979).Apart from the supervillain- and cold-war-influenced plot, TSWLM continues the way of his predecessors to lead the Bond series into a high-tech-Disneyland with plenty of gadgets, weapons and vehicles like Bond's submarine-proof Lotus sports car. The family-friendly story also includes many typical jokes and slapstick of the Moore-Bond era and led to a Bond-in-space-overkill in the Star-wars-rip-off Moonraker (1979)before returning to a more serious plot with For Your Eyes Only (1981).The title theme Nobody Dos It better was sung by Carly Simon this time, and the rather funk-influenced score was composed by Marvin Hamlish (A Chorus Line) as John Barry was busy with his score for The Deep at that time. All in all, despite too many high-tech and comedy elements, TSWLM is a classic Bond adventure and one of the most famous parts of the series.  "},{"Title":"The Best Bond Film","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In my opinion this is the best bond film. Unlike his earlier two bond films, Roger Moore appears to be more relaxed in the role of James Bond in this film and the script is beautifully written so that the humour of Roger is for once a positive rather than a negative aspect of the film.However, this film stands out not only because of the humour but also because of some magnificent stunts and action sequences as well as some brilliant sets designed by veteran bond designer Ken Adam.It should also be mentioned that this film contains what is perhaps the most memorable villain to have ever featured in a James Bond film, Jaws.One of the most enduring images of this film is Bond's car, the Lotus Espirit. This vehicle is very special as it is effective not only on land but also underwater.The Spy Who Loved Me is the perfect James Bond film because it contains all the right ingredients that are necessary to make an excellent James Bond film. These are great action sequences, outrageous gadgets, over the top villains, very impressive sets, an excellent cast who gave great performances as well as a production team that was clearly dedicated to making a film that was much better than average.      "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the most entertaining movies ever made.  I am a Bond fan, but even outside of the series, this movie stands alone as a masterpiece.  The Spy Who Loved Me is nonstop fun from beginning to end.  The makers found the perfect balance between humor, action, and suspense.The Spy Who Loved Me follows Britain's best secret agent as he tries to find the source of a submarine-tracking system that is on the market and discover why British and Soviet subs are disappearing.  The culprit turns out to be reclusive shipping magnate Stromberg (Curt Jurgens) who has his own plan for world destruction.  Richard Kiel plays his steel-toothed assassin, Jaws, a hardy adversary for Bond.After two shaky Bond movies (Live and Let Die and The Man with the Golden Gun), Roger Moore finally found himself in the role of 007.  He has some rather serious scenes and his acting is very believable.Barbara Bach is a great heroine as the beautiful but deadly KGB agent, XXX. She proves to be Bond's equal, matching Bond blow-for-blow as they both try to get to the bottom of Stromberg's plan.In the same vein as Goldfinger, this movie is big in every sense of the word - lots of gorgeous women, terrific action sequences, a great musical score, memorable locales, and legendary set pieces, not to mention the opening stunt that caps off the series' best teaser ever.  The plot is also lavish, but doesn't get stupid and cheesy as in this movie's follow-up, Moonraker.Worth seeing many times!  "},{"Title":"It was ok, I must have missed something","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm actually a fan of Bond movies and I thought this one was decent, but there were several I enjoyed more and I really don't understand all the overwhelming positive reviews. It started with one of the most impressive stunts I've ever seen, but for the most part the effects were laughably bad and I'm usually very forgiving about such things. If just doesn't work in Bond films where the action is so important and there isn't room for totally fake f/x. Also, what in the heck was with that Egyptian scene with that wacky movie in the desert? Bach is of course good looking, but pretty wooden, I like Moore more than most people and Kiel as Jaws provides a nice baddie. All in all decent, but I must see things opposite most fans since I liked Moonraker better which didn't try to be more than what it was- a very fun movie.  "},{"Title":"A return to form","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's 1977 and The Spy who loved me sees 007 return back to form in this his 10th adventure. After the rather disappointing The Man with the golden gun in 1974, EON productions knew they had to come out with a bigger and better film to keep Bond alive and take him into the 80's. After Harry Saltzman's departure as co producer of the series this daunting task was left to Albert R. Broccoli, and what a success he made of it. But how? Firstly he changed his team. A new writer was called in ( Christopher Wood) to work with Richard Maibaum on the story. Lewis Gilbert ( of You Only Live Twice fame) replaced Guy Hamilton as director and the film's music score was provided by Oscar winner Marvin Hamlisch (John Barry was unavailable). Secondly the film concentrated it's action and set pieces on what had been most successful before. A brilliant ski chase (reminiscent of OHMSS) sets the action up, culminating an one of the best stunts ever. A Blofeld type villain called Stromberg and his henchman Jaws. A brilliant car chase along the cliffs of Sardinia in another great Bond car - the lotus esprit, and of course the climax in a big budget supertanker set. The film was boosted with a 13 million budget, twice that of the last Bond film. Lastly, the performance of Roger Moore. In his first two films Moore did surprisingly well taking over from Sean Connery, but with Spy he found his feet. This is his best film. He looks, walks, talks and acts like Bond and his timing in the quips is near perfect.He also appears to have good chemistry with his co star, Barbara Bach. If Roger had done only one Bond film and this was it he probably would be just as popular.All in all an excellent 007 film which is one of the better efforts and certainly Roger Moore's best. It's a 007 film which has it all - great story, over the top villains, a brilliant car chase, the best pre-credit sequence and a brilliant supertanker set. All this with Marvin Hamlisch's disco inspired Bond 77 music and Nobody does it better title song what more could one ask for?  "},{"Title":"Moore gets better and better","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the simply horrendous Live and Let Die and the enjoyable but campy The Man With the Golden Gun, Roger Moore's reign was not going well.  After a host of legal wranglings (that pesky Kevin McClory, for one), and the loss of co-producer Harry Saltzman to bankruptcy, the Bond franchise, now helmed solely by Albert R. Cubby Broccoli, had something to prove.One of the things that director Lewis Gilbert set out to prove was that the Bond films are not unrelentingly misogynistic and sexist.  So, they wrote this character called Anya Amasova, agent XXX of the KGB, and attempted to make her Bond's equal.  Well, friends and neighbors, she isn't.  And the fact that Gilbert suggests that Women's Libbers should be proud of Anya is the clearest example of Bond's rampant sexism that I've ever seen. So, given that Bond and the Bond franchise are, in fact, sexist and misogynistic, let's move on.  The Spy Who Loved Me was the first Bond film not based on one of Ian Fleming's novels (only the title was used).  It does stick very close to the formula, however.  In Bond's tenth outing, it becomes harder and harder to smile and overlook the massive redundancies from film to film.  However, this film puts it over with such style and grace, and with relatively little cheesiness, that it suckers us in once again.The MacGuffin, this time out, is a nuclear submarine tracking system that allows the villain, Mr. Carl Stromberg, to locate and capture British, Russian, and American nuclear subs.  Gilbert admits that this is awfully similar to his previous Bond film, You Only Live Twice, where Blofeld is capturing satellites, but notes that no one seems to mind.  He's right.  We don't.  The search for the info on the tracking system takes Bond to Egypt, where he meets Amasova, who's pursueing the same mission for the Russians.  The two governments soon decide to join forces, and Bond and Amasova are working together.  The one point of supreme cheesiness in this film is, of course, Jaws.  He is a corny villainous henchman in the tradition of Odd Job.  He's really not too bad, though.  Not nearly as bad as he will be in Moonraker.  But that's another story, for another day.  The major strength of the film is the relationship between Bond and Amasova.  Bond, in the pre-title sequence, kills Amasova's lover.  This creates a tremendous tension between Amasova and Bond when she finally discovers this, and lends a great deal of gravitas to Bond's decision to risk his life to save Amasova, despite the fact that she's vowed to kill him.  Of course, it pushes her well above Goldfiniger's Pussy Galore as Bond girl least likely to sleep with Bond, making those sequences at the end utterly ridiculous.  See above, re sexism and misogyny.  All in all, a good outing for Bond and for Moore, whose performance and whose films have risen steadily since his disappointing debut.  But he has rocky waters ahead.  Despite the closing credits promising For Your Eyes Only, Bond's next adventure will take him to outer space for perennially derided Moonraker.   "}{"Title":"One of Moore's best Bond movies","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved Me has to be one of the best Roger Moore James Bond movies and I have read that it was his personal favourite. It's certainly one of mine.In this one, James Bond is sent to investigate the disappearances of two nuclear submarines and is teamed up with a lady Russian agent, who he eventually falls in love with. They are after a microfilm which details the movements of one of these subs. The investigations lead them to discover that these disappearances are the responsibility of Karl Stromberg and he then uses them to send nuclear bombs to blow up New York and Moscow but after defeating Stromberg's men on his oil tanker, Bond saves the world by reprogramming the two subs to blow each other up.The highlights of The Spy Who Loved Me include the Lotus which can go underwater, the battle scenes in the tanker and the first appearance of villain Jaws, who reappeared in the next Bond movie after this, Moonraker.Joining Roger Moore in the cast are Barbara Bach as the Russian agent, Curt Jurgens as Stromberg, Hammer Horror star Caroline Munro (Dracula AD 1972, At the Earth's Core), Shane Rimmer (Warlords of Atlantis, The People That Time Forgot), Richard Kiel as Jaws, George Baker (Inspector Wexford in the Ruth Rendell Mysteries) and Bond regulars Bernard Lee, Desmond Llewelyn and Lois Maxwell.The Spy who Loved Me is a must for all James Bond fans. Fantastic.Rating 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Moore Does It Better","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sean Connery was the original, and gave the best performances film to film. Timothy Dalton played him the way Ian Fleming wrote him, tough but recognizably human. Pierce Brosnan looked the part best.But Roger Moore, when he was on his game, gave us a James Bond better than anyone else's, delivering the right amounts of menace, humor, and charm with an eyebrow as expressive as most actors' entire faces. True, he really only had two superb outings in the seven 007 films he made, and was given to coasting when the script didn't challenge him enough, but The Spy Who Loved Me is the best example of why Moore was a personal favorite for many Bond fans, including me.The British and Russian navies have both lost nuclear submarines, and it is up to Bond to figure out how and why. Partnering, at first reluctantly, then more cozily, with Russian secret agent Triple X (Barbara Bach, deliriously beautiful), Bond figures out the disappearances are part of a plot by an ocean-dwelling madman to destroy the world and rebuild it according to his own principles.The plot really is the weak part of this film, the kind of silly doomsday story Austin Powers would have fun with, but it serves to set up a series of fantastic and engaging set pieces, beginning with an opening snowbound titles sequence that culminates in one of the most awe-inspiring stunts in the Bond corpus. The whole film plays wonderfully from scene-to-scene, with gorgeous cinematography (Egyptian pyramids lit up at night, a sun-drenched Sardinian coastline) and a slightly discofied Marvin Hamlisch score that works off classic Bond themes very well, as well as giving us one of the best theme songs, Carly Simon's Nobody Does It Better. There's also a slew of well-staged and electrifying battles, many involving a tin-toothed adversary of Bond called Jaws who Richard Kiel plays with the right balance of danger and fun.A successful balancing act of danger and fun, unusually well-calibrated, The Spy Who Loved Me may give Bond purists cause to moan the cartoony bits but delivers a film that from bow to stern is the sleekest and sturdiest entertainment vessel in the Bond fleet.Especially good is Moore, who clearly relished the chance to deliver some top-caliber quips for a change. Try the big one, he calmly urges Triple X when she searches for the right ignition key while Jaws crushes their van from the outside. He also gives us some depth, when in the middle of their mission, Triple X confronts him with the fact one of his victims was the man she loved. His reaction is properly serious, and tender, too. In our business, people get killed, he tells her. I know it, you know it, so did he. Bach also is very good, not only for the way she wears a gown but the way she comports herself as Bond's rival and love interest. Her telling Bond she will kill him after the successful completion of their mission is impressive not just because she is so icy but because she shows in her eyes the hurt child who keeps us sympathetic to her even as she draws a line between herself and our hero.The Spy Who Loved Me was a critical film for the Bond series, demonstrating there could be big box office returns for 007 for the first time without Sean Connery, even in the summer of Star Wars. By the way, Shane Rimmer, who plays the American submarine captain in this film and does a very good job with a usually thankless role, was the link between these two summer blockbusters as he is also seen in Star Wars putting Artoo on Luke's X-Wing before the final Death Star battle.The Spy Who Loves Me is not only a great nostalgia bath for those of us who grew up with this movie and let it feed our imaginations, it's a first-class entertainment that holds up better than any other film in the Bond series &#150; even my personal favorite For Your Eyes Only &#150; because of its spectacle, beauty both female and otherwise, and a lead actor who proved nobody did it better when given the right tools to work with. "},{"Title":"they've done it better!","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought I was a Bond fan but after seeing this I'm starting to have my doubts. Usually praised as one of the best Bond films I was very disappointed. Good pre-title sequence leading to the usual great song and titles (though they are starting to resemble more and more like a 70's porn film), then we're introduced to the Russian spy and your thinking nice twist it's a woman, then she opens her mouth, oh dear, how on earth did Barbara Bach get such a major part when she plainly can't act to save her life. I haven't seen a more wooden performance since I last saw Thunderbirds! Roger Moore seemed to have left his charm at home as some of his witty comments were more offensive than funny. The pacing of the film seemed all wrong and it felt very flat in places. It wasn't all bad 'Jaws' is a great henchman, the car/boat was ingenious and Marvin Hamlisch's score was surprisingly good. But on the whole a dog of a film. Just to add some more controversy I saw Moonraker at the end of last year and thoroughly enjoyed it from start to finish.(3/10) "},{"Title":"Another good 007 film!","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me is an action packed 007 film. Roger Moore was very good as Bond. Barbara Bach and Curd Jürgens were good and Richard Kiel was excellent as Jaws! The action especially the fight scenes are staged very well! I recommend all James Bond fans to see The Spy Who Loved Me! "},{"Title":"handicapped by the worst Bond girl ever","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Did you ever wonder how it feels to see James Bond in the company of the most undesirable girl you can imagine?Find the answer in this movie, featuring Anya aka XXX played by Barbara Goldbach. Firstly, I can't consider her pretty or adorable at all since she walks through the whole movie with a somewhat angry face, hanging mouth corners, and sunken-in eyes. Basically she looks like an angry dumb chick for the whole 2 hours.Secondly, all of her 'acting' is so incredibly wooden - she would be better qualified for a Telenovela out of South America.Lastly, her voice During the whole movie she just talks in the same monotone voice, completely emotionless and annoying.Curt Jurgens is also a huge disappointment. Essentially he's just moving his belly around and eating shrimp, until we get to witness the least spectacular boss death in history.Roger Moore has some funny moments, but not even one good fight (like the Karate in TMWTGG, or the lift cage fight in MOONRAKER).The idea of the story is actually quite fascinating, but the script is a complete failure. The writer was either mentally handicapped, or he thought the audience is (...as if submarine captains couldn't figure out target coordinates, which basically is all they work with 24/7, to mention just one idiocy).I'm just going through watching all Bond movies in chronological order via the complete Bond Edition. This is the worst Bond film I've ever seen. Mainly the constant presence of Anya makes the film nearly unwatchable. I had to force myself nearly to complete it. Gladly, I can say the next one (Moonraker) was pure bliss again! "},{"Title":"The Bad Outweighs the Good, but not by Much","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After England and Russia both lose nuclear missile equipped submarines, a microfilm detailing how they were tracked appears on the market. Britain sends James Bond (Roger Moore) to purchase it, while the Russians counter with Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach). After initially competing with each other, the two are ordered to work together to stop the real enemy, billionaire Karl Stromberg (Curd Jürgens). Stromberg desires to ruin the earth so everybody must flee to his undersea paradise. Never mind that nuclear winter would render the oceans uninhabitable.Among the Bond villains, Stromberg ranks near the bottom. He spends most of his screen time issuing orders and eating. He relies on a large navy and a few nasty henchmen to follow him blindly. He also deploys some the silliest weapons in history. One is a motorcycle with a detachable explosive side cart. The weapon travels slowly, has no homing capabilities, and can only be used once, making it the most pathetic weapon ever. He later uses an explosive table harpoon gun. When he sends a helicopter after Bond, the guns are hidden in the landing skids, making them literally impossible to aim.His favorite goon is Jaws (Richard Kiel), a seven-foot titanium-toothed giant. As I noted in my review of Goldfinger, the Bond writers had an atrocious habit of trying to recreate Oddjob, usually resulting in a hokey flop. The indestructible henchman worked once, and that was with an Olympic weightlifter. Jaws is even more invincible than Oddjob. I don't like him, but I do not blame Kiel. He performs admirably, but the part is sorely out of place. Jaws is an awfully popular character. There are some likely reasons like slamming Bond against the ceiling, walking unscathed from an exploding car, and falling out of a moving train and living. Tee-Hee died from falling out of a train. This is the territory of comic book characters. Ian Fleming did not write comics, he wrote novels.The Spy Who Loved Me probably saved the James Bond franchise. The previous two entries performed badly at the box office, and longtime co-producer Harry Saltzman was lost to bankruptcy. A three-year cinematic absence followed. Spy had to be successful. It was, grossing nearly twice the money of its predecessor and the most since Thunderball, single handedly resurrecting Agent 007 with the public.Lewis Gilbert, who had already given us the horrendous You Only Live Twice, replaced incumbent director Guy Hamilton. Instead of correcting what went wrong in the previous Bonds, Gilbert embraced them. While not as goofy as The Man with the Golden Gun, Spy remains too silly. I can take Bond quipping that an electrocution death is positively shocking, but all those feathers and he still can't fly goes too far.Never before was it more apparent that Bond is a spy and everybody knows it. In Die Another Day, Colonel Moon needs an insider to determine Bond's identity. In this film, he and Anya know each others' favorite drinks. Anya knows about his murdered wife and how he was recruited. Stromberg immediately knows who they are. When James leaves a lover in the mountains, he says that England needs him. Amasova greets Q (Desmond Llewelyn) as Major Boothroyd.After a serious performance in the terminally stupid Golden Gun, Roger Moore takes a step backwards. For the first 90 minutes, his performance is too laid back. He is given a lot more to work with, but does less with it. Time after time he is outsmarted by Anya before it finally strikes him that this girl can do more than make love to him. As Jaws is peeling a van open (!), Bond just sits inside asking if the gear shift can play any other tunes and suggesting that Anya tries reverse, that's backwards. When Anya swears to kill him at the conclusion of the mission, he simply continues as normal. Later, on, he defies orders to save her. Connery's, Dalton's and Brosnan's Bonds would either kill her or make sure through other means that she could never fulfill her threat.As Amasova, Barbara Bach is not any better. She delivers all her lines with short, unexpressive, almost hurried speech, as if it is a line glib. While she is more intelligent than some Bond girls I could name (Mary Goodnight), she does not show enough common sense to be working in the KGB, much less as their best agent. The best female character is Stromberg's pilot, Naomi, (Caroline Munro) who is smarter and prettier than Anya, at least when she is not wearing those giant sunglasses. Munro is more convincing than Bach, so it is a pity that her part was so small. Maybe Naomi should have been the main villain. Better yet, she should have written the film.Shane Rimmer appears as Captain Carter of the U.S.S. Wayne, and Sydney Tafler is the Captain of Stromberg's flagship. Both should have been given more screen time. They bring interest and charisma to the film and, better yet, Moore comes alive when he is around them. The film is at its best when the two captains are present and Anya, Stromberg and Jaws are not. I give the film a negative review, but the last half hour shines enough that it almost atones for the 90 minutes that came before.Note Even though it is rated PG, The Spy Who Loved Me has the most obvious bare breast shot in the series. "},{"Title":"One of Bond's best","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore often receives the brunt of Bond aficionados' wrath for simply following Sean Connery, however I think he stands up as James Bond very well. It should behoove any Bond fan to know, if they don't already know, of course, that Roger Moore was offered the role of the world's greatest spy before a certain Scotsman took it. Contractually bound to television's 'The Saint', Moore had no choice but to turn down the offer. Regardless, Sir Roger Moore didn't gain his knighthood for nothing; He's a fine actor as evidenced by 'The Spy Who Loved Me'. Moore brought a darker, edgier side of Bond to light in 007 films, and I think that was critical in the 1970's when shifting attitudes about the dangers of Communism made it imperative for an actor whom could be taken seriously in post-Cold War times. In actuality, Moore is probably closer to the type of man that Ian Fleming was writing about than was Sean Connery, as great as Mr Connery is. On screen in particular, Moore is very, very English in his speech, mannerisms and movements - well suited to being the world's greatest spy. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me is a fabulous Bond film. Roger Moore made his best Bond film with this 1977 release. Everything about it is great, amazing stunts, fantastic car, great Bond girls and a very good performance as 007 by Moore. Oh and this one has Jaws who gives Oddjob and Grant a run for their money as best henchman in the series. The only thing I thought was wrong with this is a slightly boring main villain and too much disco in the score, apart from that, brilliant. This breathed new life into the series, and was the best Bond film since On Her Majestys Scret Service. This is the film that made me a Bond fan way back when ITV first screened it. ***9/10*** "},{"Title":"Daffy plot, innuendo and raised eyebrows &#150; good but not everyone's idea of `Bond'","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When nuclear submarines go missing James Bond is forced to team up with this Russian counterpart Agent XXX to recover a microfilm that holds the secrets of the device that allows the subs to be easily tracked.  The trail leads them to the oceanic layer of businessman Karl Stromberg however they also have a hired assassin, Jaws, to contend with.The plot is the standard `crazy guy wants to take over the world deal'.  Here Stromberg wants to destroy the world so that the survivors will all live in his underwater paradise.  However this is sidelined for the most part by the hunt for lost microfilm &#150; allowing us to enjoy the film and forge the silly `Dr Evil' type aim.  The film allows for a lot more humour and innuendo than usual &#150; in fact the whole Moore era brings that with it.  The big let down is that darker themes aren't explored and the tension between the two leads ends in what can only be described as a wet joke.Moore is not the best Bond but he's alright.  I'm not a big fan of his spoof-like touch that he brings but he's OK.  Bach is good and brings the darker side of her character out quite well &#150; at least until the end where she just becomes another Bond girl (albeit in a very, very sexy top!)  Jürgen doesn't make a very good baddie but Kiel is so memorable that he came back in Moonraker for more.Overall this just about manages to be enjoyable but really it's closer to a spoof than a Bond film.  Better had gone before and, happily, was to come after. "},{"Title":"Overrated James Bond fare","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved Me was the first movie I saw on a big screen when I was kid back in 1977. I didn't care much for it then, and seeing it recently again, I still don't care much for it. TSWLM is a bloated James Bond film with some albeit great things going for it excellent production design, excellent theme song and some spectacular exotic locations. But that's about it. The biggest drawback in TSWLM is the terrible screenplay. The story is extremely weak and a dull villain, Karl Stromberg, who seemingly sits down throughout the movie. Here's a rundown of the film's biggest problemsSilly scenes, part 1 The intro. Where in hell is that cabin on that mountain? How did Bond get there at the cabin? If he's skying back down, how did he get up there? The mountain (this scene was shot in the Canadian Rockies) is thousands of miles high. And there's one single, solitary cabin way up there, with no road or other access to it? If the woman Bond was with worked for the spy Sergei Borzov, why didn't she try to kill Bond in the cabin? And don't get me started with that jumping off the cliff and parachute scene. Showy and ridiculous.Silly scenes, part 2 The whole part at the Pyramids doesn't make any sense. Why is Fekkesh frightened of Jaws when he sees him? How does Fekkesh know that Jaws is after him? Why does Jaws leave the address book with Fekkesh's dead body? The whole moment was simply conceived just accompany the music from the Pyramids' show.Silly scenes, part 3 At the bar, when Bond and Triple X meet. Both spies are aware that they're spies. With covers like this, who needs spy agencies? Then they proceed to get the microfilm from the owner of the bar. As the two try to outbid each other for the microfilm, the owner gets a phone call and has to go to a public phone to receive his call. Why? Shouldn't the bar owner, who didn't look poor, have his own phone? And knowing he was holding a very sought after microfilm, wouldn't he have been a bit more careful and played it a bit more safe?Silly scenes, part 4 when Stromberg kills the woman by dropping her in the shark tank, why does Stromberg even bother going through all of that theatricality when the two businessmen never leave the underwater city alive? Why doesn't Stromberg just shoot the woman and the two businessmen on the spot and dump the bodies in the sea? This would have saved us 10 minutes of our lives.Deja Vu The train scene is reminiscent of Live and Let Die and From Russia With Love.Never-ending chase scenes the chase scene near the Mediterranean sea is very long and cheesy. The motorcycle with the passenger seat/missile thingy is ludicrous. Probably the most useless, ineffective weapon ever used in an action movie it only has one missile and the missile is very slow, and the motorcyclist doesn't even stop after releasing the missile, driving along towards the soon to be exploding target. Brilliant. And when Bond goes underwater in the Lotus Esprit, Triple X is shocked and frightened. Then, at the end of the underwater chase scene, Triple X presses a button as if she really knows the car's design and tells Bond she's already seen the car's blueprints. Well, if she had already seen the car's blueprints before, why was she surprised when they went under water? She should have known the car was capable of going under water.Not a spy movie anymore After Bond and Triple X are chased by every silly villain or device imaginable (but the kitchen sink) by Stromberg, the two go back to their hotel room like nothing had happened. This scene is totally illogical. Stromberg knows that Bond and Triple X are at the hotel, the Bond girl Naomi (a hot Caroline Munro) met them there. I'm aware that spying in James Bond movies never really existed per se but this nonchalant behavior from the two by going back to their hotel room after knowing their cover has been blown wide open is silly. Very lazy writing here.Brain Dead Villain Stromberg wants to cause nuclear annihilation so that the world would start living under the oceans after the earth's surface would become unliveable. Huh? Again, this doesn't make any sense at all. A massive nuclear catastrophe would cause a nuclear winter and other ecological disasters, which would directly affect the oceans all around the globe. The oceans would start dying as soon as the circle of life chain would be affected (the polluted rain and rivers spilling into the oceans, etc).Slow going and too many endings the ending is very long. And there are multiple endings The massive shootout. The stand-off. The deactivating of the nuclear weapon. The redirecting of the nuclear missiles. Going to Stromberg. Rescuing Triple X and leaving the sinking underwater city.The score the song, Nobody Does It Better is great. No question about it. But the disco soundtrack during the enire film is dated and chintzy. John Barry is sorely missed here.Silly references the Lawrence of Arabia bits, and other such cheesy moments add little credibility to the whole proceedings.I could go on and on but I don't have to. Needless to say, TSWLM is not as good as everyone claims it to be. Moore is comfortable as Bond but the rest of the movie is hampered by a ludicrous & lazy script. It's most definitely overrated. "}{"Title":"The pinnacle of the Roger Moore era","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the dreadful The Man with the Golden Gun, this is a magnificent return to form. Prior to this film, the Bond franchise was at its lowest ebb (up to that time) since the previous film was not only an artistic failure but it one of the lowest grossing films in the series. Eon took their time in making this film. Their efforts were certainly successful. Almost every aspect of the film works perfectly and, with this film, Eon delivered their most successful film in more than a decade.While Bond has his fair share of quips and there are many very funny moments, the over the top humour - which had plagued the last three films and had dominated The Man with the Golden Gun to the point where Bond had become a parody of itself - is toned down considerably. As such, we are treated to the most serious film since On Her Majesty's Secret Service. Roger Moore is his usual charming self and he delivers the quips skillfully but this film contains his best dramatic acting as James Bond to date. He particularly stands out in the scene where Bond tells Anya that he had no choice but to kill Sergei in order to save his life. It's a very well written scene in which Bond essentially tells her to grow up and accept that their lifestyle is incredibly dangerous.After three consecutive films with very naive main Bond girls (and only one instance where that was actually appropriate to the character), the introduction of Major Anya Amasova, Bond's Russian counterpart, is a masterstroke. Barbara Bach's Russian accent is rather shaky, occasionally disappearing entirely, and the voice that she uses is a bit airy fairy for the KGB's top agent but she is generally very good in the role. Anya is very bit Bond's equal in terms of courage, intellect and determination. As such, she is the first main Bond girl who is really a match for him since Tracy (who, in a nice continuity reference, is mentioned, causing Bond to momentarily lose his cool) or maybe even Pussy Galore. While the Bond films are often seen as the ultimate Cold War thrillers, this film features MI6 and the KGB working together in order to locate their missing nuclear submarines. The depiction of British and Soviet relations (in more ways than one!) is very progressive and a great way of acknowledging the détente between the West and the USSR which existed at the time within the films' fictional universe. The underrated Curd Jürgens is wonderful as Karl Stromberg, probably the best villain since Goldfinger. He plays Stromberg with the requisite style, charisma and panache but never goes over the top. I'm surprised that so little is made of the character's webbed fingers though. It's never mentioned in dialogue and I didn't even notice them until the last half hour of the film. His plan to destroy the world in order to create a new civilisation under the sea is classic Bond. After being contemptuous of Bond in the last film, M - Bernard Lee in his penultimate appearance in the role - is more pleasant towards his top agent on this occasion, even saying Well done and, even more unusually, addressing him as James. Lois Maxwell is as good as ever as Miss Moneypenny but, as in the first two Roger Moore films, there is little of the expected banter with Bond. Desmond Llewelyn has more screen time than in the previous film but, as with Moneypenny, there is relatively little of the usual Bond-Q interplay. Neither Moneypenny nor Q have fared as well in the Moore era as in the Sean Connery one, I'm afraid. The film probably has the best supporting cast of any Bond film so far with Geoffrey Keen, Walter Gotell, George Baker (who, as in On Her Majesty's Secret Service, has far too little to do), Edward de Souza, Shane Rimmer, Cyril Shaps, Vernon Dobtcheff, Nadim Sawalha, Michael Billington (who was considered Roger Moore's heir presumptive for much of the 1970s and early 1980s) and Robert Brown, Bernard Lee's eventual successor as M. Most of these actors only have one or two scenes but are extremely impressive in their small roles, which help the film come alive. Out of the film's female contingent, Caroline Munro as Naomi stood out the most for me. Leaving aside her obvious attractiveness, she's a very good actress and it's a shame that she never had the chance to play the main Bond girl in a film. Naomi is also notable as being the first woman in the films whom Bond directly kills. The film is also memorable for introducing Richard Kiel as Jaws, easily the most iconic character introduced during the Roger Moore era. He's the scariest henchman so far for, well, fairly obvious reasons! Kiel is very effective as the menacing giant, which isn't too surprising as he had playing these sorts of roles for about 15 years at this point. The Liparus set is Ken Adam's best since Blofeld's volcano lair in You Only Live Twice and the film ups the ante in terms of spectacle. In terms of location work, we are also treated to the best to date with a fantastic opening sequence in the Austrian Alps and several wonderfully shot, beautiful scenes in Egypt. The theme song is titled Nobody Does It Better and it's hard to disagree with that. Lewis Gilbert's non-Bond career is mostly defined by films like Educating Rita and Shirley Valentine. On this occasion, he demonstrated that he could handle spectacle just as well as he could handle character work.Overall, this is a brilliant film which restored my faith in the Bond franchise after its disastrous predecessor. This is second only to Goldfinger as my favourite Bond film so far. "},{"Title":"Bond Month #10 Roger Moore's Top Form","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well after the supposed killing of the franchise, now solo producer Albert R. Broccoli decided to pull out all the stops to make this the biggest and the best Bond of them all. Did it work? Well, sort of. The Spy Who Loved Me is a very good Bond film, but not one that i would place in my top Bonds (at the end of the series I will compile a list on my profile page.) let's dive into The Spy Who Loved Me (no pun intended) Well another megalomaniac is loose in the world of James Bond and is seeking to destroy the Earth and create Atlantis! Well wait that is done with his lair but create an underwater city! He does this by hijacking a British, American, and Russian submarine, which is bad for tensions on Both sides. It doesn't help James' case when he is paired up with his KGB equal Agent Anya (Agent XXX get it) and both at first are rivals. But both fall in love until she finds out that he actually (albiet unknowingly) killed her lover in the pre-credits sequence, causing her to kill him before the mission is over.Well, we're back to the sort of espionage formula mixture that is a Bond film, and for the most part it works. Roger Moore is in top form as Bond, giving a sense of droll but somehow fun sense of humor that seemed to have been lacking in Sean Connery's performances. Barbara Bach is good as Anya and carries the movie well considering she didn't really act much elsewhere. Curt Jurgens is okay as Stromberg, but somehow falls victim to the clichés that come with such a role.Then there's Jaws. JAWS IS AWESOME. Richard Kiel makes Jaws one of the best villains in Bondom, and the most intimidating since Oddjob. I love Jaws and it's sad to see him get reduced to comedy in the next film, but I'll talk about that later.The action is good. And it's interesting that we're back underwater since Thunderball. Wet Nellie is the next great Bond car and makes for some great chase both on and off land.So yeah this movie is good. But the reason why I give it marks down is because I feel that is is a little too long, especially in the final act, because the shootout goes for like 10 minutes without real progress. The acting and story can get a little slow, but at least it moves.Now onto Bond, IN SPACE.... "},{"Title":"One of Roger's best","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of people didn't care for Roger Moore's portrayal as 007. I really did. I thought he was hilarious. His fight sequences were no where near as believable as Connerys were but I felt he portrayed Bond with a bit more elegance and class. Aside from the deplorable The Man With the Golden Gun, and the overly comical Moonraker, I found his other five films to be highly entertaining. Even Connery had his poor outings with Diamonds are Forever and Never Say Never Again. The Spy Who Loved me is an excellent James Bond film. To me it feels like the first in the series to resemble a modern day action movie. It doesn't have the yucky grainy 16mm look like the previous Bond films from the 70s. The special effects are superb, the villains underwater fortress looks very realistic and 007's Lotus in my opinion is a much cooler car than the Aston Martin from Goldfinger.I also liked the Jaws character. I thought they could have done without his return in Moonraker, but they could have done without a lot of things in that one.For a fun 007 experience check this one out. Its easily one of the top five and the second best by Moore. I think Octopussy is slightly better but many will strongly disagree with that statement. "},{"Title":"Probably the best of the vintage Bond movies","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There were two important aspects of the film that I liked.There was the evil Jaws played by Richard Kiel. Definitely, the character was based on the character of the same name of that big blockbuster directed by Spielberg in the original Jaws, released in 1975. But Jaws in The Spy Who Loved Me was, just like the great white shark that terrorized the beach town of Amity, was definitely a monster. I thought that Andre the Giant played the role but I was wrong. Andre would have been better.And that gigantic ship called Liparus. As I realized, it looks like an oil tanker ship, but it was retro-fitted to be the nuclear missile submarine tracking system with a very big addition...the addition is that the Liparus could fit two submarines inside. The submarines themselves would be retro-fitted with enemy nuclear missiles.The way that Liparus exactly worked was not known until near the climax of the movie; Polaris uses a powerful tractor beam that uses some minimal electromagnetic pulse to knock out the main hydraulic power to the submarine that was within range of the Polaris' beam. (This is something partially out of the Death Star's tractor beam in Episode IV of Star Wars.) Once that submarine was a sitting duck by Polaris's beam, the submarine is then loaded onto the Polaris. So much is regretted when Triple XXX and James Bond was in one of the submarines that was entrapped by the LiparusIn addition to Jaws and Liparus, the house that can be fit for a mermaid or sea queen---called Atlantis---was shocking enough. This house on water was owned by James Bond's arch-enemy, Carl Stromberg. Jacques Cousteau would have loved that place. I forgot to mention that there is a very good chase scene that is slightly better than the boat chase scene in Live and Let Die, where Bond and XXX in a Lambergini gets confronted by a armed motorcyclist, and then another car with still another assassin, and then, an attack helicopter. Then, as the Lambergini goes into the water and changes into what I call a car-submarine, I see more of the Bond gadgets like the heat-seeking surface-to-air missile and the depth-charge mine. "},{"Title":"Bond number 10 20000 Under the Sea meets James Bond, with a touch of the absurd and the violent","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A Soviet and British nuclear submarine disappear. Megalomanic villain Stromberg (Jurgens) wants to wipe out the human race to repopulate the oceans, and so it is down to Bond (on the British side) and Amasova (on the Russian) side to take him down. To complicate matters further, KGB agent Amasova has a personal vendetta against Bond.Upon release, The Spy Who Loved Me's tag-line waxed lyrical about its epic nature. For once, the hype was pretty accurate. Bond's adventure covers Sardinia, Egypt (a bizarre fight during the pyramid light-show and spectacular desert vistas), the inside of a giant tanker and the awesome sea-station Atlantis. It is also big in the ambition of its action. the opening ski chase and Union Jack parachute deployment are now deservedly the stuff of legend. The film also provides a magnificently daft car chase and introduces the practically invincible and iron-toothed character Jaws.The relationship between Roger Moore and Barbara Bach is one of the best in the Bond series, and it is nice to see Moore finally comfortable in the role. The action is indeed - to use a colossal understatement - big, and has aged very decently. Jurgens's almost reptilian villain is a nice change from the usual loud sociopaths Bond is confronted with and it is a shame that we do not see more of him. Less inspired however is the sappy title song, but such things are a matter of personal taste.The Spy Who Loved Me has the best elements of the Moore era, but interestingly also foreshadows its downfall. There is a light tongue-in-cheek mood (some one-liners and the conspicuous use of the Lawrence of Arabia theme) that would later veer into embarrassing self-parody.An above-average Bond film and an immensely fun 2 hours of cinema. "},{"Title":"The Spy Who Loved Me (1977) ***1/2","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here is Roger Moore's finest film during his twelve year tenure as James Bond, agent 007. It's easily the best Bond film of the 1970's and also stands tall as one of the biggest and most consistently entertaining of the entire Bond franchise. Maybe I'm somewhat partial, as this was my very first exposure to James Bond and I saw it in the theater when I was 15 and became a fan because of it. However, most 007 purists also believe this is one of the best and that it's got everything... plenty of beautiful women, exotic locations, extravagant studio sets, colorful villains, and a generous helping of gadgets and gizmos, including a car that turns into a submarine when underwater.Beginning with Roger Moore, he is quite comfortably settled into the part of Bond and now has made it his own. In a reworked plot that is similar to but greatly improved upon from the weaker YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE, Bond must investigate what has happened to submarines that have been swallowed up by a gigantic tanker. To assist him in his mission he is teamed up with a female beauty (Barbara Bach) who herself is a Russian agent named Triple X (and appropriately so). Without giving anything important away, let's just say they share another common link which is quite intriguing as well. Together they encounter the latest megalomaniac, Karl Stromberg (Curt Jurgens) who intends on using the submarines' nuclear weapons to destroy the ravaged world above the sea and thus create a new Atlantis underneath. It's a completely outlandish comic book style adventure, but by now these were the order of the day for the James Bond series and this is at the top of the heap. The story is typically involved for a Bond film, but mercifully not hard to follow. And the film begins with the most breathtaking ski stunt in the series, a freefall off a mountain that was captured in one nerve shattering take!Perhaps the biggest scene stealer of all could be the hugely popular character of Jaws (Richard Kiel) who is one of Stromberg's overpowering henchmen, standing well over seven foot tall and sporting a customized set of razor-sharp steel teeth with which to dispatch his targets. He consistently encounters Bond and agent Triple X and provides both excitement as well as perfectly-placed comical relief as he tries time and time again in vain to put an end to their meddling.Barbara Bach has to be considered one of the most beautiful women to ever grace a James Bond film. She's sometimes been accused of being too wooden or underacting in her part, but I think that suits the demeanor of her professional character perfectly. In a few years she would become Mrs. Ringo Starr. Curt Jurgens is the quintessential madman seeking world dominance. In a more perfect Bond world he might have been the perfect choice to play James Bond's most enduring enemy, Blofeld.A special nod to the rousing score by Marvin Hamlisch, and Carly Simon sings the excellent award winning hit theme song Nobody Does It Better, which could arguably be considered the greatest of all the James Bond tunes. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"one of the TOP 3 roger moore bond films","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is considered by most bond fans to be the film where roger moore comes into his own; gives the character his own personal style. 'spy' is the quintessential bond film, the leading lady is smart and sexy, the villain is an evil mastermind, and jaws is by far the best evil henchman of the entire series. bond also visits some of the most exotic locals of the series, spanning from the deserts of Egypt to the shores of the mediterranean, there is enough globe trotting in this film to keep any fan happy. along with 'for your eyes only' and 'octopussy', 'the spy who loved me' is one of roger moore's best outings as agent 007. "},{"Title":"Third times a charm (for Moore)","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Three years was worth the wait. Not since the 007 film franchise began in 1962, had no more than 1 year passed between films. But after Roger Moore's second outing as 007 (i.e. The Man With The Golden Gun - 1974) the producers (Broccoli & Saltzman aka Eon Productions) were very patient, waiting until 1977 for the next film, and in that time, the franchise set designs were retooled with the building of a super new UK soundstage (largest in the world; today used for Harry Potter films too)For Moore's third 007 film, CHRISTOPHER WOOD wrote the screenplay which pays homage to the missing space capsules of You Only Live Twice. It was a late-Seventies take on missing nuclear submarines, and a lady Soviet spy working with a male British spy. Wood utilized Ian Fleming's 1960s book title The Spy Who Loved Me because Fleming, an astute novelist who understood movies, got an agreement from Eon (who bought all his book title rights) that if they ever do a film with that title, it must be a different storyline. Something better.That's what we got. In the pop culture epochal summer of 1977, the wait was over, and 007 was back in action! The Cold War got warmer and warmer when the UK's 007 and USSR's XXX go...ahem... undercover.TSWLM, with its Oscar nominated theme song, not only solidified Roger Moore as the 70s Bond, and fully personified the role of the world's greatest and most charming secret agent but it introduced us to a beautiful actress (Barbara Bach, later famous for marrying Ringo Starr) and a metal-teethed goliath of a villain called Jaws. Plus the film introduced the very first JET SKI, a new watersport vehicle never before seen in public.Look for the affable actor playing US Naval Capt. Carter. He's not only in 3 Bond films (TSWLM, YOLT, DAF) but also in Star Wars and Superman II.Elvis Presley himself, a 007 fan, went to see this film in early August '77. (one of the last - if not THE last movie he ever watched in a theater). "},{"Title":"A true Bond classic","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The spy who loved me (TSWLM) is one of the best Bonds ever. I think the movie could be ranked with classics like From Russia with love, Goldfinger, Thunderball and You only live twice -these are, for me, the flawless films of the franchise. Other TOP Bonds are For your eyes only, Octopussy, and (in a minor way) Goldeneye and Tomorrow never dies.I think that Roger Moore is at his best here; the screenplay is excellent and in the typical 007 cinematic way -a megalomaniac paranoiac villain, gadgets, gorgeous ladies and exotic locations. Director Lewis Gilbert (who already made You only live twice) gives us a very enjoyable film, full of humor; Richard Kiel as Jaws is one of the most memorable enemies of Commander Bond.Sets are of course conceived by Ken Adam; M (Bernard Lee) and Q (Desmond Llewellyn) are also there. The title song sung by Carly Simon is one of the 007 anthems. (The film is a sort of remake of You only live twice, but it's not very important. After all each episode is a remake of another one...)TSWLM is one of the Bonds I saw the most, on TV, video or DVD... I like this film because there is a perfect balance between action and comedy. A must for every Superspy fan. "},{"Title":"Bond Is Back","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's The Biggest. It's the Best. It's Bond. And BEYOND. So the slogan went. But they weren't kidding. Bond WAS back in what was to be a lifesaver of the Bond franchise. After the dire The Man with the Golden Gun, and the split between the partnership of Broccoli and Saltzman, the series needed reviving and the next film needed everything. The final product was The Spy Who Loved Me. TSWLM is a film that blends all the ingredients from the previous Bond films into one. And it works. It works spectacularly. Barbara Bach's character is suited to her perfectly, along with every other character making the roles seem hard to imagine anyone else in them. The plot is simple. Submarines go missing. Bond has to find them. But in this simple story are some lovely twists. An excellently scripted example is that of Bond having to admit to the murder of Amasova's lover, and it is superbly acted out by Moore and making it, personally, one of his finest moments. The humour is at the right balance (Maybe I misjudged Stromberg. Any man who drinks Dom Perignon '52 can't be all bad.) and Roger Moore had made the role his own, and is out of the ghost of Connery. Highlights are that of the wonderful sets of Ken Adam which are, as always, used to their full potential; a great score by Marvin Hamlisch, giving a worthy attempt to replace John Barry; and there are some wonderful set-pieces. The opening sequence leaves the audience breathless. It is of course the superb ski chase, leading to the parachute jump. Back in the 1970's this sort of stunt was more or less seen as impossible, and CGI effects were not even heard of. Which is why this stunt left audiences gob smacked, and is why it is now considered one of the greatest Bond moments in the franchise. But the two most memorable parts of TSWLM are clearly the introduction of the submersible Lotus Esprit the 'replacement' for the Aston Martin DB5; and of course, Jaws. A clear inspiration of the fantasy villain Oddjob, Richard Kiel portrays him faultlessly and is a joy to see whenever he appears on the screen. There are so many magnificent moments in the film it is hard not to give it 10 out of 10. But this film is not a 10 out of 10 experience. A mark out of ten means the movie is perfect. TSWLM has its flaws. One main weakness is Stromberg. An incredibly dreary character in the Bond rogues legacy, Curt Jurgens is just not exciting enough to compare to the brilliant Christopher Lee, the only highlight of The Man with the Golden Gun. Jurgens' contribution was like a broken pencil&#133;.Pointless. But although it is not perfect, TSWLM is one of the greatest Bond movies in the franchise, with only the slightest problems spoiling it. But it is a fun, exciting and tense film with the right balance of humour in it. Bond was back and better than ever for 1977 and he is to return in Moonraker next! What? Bond goes into space???? Well, he was back&#133; "}{"Title":"Nobody Does It Better!","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Spy Who Loved Me lifted Roger Moore out of the humour-based story lines and bad scripts and back into the real world of Flemming. It is perhaps the best Roger Moore film of the Bond series and also one of the biggest. This may have something to do with the director, Lewis Gilbert, whose previous Bond film was You Only Live Twice, and liked his spectacles.In a plot quite similar to YOLT, nuclear submarines are disappearing without trace in the middle of the ocean. Bond is teamed up with his Soviet counterpart, Triple X, or Major Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach) to track down these submarines and find out whats going on.Bach is great in this film. After the fiasco of Mary Goodnight in the previous Bond film, The Man With The Golden Gun, they needed a strong, feminist pleasing Bond Girl to win back the female viewers. Although she does not get her fair share of the punches, Bach's character is still convincing as Bond's counterpart from the Soviets, and the banter between them when they first meet is both witty and well written. It does get a little tiresome, but then it is brought to grinding halt by Bond's revelation that he was the agent responsible for her lover's death. The tension can be cut through a knife, and when Anya tells Bond that, after the mission, she will kill him, you generally believe for a moment that she will try to carry out her threat.By the way, in terms of eye candy, Naomi (Caroline Munro) is a stunner and it's brilliant that it is she piloting the helicopter in that infamous scene with the Lotus Esprit, or Wet Nellie as some have dubbed it.That car is one of the only gadgets that Bond really uses. During the climatic battle on board the Liparus he uses his wits and has to find a way of blowing through a very large chunk of metal. This is great, as it takes the character away from the gadget-laden films on Guy Hamilton's CV for just a while and returns him to the fast-thinking world of the Bond of Dr No and From Russia With Love.Or does it? Because, for perhaps the first time in Moore's career as Bond, Bond IS Roger Moore. We have here more evidence of Moore's dry wit and also a brilliant piece of acting, particularly when Anya questions him about her lover's death. The only thing I might add is that, to me, Moore always looks rather uncomfortable in the big action scenes. Perhaps it is because this Bond is more likely to be able to get out of a situation with words rather than fists, or maybe it's just the way he plays it.There is something else there, though. A genuine sense once again of Fleming's original character coming out. In all of Moore's films we can see at least one example of a Cold Moore i.e. something that you wouldn't quite expect Roger Moore's Bond to do. For example, in The Man With The Golden Gun, he almost breaks Andrea Anders' arm. In this film he pushes Sandor, a henchman of Stromberg, off a roof in Eygpt after he gives him information.The baddies are not quite as good in this film as in the last two. We have neither the schizophrenic qualities of the insane Kananga/Big, nor do we have the cold-blooded ruthlessness of 007's darker half, Scaramanga. Instead we have Karl Stromberg, played by Curt Jurgens, a man who can truly be said to be the first real nut-case that Bond has faced. His plan - to wipe out all life on the surface of the Earth and to start a new civilisation under the sea, is a suitably insane one for this webbed-fingered foe, though how he plans to create new life with just him and Anya is beyond me. Perhaps he has hundreds of willing volunteers hidden away in Atlantis - if he does, we certainly never see them. Jurgens performance is rather good, though perhaps a little flat. However there are some scenes where this quietness works well - for example, the scene where he is feeding his fish food and then eats the fish-food himself, or the first time we see him when he sends his assistant to go swimming with the fishes.For a henchman, of course, we have the mighty Jaws (Richard Kiel). Now, I LIKE Jaws in this film. He is a good henchman who is suitably menacing, his very tall, very large figure towering over his victims, the razor-sharp metal teeth in his mouth a deadly weapon that reminds one of a vampire, let alone a shark. There are one or two moments where he is shown to be rather dim, but these are mostly brushed quickly aside. What I do NOT like is that he survives. In my opinion, Jaws did not work at all in Moonraker - though little worked in that film, I'll freely admit - and so, in my opinion should have died when Atlantis is destroyed by Captain Carter (A great performance from Shane Rimmer, the legendary voice of Scott Tracy from Thunderbirds) and his torpedoes.The effects are really well done, particularly the super tanker model shots. Marvin Hamlisch's score is interesting, with a good sense of 70's disco that, surprisingly, does not seem to have dated the film much. Of course, the title theme, Nobody Does It Better, sung by Carly Simon, has passed into legend, and is perhaps one of the best and most recognisable Bond themes ever written. The stunt work is great, particularly the pre-titles scene with THAT jump and THAT parachute.TSWLM is not without it's faults, certainly, but it is an entertaining, enjoyable experience that for a brief moment lifts your hearts into thinking there's hope for Moore's Bond yet. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Nobody does it better","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When audiences in 1977 saw James Bond fly off an icy cliff on skis only to unfurl his Union Jack parachute accompanied by the triumphant James Bond theme, it seems no surprise that the Bond franchise achieved a level of success paralleled only by the early Connery films. Of course it helped that The Spy who Loved Me had a suitably Bond-like plot, with 007 racing to stop Karl Stromberg, (Curd Jürgens) a shipping magistrate who also happens to be a madman madman planning to attack all major cities in the world with nuclear weapons, believing that life would be better underwater. Along the way, Bond is unwillingly teamed up with Major Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach) a beautiful Russian agent codenamed XXX (Vin Diesel eat your heart out!) who is striving towards the same objective as he. Amasova turns out to be different than most of the women Bond encounters, having much stronger willpower and dignity, and managing to outsmart Bond on several occasions. Naturally, they fall in love, but it proves to be a short lasting love when Amasova discovers that Bond was in fact responsible for the death of her former lover, whom he killed in self defense during a covert mission during the title sequence. But when Stromberg kidnaps Amasova, Bond must race to her rescue, and once again save the day. The Spy who loved me is perhaps most famous for the Union Jack parachute title sequence, following a spectacular ski chase, and for the introduction of enormous hit-man Jaws (Richard Kiel) with his beartrap like metal teeth. But it far surpasses most other Bond films in many other aspects as well - the storyline may be typically ludicrous, but director Lewis Gilbert plays the entire film typically tongue-in-cheek, without losing that distinctive fantastical flavor we can only really get from 007 films. Roger Moore gives one of his best, if not his very best performance as Bond here, mastering Bond's suaveness, knack for survival while still looking impeccable and very British sense of humour. Barbara Bach may not be the most convincing actress, but she definitely manages to convey a lot more emotion than most of Bond's other love interests, and proves suitable casting as the sole love interest this time round. Curd Jürgens makes a great megalomaniac as the fish-like Stromberg, obsessed with recreating human life underwater. Of course, the most beloved character (other than 007 himself) present is Jaws, who is played with a wonderfully evil grin by 7'2 actor Richard Kiel. Time and time again, Jaws proves more than a suitable match for 007, and ends up breaking tradition by surviving at the end of the movie, and returning for the ill-advised Moonraker. The Spy who loved Me is without a doubt one of the best crafted Bond films to this day there's lots of action, and typically Bondian mayhem, combined with a couple of genuinely chilling villains, and a more convincing love interest than is common. Of course, the film is not without it's faults - as usual, the screenplay is far too overly obvious, and stuffed with a surprising number of one liners, and acting is decent at best, and in many cases, worse. But keep in mind that this is, after all, a James Bond film, and we can't really expect any of these things to improve much. For once, a film's tagline actually properly represents the film - for The Spy who loved Me succeeds in proving that when it comes to James Bond... Nobody does it better.-9/10 "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a sign of changing times, Bond teams up with a Russian to prevent mad Billionaire Stromberg from destroying the world in a nuclear Holocaust so that he can fulfil his dream- a society under the sea of course. It seems that a nuclear tracking device has been created, and the Russians and British are racing each other to find it. Bond fights with Agent Tripple X over it, but they eventually have to work together to stop Stromberg. What makes things more interesting is that Bond had killed X's lover earlier, and she has vowed revenge...and Stromberg's main man Jaws is also on the prowl, a 7ft tall, seemingly unstoppable bad guy. Bond jumps around on ski slopes, has fights with sharks, and many chases in Egypt and other countries before confronting Stromberg. But what will he do about his temporary partner? This film has many good characters and moments, and some of the best stunts of the series. The underwater scenes are much better than previous ones, being shorter and easier to watch. All the cast do well, Moore now showing he has firmly taken over from Connery, and the usually people doing their usual jobs. The Lotus is one of the best cars, and Jaws is probably the best henchman in the series, although he does move from terrifying to funny. Bach is excellent as XXX, and Munroe is also good as Naomi, who comes to a brutal end. Stromberg is just another in a long line of bad guys, but Jurgens gives a strong performance, and we are convinced of his evil intent. The song is also one of the best of the series. However, the relationship between Bond and X seems inevitable, and causes the film to lose points. It would have been revolutionary for her to resist Bond, but this would have been powerful. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"ONE OF MY FAVORITE BOND MOVIES","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The one line summary is pretty much it.  This is one of my favorite Bond movies of all time.  We see a little bit of a battle with his partner, Triple X, and then a little bit of love with her at the same time.  I think it's safe to say he gives the term, keeping up foreign relations a whole new name.Overall, the film is a bit long.  In this episode, we find Bond having to make three different contacts, all of them dying before he can acquire the information he needs to complete his mission.  I think we would have gotten the hint after the first one dying before Bond got to meet with him.His Russian female counterpart is alluring, but she's too pat.  I find it hard to believe sometimes that she is a Russian secret agent.  Bach would not have been my first choice for the role.But, needless to say, I am a Bond fan, and I've always liked all the movies where Jaws appeared (I believe this was the episode where he made his initial appearance). "},{"Title":"Greatest Hits package or not, It's an Excellent Film...","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In a book about the James Bond films, 'The Spy Who Loved Me' (or TSWLM) was, in a negative review, called a slick, greatest hits package. Well, greatest hits package or not, it's a fitting 10th film for 007.Roger Moore returns in his 3rd performance as 007. 'Live and Let Die' was a good film but Moore was a little uneasy picking up from Connery after Lazenby had came and went. In his second outing, 'The Man With The Golden Gun', he was let down by a bad script but this film brings together all the elements for a brilliant Bond film. Exotic locations, great girls, a good baddie, an even better henchman and amazing stunts. It was also the first Bond film to have a fully original story. Author Ian Fleming siad not to use any of the story of his TSWLM book which is very different not only to the finished film but to any other Bond book or film mainly because Bond is only in it at the end.The film kicks off with one of the best for real stunts in the history of motion pictures as 007 skis off a cliff with the safety of a parachute painted like the union jack. This firmly establishes us in the surreal yet familiar world of secret agent 007. Good girl Anya is played with considerable charm by Barbara Bach who is very sexy and the first Bond girl to really be competent and not have to shout James! every 2 minutes. The villain is Karl Stromberg played by Curt Jurgens. The character was originally intended to be Blofeld but due to legal wranglings with Kevin McClory and his rival Bond film, he didn't give permission for them to use the character. Stromberg is a fairly competent villain, a little over the top at times but truly ruthless.A good baddie always has a good henchman and Jaws (Richard Keil) is a great one. Although a little too dumb at times, he's very threatening in early scenes and is the only element used from the book as he is loosely based on the character of Horror in the book.The writers and director have crafted a very good Bond film despite some over the top scenes and a over long climax. This has everything The cars, Moore in his element, a great baddie, a strong Bond girl and an interesting Bond girl. This is what all 007 movies or even all action movies should be like. "},{"Title":"Excellent Moore film, and also one of the better Bond films","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me is remembered as one of Roger Moore's better runs as Agent 007, as well as Octupussy. This film is excellent, and I agree. It is stamped with the major elements of Bond, the exotic locations (the ocean, the desert area). The acting is very good too, especially with Moore taking this role a bit more seriously then his other portrayals. However, the biggest acting job in this film is to Richard Kiel as Jaws. Jaws is remembered as one as the all time best Bond villians, even though he was assigned a weak fate in Moonraker. His facial expressions and pure size are amazing to watch, as he dictates the screen with his terrifying prescence. The plot, script and direction, are also very well done. The stunts are amazing, especially the opening scene in which Roger Moore actually jumps off of a cliff and parachutes. Everything else about this film is very standard Bond, beautiful women and beautiful cars. Q is also excellent here as usuall, supplying a good line about the car. Bond Have I ever let you down Q? Q Frequently. It's a recommended viewing for any Bond fan, and especially watch out for the last twenty minute action sequence in the end. Truly memorable. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"The first James Bond movie I ever saw","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the very first James Bond movie I ever saw when I was a young boy.  It is the movie that made me a fan.  As a child, I found myself completely immersed in it and imagining that I was in the movie as James Bond.  It is a very imaginative movie and definitely is a great place to start if you've never seen a James Bond movie before.  A truly rare gem. "},{"Title":"007 meets Triple X","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think it is a pity, that some of Bond's one-liners in this film (which he is famous for by the way) completely miss the target. This does not mean though, that this film is not good. On the contrary, it is one of the better Bond films. The fact that Bond himself misses out at times is amply made up by the villains and the fact that Q is quite funny this time around. Curd Jürgens (Stromberg) delivers a bad guy as only Germans can deliver them and Richard Kiel (Jaws) is (maybe unwillingly) able to provide some more comic relief. A few good characters and a pretty exciting build up, make this Bond pretty enjoyable.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"4/10   ok, but too much Jaws and Babs Bach already...","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why do they have to reuse these two actors?  Bach has a good body, so use it once and toss it aside......don't reuse dreary, dippy chix in subsequent Bondflix, it cheapens the franchise.  Al Broc....are you listening?  And enough Jaws already, he bites!  This is the weakest of the bondflix, but ok for free on Bondweek on tv. "},{"Title":"2nd best bond","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  imaginative fun story makes this great.  Jaws is one of the best villain is truly menacing and terrorfying.  XXX is a great bond girl, they actually but depth into their relationship. Moore is really good in this one event though he is my least favorite bond. "}{"Title":"The XXX of the Bond films","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nearly ten years after doing an amazing job on You Only Live Twice director Lewis Gilbert returned to the Bond series to direct the first good Roger Moore Bond flick The Spy Who Loved Me.Here Bond teams up with Vin Diesel who plays XXX to go after a freak who wants everyone to live underwater! THE MADNESS I TELL YA!Wait! That sentence didn't sound right. Let me write it again!Here Bond teams up with XXX ) played by the beautiful Barbara Bach to stop Karl Stromberg from destroying everything and creating a new world under the sea. The action scenes are great and so is the humor. Plus this film features the best henchman next to Oddjob. This is probably the best of the Roger Moore Bond pictures.3(***)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"All the right elements for a great action film.","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I must begin by mentioning that this film contains the most incredible stunt I have ever seen in a film.It appears early in the film,it involves skis and a parachute,and has to be seen to be believed.This installment in the ever popular James Bond series has all the right elements for a great action adventure film.Incredible stunts such as the one I mentioned,very credible villains,with Curt Jurgens as Karl Stromberg,and the ever popular Jaws,played excellently by Richard Kiel. As of this date,I have yet to see all the Bond films,but I am sure this film will rank near the top in my favorites in the series.This is not only a great Bond film,but one of the best films in the action adventure genre that I have seen. "},{"Title":"I LOVED THIS FILM!","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a great fan of Roger Moore's interpretation of 007 James Bond and this is one of his best films with a great story, a fantastic villain and the beautiful Barbara Bach. And who can forget the great song for this film.This was the third Roger Moore film after Live and Let Die and The Man With The Golden Gun. It was better than those two films and it was fun to watch.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS) There were great stunts throughout. Bond skied off a mountain in the pre-credits sequence and his parachute opened up to the James Bond theme tune. I enjoyed the James Bond films because they were pure escapism. Bond could do anything, operate anything, pilot anything and drive anything. He was fearless in the face of danger and always found a way out of tough situations. And he always overcame the odds even against whole armies.Barbara Bach made an intriguing romantic lady for Bond. She was his equal in this film and throughout the film I was not sure whether she would attempt to kill Bond (Bond had killer her lover whilst on a mission).Richard Kiel as Jaws was my favourite villain throughout the series. Richard Kiel had screen presence as he does in all his films. Jaws was both menacing and played for laughs at the same time. And he was a survivor as well. He had a whole building fall on him, he survived a car crash off a cliff, being pushed out off a speeding train and being pushed into a shark pool. He even killed the shark! Then he survived the explosion at the end and was seen swimming far out at sea.All in all, a great Bond movie with all the right ingredients. "},{"Title":"A good Bond movie","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my favorite James Bond movies. It has lots of entertaining action scenes and just as many memorable ones. One of my personal favorites is when Jaws picks up a huge rock to throw at the moving vehicle. I was like What the hell were you trying to do, throw it 15 feet far at a van that was already moving away. And if that's not enough he then lets go of the rock and it falls on his toes. Now that's rich.  This Bond movie is funny and Roger Moore gets to drive the 2nd coolest 007 car. The Lotus. Aaaaaaaaaah. Is there a bib in the house. Anyway, this movie presents one of the better Bond movies and is the best Roger Moore movie as this secret agent, followed by Octopussy. The villain is as usual as they come. Out to destroy the world in order to create a new one. Nothing special, but the true gem lies in the character of Jaws. It's no wonder why he survived the movie. Great fun, great opening sequence, great 70's funky groovy music, great car, nice women, Jaws and of course a good performance by Moore make this an enjoyable adventure of the most famous secret agent around.7/10 "},{"Title":"Bond Falls for the Enemy","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An excellent entry into the James Bond series.  Exciting and heartpounding right to the end.  An interesting film to focus on what Bond will do to prevent nuclear armageddon.  The end is so exciting as you never know if Bond will get out alive or not. "},{"Title":"Very good elements but plot is too grandiose","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me combines solid characters and fun gadgets with a grandiose plot.  The plot is about the mad dream of Karl Stromberg, who attempts to destroy the surface world with nuclear weapons in order to create a new world under the sea.  Bond, of course, attempts to stop him and save the world.  The plot is in the 'suspend your reality' style and just becomes too large for it's own good.  The characters are some of the most interesting in the series and are in the style of From Russia With Love and Goldfinger.  Barbara Bach as XXX is goofily stereotypical but is also a strong, smart and capable adversary turned heroine.  Her number is one of the best touches since Pussy Galore and her battle of wits with Bond is a highlight of the movie.  Richard Kiel as Jaws starts as a pretty good villain but gets too ridiculous as he becomes increasingly superhuman.  Curt Jurgens as Stromberg makes a nice villain of the more sedentary type.  Roger Moore is allowed to show some vulnerable moments and his performance is allowed to show more depth then his previous Bond roles.  The submarine car is unbelievable but fun and the opening is the best in the series.  The unbelievable plot pulls through for the most part, mostly due to the characters, but is repeated with emphasis in the next movie, Moonraker, arguably the worst Bond in the series.  It's a fine line.  The Spy Who Loved Me is a good effort and the best Moore Bond until For Your Eyes Only.   6.9/10 "},{"Title":"Better than Star Wars","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A fantastic Bondfilm! Easily the best film made in 1977 (yes it's actually better than the overrated Star Wars). This filmproduction has everything; an exciting ski chase in austria, a brilliant car chase, a good sense of humor and larger-than-life characters. Funny, exciting, and thrilling. Roger Moore is terrific as James Bond! An entertaining movie with all the right elements of a great Bond film. Don't miss this one!Stromberg Why do we seek to conquer space when seven tenth's of our universe remains to be explored. The world beneath the sea "},{"Title":"I love the Bond series, however this is the best!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Roger Moore was the consumate cool guy in this film..From the moment he (or his stunt equivalent) drifted off the cliff in Austria (really Canada) and opened his Union Jack parachute, I knew I was in for a quality flick. Stromberg was a class act as the bad guy, and Jaws filled in the void (if there was one)...the scene at the Egyptian ruins where agent XXX and Bond were trying to get rid of Jaws on the outside of the car was fantastic. Naomi was gorgeous as Strombergs secretary, and Moneypenny, M & Q gave their usual creditable performance.  Barbara Bach gave a classy performance as Major Amasova, and gelled well with Bond..always trying to get the better of each other to recover the microfilm..a lot of pride there. The finale for Bond & Stromberg was one to behold, where Stromberg tried (unsuccessfully) to put Bond with the sharks in his custom built elevator; when Bond arrived at the top, there was a look of dismay from Stromberg, as Bond said,You did want me to drop in. Enough said, a great flick worth keeping... "},{"Title":"The Best Bond Film!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Or, at least the best Moore's Bond Film. I don't understand those Bond fans who complain that Roger Moore is too gentle and light to be James Bond. They forget something.First of all, the timing was so bad. He was third Bond. The whole series began to look  outdated. Also he was in the mid of forties when he took the license to kill. So he had to make a new Bond. Even worse, he had no chance to fight against Blofeld !This movie shows that Moore finally established his own Bond. Action, sex, and humor make a perfect cocktail. Barbara Bach shows a new intelligent and independent Bondgirl. Richard Kiel's Jaws is a memorable henchman. Still I miss Blofeld and his SPECTRE. Albert R. Broccoli tried to use this character but had to replace him with Karl Stromberg. (Thank you so much  Kevin McClory!) Today, Blofeld is more needed than ever because the coldwar era was ended.I wish Moore did not take the role or took only twice. 'The Spy who loved me' and 'For your eyes only'. If he started his post-Bond carrer a little bit earlier, he could get more success. Like, Garner, James Garner. "},{"Title":"Creme de la Creme","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is an interesting parallel between the Bond careers of Sean Connery and Roger Moore.  Both actors were finding their feet in their first two adventures and both reached the zenith of their time as 007 in their third movie; although Moore went on to star in the superlative For Your Eyes Only.Moore exudes confidence in this movie.  The pre-credit sequence features a breathtaking ski stunt and Bond's encounter with a Russian adversary in the Austrian Alps proves to be of great importance later in the film. The title song is one of the best in the series and the plot is intricate enough to avoid insulting the intelligence of the viewer.By now, 007 was tussling with different adversaries in each movie and this makes a refreshing change from having Blofeld appear in every film. Stromberg, played by Curt Jurgens, has an impassive and yet heinous mien which retains the interest of the viewer.  Barbara Bach plays Bond's astute Russian counterpart.  Although both she and Bond are on the same side, there is a competitive edge between the two which creates lasting friction.The high points of the film involve a car/helicopter chase involving Bond's Lotus Esprit and the climatic showdown between Bond and Stromberg at either side of a long dinner table.  The aquatic sequences in this film are trenchantly filmed; the cameramen in Thunderball were unable to film the movie's underwater scenes with such clarity, dynamism and succinctness.After three somewhat monotonous Bond movies (Diamonds Are Forever, Live and Let Die and The Man With The Golden Gun) this effervescent espionage thriller secured Moore's career as 007 and began another era of Bond adventures which lasted until For Your Eyes Only. "}{"Title":"Roger Moore at his best","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"        This Roger Moore's masterpiece. Its funny, exciting, and thrilling. Although its not the best Bond film, its not quite as good as Thunderball (1965) and Living Daylights (1987, but it is actually slightly better than the classic GOLDFINGER (1964).             This film is also ground breaking because it is the first Bond film receive a number of Academy Award Nominations in 12 years. Thunderbal (1965) was the last to have a number of nomination, although Live & Let Die (1973) did receive an award for the title song, but nothing more. Even though it did receive a number of nominations it was snubbed for best picture. Star Wars (1977) is undoubtedly a better picture than this, but the other nominees are certainly match for this film.     The film itself is remarkable. The opening sequence is a masterpiece. Barbara Bach as XXX Major Anya Amasova is excellent probably the best Bond girl. Curt Jurgens gives an excellent performance as Stromberg and Richard Kiel's performance as JAWS is outstanding. Jaws beat long holding Oddjob as best extra villain for a Bond film. Definitely a must see.     "},{"Title":"one of my favorite Bond films","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE SPY WHO LOVED ME stands out as one of the best James Bond films. The best parts of it are the Jaws scenes and when Bond is chased everywhere in his Lotus. The plot is highly over-the-top and indeed lifted from YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE, but hey, it's all in fun. Besides, TSWLM is much better than YOLT (it's interesting to note they're made by the same director). I actually think OCTOPUSSY is my favorite movie with Moore, but this one is a very close second. Today's Bond movies are really not as good as these old ones. They're so coldly calculated that they lack that good old sense of fun. It's shame because Pierce Brosnan is very cool and very confident in the role. He deserves to be in better movies. Let's hope his next one is at least as good as this one. "},{"Title":"Moore finally gets the hang of James Bond","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So it's not the deepest Bond film, nor the most original(In fact the plot is almost identical to YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE). But none of that matters-it's fun and very entertaining, and Roger Moore finally has gotten the hang of the role after two so-so films. This one has it all-spellbinding stunts, beautiful women, a Goldfingeresque villain and nasty Henchmen. The film's discoesque music is somewhat dated, but it's all part of the charm, and is edited extremely well, especially during the scene at the pyramids of Giza. Overall, it's one of the most entertaining Bond films. "},{"Title":"Shaken, not stirred","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A cool Bond movie. Jaws, Stromberg and Naomi, all cool villains. And XXX (Major Anya Anasova (Barbara Bach) ) is an okay Bond girl. Moore was an okay Bond, but I think he was a bit old at 50 odd. But he was funny and cheerful, so I think he was okay to make it through. More onto the movie, I would give it 8/10. An overwelming indication. Karl Stromberg is an absolute nutter. His evil plan was to blow up all the land and then build a city under the sea. talk about respecting God's creations. His henchman, the metal mouthed Jaws was more than a match for some sharks, (watch the film, you'll realize what I mean) was sent to kill 007. On Jaw's next appearence in Moonraker, also starring with Roger Moore as 007 again got a very nice description, Jaws, quotes Bond, he kills people. i think that TSWLM is better than MR any day. MR had a better bad guy though. I love the Bond episodes. Don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Bond elite","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me belongs to the absolute Bond elite. It's a likely winner when voting the most entertaining Bond film (Goldfinger comes extremely close, though). It has all sorts of action sequences (skiing, underwater, etc.) and smooth transitions from a continent to another. The amount of gadgets is on a suitable level and the balance between action and humour is near perfection. Yes, the plot is (with minor variations) copied from You Only Live Twice, but it works better in The Spy Who Loved Me and helps to make it a highly enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"007 meets XXX","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is Roger Moore's third coming as the agent who wants his vodka martini shaken, not disturb.In this one James gets to work with a beautiful Russian agent Major Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach) who is also known as triple X.We all know where that leads. Richard Kiel is having his first experience as Jaws, the man with steel teeth.The Spy Who Loved Me from 1977 is marvelous James Bond adventure with amazing action scenes like the incredible skiing scene in the beginning.And you can see a cool car that is one of Q's gadgets, a car that works as a submarine.Roger Moore was terrific as James Bond.The man just got better and better.Nobody does it better than him. "},{"Title":"My favorite 007 movie","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me is a spectacular action film. It is a masterfully crafted and endlessly entertaining movie with all the right elements of a great Bond film. Roger Moore, who kept people coming to 007 films in large numbers for a decade and a half, should be most proud of this one. From the incredible opening sequence to the action-packed finale is an unrelenting thrillride, packed with what are still visually stunning special effects and action sequences.I don't see how TSWLM could be any better. It has the coolest car ever in a Bond film, the amphibious Lotus Espirit armed with everything from smoke screen to underwater missiles. Barbara Bach plays a Russian agent who is equal to 007 in every way, and is the best Bond girl since Ursula Andress. Curt Jurgens is a masterful villain and his immortal and mute henchmen, Jaws, is one of the more memorable movie villains ever. The sets are enormous and incredible, especially the supertanker which holds three submarines. But what really makes TSWLM great is its star; Roger Moore is in top form in his third outing as James Bond - he makes everything 007 does look effortless, which is the most important aspect of the role. This movie is a perfect ten. "},{"Title":"Nothing like the novel!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The novel by this name is absolutely fabulous.But to besmirch Ian Fleming's name by suggesting that he had anything to do with this pile of dung is insulting. Aside from the title, the movie did not contain one, single plot element that appeared in the novel (James Bond v. the  Mob). "},{"Title":"Why bother with the rest, this one is the best.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is without any doubt the best Bond movie ever made and it never left my personal top 10 ever since I saw the movie in the cinema way back in 1977.  Why is it so good you may ask?  Well let me give you a few arguments1.It has the best opening scene ever, that parachute jump will never be matched!2.The title song is superb and even more known than any of the other theme songs.3.The music score by Marvin Hamlisch is just top notch and has a lot of dept.  It's not just one theme that gets played over and over.  If fact the soundtrack album is the only one you can listen to without getting bored.4.The movie is shot in different locations and really uses them, it's not just someone saying &#145;Look we are in Sardinia' and all you get is a wide shot of (possibly) Sardinia. The scene with Bond arriving in Cairo proves my point.   5.It's got a pair of excellent villains Stromberg and off course Jaws.  Every Bond movie should have a rich villain who happens to be an megalomaniac and is helped by an invincible henchman (Jaws actually doesn't die).6.It has the largest most impressive set you've ever seen.  They even needed to build a soundstage around it7.The comic relief is justly timed.  Other Bonds couldn't really cope with that.  This, is however, also an essential part of the Bond movies.8.Be honest nothing tops the Lotus Elite9.Just for DVD-owners the extra's on the DVD are the best of the whole series.  "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's best Bond","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have always been and will be a die hard Connery fan of Bond, but Roger Moore did sweet justice to this role. The story line in this film was a great plus as well as the character development among the actors and actresses.Not to mention that this film had THE BEST BOND VILLAIN EVER!!!!!!! Who could ever forget the steel teeth of Jaws(Richard Kiel)!Like most Bond films, this one had it's share of nifty gadgets and action. This is a true Bond film. "}{"Title":"Roger Moore`s best Bond-movie!","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who loved me is Roger Moore`s third James Bond-movie, and it is without a doubt his best movie. A villain called Carl Stromberg steals two nuclear missiles.  He wants to destroy the world, and to build his own world under water. James Bond and Russia`s best agent, Major Anya Amosova, are ordered to stop him.  In this movie we got a chance to meet Jaws, the most memorable of all the villains in the series.  Everybody remembers him because of his height, and because of his steal teeth. There are plenty of exotic locations, and plenty of well-coreographed action.  This movie is Roger Moore`s best Bond-movie, and is second only to the classic Goldfinger starring Sean Connery. See it! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Observe Mr Bond- The Instruments of Armaegaedon as Stromberg points towards Anya's breasts","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had originally written a review on The Spy who Loved Me, but I was bored so i decided to write a more thorough report, and hopefully I will be able to edit out the bad spelling. The Spy who Loved Me contains everything. Barbara Bach as the KGB agent with the shaky accent, Walter's Gotell's debut as General Gogol (did you forget?), The excellent Curt Jurgens as Carl Stromberg (with an excellent austrian accent), Richard Kiel is his debut as Jaws. Their are some excellent scenes like in the Austrian Alps (Berngatten), and the Lotus Esprit being pursued by countless assalaints over land and water. Watch it Roger Moore is at his most poigniant  "},{"Title":"Why do we seek to conquer space, when seven tenths of the Universe remains undiscovered... the world beneath the sea!","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Roger Moore's third outing as James Bond is by far the best.The Spy who Loved Me manages to beat other films like Thunderball, From Russia with Love and OHMSS to the place of my favourite Bond Film, suffice to say Sean Connery is definitely the best bond. The Film Contains everything The Lotus Esprit (Wet Nellie), Jaws, Ringo Starr's wife and one of the final appearances of Curt Jurgens before his death in 1982 Watch the action!, just watch it, Nobody does it Better than the The Spy who Loved Me "},{"Title":"Great action, great characters","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jaws, who appears in this film for the first time, is really something. He is the ultimate Bond bad guy, a freak of nature and human intervention - those teeth of his really are a fright.Anyway, it's Jaws that really made this film, otherwise it would be kinda lame, wouldn't it? "},{"Title":"My favorite 007 flick of the comic era","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, i call it the comic era because this was when Bond was at his hi-tech peak, before going way off track with MOONRAKER. But Spy.. is cool! Enjoyable, fun, and exciting. I won't go into the plot (scroll down for other comments for that) instead i'll go into things i like about it. While i thought Martine Beswick was the sexiest Bond girl, Barbara Bach takes the cake as the best overall Bond girl yet. Showing courage,honesty, and a few corny lines along with a beautiful prescense. Another thing is Jaws!  Though nobody won't ever beat Donald Red Grant, Jaws is the coolest henchman since Oddjob. Showing a lot of invincible stuff in him and just about steals the show. There's even a few moments when he's aboard the train where he looks downright creepy. Then you've got the LOTUS ESPRIT, the Aston Martin's rival, beautiful locales, and Roger Moore in top notch form as 007. Of course there's other stuff i missed but don't got the space to type, so i'll end this by saying...What the heck..NOBODY DOES IT BETTER. "},{"Title":"The best of the Roger Moore era.","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me is a real eye-popper of a Bond movie that thrills right from the start to the brilliant climax. Roger Moore brings back the dangerous edge to Bond with this film (the best evidence is he lets the bald-headed, villan, Sandor, plummet to his death from a rooftop) and makes the character more interesting again, like in On Her Majesty's Secret Service. 007 fells uncomfortable about allying with Anya (poorly played at times by Babara Bach)and matters are made worse when it becomes clear that he killed her lover on his previous mission.The film's soundtrack is totally 70's style when you hear it today but it's extremly effective in the action sequences, so it doesn't really matter. The other highlights include Jaws, who has a strong presence in this movie in comparison to Moonraker, the debut of the gadget-laden, Lotus Esprit, and of course Carly Simon's classic theme song, 'Nobody Does It Better'.Improvements?. Well, i don't think Stromberg was a good villan. Although played very well by Curt Jurgens, the character does little to make him interesting. Apart from that, this is a cracking entry in the Bond series that ranks as one of the best of the franchise and THE best of the Roger Moore era. "},{"Title":"Best Bond, best Bond girl, best henchman, best car, best music Best Bond film","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My favorite James Bond movie is without a doubt The Spy Who Loved Me.Roger Moore is at his all time best in this film . The Russian Agent XXX, Major Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach) is the best Bond girl in the series also. She is extremely capable, even outsmarting Bond at times, and absolutely gorgeous. Curt Jergens is effective as Karl Stromberg, a shipping billionaire bent on destroying the world. Scene after scene is just amazing. The opening ski chase and cliff jump, the hilarious meeting with Hossein in Egypt (When one is in Egypt, one should delve deeply into its treasures), pyramids, Mojaba Club, Temple with Jaws, Bond and Anya on the boat, train fight with Jaws, meeting with Stromberg at Atlantis, above and below water car chase, Anya threatens Bond, shootout at Liparus, Atlantis confrontation, and the closing in the escape pod (keeping the British end up sir). All to the best score in a James Bond movie as well. Simply the best James Bond movie ever made.   "},{"Title":"damm good movie","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me is an excellent movie.  From the opening stunt seen to Bonds' final seduction of agent XXX.  Skiing directly off a huge cliff and then having his parachute open up into the form of a British flag, great. But the best aspect of this movie had to be Carly Simon singing Nobody Does it Better.  "},{"Title":"Moore is better than Connery (IMHO)","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moore's 2nd best(after Octopussy).  Live and let die and man with the golden gun were disapointments but Moore put his Bond character back on the map with great flick.  It's dated but fun.  Great sequences include fighting in Egypt by the pyramids while a big show is taking place and the music to the show corresponds to the action - marvellous - and Roger Moore's line to triple X when he's done is priceless.  Great humour and action make this a must see.  The title song is perfect for a Bond flick and is the best one to date and Barbara Bach is so dam sexy(especially at the end). Great stuff! "},{"Title":"The Music Score In This P***es Me Off","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the first bond film to really have an independent woman who really didn't need Bond to save her, This trend would continue until A view To A Kill (Stacy Sutton), Jaws Would Have to be one of the best villains (along with Nick Nack), But bringing him back in Moonraker was a bit of a mistake, but who cares, all Bond Films, no matter how lame, are still enjoyable "}{"Title":"The best Bond film, period!","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me is, to me, the definitive James Bond film. Roger Moore turns in the perfect performance as James Bond in his third appearance as 007. Everything about this film is pure Bond.. the incredible skiing sequence at the beginning of the film, the amazing Lotus Esprit scenes, and the awesome underwater bits.The 70's weren't always kind to the Bond series, but this movie represents the absolute best of the entire series (yes, better than Thunderball and Goldfinger). Someone here also mentioned that Moore is the perfect *English* Bond (as opposed to Scottish or Australian). I have to agree. His performance in TSTLM more than redeems his eventual appearance in the gawdawful Moonraker. "},{"Title":"2nd Best Bond Movie","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ever since the let downs of Live and Let Die and The Man with The Golden Gun we now see Roger Moore as a definitive Bond in this movie.  It was totally superb, with the use of different places.  The Liparus battle was excellent and outstanding and the plot was very intriguing. Barbara Bach's character shows freedom of women than just being the seduced Bond zombie.  Then there's Jaws, a henchmen that literally makes people quiver.  All in all, this is the 2nd Best Bond Movie (after Goldfinger). **** "},{"Title":"Awesome Bond and great movie.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me is revolutionary in many ways. First and foremost, the bond girl, Tanya Amasova, is not just running around and screaming Help me, help me, but is completely independent and strong character. Secondly, the sets are huge; the film required construction of the entire interior of the Stromberg's ship. It's truly awesome and comparable to a high-budget Hollywood extravaganza. The Stromberg's henchman, Jaws, is terrific. It is obvious that he is an extrapolation of Tee Hee from Live and Let Die. Script is also well written and keeps you reminding of the fact that this IS a Bond movie. For me, The Spy Who Loved Me is the best Bond ever and I think 8/10 is well deserved. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the Best Bond Film","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is my favorite Bond film, certainly the best one of the 1970s.  Roger Moore has really grown into the role by 1977, and the addition of the hauntingly beautiful Barbara Bach as a dueling agent gives this film its most enduring quality.High Points  Carly Simon's theme song is the best in the series; Nobody Does It Better is probably the most recognized Bond theme after the opening music.  The pre-credits ski scene is also superb.  Barbara Bach is wonderful, and Jaws is the best Bond villain of the 1970s.  Roger Moore's scene at the Egyptian club (where he flinches when XXX asks him about his late wife) is one of the best scenes he ever delivers, played crisply and with mournful emotion.  The Egyptian locales are also very good.Low Points  Stromberg is less than great, and some of the battle scenes at the end are quite tedious.Overall, though, it's easy to see why so many Bond fans like this movie the best. "},{"Title":"The instrument of armageddon..","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a really big task for Albert R. Broccoli, because the bond movies got more competition than before. That`s why the movie had the huge budget. They built the largest studio-scene in the world to this writing moment! Everything was giant. They really had to get Bond on the top again, and they did. As I am an interior-consultant & designer, I see all the Bond movies as monuments for the year and time they are made. Do NOT compare them too mutch. Every film contains what`s IN the year it is made. For example this film; the hair style, clothes, cars, design, hi-tech etc. Even hot politics. In 1976-77, the nuclear war was near, and the world in fear for the big one. Anyway, this film has got some lovely and funny scenes, even romantic sailing at the river Nilen, having a nice time on the train..I got all the movies and From Russia With Love is my favourite, but this entertaining movie is the TRUE GIANT SPY MOVIE ever made. My age suggestion is 10 years and above for watching it.Enjoy it!! "},{"Title":"Sorry Roger its not the best bond movie!","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So Roger you think this is the best bond movie ever? Well I don't. I think there are better ones. I do like the original Connery, so maybe that biased me a little bit, don't get me wrong this is a good film when you compare it against some others, it has some twists, like when Bond is partnered with a Russian Agent (Anya) who it is revealed he killed her boyfriend in a previous mission. There is a an amazing ski stunt in the opening sequence. It may well be one of the best stunts ever done in a Bond film. There is some beautiful camera shots especially in Egypt, but to be honest Octapussy and For Your Eyes Only are better. It has all the usual mixture of Girls, Stunts, Fast Cars. Still worthy a watch. "},{"Title":"Moore's best","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is not the best overall Bond, but it is for me Roger Moore's best as the character. Moore does a very good job here, displaying adeptly his trademark smoothness, while he is superbly supported by Barbara Bach as the alluring Anya and especially Richard Kiel as the unforgettable Jaws(not the shark mind you, see the film for yourself and you'll see). The plot may be a tad far-fetched but it actually does work, and the script has less reliance on slapstick humour but is more sophisticated and a little more cleverer than normal. The set pieces are spectacular of course, and Lewis Gilbert directs lavishly. I also liked it that this entry had an effective use of character realism too. Overall, a great entry, not one of the best Bonds for me but it is Moore's best. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Spy Who Bored Me","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the lackluster Live and Let Die, Moore grew more comfortable in the role in The Man with the Golden Gun, one of the better entries in the series. This, Moore's third outing as Bond, takes a step back, thanks to a rambling script that goes on far too long. Like most Bond films, this is a collection of set pieces tied together with a silly plot about a super villain trying to take over the world. The problem is that the set pieces are not entertaining, causing the film to drag. The only thing Bach has over other Bond girls is her cleavage. As with Live and Let Die, the best thing about this film is the title song, this one sung by Carly Simon. "},{"Title":"A big disappointment","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" All Roger Moore/Bond fans are going to hate me for this, but I just watched this film, and I have not been so thoroughly bored in a long time.The plot of the film is far fetched, but that is the tradition of Bond films, so that is not really a drawback in this genre.However, the villain's blunt instrument, Jaws, is the most ridiculous character ever conceived. A man with iron teeth, who can bite a shark to death. And even though both Bond and triple-x have encountered him at many points throughout the story, they never fail at spoiling their chances at shooting him.And Roger Moore is just not a good Bond. When he fires a gun he even looks afraid of the blast. And what's with the load of cheesy one-liners? I'm so disappointed. I was actually looking forward to this movie. "},{"Title":"This movie heralded the start of the decline for James Bond.","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is one of the most popular, and certainly the best Bond staring Roger Moore, but it also contains some of the worst series-killing moments which foreshadowed the abysmal Moonraker. There is an awful lot to like about The Spy Who Loved Me as it features one of the best Bond girls ever; Barbara Bach as Russian agent Major Amasova. She is beautiful, cunning, and strong, and doesn't just fall helplessly into Moore's arms at the drop of a zipper. This film also featured one of the most impressive cars in the entire series, a Lotus Esprit famously equipped as a submarine. The action is crisp, the opening sequence is terrific, and the plot is generally very good by Bond standards.But the movie does have its flaws. Wholly unlike the previous efforts by Sean Connery, Roger Moore plays Bond more of a dandy than as a secret agent. He is constantly snapping off puns, groaners, and one-liners, which when used sparingly in the Connery films were often witty, whereas for the most part they just make Moore appear foolish and full of himself. That type of wordplay was carried to absolutely ridiculous extremes by later Bonds in Die Another Day and The World is Not Enough. Also in this film, are terribly shot fight scenes. The fistfight between Sandor and Bond is a farce, worse than any of the fake fighting you will see in the WWE. The fights between Jaws and Bond are not an awful lot better. Also bad are some of the effects. For instance, the ski sequence at the beginning was excellent, but the need to show Roger Moore in a ski outfit ruined some of the effect. It was so obviously faked on a set that it just looked ridiculous. They should have just shot the entire sequence with stunt-men, and dropped all facial shots of Roger Moore fake-skiing, it would have been much more realistic. It should be noted that the film was released in 1977, however the capacity to at least make those types of scenes look realistic had been with Hollywood since back in the 60's with the release of 2001. Don't forget that 1977 was also the year Star Wars was released, and nowhere in that film do you find examples of such shoddy camera-work.Jaws is also a terrible villain. Richard Kiel is a fine actor, and he certainly looks the part of a vicious assassin, but why in the world make him invincible? He is human even if he has metal teeth, there is no need to turn him into a caricature! But in this film, he gets shot in the teeth (sigh), kills a shark by biting it to death, rips apart a truck with his bare hands, bites through a thick metal chain, and has about 20 tons of rock and rubble fall on him to no effect. It gets much much worse in Moonraker when we see him falling out of an airplane before happily walking away, followed by a scene of him biting through a cable-car cable. When they had an actor with such an imposing presence, one has to wonder why they would waste him on these light comedic moments more worthy of an Ernest movie.Still, the movie is certainly one of the better Bonds. The end battle between the evil forces of Stromberg and the combined crews of 3 nuclear submarines is extremely well done. The whole taking over the world plot is held together by a very sinister bad guy played by the excellent Curd Jurgens, and the gadgets and vehicles were all very well thought out. It is just incredibly frustrating to start finding Three Stooges elements showing up in the storyline. I think what happened was that fans were awed by the jet-ski, the sub sequences, the Lotus Esprit, Barbara Bach's impressive cleavage, etc. but the producers thought that they were actually appreciating the more slapstick moments (the car ending up sticking out of the house, Jaws wiping off his coat every time he should have been killed, Bond's endless puns, etc.). So instead of making Bond wiser, darker, and more refined in future movies, they just turned him into more of a clown. And the same thing happened to Jaws, don't forget in Moonraker he turns good because he falls in love with a girl who has braces!!!!! (The travesty! Talk about wasting an otherwise impressive character!!) All in all, a very good Bond. It could have been better, but a worthy addition to the series nonetheless and the last one before the abysmally bad Moonraker.R. "}{"Title":"good","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The spy who loved me i thought was a good movie. This movie was made in 1977, the 4th james bond movie in the 1970's and the 10th movie in total. 10 james bond movies had been made in just 15th years (that's from 1962 - 1977) and so far there had only been 3 actors that played James Bond (Sean Connery, George Lazenby, and Roger Moore) I thought the 3 of them were brilliant but i think George Lazenby did it the least best because he only starred as James Bond only once which was the 1967 release of On her majesty's secret service. I am looking forward to the next james bond movie which will be the 21st, the movie hasn't been confirmed with a title yet but i am sure it will be confirmed soon, the movie will be released in 2005 which is next year according to the year were are on now (2004) The spy who loved me was spoofed with Austin Powers as the title for it's 2nd movie was The spy who shagged me. I give the spy who loved me 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bond takes a partner...but to what advantage?","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lewis Gilbert directs this one of the best James Bond flicks. Roger Moore comes into his own as the Agent 007. Great stunts, awesome locales, and methodical intrigue. Our super spy teams with a seductive Russian agent(Barbara Bach)to foil a shipping tycoon(Curd Jurgens)who has been seizing nuclear submarines. Bond skis off mountains; goes underwater; and makes use of Q's(Desmond Llewelyn)latest gadgets to get the job done. Richard Kiel plays Jaws the metal mouthed menace. Also in the cast areWalter Gotell, Caroline Muro and Michael Billington. It feels good to get every bang your buck can buy. "},{"Title":"The XXX of the Bond films","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nearly ten years after doing an amazing job on You Only Live Twice director Lewis Gilbert returned to the Bond series to direct the first good Roger Moore Bond flick The Spy Who Loved Me.Here Bond teams up with Vin Diesel who plays XXX to go after a freak who wants everyone to live underwater! THE MADNESS I TELL YA!Wait! That sentence didn't sound right. Let me write it again!Here Bond teams up with XXX ) played by the beautiful Barbara Bach to stop Karl Stromberg from destroying everything and creating a new world under the sea. The action scenes are great and so is the humor. Plus this film features the best henchman next to Oddjob. "},{"Title":"A Tanker grandiose on the exterior, hollow inside","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me is another very ambitious attempt by the James Bond series to make money by making things bigger and better.  To make my job easier, I'll just run up a list of pros and cons before getting to my final analysis.Pros Richard Kiel will always be known for his role as Jaws.  The amount of physical control needed for such a role, not to mention wearing that hideous dental appliance, make his performance one of the best in the entire series.  Not like that means much.Ken Adam provides some lavish set design again, but it is lacking the artistry of Barry Lyndon.  Many sets are rather monolithic and bland by comparison.  The camera is not wanting to take much advantage of his work, though.The score is not particularly great, but it is better than many other Bond efforts.  Compared to what Alan Silvestri, Jerry Goldsmith, and James Horner can do, it's peanuts.  Speaking of which, Carly Simon's song is good (not compared to Sheena Easton's in For Your Eyes Only), but is leagues beyond what Madonna did.Lastly, I felt the pre-credits sequence flaunted Lewis Gilbert's directorial talents.  He fuses music, inventive cinematography, and editing into a fun and memorable fashion, too bad the rest of the movie lacks the same energy.  It is just a shame that so many elements in this movie, Kiel included, were wasted in Moonraker.Cons Roger Moore never has been a good actor.  The problem with the OO7 series is that they hire too many presence actors like Sean Connery, Moore, and Kurt Jurgens and not enough character actors like Nicolas Cage.  If that problem were solved, there just might be better performances.Barbara Bach was an annoyance to watch.  It almost boiled down to outright humiliation on her part.  The OO7 writers will never think up inventive characters for their movies, will they?The camera is not very exploring this time and neither is the script.  I found the message to be between both glasnost and detente in purpose and a failure all the way.  The Abyss better captures the naive concept of world peace (and is better in every other category for that matter).  I can't tell if the Bond series is trying to be pacifist or anti-nuke in their intentions, that or they're just promoting violence for the purpose of selling tickets.Overall, The Spy Who Loved Me is better than most of the films in the series, but still has a long way to go before it can champion over For Your Eyes Only.  Moore's best, no doubt.  2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"EVERYBODY does it better","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy Who Loved Me has a sublime theme song, superbly sung by Carly Simon. Yet on every other level the movie is a complete washout.Commercially, it was a hit, with it's $79.9 million gross over twice that of the previous film in the series. (Though in fairness, The Man With The Golden Gun was nearly half as cheap to make). Critically, too, this film is generally regarded, if not the best of the series, then the best vehicle for Roger Moore.Personally, I can't see why. While it IS a step up from the all-time nadir of Golden Gun, it is still a wholly unsatisfying movie. Maybe it's the greatest hits mentality behind it that pleases so many, as Thunderball is gutted to form the basis of it's plot. The pre-credits teaser is a rehash of the skiing stunts from On Her Majesty's Secret Service, and many of the elements of that flawed-yet-worthwhile flick seem to be dredged up here. For this is one of the few times Bond has a relationship with a woman that isn't based solely on his libido. (Though Barbara Bach as Agent XXX must qualify as the most gratuitous display of cleavage in a Bond movie - and THAT'S a feat).007's murdered wife is mentioned in the film, and this gives us one of the few moments where Moore does any acting. Make no mistake, while his sense of irony was a breath of fresh air in Live and Let Die, here it is a noxious odour. The constant schoolboyish, smutty puns are no longer post-modern, just DUMB, and date the film quicker than any 60's equivalent. Bach, who plays off Moore as a female counterpart, kills any repartee with what may seem wooden acting, but is probably just the actress weighed down by her heavy cod Russian accent.Stromberg is a sub-sub-sub Blofeld, surrounded by a set that outdoes Dr.No's aquarium with all the spectacle but with none of the style. Richard Kiel does well as the mute Jaws, but his mechanised fight then fall through a window with Roger on the train is a straight steal from the fight with Tee-Hee, just two films earlier. And Moore CAN'T do fight scenes, giving us a series of incongruous edits.Amidst all this Deja Vu is a series of pointless, dumbed-down chases, explosions and unrealistic sex. Bond can even dodge bullets in this one, for goodness sake! But the real crime is that 95% of negative views surrounding James Bond films seem to stem from this era - and that IS unforgivable. "},{"Title":"Absolutely the best Bond film","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my favourite Bond film and, in my opinion, represents the perfect Bond formula. 1. Spy vs. Spy with the classic opponent - Russia 2. Fab theme song 3.Good character plot agent XXX has a personal vendetta against Bond 4.Introduction of Jaws!! Yay! 5. Great, sinister baddie with cool 'take over the world' plot 6. Good chemistry between Bond and Bach 7.Excellent use of Bach's 'Air on the G string' piece 8. Great gadgets -underwater car, etc. 9. Barbara Bach looks great - esp in slinky dress. 10. Great exotic location Egypt. I hope that the new Bond films - which are really sad - will pick up the flair and panache of the earlier ones like Spy and also Moonraker. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"More humor than the others","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is not as silly as The man with the Golden Gun, but not as serious as For your eyes Only this film is in the middle.  I thought the film drags in the first half, but my wife disagrees. It has all the Bond saves the world excitement, with huge explosions at the ending.  This film introduces the Jaws character to infuse some new blood for the Bond series. "},{"Title":"One Of The Weakest Entry In Bond Series But Very Entertaining","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lewis Gilbert is one director i am not a fan of but at least he is better then hacks like Marc Forster & Sam Mendez.The Plotsome submarines goes missing carrying nuclear bombs James bond goes to investigate the matter but he bumps into Stromberg a bad guys who has plans to build an underwater world and nuke the entire population in the entire world.this is just Thunderball 1965 story repeated again with a twist i mean enough of nuke bombs please.i will not go into long detail about this film as a lot of other people have already explained everything about it but i will tell what i didn't like here & why it affected the film so much.the dialogs are passable,Jaws is great as usual attacking bond,the villain is terrible & totally lame here seriously Stromberg or whatever his name is his plan is a failure from start to finish he is not just interesting to watch i don't even count him as a bond villain.no doubt the pace is slow but thanks to the extreme stunts & some solid action scenes this film gets saved the opening mountain parachute stunt to the underwater & on highway car chase it is amazing to see.Roger Moore is fantastic he never lets you get bored but what could he do this time the script was bad,Barbra Bach is hot as a bond girl the theme song Nobody does it better is nice to listen at night its a relaxing song.this is not my favorite bond film but as a huge James bond fan i have to say this is very exiting,thrilling & a lot better then those new Daniel Craig films the reboot killed 007.famous actor & director Vin Diesel made a film called xxx aka Triple X in year 2002 he took a lot of inspiration from bond films specially this one the spy who loved me all the action even the climax stunt is same but in reverse he goes from ground to the sky instead of jumping from sky or mountain using parachute.The Spy Who Loved Me 1977 is a proof that nobody does it better then agent James bond 007 this film is enjoyable even with its heavy flaws my rating is 5/10Recommended. "},{"Title":"Inspired a certain Mike Meyer's movie of a similar name","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The one scene that I remember from this movie is where James Bond and Agent XXX drive out of the ocean in a Lotus and across a crowded beach, and Bond then tosses a fish out of the window. I also remembered the massive ship that travelled around stealing submarines, as well as the undersea hide out that the bad guy lived it. Not only do James Bond supervillains live in extra-ordianry hideouts, and are extra-ordianrily wealthy, but they also tend to all be loners. However it must have been the last couple of movies that I watched, because the other supervillains all seemed to have at least henchmen surrounding them.Basically a British and a Russian sub go missing, so the Russians and the British decide to team up and attempt to locate the subs. Mind you, Bond is in Austria, having sex with a beautiful woman (who ends up to be a Russian spy) and then is chased down a mountain by a bunch of other Russian spies on skis, and when he gets to the cliff, he leaps off and a parachute bearing the Union Jack opens up (while the Russian spies fall off the edge).James Bond just simply cannot die, and one of the ways that seems to give him that immortality is his sex appeal. It seems that no matter how determined the woman is to kill James Bond, a bottle of champaigne, and a mattress with some sheets on it, seems to sway them away from killing Bond to simply having sex with him. I have noticed that some of the girls are starting to get jealous, such as Goodnight, but then Moneypenny is always jealous, however all Bond has to do is say, 'Miss Moneypenny' and for some reason that jealousy seems to melt away in the belief that maybe, just maybe, she will get that dinner date with Bond. M seems to know better though.Mind you, James Bond is simply not James Bond is Bond and one of the many Bond girls that he picks up along the way, are not caught in the act by their superiors at the end of the movie. I've also noticed that Bond seems perfectly content with sleeping with just one girl at a time, because I can't remember him having more than one, though I do have a vague memory that maybe that may not be the case, because there seems to be supervillains that love to surround them with henchmen that are beautiful women, though maybe that is because he wants to give James Bond some enjoyment before he attempts to kill him, and inevitably fails.Anyway, what is James Bond without a demonstration of what comes out of Q's workshop, but Q's workshop seems to appear at those places which tend to be most convenient for Bond when on a mission (in 'Man with the Golden Gun' MI6 have pretty much moved their entire office to the wreck of the Queen Elizabeth in Hong Kong). However, it is not the Q division that makes this film stand out, it is the henchman, Jaws. Maybe he is the best, maybe he is not, but what makes him stand out is that, like James Bond, he just doesn't seem to know how to die. Oh, and those teeth seem to be able to bite through anything. "},{"Title":"Retrospection illuminates its faults","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Time has not been kind to the Roger Moore Bonds, particularly in light of Daniel Craig's showing (Quantum Of Solace being the most recent Bond at the time of writing). Moore's lightweight, tongue in cheek approach was, perhaps, right for the time as well as being a logical extension of the gradually jokier tone taken by the Bond series towards the end of Sean Connery's run). But looking back on them from this distance in time, the comedic elements now seem so overpowering as to negate the action / adventure elements, and Moore never really convinces us that he is particularly dangerous.Which is not to say that there isn't anything to enjoy here - quite the contrary. Although the plot is recycled again from You Only Live Twice (one of the more regrettable tendencies of the Moore era), the trappings are quite good fun - the Atlantis oceanic base, the submarine-trapping tanker, and the trademark spectacular studio sets are all pleasing evidence of production values, Carly Simon's theme song is one of the classic themes, and Barbara Bach is one of the better Bond leading ladies (although Curt Jurgens doesn't really make a mark as the baddie).But Richard Kiel's Jaws, enjoyable at the time, now comes across as incredibly cheesy. And, sad to say, Moore is far too lightweight to be a convincing James Bond. "}{"Title":"the spy who pleased me","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first bond film I ever watched was 'die another day', and from that day I always enjoyed, pierce brosnan as he is the bond of my time. the fifth bond film I watched, and my introduction to roger Moore, was moon raker, and I did not think a bond film could get any worse, and although the spy who loved me is very simular to moon raker I actually liked more. first of all there is such thing as a sea navy, and there is such thing as sea marines, yet there is not such thing as a space navy and I wonder why moon raker was made as soon as star wars was made? because their copycats! well enough with moon raker. In this film it was good to see bond actually hold a gun, and the most entertaining thing was the car that transformed into a submarine. out of all Russians that have been on James bond, this one was certainly the sexiest. it also had a good introduction to jaws, pity his next was so bad. "},{"Title":"One word Superb!","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh, what a fantastic movie this is, the best Bond movie so far, i just loved it since the moment it begun, it had me thrilled, entertained, deeped the whole movie, and there wasn't a single scene that bored me, wow, just an astonishing accomplishment.This is the first Roger Moore bond film that i watched and boy i loved him because of this performance, many people accuse him of being funny but not a deserving and worthy 007, but it is not like that, OK, he had particular ease for funny lines (he made me laugh lots of times) but he also could play the serious guy, and he had that special charm that the British agent should have (Connery doesn't have that Charm, he is too tough for the part for me).The bond girl this time Barbara Bach. OK, she is beautiful in this film, she isn't as good actress as pretty she is, but unless she made an effort to make a nice performance, not the best you can find in Bond movies, but no the worse either.The relationship between James and Major Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach) is always fun to watch since they are the best British spy and the best Russian counterpart so, they are always competing to prove who is the best. And it is amazing to think that in the 70's a woman could be competing to a man in first place, because that's a 90's woman feature, so her part can be considered revolutionary.Now, let's leave the actors aside and let's focus in the music, in what respects to me, the best Bond song so far, high 5 for Carly Simon for giving us this perfect song.The locations are great as in all Bond movies of course, and one of the best scenes ever are in this movies. We have, for instance that scene of Bond skiing dressed of yellow, one of the best ever, and was made by stunts in only one shot! It is unbelievable. that was great. And then the movie takes us to Egypt, Italy, and to the Sea Base of Karl Stromberg (the villain).....There is something that could have been better, but it is something usual in Bond movies, the main assistant of the villain ( in this case, Jaws) is almost invincible, so that's maybe the only flaw in Bond franchise. Many people say this villain is great, and others say it is a horrible character for that same reason, but those who say this, also say that their favourite Bond Villain is Oddjob!!!C'mon, that's the most stupid character in all the movies, he didn't even speak, c'mon!But i leave it up to you to decide, whether this is or not the best Bond movie ever, it is for me, since it is a perfect mix of everything the bond franchise is about.....so i give The spy who loved me ***** out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Fun but empty rehash of earlier Bond films","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore's third outing as 007 is often regarded as his best,even by Moore himself. It's hard to see why. After the perceived disappointment of The Man With The Golden Gun which in some ways is a better film than this one if not as entertaining,and it's relative commercial failure,the filmmakers decided to spend a budget nearly twice as big on their next Bond film. In this respect,they succeeded. All of the budget is up there on the screen. Some of the visuals are stunning Stromberg's sea laboratory rising from the sea like a a huge frog is a terrific imageand there is the largest amount of sheer spectacle since You Only Live Twice.Special effects are excellent.However elsewhere the film really has problems. The major problem is the constant deriving from previous Bond films .Yes,all Bond films have tried and trusted elements,and often rehash earlier films,but The Spy Who Loved Me,as one critic pointed out,plays like a Greatest Hits package. It plays even more like a remake of You Only Live Twice,many scenes and even some shots are alike. Some sequences,like the opening ski chase and parachute jump a classic,iconic Bond image as he falls through the air and his Union Jack parachute sprouts,or the Lotus Esprit chase which carries on underwater,are impressive,but much of the rest seems clumsy. The locations,especially those in Egypt,are lushly photographed,but much of the film is ruined by steel toothed giant Jaws,who soon becomes tiresome. Moore has perfected his lighthearted,jokey Bond,but never gives the sense of being in danger,and although him and Barbara Bach's Soviet agent do have some chemistry the chances of this becoming one of Bond's more interesting relationships are soon blown.A lavish,fun but particularly empty entry. "},{"Title":"007 novice","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although I know that when one watches a Bond movie one should suspend one's disbelief and enjoy the movie for what it is, but I couldn't help finding The Spy who Loved me pretty pathetic.  I am obviously not a Bond fan, and I haven't seen many Bond movies, but of the ones I have seen (3, 2 of which i do remember), this was the worst.Granted, the gadgets are entertaining (Q's lab), but the dialog was ridiculous (I am out of words / Let me expand your vocabulary-- what kind of crap is that?).  I assume no Bond movie is void of clichés, and this one is no exception.  I have lived in the Middle East for 22 years, I have yet to walk into a tent with sexy half-naked belly dancers / odalisques sleeping with guests to please their lord (or whatever the guy is supposed to be).I liked the opening credits and most of the soundtrack.  But the rest just didn't do it for me.   "},{"Title":"The Bond franchise revives with an epic, if flawed, adventure","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERSAfter the Box Office failure of The Man with the Golden Gun, it looked as if James Bond's time may have gone, and he was regarded in some quarters as a relic of the 60s who was no longer relevant to 70s filmgoers. Matters were not helped either by the break-up of the partnership between Harry Saltzman and Albert R Broccoli, which had brought the first nine Bond films to the big screen. Broccoli, however, was determined to continue on his own, and in 1977 The Spy Who Loved Me duly appeared. A lush, epic film, it proved to be a huge hit and got the franchise firmly back on track, ensuring OO7's survival for many more years to come.Watching TSWLM, it is not surprising it was so popular, even though it does have some serious flaws. Broccoli brought back Lewis Gilbert, who had made You Only Live Twice, to direct, and Gilbert brings the same epic scale to TSWLM that he supplied to the earlier film. This is established from the beginning in one of the greatest pre-credit sequences in the whole Bond series, as OO7 skis down a mountain slope, pursued by enemies, only to make a breathtaking leap off a precipice and then reveal that he has a Union Jack parachute. Arguably the film never tops this opening scene, although there are plenty of other great sights, particularly the stylish Lotus Esprit which turns into an underwater vessel and the villain Stromberg's grandiose hideout beneath the waves. The final shoot-out in Stromberg's HQ is also well-staged.The plot is pretty much secondary to style in this film, but it is also suitably OTT, with Stromberg planning to cause a nuclear holocaust on land in order to create his dream undersea world. The film also attempts a departure from usual practice by making the Bond girl into a Soviet agent who has a grudge against Bond for killing her lover. This is a promising set-up, but unfortunately Barbara Bach is too wooden an actress to make Major Amasova believable, and not enough tension is generated between her and Bond after she finds out he is responsible for her boyfriend's death. Roger Moore is partly responsible for this, because in this film he abandons any attempt to explore the darker side of Bond, preferring to stroll through proceedings with the occasional raised eyebrow and a thoroughly laid-back demeanour, taking nothing very seriously. It is a suave but shallow performance, lacking any real depth of character, although the look on Moore's face when he throws a fish out of the window of the Lotus Esprit is priceless. The problem is that there is never really a moment where we feel as if OO7 is in genuine danger, and the film thus lacks an air of menace and threat, which in my view is a quality the very best Bonds possess.The villains, sadly, do not help matters. Curt Jurgens is rather dull as Stromberg, not really coming across as a convincing megalomaniac, and in my opinion he is one of the more forgettable Bond baddies. The same cannot of course be said for the invincible Jaws, played memorably by Richard Kiel. A giant of a man with deadly steel teeth, Jaws proves himself a formidable opponent for Bond, but unfortunately he is just too absurd and cartoonish to take seriously. The running joke through the film about him always surviving mishaps that would kill ordinary men is amusing to start with, but it does grow tiresome and just helps to turn Jaws more into a comic character, rather than a menacing figure. Symptomatic of this is his fight on the train with Bond; it is well done, but because Jaws is more funny than scary it completely lacks the tension and excitement of the great Orient Express showdown between OO7 and Red Grant in From Russia with Love. Like other Bond films of this era, TSWLM is rather too keen on playing things for laughs, notably early on when OO7 enacts a pretty feeble Lawrence of Arabia parody.Ultimately The Spy Who Loved Me is closer to fantasy than espionage, a triumph of style over substance, but in spite of the high quota of comedy and self-parody that it contains, and the lack of any real characterisation, it still manages to be a stylish and enjoyable film, with several great sequences. It also has the big plus of featuring the greatest of all Bond themes, Carly Simon's wonderful Nobody Does it Better, which really sums up the glamorous essence of OO7. It is not one of the great Bonds, and not even the best that Roger Moore made (that honour goes to For Your Eyes Only), but it does at least provide some decent entertainment and is certainly superior to the other Bond films of its decade. "},{"Title":"Don't ask; I don't know","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Could hold one or two small spoilersThe Spy Who Loved Me is rated by many to be one of Roger Moore's best films and an overall success in the series. It is a return to the character-driven plot of From Russia With Love and On Her Majesty's Secret Service. The story certainly seems good in essence. But when put into film, the plot turns out flattened and unexciting.As I said, the story itself is good; had Ian Fleming been alive and adapted it into a novel, it would've been a great plot. And obviously, this was a hard time on the series; Harry Saltzman had left the partnership. Cubby Brocoli was left alone to do the work of two men, and he and the cast and crew really did try to make a good film. However, they tried so hard it seems that they wore themselves out and came up with a boring film. The action looks exciting but it doesn't make me feel excited. Jaws is a boring character. Roger Moore offers nothing new or fresh in his persona as 007, and this seems like the kind of acting you'd expect him to have in Live And Let Die. He also had his gun-barrel opening re-shot. I thought his first one was boring, but this one is even worse. And the gun barrel no longer looks real. In all the other 007 films, it looked like a real gun barrel. Here, it looks like a drawing.One major problem in the film is the female lead, Major Anya Amasova. It was declared that Bond had finally met his equal. However, he had already met his equal twice before, in his bride Tracy di Vicenzo in OHMSS and Pussy Galore of Goldfinger. Anya sounds like a very interesting character, but they didn't give her an interesting role in the film. For someone who is supposed to be Bond's equal, she certainly needs to get rescued a lot, and gets far too paniced in car chases and escapes. Tracy was in a much more dangerous car chase than the one here, and didn't panic at all. In fact, she was the one driving and joking about it later! And Anya is far too easily won over at the end of the film, and by the man who killed her lover.However, this film has it's redemtions that keep it below the half-bad, half-good mark. After an ill-tempered mannerism in The Man With The Golden Gun, M has returned to normal, and even became more caring to 007. He even calls him by his first name for once. I also liked M's counterpart from Russia, General Gogol. In a time full of sterotypical evil Soviet dictators, it's nice to see a film that most likely presents the characters on the other side of the Cold War the way they probably were; much more sympathetic then we think. Of course Q is a welcome addition to the film, and his new car that is to Roger Moore what the Aston Martin is to Sean Connery; the Lotus Esprit; is incredible. I liked the villain; Carl Stromberg. Very great villain, but his death is very boring.The film gets a rating I doubt anyone has ever used; a 5 and 1/4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Don't ask; I don't know","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Could hold one or two small spoilersThe Spy Who Loved Me is rated by many to be one of Roger Moore's best films and an overall success in the series. It is a return to the character-driven plot of From Russia With Love and On Her Majesty's Secret Service. The story certainly seems good in essence. But when put into film, the plot turns out flattened and unexciting.As I said, the story itself is good; had Ian Fleming been alive and adapted it into a novel, it would've been a great plot. And obviously, this was a hard time on the series; Harry Saltzman had left the partnership. Cubby Brocoli was left alone to do the work of two men, and he and the cast and crew really did try to make a good film. However, they tried so hard it seems that they wore themselves out and came up with a boring film. The action looks exciting but it doesn't make me feel excited. Jaws is a boring character. Roger Moore offers nothing new or fresh in his persona as 007, and this seems like the kind of acting you'd expect him to have in Live And Let Die. He also had his gun-barrel opening re-shot. I thought his first one was boring, but this one is even worse. And the gun barrel no longer looks real. In all the other 007 films, it looked like a real gun barrel. Here, it looks like a drawing.One major problem in the film is the female lead, Major Anya Amasova. It was declared that Bond had finally met his equal. However, he had already met his equal twice before, in his bride Tracy di Vicenzo in OHMSS and Pussy Galore of Goldfinger. Anya sounds like a very interesting character, but they didn't give her an interesting role in the film. For someone who is supposed to be Bond's equal, she certainly needs to get rescued a lot, and gets far too paniced in car chases and escapes. Tracy was in a much more dangerous car chase than the one here, and didn't panic at all. In fact, she was the one driving and joking about it later! And Anya is far too easily won over at the end of the film, and by the man who killed her lover.However, this film has it's redemtions that keep it below the half-bad, half-good mark. After an ill-tempered mannerism in The Man With The Golden Gun, M has returned to normal, and even became more caring to 007. He even calls him by his first name for once. I also liked M's counterpart from Russia, General Gogol. In a time full of sterotypical evil Soviet dictators, it's nice to see a film that most likely presents the characters on the other side of the Cold War the way they probably were; much more sympathetic then we think. Of course Q is a welcome addition to the film, and his new car that is to Roger Moore what the Aston Martin is to Sean Connery; the Lotus Esprit; is incredible. I liked the villain; Carl Stromberg. Very great villain, but his death is very boring. The reference to Bond's wife and that it shows he hasn't forgotten her and misses her was touching.The film gets a rating I doubt anyone has ever used; a 5 and 1/4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The most entertaining Bond movie ever","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lewis Gilbert is one of the UK's most talented and versatile directors ever. In You Only Live Twice, he blended a touch of humor into a very serious Connery demeanor; in this movie, he lets loose for all the laughs imaginable.  And he gets his cast up for the challenge.  Moore has never been more delightful, and Bach has the role of her career.  The entire supporting cast is marvelously wry.  I understand that Bond purists were a little offended by this one being played strictly for laughs; get over it, because it does what is sets out to do magnificently.  If you want to be entertained as i do, this gets 10/10. "},{"Title":"It's a decent Bond film, but is sadly plagued by dullness and inconsistency.","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore films, especially Bond one's are a bit of a mixed bag. He's made some good ones, some inconsistent ones, and some horrible one's. Where does this one fall? I'd say about in the middle somewhere. The Spy Who Loved Me has quite a few moments where it shines in a big way. It has just enough of them to make this a solid entry into the Bond series, but I wish it wasn't so inconsistent to be honest. It has some really solid action scenes that had me on the edge of my seat. The gadgets are absolutely outstanding, but also a part of the problem. The Bond series was getting to be a bit too gimmicky in ways, as seen with the spectacular submarine car scene that is submerged underwater. Its exciting, don't get me wrong, but it's also what hindered the Bond series going forward. Roger Moore was growing into the Bond role nicely at this juncture. Barbra Bach has these really creepy eyes that gave me the willies, but she makes for a good Bond girl. Richard Kiel is one of the coolest Bond villains around, whilst Curd Jurgens is a tad bland as the main villainFinal Thoughts It's worth a watch for sure, but I found it to be wildly inconsistent. It seems to be liked by a lot of Bond fans, though. I did like it to a certain extent&#x85; But it does have a lot of issues6/10 "},{"Title":"The ultimate secret agent disco dance James Bond partners with the KGB...and thaws out a sexy Russkie","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When British and Soviet nuclear submarines begin vanishing in the ocean, James Bond teams with a female secret agent from Russia to bring down a capitalistic, murderous maniac who hopes to start World War III and create his own underwater civilization. Exceedingly handsome and gadget-happy 007 action film, the tenth in the series, borrows its title from Ian Fleming's book while utilizing a completely new story (per Fleming's original deal with producer Albert Broccoli). Roger Moore is less dutiful and more likable this time, and his rapport with delectable (if placid) Barbara Bach is strong (though he does tend to condescend to her, even after she saves his life). Bach's Triple X is out for revenge against the agent who killed her spy-lover; however, when her big moment of reveal arrives, it's anti-climactic because Bach is still at half-mast (of course it was Bond who iced her boyfriend, in a hectic, poorly-directed opening sequence). Audiences at the time cheered the tacky sexual innuendo and lame quips, but they do not hold up today, giving the film a cartoony undermining. On the other hand, Richard Kiel's steel-toothed henchman Jaws is a marvel, and his indignation after being tossed out a train window is a wonderful bit of under-playing (this film is Kiel's shining moment). Lewis Gilbert's direction is lukewarm (he can't even stage a quick rip-off of Spielberg's Jaws without coming off as sleazy), and the cheesy score from Marvin Hamlisch is horrendous (starting with that disco-ized Bond theme). Still, Curt Jürgens has some sneaky flair as villainous Karl Stromberg and there are several enjoyable set-pieces and colorful locales. A big hit in its day, the plot was soon pilfered for Moonraker (which exchanged the sea for the skies). ** from **** "}{"Title":"Nobody does it wetter...............","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So many James Bond films are predominantly concerned with various large bodies of water that one begins to wonder whether the producers had some kind of fetish.Certainly Mr R.Moore gets very wet,along with Miss B.Bach and a large number of stuntmen who seize every opportunity to jump into the tank whilst screaming loudly.Something clearly goes wrong in several such instances when they leap into the water fractionally before the explosion that is supposed to have precipitated them to Davey Jones's Locker. Quite why the supertanker doesn't sink when its bow doors are open as it powers along baffles me frankly and why the impetus of the submarine entering the pen doesn't force it to the back of the ship and out the other side is something perhaps Isaac Newton should be told about - but maybe I'm just a bit picky. The spy who loved me as a novel was a bit girlie for a good proportion of its length where Bond doesn't appear at all,but the film is the usual macho nonsense with our favourite government assassin cutting a swathe through the female members of the cast - even the token half - hearted feminist Russian officer.Miss B.Bach,in that role,does little but pout - either seductively or angrily as the mood takes her. As yet another megalomaniac bent on destroying the world (yawn,yawn) Mr C.Jurgens does nothing to expatiate his appearance in the dreadful I aim at the stars (but sometimes hit London). Mr R.Moore still struggles to make the weight,his fight scenes never convince that he could do 3 rounds with Mother Teresa. In my opinion the worst James Bond movie since The man with the golden gun. "},{"Title":"Moore's best turn as Bond, bar none","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE SPY WHO LOVED ME (1977) ***1/2 Moore in arguably his best Bond effort facing mad man Curt Jergens, a demented shipping magnate, whose abduction of US & USSR subs and the gorgeous Barbara Bach as an aide de camp face one of the series' most intimidating villain, Jaws (Richard Kiel), a giant, death-defying steel-toothed nightmare who has more than one memorable encounter and some fine humor-induced moments.  Best bit opening skiing sequence.  Great title song by Carly Simon. "},{"Title":"The Only Good Film From Moore","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This truly is the only good Bond film Roger Moore has ever been in. The writers finally recognized the errors of the previous 2 Moore films and they tweaked them a bit. Roger Moore actually does something other than spitting out one-liners at every moment. The supporting Cast is better than I expected here. They cast the actor for Stromberg nicely. Even though he didn't do much but sit around and push buttons he has the right screen presence. Bach playing the Russian spy was pretty good on her part. She actually got the role down correctly. She didn't do as much as I would have expected and she didn't seem like a huge threat to Bond but I understand this because this IS a Bond film. Now I must talk about the main attraction. Jaws was superb and rightfully cast by Richard Kiel. He made this film worth watching with his great screen presence as well as his cheeky moments in the film. Even though he was only on for a few seconds he made this film awesome. The fight sequences between Jaws and Bond are superb. Jaws is one of the greatest henchman ever under Oddjob. The plot here was a bit clichéd but it was still well done. Overall this is the greatest accomplishment Roger Moore has EVER done. Very good Bond Film here. "},{"Title":"Action, Humor and beautiful Girls.","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yeah, is a very nice movie, with the waited amount of action, humor, beautiful girls, and Moore performing a near perfect Bond. The pre-credit scene is one of the most entartaining of all the series. The only let down of the movie comparing with others Bond films, is the low variety of locations, but the ones in the movie are great. The girl is very tough and beautiful, you know, Bond's style. The villain is not my favorite and is not the best of the movie, but i have to say that Jaws is very fun to watch. The strong part of the movie is the action, is just Top Notch, and the other strong part is the humor, that is very constant and funny. Yeah, i like The Spy Who Loved Me and you Bond Fan will like it too. I give it 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Moore's best outing as Bond.","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bond joins forces with a Russian babe to stop Curt Jurgens from creating chaos.Fun,exciting 007 adventure with great sets and the always hilarious Jaws(played menacingly by Richard Kiel).Carly Simon sings the title song.Rating**** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"The spy who numbed me (tv)","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bond is the oldest franchise in movies and unless you are a hardcore fan (which I'm not), his movies are usually taken for appetizers watched by bit, discovered when there are nothing else. The « Roger Moore Era» fits the description as they are from late 70s and 80s thus not as old as those from Connery and less violent than the recent ones. From this perspective, this one is a disappointment  it starts wells with a cold war background, exotic Egyptian locations and a great character with Miss Bach. Moore has the style and phlegm of Englishman. But as soon as they leave Egypt, the movie just crumbles  the bad guy has been seen a thousand times as well as his aquatic base, the climax is just an endless boring assault. At the end, you will realize that this franchise can be seen as a pure Englishman fantasy  one man saves the world, he does all the babes he want, he lives in the most luxurious places  well, it's just totally dumb ! "},{"Title":"A shaky and messy story but the humor and presence of Roger Moore and Richard Kiel and other Bond regulars compensate for this.","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore was by far the most entertaining Bond. Not the best but really the most enjoyable. His Bond movies are definitely the most fun to watch and have a very large amount of humor in them.The story is basically below average and is also really confusing at times. Also the way the story is handled in the movie is truly lacking at times. The movie at times totally abandons the main plot-line and therefor most elements of the movie don't really work out the way they were supposed to. Best example of this is the villain. His role is quite limited in this movie, even despite the fact that the villains are always one of the most important aspects of a Bond movie. They can make the movie a memorable and good one, even when the story isn't. Curd Jürgens is a good actor and he is also certainly good in his role but his part is simply too limited to really leaves his mark on the James Bond series. His villainous-plot doesn't play a prominent enough part in the movie and therefor the movie gets really messy to follow at times. It even gets confusing at times, even though the story itself is of course quite simple.Still The Spy Who Loved Me is an above average Bond-flick. This is mainly due to the humor in the movie. It makes the movie extremely entertaining and fun to watch. Main reason why the movie is so entertaining and fun is thanks to Roger Moore, who portrays Bond with a dry sense of humor and also thanks to Richard Kiel. Kiel who plays the hit-man Jaws in this movie. He does not only play one of the most memorable Bond villains out of the long series but also one of the most memorable characters out of movie history, even though he has no lines at all in the movie. The look and strong presence of Jaws makes him an extremely good and memorable character, that also truly uplifts the movie and its action at times.The movie fortunately also has some real good and memorable moments. Like I mentioned before, all of the moments and action with Jaws are really good and memorable and so is the massive end fight aboard the tanker. Unfortunately that's not the finale of the movie and after that another fights follows and the rather disappointing stand-off with the main villain Stromberg, played by Curd Jürgens.The cinematography by Claude Renoir, who was slightly getting blind during production is quite fantastic at times and help to make this movie an above average Bond. None other than Stanley Kubrick helped out with the lighting during the massive tanker sequences because of Renoir's decreasing eye sight.Ken Adam once more provides some impressive looking sets and also the art directing from Peter Lamont is fine.The unusual funky musical score is from Marvin Hamlisch and is surprising good and fits in well with the movie.So Roger Moore and Richard Kiel are basically the reason why this movie works so good as entertainment but of course they are also helped by other Bond regulars such as Bernard Lee, Walter Gotell, Desmond Llewelyn and Lois Maxwell. Unfortunately Barbara Bach is an horrible Bond-girl because of the very simple reason that she just can't act. Truly one of the worst Bond-girls out of the series, even despite the fact that she is very good looking.All in all it's a very entertaining Bond movie with some spectacular moments and good action, all brought with some good humor and with a Roger Moore in good form. The movie is good to watch even though the story itself is extremely shaky and messy told.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Great Chemistry and Villain Make Film","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spy Who Loved Me, The (1977) *** (out of 4) British and Russian submarines are hijacked so James Bond (Roger Moore) sets out to try and locate the man responsible. Along the way he teams up with the beautiful Agent XXX (Barbara Bach) and the two must deal with the villain (Curd Jurgens) and his maniac assistant known as Jaws (Richard Kiel). There's so many great things in this movie that by the time it was over I couldn't help but wish I had enjoyed the film more than I did. It's strange that I enjoyed so much here but in the end the story was just way too weak for my liking and the direction wasn't nearly enough to keep everything moving for me. There's a ton of plot going on here and there's even more action going on but at times it just felt like there was too much going on and the majority of the story was all over the place. This thing clocks in at just 125-minutes but I could have sworn it was at least thirty-minutes longer, which tells me that some editing could have happened. I think fifteen or twenty-minutes shorter would have made for a better film. With that said, there's still a lot to enjoy here including the brilliant opening sequence on the snow slopes and the leap off the cliff is certainly something marvelous to see. This is one case where the director does the right thing and keeps the music score off because it really adds more to the sequence by not having any music. Another great thing is Kiel as the villain Jaws. The actor always had that wonderful frame and it does the character great justice here as he clearly steals the film each time he's on the screen. Jurgens is also quite good when he's on screen and Caroline Monroe looks incredible in that bathing suit but it's a shame she's not here for too long. I thought Moore turned in the best performance (so far) because of the smoothness he brought to the role but he also handled the one-liners very well and managed to mix it up with Bach. Moore and Bach are excellent together and they really do sell their up and down romance because the two actor just have so much chemistry together. The action scenes are both hit and miss but one major hit is the car chase that happens in the middle of the film. The stuff towards the end just seemed way too cartoonish for my liking and not for a second was any of it believable. I'm not really a fan of Carly Simon but her title song here is without question one of the best. I can understand why so many people enjoy this film but for me it was a very good but extremely flawed film that could have benefited from a rewrite. "},{"Title":"Not just completely implausible, but also completely ridiculous","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm willing to suspend all common sense and logic when it comes to a Bond film, but this really hits you right between the eyes in sheer stupidity and utter ridiculousness. First off, we have the generic villain who firmly believes civilization above waters are limited and primitive, and that his own Utopia below waters is the answer. ????? Whatever. I can let that slide, heh. It WAS made in the 70s. That's not my beef though... it's how said generic villain goes about accomplishing this ingenious grandiose scheme. I assumed the conversation between the production crew and director was something along the lines of thisDirector Lewis Gilbert Okay, we have our comical villain and Roger Moore's set to play the goofy Bond. What can we do to make this movie stand out from the rest of the series?Production Crew How about a bunch of silly story contrivances, another wacky villain, more comically stupid henchmen, and plenty of horribly choreographed chase scenes for no explicable reason?There's one comical moment where Jaws jumps down on a catwalk to go kick the crap out of Moore, but lo and behold, the thing he rides on to come down catches him, and hauls him back up. If that seriously doesn't make you want to go kick that television set... =) Anyhoo, The Spy Who Loved Me is filled with similar scenes that will leave you scratching your head. I'm constantly asking myself, WTF was the point of this scene? and WTF was the point of that chase scene? How about a scene where Moore and his Bondmobile emerges from the ocean and he decides to be funny and drop a fish out the window (how it got in there defies all explanation but I'm assuming it was the power of Bond sucking all credibility and sensibility into him). Ridiculous. Of course this is all resolved with the absolute most obscene ending possible. Imagine Bond staring dumbfounded that his mighty powers won't be able to save the world, but hey, here's an instruction manual detailing how you can trick comically stupid villains into blowing each other up.Dumb story points and moronic scripting aside, you could say the movie's saving grace was its number of beautiful women... wait, that's all Bond films. Wow, there's really no redeeming value of this movie. Shrugs.3/10 "},{"Title":"a kids poor","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was told that the spy who loved me was the best film of Roger Moore, told me that Roger Moore was very funny and his James Bond was different, but that was fine ... ¡¡I do not remember who was the moron who told me this whole string of menaces that killed him but! Only he was right about one thing what is a different James Bond ... ¡¡And so different! This gentleman is an absolute nonsense of James Bond, is a parody of James Bond. ¡¡It is an insult to James Bond! I am ... enervate (musaaaaaaaaa. ... ... muss ....). muss I already feel better.Lately I see it being this long sagas, such as Star Trek or all of, here, Agent 007. I have seen of the Timothy Dalton I liked a lot, I've obviously seen the Brosnan of which are highly entertaining and flotilla's, the 2 (hopefully more) of Daniel Craig (the best of the Bond saga) and some of Sean Connery (as put in place or second place with Craig sharing) I can not the only George Lazenby to decide whether or not it is worse Moore.After the danger of such crap, yet I have left to see other works of Moore and the truth, just thinking that this is the best (in the opinion of many ...) I get a sort of intestinal diarrhea I ca go over five times when I think I see the others. I'll have to see them in my notebook and sat on the toilet in case.By the way, does anyone know who the hell was the damn idea to put this poor little fool of grace in the role of 007? Or paste your face or your physical hits, or hits anything at all. In my humble opinion, rather than face the sea bream with bread, could have been tested with great dramatic interpreter of Hollywood of the era known for its rotary kick Rome, the great Chuck Norris. I say tragic because the poor man has a facial palsy that requires him to put the face of whatever asshole scene filmed, but that is another issue to be addressed in other reviews.The argument of the film, I must be honest, I remember little more (my memory was blocked with each of the ridiculous gags and phrases morons to let go of our beloved secret agent) but I can assure you are at the same level as the minds bromides.The only thing that had some interest in the film is the presentation of Mr. Shark, very little for 2 hours long this nightmare "}{"Title":"This movie is garbage","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I would like to start off by saying I am NOT a Bond fan. But I am a huge movie buff who loves non stop action movies. When I saw The Spy Who Loved Me for the first time, I was excited as I thought that this would be an excellent non stop action flick. I was wrong. This was a boring 2 hour movie that had NOTHING to offer the audience. The movie didn't have any action and the storyline was SO LAME, pointless and simple. The acting was also horrible. Even 007 star Roger Moore seemed like he was bored in this film. The main villain stromberg wasn't menacing enough and didn't show any annoyance towards Bond. Stromberg was not just boring, HE WAS STUPID!!! He even let Bond kill him at the end. That is so Lame for a Bond villain to just sit there while Bond kills him. Curt Jurgens clearly did not have any acting experience and should not have been cast for this role. The other problem with this movie is that it did not have any action. We all know that bond films are supposed to be action films. When I was watching this, I kept waiting for a good solid action scene. The only good scene was the part with the underwater car and even that scene didn't have enough action. The rest of the movie IS GARBAGE. Everyone in this movie looks bored and it shows. The acting is bad, The story is bad and everything in this movie is bad. I want to give everyone here a piece of advice. DON'T BUY THIS MOVIE IF YOU REALLY WISH TOO SEE HOW BAD THIS MOVIE IS THEN RENT IT BUT DON'T BUY IT EVEN IF YOU ARE A SERIOUS BOND FAN DON'T BUY IT BECAUSE THIS MOVIE IS NOTHING BUT A PIECE OF GARBAGE "},{"Title":"Simply more of the same tired old sh*te. If you like it, fair enough, otherwise find something else to do","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know the Bond franchise has been 're-branded' with Daniel Craig as Bond, but fundamentally the formula is the same 007, who is not only fit, intelligent, sophisticated, smart, a super shot but also the template of all babe magnets takes on an impossible task and wins. That's eat. Perhaps the most recent two have quite followed the template in that they are not quite as predicable as once they were, but the upshot is you either like this kind of nonsense or you don't. And here in Britain if you don't like 'the Bond films', you are regarded as something of an oddity. Well, although I have occasionally caught the odd film and, as today, been obliged to see almost all of it, I lost complete interest in Bond and that franchises assorted clichés way, way, way back when the daddy of all 007s, Sean Connery, the only upper-class English gent with a Leith accent (Leith is what was once a downmarket part of Edinburgh, certainly so when Connery was young, although these days I understand it is very ch-chi, with 'bistros' and PR firms and the headquarters of green sustainability quangos) was the man himself. Then they did absolutely nothing for me and still don't. Despite the apparent different scenarios, they all follow the same tired old routine, with all the same tired old puns and 'jokes'. But this will mean nothing to those who do like Bond. They will say something like 'he's soooo missing the point'. No, I'm not. But just as some people think a McDonald's is related to food, some think the 007s films are related to quality. I don't. "},{"Title":"Hull number of American submarine captured by Stromberg","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film certainly has its exciting moments and I was enjoying it until I noticed something that made me take great exception. When Stromberg's ship captures the American submarine with Bond and Major Amasova aboard, the hull number of the sub is shown as 593. SSN-593 was USS THRESHER which was lost with all 129 aboard on 10 April 1963 following a mechanical casualty during diving tests.Of all the submarine hull numbers available, why did the producers use the number of a vessel lost with all hands? It seems to me in poor taste for the producers to use the hull number of a submarine that was lost. "},{"Title":"Moore`s Best Bond Film","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE SPY WHO LOVED ME strikes the right balance between action and humour.Unlike later Bond films the humour is kept rightfully in its place , true we still get the same old innuendos like  something just came up  but wisecracks like  all those feathers and he still can`t fly  work for a change . Marvin Hamlisch`s synth music makes a welcome change from John Barry , TSWLM contains some of the best action scenes ever seen in the series , and Jaws makes one of the most memorable Bond villains ever . Just a pity he was brought back for the farcical MOONRAKER . The only bad points are some very obvious back projection which spoiled Lewis Gilbert`s last Bond contribution , and the fact it`s the Brits and Yanks fighting side by side that saves the day, what happened to the Soviet crew ? But THE SPY WHO LOVED ME is one of the greatest Bond films ever made , perhaps the best Bond film since it kept me totally entertained during its running time and I`ve never been much of a fan "},{"Title":"The Spy Who Loved Me","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is Sir Roger Moore's third outing as James Bond. This time we see him as a commander, we haven't seen him like this since You Only Live Twice. His mission is to investigate disappearances of nuclear submarines, with the help of the beautiful Russian agent XXX, Major Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach). Along the way he meets the nasty Carl Stromberg (Curt Jurgens), and his henchmen (the best henchmen of them all), tall metal-toothed Jaws (Richard Kiel), he returns in the next Bond. This is a very good outing filled with more marvellous action and brilliant gadgets, including a Lotus car that turns into a submarine. Also starring Caroline Munro as Naomi, Walter Gotell as General Anatol Gogol, Geoffrey Keen as Sir Frederick Gray, Bernard Lee as M, George Baker as Captain Benson, Desmond Llewelyn as Q, Vernon Dobtcheff as Max Kalba, Lois Maxwell as Miss Moneypenny, Sydney Tafler as Liparus Captain and Thunderbirds' Shane Rimmer as Commander Carter. It was nominated for the Oscars for Best Art-Set Decoration and Best Music for Marvin Hamlisch, it was nominated the BAFTAs for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music and Best Production Design/Art Direction, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score. James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, the film was number 6 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for Carly Simon's Oscar and Golden Globe nominated song Nobody Does It Better, which was number 67 on 100 Years, 100 Songs, and the film was number 34 on The Ultimate Film. Very good! "}]