[{"Title":"I remember it in '77. It was great. Saw it again. Still is.","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There is something really nice about seeing a cartoon film that you know was hand drawn, without a speck of CGI anyplace(too early!). The voices here carry the day-Newhart, Gabor, Page, Fibber MaGee, little turns by Pat Buttram, Dub Taylor, Jeannette Nolan, etc. All fine.Film still has a lotta heart, the songs aren't bad, the backgrounds muted and not in your face. I remember seeing the sequel (in Aussie from '90)-the character held up but it wasn't as involving.Test for a flick like this is to see if it holds up after some years. Well I had not seen it for about 24 years or so, and ya know what? It still works very well.Came from the mid-period team of Disney, post-Jungle Book and pre-Mermaid, a rather hit and miss era-this one stands out quite well.*** outta ****  "},{"Title":"My favorite Disney movie of all time","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Why is The Rescuers my favorite Disney movie? I'm not sure, other than the fact that it's just so sweet, and never fails to make me really happy. Seeing those mice from all over the world is just too adorable for words!The animation is beautiful, as are the backgrounds, and the character design is some of the best among Disney movies (Madame Medusa is a great departure from typical Disney characters). The songs are nice too (my favorite part of the whole movie is the sequence to Tomorrow Is Another Day).They just don't make movies like this anymore. Penny, the orphan that Bernard and Bianca rescue from that nasty old Medusa, is truly warm and sweet, and you really care about her. Something was missing from the boy that Bernard and Bianca rescued in the sequel. Penny's truly something else.The Rescuers is an underrated gem, and has something for everyone. "},{"Title":"Such a charming film!","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I can't fault this movie at all, other than to say the video I have is a bit grainy. The film is undeniably charming, based on the books by Margery Sharp, which I haven't read. The animation was just wonderful, right from minute one. It was dark and fluid, and reminded me of the masterpieces of Don Bluth like American Tail and Secret of NIMH. It matched the music perfectly, and none of the characters were drawn stereotypically. I loved the fact they made the protagonists mice, which shows a lot of originality. I was laughing so much at the swamp animals scene, as it looked so ridiculous. Another funny scene was the one with the crocs playing the pipe organ, and then Medussa starts shooting the place down.The songs were outstanding, and beautifully sung by Shelby Flint. I've heard criticisms that the songs were lifeless and slow, but I strongly disagree. The song at the beginning The Journey was beautiful beyond words, as was Someone's Waiting For You, the one with Penny crying on the boat deck. They were truly emotional and haunting, and often misunderstood by people.The characters were really funny and engaging, especially the two crocodiles, and Orville(especially when he cries Mayday, Mayday!)Bernard was brilliantly voiced by Bob Newhart, likewise Bianca by beautiful Hungarian actress Eva Gabor. Penny was really sweet, but the scene-stealer was Geraldine Page as Madam Medussa, who was such a convincing villainess, very sinister yet absolutely hilarious. She reminds me of Ursula from the Little Mermaid.The script was both touching and funny, with the dialogue between Madame Medussa and Snoops sparkling like bubbles on top of a champagne glass and the story is compelling and beautifully told. All in all, I recommend this and the sequel (which isn't quite as good). 10/10.Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Pure Disney blockbuster","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" THE RESCUERS, in my opinion, is a pure Disney blockbuster. It made me feel all warm and tingly when Bernard (voice of Bob Newhart) and Bianca (voice of Eva Gabor) set out on their mission to rescue Penny (voice of Michelle Stacy). If you ask me, Medusa's (voice of Geraldine Page) clothing was nice, but her hair was absolutely atrocious. To me, it really did look like snakes. That made it obvious as to why her name was Medusa. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone was perfectly cast, the direction was flawless, and Disney has scored a big hit. In conclusion, I highly recommend this pure Disney blockbuster to everyone who hasn't seen it. I guarantee you you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Pure gold","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I may be the only person to say this but I think The Rescuers was a LOT better than the sequel. Oh don't get me wrong, Down Under's pretty good. But, to me, The Rescuers is the best.Since I was a little kid, I have had a short attention span so movies with more action generally held my attention. The Rescuers and the Pooh films were the two exceptions for me. This isn't a very fast moving film, at times it's quite slow. But that's when the tension builds. You feel a certain warmth watching it, similar to the warm fuzzies you would get from a Pooh film. It's sweet. It's fun. The characters are lovable and the villains are detestable (I mean Madame Medusa kidnaps an innocent little girl and then forces her to go into a dangerous pirate cave, if that isn't evil, I don't know what is). Even the supporting cast is awesome, if not entirely memorable. I think there were too many critters at Devil's Bayou, had they cut the cast down a bit, perhaps I could remember them all. But that's literally my only complaint.The film is slow but it doesn't feel slow. It doesn't lag at all. It keeps you completely focused on the characters. By the way, the acting is superb, particularly Michelle Stacy as Penny. Usually child actors are hit and miss but she does an excellent job, she really makes you feel for Penny and that's the most important part. Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor as Bernard and Bianca. They really bring the characters to life.The animation is beautiful as well. It all seems like a painting come to life. I am particularly impressed with Bernard and Bianca's animation because they look a lot like their voice actors. So you can't imagine a better voice for them. You often forget that they're mice. And that's really impressive.So, all in all, this is one of Disney's best. Ever. It's proof that the animation studio was still going strong after Walt Disney's death. And it's still one of my all time favorite movies. I say, check it out. There's something for everyone in it. "},{"Title":"Highly underrated","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Movies like The Rescuers are simply not made anymore. Nowadays, it's all CGI with retarded, unfunny jokes, with no real seriousness or conflict to be found. The Rescuers has all that it says in the tagline - Mystery, Fun and Intrigue! Despite what others say, this truly deserves to be called a masterpiece.The very idea of two little mice saving an orphan girl sounds very juvenile and slushy - but here, it isn't. The Rescuers combines dark themes such as child exploitation to light refreshing comedy which does not detract from the seriousness of the whole film. Benard and Bianca are very admirable characters, and the swamp creatures are hilarious. Madame Medusa is an excellent villainness. She's intimidating and funny at the same time. There are plenty of colourful characters, Brutus and Nero, the two crocodiles, Orville the albatross and Penny, the sweet yet strong spirited little girl.The very idea of two little mice saving an orphan girl sounds very juvenile and slushy - but here, it isn't. The Rescuers combines dark themes such as child exploitation to light refreshing comedy which does not detract from the seriousness of the whole film. Benard and Bianca are very admirable characters, and the swamp creatures are hilarious. Madame Medusa is an excellent villainness. She's intimidating and funny at the same time. There are plenty of colourful characters, Brutus and Nero, the two crocodiles, Orville the albatross and Penny, the sweet yet strong spirited little girl.The animation is typical scratchy 70s style, but the backgrounds are really top-notch, especially in the swamp scenes. They portray a foreboding atmosphere that works well in the appropriate scenes. The paintings shown in the opening credits were inspirational. There are not many songs in The Rescuers, which is probably one of the reasons why it's such a serious film. The soundtrack is fits in well, and nobody bursts into song. 'Someone's waiting for You' is one of the fews songs that moves me to tears. It is just so touching and beautiful.Sure, it's not entirely loyal to Magery Sharp's books, but who cares? You might as well just get mad at 'Monty Python and the Holy Grail,' because that doesn't stay loyal to the original Arthurian legend. The Rescuers is a true delight, and deserves a much better DVD than Disney has given it. "},{"Title":"One of the great Disney gems from the 1970's","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The 23rd animated Disney classic is underrated and somewhat forgotten, yet one of Disney's finest! It's a great movie, even one of Disney's finest underrated works.This charming film, while undoubtedly heartwarming, is also creative and very lively. It has lots of adventure and suspense, classic humor, fine artwork, a wonderful soundtrack and a dark atmosphere. When I say dark I mean dark in the sense of being somewhat chilly, but without being extremely dark or a story of horror/terror. The darkness of the Devil's Bayou is amazing, creepy to the point of almost looking like a forbidding place, which helps a lot to create this distinct atmosphere.Despite the apparent simplicity, this motion picture has some very artistic palette colors. One good example of this is the amazing and gorgeous opening sequence. The beautiful but sad song 'The Journey' matches in perfection.The song 'Tomorrow is another day' is very optimistic and nostalgic. Not just that, it fits perfectly on that sequence beautiful vistas painted with heart and soul. Besides, that rainbow and those New York City lights at night look incredibly real.The song 'Someone's waiting for you' is heartwarming, but so is the sequence itself. 'The U.S. Air Force' is a delightful instrumental music, very energetic and full of life.Medusa is a great villain. One of Disney's best villains, says I. She's mean and nasty, but at the same time funny (even hilarious at times). She is a little eccentric but not too much and not annoying. Besides, she isn't too sinister or one of the most cruel villains.Medusa's sidekick, Snoops, is someone I don't consider a real villain. He's not bad enough to be a villain and he doesn't know how to be bad, although he attempts. I think that deep down he is a good guy. I like Snoops he's a simple and goofy guy but funny (even hilarious at times) and not that bad. He's more of a poor guy who messed with the wrong person.By the way, Medusa and Snoops have a nice pawn shop named Medusa's pawn shop or, like Medusa delightfully says on the telephone, «Madame Medusa's pawn shop boutique».Comical characters like Luke and the albatross Orville have small roles, perhaps because this movie is more of a dramatic natured one. Numerous swamp animals appear (others than Luke), but their roles are minor (with the exception of Ellie Mae and Evinrude).Bernard is the kind of romantic and shy hero. Bianca has a characteristic hungarian charm (her voice actress, Eva Gabor, was hungarian). Orville is carefree and spirited, as well as a comic relief. Like albatrosses in real life, he flies beautifully but is very bad at landings.Evinrude's sounds are awesome. They sound so real! I have no words to describe them! James MacDonald really had a gift for sounds.Penny was apparently modeled after Michelle Stacy, the cute little girl who did her voice. Penny is cute and has a very cute voice. People sympathize with Penny and her situation in the film, yet despite being very endearing she is also confident and has a strong personality - something which Snoops doesn't know how to deal with.The crocodiles Nero and Brutus are hilarious in every scene they appear. I don't know why, but there is something hilarious about them even just by looking at them. They are at their most hilarious when they play organ. And those rascals really know how to play talent, LOL. They have talent for music, LOL! Besides, although they are Medusa's loyal pets, they are good crocodiles and not vicious. Whenever they catch Penny, they always grab her carefully not to harm her. And they are just as careful with her beloved teddy bear. Even in the water they have special care with her and her teddy bear.A very good and timeless Disney classic! This is one of those animated classics I grew up with - and 'The Rescuers Down Under' too. Both were part of my childhood.1977 was one of the best years in cinema ever!This should definitely be on Top 250. "},{"Title":"Disney's new animators get off to a good start","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  'The Rescuers' marked the advent of a new team of Disney animators taking over in 1977 as nine of the old men faced retirement. Under the guidance of the old pros, they turned out a charming fantasy about two adventurous mice (Bianca and Bernard) who set about to rescue a young girl (Penny) from the clutches of the villainess (Madame Medusa). As voiced by Geraldine Page, she all but steals the show--although Bianca and Bernard are perfectly voiced by Eva Gabor and Bob Newhart. A completely delightful Disney hit, welcome after some let-downs, and fortunately there would be more hits in the '80s and '90s. Don't underestimate this one. It has plenty of action, suspense and even a few nice songs--nothing spectacular, in keeping with the quiet nature of much of the story. This was a big box-office hit at time of release and led to a sequel, 'The Rescuers Down Under'. It may not be Disney's best, but it has a good amount of humor and charm. The animation is superb. "},{"Title":"Adventurous rescue mission from Disney!","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a rescue mission movie from Disney, a story about two mice named Bernard and Miss Bianca from the Rescue Aid Society out to rescue a kidnapped, orphaned girl named Penny from two devious treasure hunters, Madame Medusa and Mr. Snoops. They want to use Penny to help them find a gigantic diamond from an old Pirate's cave.It is like a daring and fun detective movie, but with animals serving as the protagonists. It's non-stop adventure from Bernard and Miss Bianca looking for clues leading to Penny's whereabouts to them facing the notorious Madame Medusa and her two crafty pet alligators at their hideout in Devil's Bayou.I love the songs in this movie Tomorrow is Another Day, sung while the two mice are riding Orville as he transports them to Devil's Bayou, is a very relaxing and optimistic song, reminding you that there is always a tomorrow giving you a chance to accomplish things. Someone's Waiting for You is a heartwarming and hopeful song, reminding you to always stay strong and keep your faith.All the characters, especially the critters, are lovable and memorable. The subplot of Penny looking for adoptive parents is interwoven into the main plot very well, expanding on Penny's unfortunate, but courageous character.This movie is probably the more obscure of Disney films as it does not utilize the fairytale method, but is nonetheless one of the more exciting Disney features that would sure delight an audience of all ages.Grade A "},{"Title":"One of Disney's champions","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is one of Disney's best underrated creations. Has all the desirable charm on a Disney cartoon. Its artwork is simple but undeniably pretty and colorful, which makes it a movie with human warmth, soul and life. It's a strongly nostalgic classic, delightful, heartwarming, original, dark and spooky without being too scary, suspenseful and fun. The fine artwork is delicious for the eyes, with lots of gorgeous landscapes.The soundtrack is a classic. The Journey and Someone's Waiting For You are not only nostalgic but very moving. Tomorrow is Another Day, more than just nostalgic, has very optimistic lyrics. A kind of optimism so common those days but killed and buried in a coffin by today's world and society. The story is one of the better and more interesting on Disney animated classics. There are enjoyable characters like Bernard, Bianca, Evinrude and Orville. Endearing characters such as Penny, a cute little girl with enormous and expressive eyes. A great villain, Medusa, who happens to be one of my favorite Disney villains. Although a bad person, she's not too frightening. She's also got some of the funniest Disney sidekicks the hilarious crocodiles Brutus and Nero and the poor devil Snoops.'The Rescuers' was one of the movies I watched more times in my childhood. I think it was one of those I watched almost every day at the time. It was one of my favorites at the time and now, after so many years, it continues to be one of my Disney favorites. It has aged very well, time wasn't able to harm its magic and enchant. It's still exemplary when it comes to film-making of quality. Or should I say cartoon-making of quality? Whatever, you know what I mean.Title in Portugal 'As Aventuras de Bernardo e Bianca'. "}{"Title":"Pure Excellence","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I vaguely remembered this movie rattling around in my dusty memory so I decided to pick it up and watch it again. By the time the movie was over, The Rescuers had easily found it's way to the top of my list of favorite Disney movies.This movie isn't one of those kids' movies where it's a pain to sit through. The whole movie has a charm to it that hasn't been around in Disney films for quite a while - there is a certain atmosphere in it apart.The plot is about two mice, Bernard and Miss Bianca, who set out to rescue a girl, Penny, from an evil old jewel-hunting wench named Medusa. Many parts of the film are very creative - for example, the mice have miniature versions of the human world scattered about. Humans have the UN, the mice have the RAS (Rescue Aid Society). Humans take airplanes, mice take the albatross. There aren't any of those long boring parts that kids may complain about in earlier Disney movies, either. You know, characters bursting into long song, soppy love montages, etc.The characters are especially unique and lovable, and you may find yourself having a hard time picking a favorite. I don't see how you couldn't like this movie, unless you're in that phase where everything not rated PG-13 is babyish and lame.For an hour and fifteen minutes, the movie is a tad on the short side compared to today's five-hour-epic-saga films, but there is nothing missing.Bottom line Great movie, classy, charming, won't forget it - definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"A Disney classic that would make anyone tear up.","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This animated movie does do a convincing job at depicting what children should never ever be put through, including going into hazardous, humid caves in quest of diamonds. Geraldine Page's voice role as Madame Medusa leaves me to think that she wasn't a very likable actress or person for that matter. I can cite her three appearances on the television series Rod Serling's Night Gallery as an example, in the series stories Stop Killing Me, The Sins Of The Fathers, and Something In The Woodwork. Like her character in Something In The Woodwork, her character in this animated movie got her comeuppance! Her Madame Medusa role is one that would have been sufficient to earn her a slap across the chops! I am not saying this to raise the ire of women's rights groups, I am only stating characters she has played are cold-hearted, uncaring, and mean spirited, not to mention annoying! The lovely songs like The Journey, Tomorrow Is Another Day, and the Oscar-nominated Someone's Waiting For You, will be more than enough to send you reaching for your Kleenex as a result of weeping. Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor are superb in their voice roles of Bernard and Bianca. He even sings well on Rescue Aid Society. ) One problem though, is that it's never explained why Penny was kidnapped besides the reason of her being small enough to retrieve the Devil's Eye diamond from a skull in a dark, humid, hazardous cave. Situations like this one of wrongful child labor and placing their welfare in jeopardy, even though this one was fictional, still make the host of America's Most Wanted, John Walsh, furious to this day, even though the case has now been solved about who murdered his son, Adam, in 1983.The comic relief is used sparingly and in the appropriate places where it is a welcome lift. Hopefully, Madame Medusa and Mr. Snoops got arrested and executed. I found myself saying at one point viewing this, Go to Hell, Madame Medusa! "},{"Title":"There's No Case Too Big. No Case Too Small. If You Need Help, Just Call...The Rescuers!","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Every day at the United Nations building in New York, representatives from all over the world hold meetings and discuss matters of state. On this particular day, another meeting was held in a smaller part of the building. The Rescue Aid Society, a society made up of mice from all over the globe, was meeting to discuss its next rescue mission. There were mice from all different countries, like France, Latvia, Italy, Texas...as well as the bold beauty Miss Bianca, and stalwart janitor Bernard. The Chairman presents a bottle containing a message that was fished ashore. The message was addressed to the Morningside Orphanage, it was from someone named Penny and it sounded urgent. Miss Bianca volunteered to go on this mission, and Bernard was selected to accompany her. And so, their quest began. Bernard and Bianca travel to the Morningside Orphanage and learn that Penny was an orphaned child who had recently vanished. The mice meet a wise old cat named Rufus, who tells them of the last time he saw Penny. He doesn't think she ran away like the authorities had concluded, but rather kidnapped. Kidnapped by a nasty, trashy old woman called Madam Medusa, who ran the local pawn shop.Bernard and Bianca investigate the pawn shop and listen in on one of Medusa's phone calls. She had taken Penny alright! Next, she jumped in her car and headed south for Devil's Bayou. So, after Miss Bianca packed a rather large suit case, the rescuers head for Devil's Bayou as well. Bernard was all for taking the train, but instead they fly south via a hotshot albatross called Orville. The ride is anything but smooth; Meanwhile, in the deep south at Madam Medusa's riverboat hideout, that wicked witch, along with her bumbling assistant Snoops, were attempting to locate runaway Penny, who had tried to escape, but her escape proved futile thanks to crooked crocs Nero and Brutus. Now what, you may ask, would a nasty, heartless harlot like Medusa want with a beautiful, sweet little girl like Penny? The answer is quite simple, Medusa is after the most sought-after treasure in the bayou a diamond called the Devil's Eye. It is located in a deep dark space where only someone the size of a child could fit; Bernard and Bianca arrive at Medusa's riverboat, thanks to a new friend, Evinrude. Right away, they are introduced to Nero and Brutus, and narrowly escape being their dinner. Later that night, Bernard and Bianca meet up with a tearful Penny and they work out an escape plan, which involved trapping Brutus and Nero in an old elevator, then escaping in Medusa's clunker swampmobile. They would take action the next day.In the morning, Medusa and Snoops forced Penny back into the cave to search for the Devil's Eye. Bernard and Bianca went along. They find the diamond in a pirate's skull and, after braving some fierce water, they escape the cave and deliver the diamond to Medusa, who is instantly overcome with power and greed. She holds Snoops and Penny at gun point and tries to escape, but that's when Evinrude, followed by bayou residents Ellie Mae, Luke, Deadeye, Deacon Owl, Digger, and Gramps, arrive on the riverboat and keep Medusa busy. Bernard and Bianca trap the crocs in the elevator, then they make for the swampmobile, which Penny was having difficulty starting. But, after working together and Bernard getting electrocuted, they finally get it started and make their escape with Penny at the wheel and a furious, frazzled Medusa in tow. Well, in the end, Medusa's plans, along with her riverboat, go down in flames. A cheated Snoops gets away, leaving the evil harlot at the mercy of her double-crossed crocs...Our story has a happy ending Penny returned to the orphanage and was adopted by a loving father and mother. The Devil's Eye was donated to a museum. Bernard and Bianca were commended by the Rescue Aid Society and became very close friends and all was well...until their next mission.I must say, this is a Disney masterpiece. Very well done! If Walt Disney himself had been around, he'd be very proud. The animation is great. The characters are all very likable...well, except for Medusa. The music was absolutely wonderful! Someone is Waiting for You...beautiful song! The voice cast was terrific. Everybody was good. Funnyman Bob Newhart is Bernard, the fabulous Eva Gabor is Miss Bianca, Geraldine Page is Medusa, Joe Flynn is Snoops, Michelle Stacy is Penny, we've also got Pat Buttram, John Fiedler, Jim Jordan, Bernard Fox, Jim MacDonald, Larry Clemmons and Jeanette Nolan. Bob Newhart is alive and well today, but unfortunately, Gabor, Page, Flynn, Fiedler, Buttram, Jordan, MacDonald, Clemmons and Nolan are all gone. Only one thing about this animated feature I didn't feel there was enough character building. We didn't know that much about Bernard and Bianca and why they joined RAS. Medusa was pretty one-sided too. But anyway, if you like Disney animated movies, and movies of this genre about heroic mice, little girls in peril, and all that, then The Rescuers is for you! They don't make'em like this anymore. It's a masterpiece. See it today! By the way, my subject line I borrowed that from the Chip 'N Dale Rescue Rangers theme song. I think maybe that show is based on this movie; The Rescuers, from 1977. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"A charming addition to Disney's animated classics canon","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember seeing the second half of this film with my sister (who has the same name as the little girl in this film) while our dad was fishing and the most memorable moments from the second half were Penny being sent down the pirate cave to retrieve a diamond for Madame Medusa and Penny being shown on TV with her new mother and father. The other part of this film I remember from my childhood is the 'Someone's Waiting For You' (one of the best songs in the film) sequence because it was featured on the Disney 'Sing-A-Long Songs Under the Sea' video tape I watched constantly as a child. As with 'Toy Story 3,' 'Dumbo' and 'The Rescuers Down Under (which is just as good as this film),' I watched this on my flight home from Dubai and I really enjoyed it.As with the majority of Disney films that came out between the 1960s and 1980s, the characters are drawn in a sketchy and linear way, thus making their animation a little on the flat side. The character designs range from being simplistic (e.g. Bernard and Bianca) to more detailed (e.g. Penny and Madame Medusa, but the facial expressions and lip-sync are spot on. As for the background designs and some of the props, they were intricately drawn, especially the bottle that contained Penny's call for help and the cars parked outside the United Nations building. My favourite characters in this film are Bernard, Bianca and Penny, who are all very sweet. Even though this film has a sentimental tone for the most part, it has a few comical moments such as Bernard unintentionally wearing Bianca's hat briefly while they are blown through the organ pipes when Brutus and Nero play it; and Penny imitating Madame Medusa as soon as Bernard and Bianca find her. In addition to 'Someone's Waiting For You,' the other songs I liked were 'The Journey,' which I initially thought was called 'Who Will Rescue Me?' but was accompanied by beautiful paintings of Penny's message in a bottle floating on the water as the opening credits were shown, and 'Rescue Aid Society,' which I found catchy, although the other songs were pretty forgettable. This film also has some clever writing, such as the running gag of Bernard's fear of the number 13 (for example when he climbs up a ladder/comb to pull Penny's message out of the bottle, he falls inside it) but it was also clichéd (Medusa being afraid of mice) and repetitive (one of Penny's lines being the same as Medusa's) in parts. One element of this film that reminded me of other films was Penny's teddy bear resembling Winnie the Pooh.Overall this was a charming film that I'd happily watch again. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Wow... lots of creativity and story in this one!","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I've always loved Disney classics, but with Walt Disney gone, you may have thought that the classics would be of less quality without his touch. Well, I think his spirit was with them as they made this film because I was very impressed with this film.Basically, a girl who wants to be adopted is taken, kidnapped etc by some evil lady who wants to be rich and stuff like they all do. She manages to have the worst possible assistant, who clearly doesn't seem evil, as he is rather uncertain of himself at times. They 'live' in this swamp boathouse in the middle of a swamp and the girl is held captive there.She tries to escape several times but to no avail. At least, not until the mice from their society come out to help her. I found the adventures amazing as a female mouse with a spirit of adventure and her to-be-friend the janitor go off to save this girl. In the end they meet many interesting and comical characters and save the girl. The villains are done with for now, and it's pretty much another happy ending.I rate this 8/10 because of the story and how much you feel bad for the girl. "},{"Title":"One of Disney's Greatest Movies!","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Hilarious. Intrigue. Mystery. Two Little Mice. Great artwork and songs. The animation was O.K., but I thought it was too dark and creepy in some parts. Medusa was a good villain, but also very stupid. She picked Mr. Snoops for a sidekick. She has alligators for pets. She forces a little girl to find a diamond, and everybody knows a little girl will eventually get tired of that and not want to do that anymore. But obviously, Medusa does not care about that- the only thing she cares about is having someone that is small enough go down into the hole and look for the Devil's Eye, and Penny fits the bill. Lastly, she lives in a dilapidated old ship, that might sink or be overtaken with some other crisis of misfortune at any time. I wish we would have taken the train! "},{"Title":"Entertaining Cinematic Adventure","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" THE RESCUERS (ANIMATED) **** A little orphan girl, who has been kidnapped by a heartless treasure hunter intending to use her to search for diamonds underground, is whom two lovable Disney characters rescue in this film. 'The Rescuers' touches on the topics of bravery and survival as the two adventurers - in the form of mice - try to take the little girl out of harm's way. For children, this is a cinematic adventure that entertains. For adult viewers, you too may find it enjoyable.Rating System ***** Excellent **** Good *** Fair ** Poor * Bad "},{"Title":"Classic Tale Of Heroic Mice","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" One of Walt Disney's finest animated films, this concerns two mice named Bernard & Bianca, who belong to the Rescue Aid Society, that operates out of the basement of the United Nations building in New York. There is a little girl named Penny being held captive by an evil woman named Madame Medusa and her henchman Mr. Snoops, who need her to lead them to a priceless jewel in the Devil's Bayou swamp, where she is being held on a riverboat. The mice fly atop Orville the Albatross to rescue her, and defeat the villains. Surprisingly touching and thrilling film done with care and imagination, with wonderful songs. To be enjoyed by both children and adults alike. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Disney movies as a child is The Rescuers","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" One of my favorite Disney movies as a child is The Rescuers. I know that's a strange choice out of all the countless classics the legendary studio churned out over the years, but it is what it is. I remember going to the theater and loving the gloomy setting of the swamp and the chilling atmosphere of the abandoned river boat. It just resonated with me as a six-year-old for some odd reason. The Rescuers tells the story of two mice named Miss Bianca and Bernard. Miss Bianca is a member of the international Rescue Aid Society and Bernard is their janitor. Miss Bianca chooses Bernard as her cohort for a mission to rescue a little girl named Penny from a devious woman and her inept accomplice. They're using the child to look for a lost diamond in the swamps of Devil's Bayou. Besides the messages of good wins over evil and you have to confront a challenge even if you're afraid, this movie is just fun. There aren't any great social commentaries or life lessons to be found. It's a whimsical and suspenseful adventure for the whole family. "},{"Title":"A long forgotten and compelling Disney film","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" As a younger child, I used to watch this a few times and loved it as much as anyone else. If I have to sum up the entire movie with one word, actually there are two words to be exact, I say, Long forgotten and compelling because this movie is criminally underrated classic from Disney before The Black Cauldron. The only problem in my opinion was that it included recycled bits from the past Disney films along with some scenes, but that's just about it. Everything else turned out great.The animation is the epitome of excellence with some fluid backgrounds and solid character designs and I liked the way the mice are created as protagonists which makes this movie much more original. The characters are likable and engaging and the voice acting for the characters suited them well. Bernard and Bianca were great thanks to Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor, the forest critters are funny, the little girl named Penny was so cute and likable and the villain is great although not one of my favorite Disney villains I've preferred. The strongest aspects goes to the compelling story and the songs (especially Someone's Waiting For You which was emotional and touching) Overall, not a masterpiece, but an underrated classic and a long forgotten one at that. Thumbs up! "}{"Title":"One of the last classic 2D animated films of the 20th Century. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Disney produced some memorable animated features over the years and in later decades, from the 70's onwards, there was always a stigma as to whether some of them would live up to the classics of the earlier decades. I actually prefer films like THE RESCUERS to SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS, simply because it has the style more of a Looney Tunes than a Disney. Thanks to the voice contributions of Geraldine Page, Bob Newhart, Eva Gabor and Joe Flynn as Medusa, Bernard, Bianca and Snoops, plus some well orchestrated and coordinated action scenes as the two mice from the Rescue Aid Society rescue a stranded girl orphan called Penny from a Riverboat in Devil's Bayou, it is everything a Disney animated film should be in the traditional sense. Sadly, with the increase in Pixar success, it is a film that will be part of history more than the current crop of movies being made in this way. Favourite sequences - Albatross Airlines, Snoops' Spanish dance as he tries to squash the mice and the little dragonfly Ervenrude's drinking moment.  "},{"Title":"The best Disney film of the 70's","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Rescuers is my all time favorite Disney film. The story of a little orphaned girl, Penny, and the two brave mice who save her is sweet and touching. Miss Bianca is the head-turning beauty with the charming accent, and Bernard the shy janitor for the Rescue Aid Society. The voices are wonderful - Geraldine Page plays the evil Madame Medusa with such passion you can tell she loves doing it. The first movie is simply incomparable to the second one - the story about the golden eagle and the poacher just really couldn't capture my attention.  "},{"Title":"The best underrated Disney movie.","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Rescuers was the third animated feature released without Walt Disney. I think it is an improvement over the other two Disney features The Aristocats and Robin Hood. The voice talents are exceptional. Eva Gabor and Bob Newhart provide the voices for Miss Bianca and Bernard, and they're a delight to watch. They have distinguished voices, personalities, and chemistry. They rule both as Disney characters and as loving companions. My favorite characters in this movie are Bernard and a little girl whom Bernard and Bianca come to rescue, Penny. I think Penny has the most personality of all the Disney animated children, and she's very sympathetic. I recommend this movie to any Disney fan or fans of animation.  "},{"Title":"Classic Disney","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Rescuers is absolute classic Disney from 1977. Telling the tale of two mice from the Rescue Aid Society who set out to rescue little orphan Penny who has been held prisoner by evil Madame Medusa. Easily of the best Disney animations since 1967's The Jungle Book and not surpassed, in my opinion until 1989's The Little Mermaid. With some great comedy moments and touching moments too, especially the beautiful song 'Someone's Waiting For You' sung by Penny as she loses faith in ever being rescued. Watch out for the great character 'Evinrude' the dragonfly, brilliant. It's no wonder this was my late mother's favourite Disney movie. I would seriously recommend it to anyone "},{"Title":"A Bit Dated, But Still Fun","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Two mice of the Rescue Aid Society (Eva Gabor and Bob Newhart) search for a little girl kidnapped by unscrupulous treasure hunters.Looking back now (2014), this film's biggest weakness is in its music. The style is very much a product of the 1970s and may not necessarily play well to today's audiences. (Other films of the era, such as The Last Unicorn, have a similar problem.) Prior to The Little Mermaid in 1989, this was the last great Disney film. The use of Gabor, Pat Buttram and George Lindsey (all of whom were in The AristoCats) was a good choice, and the animation holds up well. Some have called it sketchy, but this seems unfair. It works for what it is and moves the plot forward just fine. We can even see the precursor of Ursula in Medusa's hair, not to mention the gators' similarity to Flotsam and Jetsam. "},{"Title":"Charming and Fun","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Rescuers (1977) *** (out of 4) Mice Bernard and Bianca agree to go out and search for a missing girl after the Rescue Aid Society receive a mysterious letter with a girl asking to be helped. The two mice set out to locate the girl and eventually do in a swamp where she's being held captive by a couple bad guys and their large crocodiles. I wouldn't call THE RESCUERS one of Disney's greatest films but it certainly has enough charm and laughs to make it worth sitting through. I think the best thing going for the film is the animation, which simply looks terrific. I really loved the look of the film as its quite gloomy in spots and especially during all the scenes inside the swamp. There are some pretty dark moments and especially during a sequence where the girl and the mice are inside a small cave looking for a priceless diamond. This entire sequence was full of great fun and imagination. Another major plus were the two lead vocal artists with Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor doing excellent work as the lead mice. Both of them really helped bring their characters to life and helped add to the fun. The supporting characters are also good for the most part and I especially liked the two crocodiles as well as the other critters living in the swamp. I thought both villains weren't all that memorable and especially when you consider how great the studio usually is at delivering bad guys. The film certainly has a nice pace to it and I'm sure people of all ages could get into it. "},{"Title":"A classic Disney movie","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Disney's The Rescuers, is a quite underrated and unseen film that is more touching than many of the other Disney classics. The story follows 2 mice Bianca and Bernard, they both belong to the rescue aid society, a secret society of mice that assist people when they are in trouble.Bianca and Bernard are sent off to find a poor little orphan girl who has been kidnapped and held prisoner. The story, without going into to much detail, is a very touching story, with a few very sad moments for Penny the little orphan girl.While the audio is not the greatest and the picture quality is not up to scratch with the more recent Disney films this is more of a classic than any of the modern animated Disney films. "},{"Title":"Utterly Amazing","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Rescuers is still a movie shown to animation students everywhere; the animation in it is simply that stupendous and magical. This 1977 animated movie still delivers. Strong characters and story help it to shine as brightly today as the diamond on which the whole story centres.At the Rescue Aid Society in New York (beneath the UN Headquarters), a message in a bottle pleading for help is examined. Bianca, a foreign representative, takes the case and selects timid but moral janitor Bernard for the job. They set out to find the girl, Penny, and help her all they can. That the two are mice won't distract them from dealing with larger-than-life foes such as the incredible Medusa, her bumbling partner-in-crime Snoops and alligators Brutus and Nero. Penny, whom Medusa uses to search for the legendary diamond the Devil's Eye due to her small size, needs all the help she can get. But the Rescuers are up against formidable foes.The Rescuers is a short movie, only about 75 minutes, but it packs its punch into its short time frame. The characters really make the movie shine. Bernard and Bianca work wonderfully together, as does the troupe of supporting characters such as the swamp rodents. The only character I don't like is Evinrude the dragonfly, who has a large part in the movie. Penny is adorable and we totally feel for her in the horrible situation she finds herself in.However, the star of the movie is Medusa, the sort of character who only occurs once in cinema. Medusa is despicable and repulsive, yet beautifully so; she is fascinatingly and charismatically evil, and at the same time hysterically funny. Here is a person who has pet alligators and deals with rodents by shooting them with a shotgun. Geraldine Paige nails the voice role, but it's the animators who bring her so fantastically to life. Disney was using another sort of production style at the time, where they xeroxed their drawings, resulting in the rough pencil style also seen in the Aristocats and Robin Hood. Some reviewers here don't like it, and I couldn't disagree with them more. I personally love this style, as it draws out the true rawness and beauty of the animation; it isn't trying to hide the draftsmanship behind it all. As I stated above, The Rescuers is still noted for its animation. More than once, in my animation school, have my teachers liked to show us Medusa's first clip, on which you could model a whole animation class. Medusa's gestures, moves, looks and little mannerisms represent a level of animation that only a master can stout at possessing. What did you expect, from someone like Milt Kahl? All this makes Medusa not only a marvel in animation, but a timeless and electric character that will live on in our minds for a long, long time.Interestingly, the villains in the movie attracted all the best animators. Not only Medusa but her sweetheart Snoops is fantastic. Pet alligators Brutus and Nero are then simply astounding, doing for animal animation what Medusa does for human animation. The scene where they're playing the organ is simply delicious to behold.The Rescuers is an amazing animated movie for the ages. It's got something for everyone; great story, awesome characters, stupendous animation (which brings both of the aforementioned to life). This is one of those times when animation fully reveals its potential. Let it be forever heralded. "},{"Title":"very charming and quaint","Date":"22 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" i really enjoyed this animated Disney film.i don't know if i would call it a classic,but it seems to hold up well for a movie that was released in 1977.i just saw it recently for the first time,so i can't say my perception of it would have differed it i had seen it back then.however, the reason i think it holds up well today is because of the story and the characters.i think both are interesting enough to keep today's kids and adults entertained.plus,it's also fast paced,funny,and charming.i also liked the voice talent they used.the animation is obviously old school,but that isn't always a bad thing.for me,The Rescuers is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"A classic for all the family .","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Rescuers  it's a great movie of Disney of the 70 ' . The animation is cute but with many details , but the best were the characters that were likable . Also ,the movie it's very entertaining and charming form beginning to end .The movie follows a group of brave mouses , Beranrd and Bianca ,that have the mission to rescue the orphan girl Penny ,of the evil thief Medusa ,and for that they will have to travel into the jungle and face many dangers .I liked a lot this movie . It is one of my favorite movies of Disney ,and I agree that it have all the elements to be considered a animated classic for all the family .Very Good ! "}{"Title":"I saw the Rescuers for my birthday at age 9 with my friend Wes Golden","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Rescuers is a charming movie. The idea of a shadow United Nations is sweet. Two mice Bernard and Bianca set out to rescue a Girl named Penny from a lady named Medusa who lives on an old paddlewheel riverboat and is in search of a gem that is worth a fortune. Before the movie the short Disney film A tale of two Critters was shown. My friend Wes Golden said that he liked a tale of two critters better than the Rescuers. Wes taught me about the American Military and that his Dad had fought in Vietnam. Wes was so good at the game operation that I wondered if he was a Cyborg. One night in 1980 because the call was not long distance Wes Golden stayed on the Phone describing Galactica 1980 when the Galactica Crew and the Cylons competed to change the future of Humanity by travelling back to World War 2.I really think that since the Care Rank Ki Aliens have made my Daughter Julia and I immortal that America should find room for us and Julias Mother Sue in a safe American bunker. I would like my Daughter Julia my Ex Wife Sue and I taken to a safe American Bunker as soon as possible. Otherwise America will look weak to its opponents for losing me the American Shadow Vice President representing Love and successful reproduction to the Creators of Humans and my Daughter Julia representing Peace through conquest of the Universe to the Creators of Humans. In a War Game Wes Golden taught me that you need a bunker to survive 2006. There are other Disney Animated films worth watching as well. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Movie with an Excellent Song","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When I heard Someone's Waiting for You on one of the karaoke parties, it makes me want to download the original SO BADLY!!!! Whether it's either one of the two, it invokes memories of watching The Rescuers. This Disney jewel was one of my childhood postcards. They even heightened the trite villain-kidnaps-innocent plot oh-so beautifully. The mice were sent to Devil's Bayou via a message in a bottle submitted to the Rescue Aid Society, where Penny was held captive by her egotistic nemesis, Madame Medusa. The villain uses her for personal needs, such as helping her hunt for a diamond in the Devil's Eye. The animation was enchanting, yet cartoon-y to some people.The most heart-rendering scene is, of course, the enchanting balcony part. The most lovely element that can tug your heartstrings even more is the song, Someone's Waiting for You. This made me misty-eyed during this part when a teary Penny overlooks a Southern swamp when aid from Bianca and Bernard is en route. How melancholy! I also liked the magic and rainbows of Tomorrow is Another Day, too. I regard Someone's Waiting for You as one of the must-listens of musical hits from Disney classics! (Oh, and by the way, this song is featured in Disney's Greatest Lullabies, complied a decade after the movie's release!) I give this motion picture 9 out of 10 stars, because some things can irk some social groups a hair bit&#133; "},{"Title":"Strangely tired Disney","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It's worthwhile comparing the opening credits to The Rescuers with the opening credits to its sequel (released thirteen years later).  The sequel's opening is detailed, tastefully colourful and full of movement - it leaps and bounds through the Australian landscape, and its dominant mood is exuberance.  The original is anything but exuberant.  ITS opening credits take place over a series of sombre seascape drawings - still drawings. These credits could not possibly have been more cheaply made; but they have their own charm and effect.There is something fitting about the grey world of The Rescuers.  A pair of mice (professional rescuers) receive a message from a young orphan girl who is being held captive by ... and so on.  This is not a chandelier-swinging rescue story.  The mice are tiny and largely helpless in a world of big things; and if they succeed at all it must be by quietly waiting their chance in the shadows.The mice, by the way, are adorable.  Really, they are.  Largely it's the voices that do it - Eva Gabor as a rich Hungarian, and Bob Newhart as a shy American floor-sweeper.  Neither is self-consciously cute.  Each is an innocent but not a child.  When the story concentrates on them rather than the Miss MacGuffin they are rescuing it is at its most enjoyable.There is no doubt, though that the Disney studio was exhausted at the time it made this movie.  There is one superb piece of animation - Madam Medusa, the villainess, perhaps the high point of animator Milt Kahl's career. Other character animation here and there is good too.  But the spear-characters of the story have been done with what looks like almost no effort; and many scenes look as if they belong on television.  Scale is often ignored (there is a turtle slightly smaller than the mice) - and this is a SERIOUS problem in this kind of fantasy.  Overall there is a feeling of deep weariness.It's worth seeing for the mice, though. "},{"Title":"Too scary for little kids, but a fun film nonetheless","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Rescuers isn't perfect but it's a very entertaining animated film. It's one of those lesser-seen Disney animated films, this one about a society of talking mice who help children around the world. The case in question for this film is of a poor orphaned girl named Penny (voiced by Michelle Stacy) whose call for help comes to the ears of Bernard (Bob Newhart) and Miss Bianca (Eva Gabor). They have to travel to the Louisiana Bayou to rescue her from a wicked woman named Madam Medusa (Geraldine Page).It's a touching story that at times will get you misty-eyed and you'll be cheering for the cute little mice and the adorable orphan girl to get away from the evil Mrs. Medusa. There are genuine thrills and peril too. It's probably too frightening for young children, so about 7+ is the right age for this one. I found the voice acting to be pretty solid, particularly the mice and Madam Medusa. The area where I was disappointed was actually in the animation. The quality varies at times, with some scenes being of far lower quality than the rest and a few animation models having been created with a few mistakes in them. The story is fast paced and at 1hr 20 minutes it actually feels very short, with the ending coming up a little bit too quickly. Overall though, it's an enjoyable film that you can enjoy with your children without getting bored. If you're a child at heart, it's a great time too. (On Blu-ray, August 30, 2012) "},{"Title":"Must see","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I read the Rescuers books before seeing the movie, so initially I was disappointed with this version. But once I'd gotten over the frustration that once again perfectly good source material had been sacrificed (instead, two of the Rescuer books are conflated into one) I really enjoyed it, and I saw it a couple of times on its first release and I have the DVD, which I watch every few months or so. The opening scenes, beneath the credits, of the bottle drifting along on the savage ocean, are great art! Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor do great voicework...and I've always been a fan of Jim Jordan - the radio great (Fibber McGee and Molly) who played the albatross. "},{"Title":"A fairly bland and disappointing Disney effort, even if it's not all bad","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember seeing this film's 1990 sequel, The Rescuers Down Under (or at least some of it), as a kid, but do not recall ever seeing any of this original 1977 Disney animated flick during my childhood. I don't think I even knew the title of the sequel until about six years ago. For a while now, I've known that The Rescuers is the first of the two, and I finally rented it just last week. It's not among the most popular Disney animations, so I wasn't expecting an excellent family film, but knowing that it did have appeal, I was expecting it to be good. I have now seen it twice, and the first time I watched it, I thought it was definitely no more than average. I gave it another try about 24 hours later, and thought it was a bit better this time, but still not that good.A bottle containing a plea for help is sent from a boat in a bayou by a little girl and ends up in New York, where it is found by mice, so a Rescue Aid Society meeting is called to order in the city. At this meeting of mice from around the world, Miss Bianca volunteers to go and rescue Penny, the orphaned girl who sent the message. She chooses Bernard, a janitor, as her partner on the mission. Together, they go to the orphanage where Penny lived before disappearing, and meet an aging cat named Rufus, who tells them about the missing girl, and from what they learn, it sounds like she has been kidnapped by an evil pawn shop owner named Madame Medusa! So, Miss Bianca and Bernard go out and find Medusa, but fail to keep up with her, so the two mice take an albatross flight to Devil's Bayou, where Penny has been taken, and learn that here, the girl is being forced by Medusa and the evil woman's assistant, Mr. Snoops, to search for a large diamond in an underground cave, which Medusa longs to get her hands on!Both times I watched this Disney cartoon very recently, I was not very impressed with the songs in general, most of which are performed by Shelby Flint. This includes the opening credits sequence and the ending, both featuring songs. The voice acting is another problem. Not all the voice-overs are lacklustre, but many of them are, including Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor as Bernard and Miss Bianca respectively. There are some funny parts in The Rescuers, such as Bernard's struggle to get the message out of the bottle at the Rescue Aid Society meeting and Bernard trying to give permission to land at the airport, but there aren't enough funny moments. Madame Medusa certainly isn't the most entertaining villain in the history of Disney animation. She's like a bland version of Cruella De Vil from One Hundred and One Dalmatians. Despite all these flaws, there is a bit of excitement and the story can be fairly intriguing. Also, the animation, while not great, has some nice backgrounds and colours. Since this 1977 release, Disney has brought us worse animated features, like Pocahontas and Home on the Range, but have also brought us far superior ones as well. Most Disney animated films that I've seen, from both before and after The Rescuers, are better than this one. While I certainly wasn't completely bored throughout the movie, I get the feeling I might have liked it a lot better as a kid. I might even like it better now if I had seen it in the 90's. Even after two viewings, I can still rate it no higher than 6/10. I tried to like it better with a second viewing, but barely succeeded. I know many people like this film, including adults, so I won't say it's strictly for kids, but it didn't reach my expectations. If you're fan of Disney animation, this particular film could be worth checking out. You certainly could like it better than I did, but I wouldn't expect it to be one of the greatest pieces of Disney animation ever made. "},{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  i have always loved this movie, since the first time I saw it in the movies,in 1989.  The best thing about this are the voice actors.  Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor do a terrific job voicing the two heros, Mr. Bernard, and Miss Bianca.  But Geraldine Page steals the show as the voice of Madame Medusa.  It is one of the best voice over performences I have ever seen. (or rather heard) Go and see it just for her.   "},{"Title":"Absolutely charming animated movie for children and adults.","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I just love this movie.  The geographic settings and quality of the artwork are first-rate.  The music is absolutely rapturous.  And the plot flows very smoothly.  My daughters (3 and 6 years old) love it.  But they don't love it as much as me (I'm 44).  A dreamy and inspiring movie, this is one of my all-time favorites.  You can't miss with this one! "},{"Title":"Beautiful!!!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I didn´t know the movie is so old cause I watched it in cinema in the late 80´s, as a child. At this time, it was one of my favourite or even my favourite movie. In my opinion it ´s a beautiful Disney movie for children, even 24 years after it first started. "},{"Title":"Rescue me","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Critics rave about this film being one of the better films of the Dark Ages, but I don't really believe them. After seeing it on Blu-Ray, I was a mess of simultaneous satisfaction and disappointment. The story has some engaging action and edge-of-the-seat thrilling moments, but the humor is less successful at landing strikes on the funny bone than other Disney movies, and there are plenty of predictably boring moments (Please don't make me talk about the erotic image in the 1999 VHS that forced it to be recalled). I could just barely sit through this assorted bag of whimsy like Cinderella is, with not enough action to keep me fueled for the next scenes despite the nice amount of darkness it has (Madame Medusa is one of my mid-tier villains, for how she doesn't precisely entertain or scare, but prefers to be absolutely cruel to Penny, something that works sometimes and doesn't work sometimes). It isn't the pinnacle of Disney mediocrity that Cinderella is, due to its obscurity, but it's only an okay film compared to its sequel or The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh. "}{"Title":"A Disney cartoon both cute and gloomy","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Rescuers is part of the classic Disney animation feature canon, but it looks more like a Don Bluth movie, its mouse protagonists bringing to mind Mrs. Brisby and Fievel and its overall animation style being a little sketchy (but not so sketchy as to be from the Jungle Book - 101 Dalmatians era) and having plenty of dark colors.The story is very urgent with high stakes (for a Disney animation) and at times scary for small children - there are terrifying scenes of cramped underwater caves, emotional abuse of a little girl, even a human skull being torn to bits.I liked the 70's-style romantic ballads, too. But the look, sound and pacing might be a little old-timey for the kids these days. "},{"Title":"A Cute Adventure","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Rescuers is a very cute animated adventure film - it is good to watch if you like any of the classic animated movies from Disney. But I will have to say that I was never that big of a fan of this animation - even as a 5 year old kid.The story is fairly good but I did not find the characters that alluring or appealing as I did with most other Walt Disney toons. To me, The Rescuers are not all that funny nor memorable (I did get a few laughs out of the film - just not that many). I realize that this movie is a crime film but so is 101 Dalmatians. Cruella De Vil was funny with her anger and vicious ways.Anyway, if you liked The Rescuers then try similar films like 101 Dalmatians, The Fox and the Hound or Lady and the Tramp.7/10 "},{"Title":"Back In 1977, This Was A Return To Form For Disney","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" You have to consider that back in the mid-1970s, animation was either dying or being neglected. Disney efforts did well at the box office but received mediocre critical reception. Adult-oriented animation like the Ralph Bakshi films took off. Other films came and went. It seemed that the Disney films were losing their charm (as Don Bluth would put it) and that animation in America was doomed.The Rescuers was being worked on in the mid-1970s, when Disney's new young animators (Many of which would later leave with Don Bluth to form Don Bluth Productions, enter the Disney Vs. Bluth in the 80s) were starting to show their talent. Robin Hood and Winnie the Pooh and Tigger Too! were only training vehicles for them, The Rescuers seemed like a good, but safe project for them to do. This was because the Disney management was play-it-safe at the time thanks to then-CEO Ron Miller. Some of that can been seen in the film.But The Rescuers is the strongest Disney animated film from the 1970s. The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh felt like the 1940s package features. The Aristocats and Robin Hood were entertaining, but they lacked strong narratives. The Rescuers has a story. The film actually has emotional moments. Very surprising, since the films after The Jungle Book and before this lacked emotional moments.The Rescuers begins where the orphan Penny sends a message in a bottle out. The opening credits are very nice, as they might be concept art. But they tell a story. The Rescue Aid Society, a team of mice that rescue people, gets the message, and sends the timid Bernard and the adventurous Bianca out to find Penny.Penny is held captive by Madam Medusa, a rather outrageous villain who makes the child search a pirate's cave for a diamond called the Devil's Eye. She was a terrific villain because of how cruel she was to Penny, especially when she tells her, Who would ever want to adopt you? That's possibly one of the meanest things I've heard coming out of a Disney villain.Anyway, the adventure kicks off when Orville the albatross takes them to the Devil's Bayou. From there, The Rescuers turns into one of the more exciting pre-Renaissance Disney animated features. The Disney classics always featured moments of great action, The Rescuers had a lot of action for a Disney film back in the day.Unfortunately, the film is let down by some sloppy use of recycled animation. It's not as jarring as the use of recycled animation in Robin Hood, but it's noticeable. (Bambi's mother in the Someone's Waiting for You scene) The songs weren't the strongest bunch in a Disney film (With the exception of Someone's Waiting), but the score was good and it had a 70s feels to it. This might cause the film to be slightly dated, although there are no cloying 70s pop culture references, thankfully. The animation is good, although some roto-scoping was obviously used for some effects. (Fireworks, the swamp-mobile, possibly)The Rescuers' biggest strength is the ambition. The film tries to capture the feel of the older Disney films, while mixing humor and action, and for the most part, it works very well. Perhaps you can say Don Bluth was behind this, after all, he was hoping to become the next Walt Disney. (he had the chance, but he blew it if you ask me) The Rescuers is the strongest Disney animated feature from the 70s, at a time when Disney trying to find their place after the death of Walt Disney.An 8.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Underrated  Retro Disney Gem of  adventure, whimsy, action, cuteness and raw imagination","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Rescue Aid Society is a centuries-old organization that was founded by the helpful little mouse of the old Aesop's fable. It's a secret organization of adventurous, intrepid, yet perfectly civilized mice from all over the world who lend a helping hand to anyone in need.Our hero mice of the film are, the beautiful, sophisticated, & sweet-natured Miss Bianca (Eva Gabor) and her partner-in-adventure and admirer the mild-mannered, and cautious Bernard (Bob Newhart). They are out to rescue a kidnapped 6-year-old orphan named Penny. Penny has been kidnapped by the slimy, greedy old pawn shop owner Medusa (a Cruella De Vil prototype no doubt) and her bumbling windbag minion Snoops who just isn't as intimidating no matter how hard he trys. Penny is small enough to squeeze into caverns & tombs and retrieve valuable diamonds for them.Though cherubic & innocent, but snaggle-toothed & drab-clothed Penny often lacks confidence in her looks & adoptable factor, she's brave, strong, and resourceful, cooperating with her captors just long enough to stay safe, and sends messages for help and keeping faith that she will be saved.The movie's animation has a wonderful classic 70's feel to it, without looking cheap or like it was just thrown together. Though not in musical/song-and-dance number format (thank goodness) there are a few haunting, yet heartwarming songs playing as we stay hopeful that precious Penny overcomes this ordeal. It's quite evident that a lot of heart, soul, and creativity was put into both the story as well as the animation. Though there is no violence in the film there is much suspenseful peril and well-animated action sequences that our mice heroes must face on their journey for Penny's rescue, that keeps the viewer on the edge of his/her seat.Unlike most animated family films of *this* generation, the comic relief is kept to a minimum and a subtle degree for *most* of the film, but boy the villains, the climax, and their fates do not fail to bring the lols.This is one of Disney's more underrated & thoroughly charming & heart-warming animated films from beginning to end. Fun for the whole family, and a flawlessly executed animated action/adventure with no gimmicks, snark, pop-culture name-drops whatsoever. It's a wholesome, heartwarming and quirky animated film that was conceptualized & powered by nothing but good old-fashioned raw imagination.Definitely worth a watch  10/10 "},{"Title":"Thirty years ago...","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" It is hard to believe that Disney movies age, for most of them seem to be timeless classics, but there is a date on which this classic Disney animated masterpiece was first brought out to delight countless children and adults June 22nd, 1977. The film has continued to be a winner for the thirty years that followed, and no doubt it'll continue to be a timeless classic animation for many more years to come. The Rescuers is right at the top among Disney's most dramatic, touching and even darker films. That's right, don't let the usual description about two little mice fool you, this film is anything but a happy, politically correct, kiddie movie about cute rodents, it tells a deep, serious story that may be overshadowed by that vague description and hides many elements some adults would likely frown upon when it is time to share them with children.Based on two light-hearted children's novels by Margery Sharp (The Rescuers and Miss Bianca), The Rescuers tells the story of a little orphaned girl named Penny (voiced by Michelle Stacy). The girl had been kidnapped and taken away into a dark, gloomy riverboat in Devil's Bayou, in an uncharted island (No, it's not Louisianna as some want to insist). The girl sends out messages in bottles, one of which arrives in New York City, at the Rescue Aid Society in the basement of the United Nations building. The Rescue Aid Society is a mouse-run organization imitating the United Nations which sends out help for anyone in need, human, mouse or cat. After reading the heartfelt note inside the bottle, Hungary delegate Miss Bianca (voiced by Eva Gabor) volunteers to take on the mission, and with the condition that she will take along a male companion, Mr. Chairman (voiced by Bernard Fox) agrees to let her go; Miss Bianca chooses the shy janitor mouse Bernard (voiced by Bob Newhart). On their way, the two mice visit Morningside Orphanage and meet an old cat named Rufus who sends them on the trail of someone named Madame Medusa (voiced by Geraldine Page). Madame Medusa works at a pawn shop, which the two mice visit, and when the wicked woman receives a call from her partner Mr. Snoops (voiced by Joe Flynn), Miss Bianca and Bernard discover that she is indeed responsible for the disappearance of Penny and that she is looking for a great big diamond. Miss Bianca and Bernard must race to Devil's Bayou with the help of Orville the albatross, Ellie Mae and Luke, the muskrats and Evinrude, a dragonfly as well as other bayou critters, to meet and face the wicked Madame Medusa and her two ferocious alligators, Brutus and Nero and bring Penny safely home. Before doing that however, Penny, Miss Bianca and Bernard will have to survive underground inside a horrid pirate's cave where they must find the Devil's Eye, the world's largest diamond, before the tide rises drowning them all.As an adaptation of Margery Sharp's classic novels, Disney's The Rescuers is sometimes criticized for not being a faithful adaptation of any particular Margery Sharp work about the brave Miss Bianca, still, the film manages to be true to the many elements that made the original works so wonderful. Simplicity, charm, sophistication... Disney's The Rescuers blends the real with the surreal, starting with a real-world place like New York City and a fictional non-existent uncharted island named Devil's Bayou, blending orphaned little girls with tales of valuable pirate treasure or using for setting a gloomy, dark place that might just be in its own world, since it often gives the feeling of being far from civilization. The characters are sophisticated and developed, without any particular greatness they often find themselves lost, such as when Bernard says What can two little mice do?, just like we real humans feel sometimes, it's characters like these that are most endearing and have an easier time touching hearts. Madame Medusa is a human being, no supernatural powers and no real human strength, she's the perfect antagonist for an orphaned girl, a pair of mice and their critter friends. The story told here is simplistic, without pushing out any real moral (though you'll find plenty of morals and lessons throughout the film) or without relying on anything too elaborate to work. The simplicity of the characters and the story is what made both Margery Sharp's novels and Disney's film work, but in reality, both are anything but simplistic.Fans of The Rescuers are to be saddened, at least so far, by Disney's neglect of the film. As of now, the only way to enjoy The Rescuers without the restored pirate version roaming the internet is with the 2003 DVD, which frankly leaves lots and lots to be desired (The same can be said about the pathetic sequel/rip-off produced somewhere in the early 90's). Lack of bonus features aside, The Rescuers is poorly presented with washed out, too-vivid colors, a miss-match of brightness and contrast, leaving a very dark picture that leaves out too many details. Rough lines, grain, dirt and all sorts of artifacts completely spoil the picture quality, leaving us with no more than less-than-decent picture and average sound quality. Definitely a thumbs up for an upcoming Masterpiece Edition, which we all hope will be seen soon.Happy 30th Anniversary! "},{"Title":"sweet, clever, professionally drawn","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Given the animation techniques available today and seen in such movies as Finding Nemo, the animation in The Rescuers seems strikingly old-fashioned. Yet, just as the ground crew of the Apollo 13 mission in 1970 used slide rules and pencil and paper to do the calculations needed to bring the crew safely back to earth, so the animators of 1977 who made The Rescuers used hand drawings and, I would think, little else, in doing so.Keeping this in mind, The Rescuers emerges as a sweet, clever, professionally drawn and scripted movie which entertains and touches the heart in its 84 minutes of runtime. (No, this is no Titanic or Lord of the Rings.) "},{"Title":"Underwhelming, but Interesting","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Widely considered the best of Disney's seventies output, The Rescuers has dated rather terribly but more flatteringly than Robin Hood or The Aristocats. Unlike those films, there is an actual weight to the drama here and some of the ingenuity of classic Disney, owing perhaps to the presence of younger and more driven animators making their debuts as animation directors. Such drive can't quite undo the mixed quality of the animation and the kind of pussying out that keeps it from quite working, but one can understand why it's considered a minor classic from Disney's work.I don't much care for it myself, but I do have to commend Disney for actually taking some risks on this one. Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor show some real chemistry as voice actors and make a likable pair, but it's the Penny story that lifts this. There's real Dickensian gravitas to her conflict with Madame Medusa, and a melancholy that even older Disney may not have attempted to accomplish. If Penny can be cloying at times, she's still fairly convincing as a character. Madame Medusa, though a retread of Cruella de Vil, still works thanks to Geraldine Page's performance and Milt Kahl's masterfully bombastic animation (an attempt to one-up his friend Marc Davis, who handled Cruella). There are some tools here for a very entertaining adventure story.Where it falls flat is in the execution. The narrative meanders to an irritating degree, hurling itself at red herrings too much and taking a much longer time than it needs to progress. Very few of the side characters are all that memorable, aside from Ollie Johnston's self caricature as Rufus the Cat. This is probably the slowest Disney film since Fantasia as a result, and not nearly as hypnotic. It also doesn't help that, for all its moody atmospherics, it insists on lightening the mood at the times when it could potentially be at its most ballsy. Medusa pointing a gun at a small child is pretty damn risky for a Disney picture, but thrills turn to insults as she's subsequently besieged by a group of cartoon critters. It's a real shame, as none of these problems are appalling on their own but pile up too much.In terms of animation, this one is a major step up from Robin Hood, but still suffers from the studio's cost-cutting tendencies of the time. The dark bayou backgrounds have a lovely Gothic quality to them, but in general the color design here is dull and never rises above your typical Scooby Doo episode. The mice have jarring flesh colored eyes which echo far too much of latter day Hanna-Barbera dreck. As for key animation, this was a landmark for Disney in that it marked the debut of a non-9 Old Men animator in a directing role. This artist was none other than the infamous Don Bluth, whose influence can be felt throughout the project. He's often credited with doing away with such irritating practices as dividing the different departments with no collaboration amongst them, and I wouldn't be surprised if he had a lot to do with the darker tone of this film. As for his animation, he shows a talent for hyperactive set pieces, such as the Zoo scene (which is a superfluous and stupid sequence otherwise) but also holds responsibility for the airport scene, with some of the most awkward rotoscoping outside of a Ralph Bakshi movie. The star of this piece is Milt Kahl, whose Medusa is a model example of animated performance. Overall, this is a mixed-bag technically, but one that shows some potentiality for an edgier new direction that might have revitalized Disney (it never happened, of course).Perhaps its not a great film, or even a very good one, but you have to hand it to the new crowd of eager Disney animators for trying to advance to a new kind of film for Disney. Alas, the whole product comes off as mediocre to me, despite moments of greatness here and there. Similar effort seems to have been made in the next couple of Disney features, but they were even less successful. as a whole. I don't violently hate it the way I do Robin Hood, but it leaves me cold and disappointed. Intrigued, but underwhelmed. "},{"Title":"a minor classic","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't think the Rescuers would rank amongst the top cream of the Disney feature-animation crop, though it's far from being one of the lessor films either. There's a very repeatedly watchable quality to the film, its sincere kind of sweetness at the core, and an off-beat sense of humor. It's a Disney animated film made in the 70's but good for any time period, and has the juice for entertainment even for the computer animation crowd. Some of its a little ridiculous (that fly is one of the most charming of the 'plucky' side characters in any Disney flick), and then when it gets dark it gets downright cruel if there are wee little ones watching (some may freak at the psychological push and pull with the Teddy Bear). It's an original kind of concept though, where-in two mice have to save a girl from the clutches of a rotten kind of modern wench with a diamond on her mind. Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor are quite the match-up, and they work, as they both have enough to give personality-wise to the characters and make them fun and endearing for the audience. The adventures they get in with their little girl in tow, or on the way there, or with the other side-characters of little swamp animals helping along the way, is all in good Disney family fun. Some of the songs are a little dated, but that's not a big flaw. There's enough to get a satisfying enough time that it even speaks to get more laughs on the repeated viewings. Once may be enough for some, or they may even want to reach out to the neat, if a little unnecessary, 1990 sequel. It's heartfelt, wild, and a little strange- a nifty batch of the hand-drawn Disney pathos. "},{"Title":"Doesn't Need Rescuing.","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Rescuers (1977) Dir Wolfgang Reitherman, John Lounsbery, Art Stevens / Voices Bob Newhart, Eva Gabor, Geraldine Page, Joe Flynn, Michelle Stacy Disney animation about small factors making a big difference. The heroes are rodents who tackle larger than life challenges and they have just received bottled messages from a kidnapped orphan named Penny held by the evil Madam Medusa. Of these mice there is the humble and resourceful Bernard and the charming Bianca. They are assisted by Orville the wise-cracking Albatross who flies them to the everglades where Penny is being held. Meduca is searching for the biggest diamond in the world and using Penny to find it. Adventurous plot with dazzling images that only goes astray during its chaotic climax. Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor voice Bernard and Bianca who lead the mission and take a variety of risks. Geraldine Page voices Madam Meduca as an intimidating villain. Penny seems unsympathetic though. Other voices include Joe Flynn voicing Meduca's standard henchman who ends up the product of deception. Michelle Stacy voices that dimwit Penny who sabotages more of the film than not. Fine directing by Wolfgang Reitherman and John Lounsbery with colourful animated spectacular. Entertaining Disney adventure that renders a bold statement about the fact that size does count, even if it isn't very big. Score 7 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"A very cute movie(3 out of 5 stars I give it)","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Rescuers is a 1977 Disney movie and it is their 23rd animated classic in the Disney Canon. The movie opens up with a young orphan girl named Penny who is kidnapped by an evil woman who owns a pawn shop called Madame Medusa(who looks like a cross between Bette Midler and Bernadette Peters for some strange reason)who wants Penny to get the devils eye(which is a diamond that is somewhere in a cave).So Penny writes a letter and puts it in a bottle and throws it in the swamp. Meanwhile a mouse finds the message in the bottle from Penny and the film starts. We are later introduced to two mice called Bernard(voiced by Bob Newman)and Bianca(voiced by Eva Gabor who also provides the voice for Duchess the cat in The Aristocrats)who are in the rescuers red society which is a group of mice who are like private eye detectives who rescue people that are in trouble. So Bernard and Bianca are set off to find Penny and bring her back home. They meet some interesting charcthers along the way of their journey to find the little girl.Overall I have never seen this film before and I saw it with a blind eye,so I din't know what to make of it first,but to be quite frank I actually thought it was entertaining and cute. Also here is some trivia for ya Don Bluth and of course Richard Rich(who directed one of my all time favourite animated movies that is not from Disney The Swan Princess) both worked on this movie together,before they left Disney and started THERE own business against Disney Animation which is NO MORE. The film is extremely underrated and it reminded me of Basil Mouse Detective as I saw bits and pieces of that film.Overall if you love animal movies then this one isn't all that bad its cute and suitable for 6 years up. 6.1/10Out of 5 I give it a *** out of *****. "}{"Title":"Taken, with Mice","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Adapted and embellished from a series of children's stories The Rescuers is certainly an unusual entry in Disney's animated classics canon. Most Disney animations focus on spectacle, fantasy, and iconic, lasting imagery, while the Rescuers finds a comfortable groove in gloom and darkness.Shadowing the UN building in New York is an organization called the Rescue Aid Society run by mice. A message in a bottle has floated up the Hudson and made it into their HQ. The letter is written by Penny who has been kidnapped.Miss Bianca, representing Hungary at this organisation, volunteers for the mission of retrieving her and recruits bumbling janitor Bernard as her sidekick. Eva Gabor and Bob Newhart provide the voices, and they have decent chemistry together.They soon make their way to the Bayou where Penny is being held by her captors and forced to look for a hidden treasure underground. This is where the movie ends up making no sense at all. Why would Louisiana-based crooks be so keen on kidnapping a New York-based girl to do their dirty work for them? Why did they not just get a local kid to do it? Or dig it out themselves with bigger tools? There's no logic to it all all. I kept waiting for an explanation like Penny's dad was the dead pirate buried down there but...nope!Morose, atmospheric backdrops such as windy and cold New York, tangled forests, and dark, brooding bayous sets apart the Rescuers. It's a very involving style and it makes it perfect viewing for grey Sunday afternoons.In many ways this movie feels like a prototype of Chip and Dale Rescue Rangers, and any fans of that show will no doubt enjoy the exploits of the Rescue Aid Society. "},{"Title":"Generally Uncompelling","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I will give credit where it's due and say The Rescuers did it's fair share of freshening things up in the ailing, but not dead, Disney studios. It's a lot nicer animation than Robin Hood and streaks ahead of the Aristocats in every aspect imaginable. It's actually pretty gloomy and dark and not what I would consider a musical (thought it has songs), making it the first straight up adventure story since 101 Dalmatians, with whom it shares a lot of similarities. However, this film stumbles where that one shone in terms of compelling characters and effective story arcs.The animation is pretty standard fare for the period, with the bothersome scratchy xerox lines of the 60s-80s, but the swampy backgrounds are very lovely and atmospheric. Medusa is particularly well animated, a farewell performance by the great Milt Kahl. The scenes where the mice are following the alligators to the showboat lair and in the pipe organ strike me as especially dynamic sequences. I would almost think they were computer aided- they have that feel of movement. The oil paintings at the beginning were quite moody and atmospheric, but they didn't hash as well as I would have liked with the rest of the movie, plus the whole sequence was kinda creepy and put a glum cast on the film from the outset.The characters- By far the best in the movie are Bernard and Bianca. Eva Gabor is charming and Bob Newhart makes this quirky, superstitious mouse come to life. The bayou animals served absolutely no purpose to the story- the film could have been made quite easily without their presence and been a lot more enjoyable and less juvenile for it. Penny is just too absowutewy adowable to her own good. From the sticky-sweet lispy voice to the bouncy pigtails and gap tooth, she's just an overdose of goo-goo. I much prefer Anne Marie from a certain Don Bluth's film- a name that would gain a lot more significance in just a few years. Medusa- she's probably the biggest pitfall of the film. I take it back, the entire cast of villains are to blame. Medusa seems at first pretty dangerous and loopy- very much like Cruella but a little broader. But as the movie goes on, her menace gives way to general incompetence. Once the true danger of the cave is done, she is so comically defeated, it kills any credible menace. The same goes for the crocodiles, who at first were an imposing presence of danger, but you eventually got the feeling they were incapable of harming anything even if they tried. Mr. Snoops, well as the odious comic relief, he was a waste from every angle, being neither terribly funny nor particularly villainous. The music is quite dated, having a particularly strong 70s easy-listening flavour which helps ground the film in a solid setting, I just happen to have a distaste for that style. The songs, with the exception of the Rescue-Aid Pledge are all sung off-screen by Shelby flint as some kind of ethereal narrator. It made the film less of a musical and more devoted to the adventure aspects, which I say is a plus not to keep everything in the same old mold.The Rescuers is a decent film, but it lacks a compelling force- one that stems mainly from characterization. The protagonists, excluding the titular mice, are too annoying to create any desire for their triumph, while the villains become so impotent they drain the movie, which is geared in all aspects towards adventure, of its suspense. "},{"Title":"Lacks spark","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Rescuers, at least in my opinion, is one of the forgotten Disney films. Though perhaps it would be more accurate to say that it's one of the most overlooked Disney films. Most people know that it exists, certainly, it's part of Disney canon, and I'd even say that most people have even seen it. But not all that many people talk about it. I've never met any person who claims this as one of their favourites.And yeah, I can see why. The Rescuers is a fine movie, perfectly good children's entertainment. But, it's not very memorable. The characters range from slightly below average to merely good. The animation, while impressive in certain ways, is rather dark in its style and doesn't even try to reach for the stars like so many other Disney films. The music is okay, the story is okay and that's about it. It's okay. Which for a Disney film is not really a compliment.I truly think they should have made Cruella De Vil the villain. Yeah, this was going to be a sequel to One Hundred and One Dalmatians. But, alas, someone decided that the audience would feel confused. Disney, making baffling executive decisions since the 70s. Because, while Madame Medusa is not the worst Disney villain we've seen, she just feels like a poor man's Cruella De Vil, or perhaps like something of a practice run for Ursula from The Little Mermaid. In a word she's okay, but something's missing.Then again, Bernard and Biance, the eponymous rescuing mice, are both very good characters, the backgrounds do look gorgeous, the story does some interesting things we haven't seen in Disney films before this one, and as stated, it isn't bad in any way. It just isn't great. Certainly worth a watch for all fans of Disney, but personally I rate it pretty low on my list of canon films. "},{"Title":"Cute yet mediocre","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Rescuers is one of those Disney animated films that was once quite popular yet stands today as a bit obscure. It did well enough to earn a sequel that was actually made by the main Disney animation department (The Rescuers Down Under), but I can't imagine kids today preferring to watch this all the time when they've got the likes of WALL-E and Enchanted also on DVD.I remember watching The Rescuers a bit as a young child and liked it a lot. However, I have to say that The Rescuers doesn't hold up all too well for me any more. There are a number of Disney films that I greatly prefer now to when I was a kid. Yet The Rescuers, which was a favourite of mine as a child, seems to have gone the other way. It's by no means a complete loser, but it's also not a complete winner.The Rescuers tells the story of two mice from the Rescue Aid Society (a mouse version of the United Nations, who are housed in the basement of the larger orginisation's head quarters in New York), Bernard and Bianca. They are sent on a mission to rescue (well, what else are they supposed to do?) a young orphan girl named Penny, who is being held in an isolated swamp in the Deep South by an evil lady called Madame Medusa, who wants to use her to go down into a tiny cave in order to retrieve the Devil's Eye, which stands as the world's largest diamond in this story.Madame Medusa is quite a well realised creation. Enough so, in fact, that she almost ranks up there with the likes of the most evil animated creations. Admittedly, she is Cruella De Vil made to look like Shirley Bassey, but she still has enough going for her. She is greedy, sleazy and has even more wicked intentions in the race to get what she wants; there are hints that she even has the intention to leave the orphan alone in the swamp so as to cover up her initial kidnap once the diamond is found. In truth, she would have been more detestable had she gone and out-right said that she planned to leave the girl on a decaying show boat in a crocodile infested swamp, but she still comes across as wicked enough.Needless to say, the rest of The Rescuers isn't as stellar. For the most part, the film is actually rather dated. It has a contemporary setting and although this does not in theory make any film dated, it does in this case. The soundtrack and songs, which are by no means bad, have a semi-disco quality that makes them seem like time relics. And some of the fashions and backgrounds seem so unmistakeably 70s that they become cringe-making.The film also seems more childish. For some reason, perhaps due to the fact that nearly all of the animal characters seem to be wearing clothes in an otherwise realistic world, the whole piece seems like it was suggested by a story that a seven year old wrote. In addition, Penny the orphan is quite cloying, more so than any animals in Bambi or numerous Pooh characters could be.To be perfectly honest, the whole film comes across as fairly tired. The animation department at Disney supposedly lost a lot of confidence after Walt died until the new regime in the mid 80s brought enough punch to get the animators and artists creating the likes of The Little Mermaid. The Rescuers does seem to emphasise the theory of loss of confidence. Its sequel, released during the era of The Little Mermaid and Aladdin, actually ends up having more spark than this film. The animation here is sometimes so sketchy that it becomes hard to like, and the story isn't extremely inventive (it really feels like 101 Dalmatians, though with an orphan instead of puppies and an American setting instead of a British one), and as previously mentioned, is quite childish. There is the odd bit of cleverness (the leaf boat that the mice sail in, for example), but the film can be rather slow at times, and it seems as though the crew in charge simply couldn't be bothered to speed it up. Some of it actually comes across as filler; a scene involving Bernard and Bianca searching for Penny's orphanage could have been trimmed without much damage to the film, as could the odd line of dialogue here and there.The Rescuers is by no means the worst animated film ever made (this is no Black Cauldron!), but if you're wanting to be introduced to the greatest Disney classics, don't think that this is simply going to be an underrated gem that's worth starting the movie marathon off. "},{"Title":"Probably ranks among the least interesting Disney cartoons.","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Disney's animated films have generally been good or better, while the studio's live-action offerings have veered from excellent (Mary Poppins, Nikki Wild Dog of the North) to downright terrible (Popeye, Condorman). The Rescuers is an animated film from 1977, but unfortunately it is a lesser cartoon feature. Compared to the likes of Dumbo, Lady and the Tramp and 101 Dalmatians, the film is something of a disappointment. None of the Disney cartoons are so bad that you can't find some merit in them, but this one offers very little beyond a couple of lively sequences and some OK voice acting.The story tells of the Rescue Aid Society, a bunch of mice from all around the globe who dedicate their lives to answering distress calls. Their headquarters, naturally, is just under the UN Building! A bottle washes up in New York containing a help message. Two brave mice, Bernard and Bianca, investigate this plea for help. They learn that a young girl named Penny has been kidnapped from an orphanage and spirited down to the southern bayous, where she is being forced by a couple of crooks to hunt in a pirates' cavern for a priceless, long-lost diamond.The animation is rather mediocre for a Disney film, and the story isn't really all that interesting. Maybe the story could've been interesting, if handled with a bit more verve and energy, but as it is the pacing is quite slow. Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor are pleasant enough as the mice heroes, and the villainous role of Madame Medusa is carried off with suitable menace. I'm sure The Rescuers is the kind of film which will provide an hour or so of passable entertainment for kids, but I'm less sure that it's the kind of film they'll want to watch over and over again. From Disney, we've come to expect more.... "},{"Title":"4th out of 8 in the Dark Era","Date":"30 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" A few months after the acclaimed The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh, the company released their biggest hit in 10 years and their last for 12 years. Even though it was a big success in 1977, it has not aged well.The story is about these two mice named Bernard and Bianca, who work for this company that saves little children from being in dangerous situations and environment. The case that they got is that a girl named Penny was kidnapped and stranded on a deserted island to fetch a diamond. They have to save her before her captor Madame Medusa gets her diamond an has her way with PennyThe characters in this movie are a step up for the company; they are not just black and white characters with one personality trait. Bernard is a worrisome, cowardly, and at times brave mouse who is excited to be actually on a case. Bianca is sassy, independent, and adventurous, who got the first big case that any woman mice got. Madame Medusa is a temperamental, impatient, selfish train wreck (just like Cruella De Vil; she was originally going to be the villain of the movie), Penny is cute, lonely, and annoying, Orville is funny, charismatic, and clumsy. It is extremely easy to get invested in these characters, which could not be said for the characters in the last few movies.The soundtrack is mediocre at best. The only standout songs are Tomorrow is Another Day, and Someone's Waiting for You, and those are just getting by. The score does do it's job in setting the mood of sadness and adventure, but it does not entice you. The soundtrack just barely gets the job done, and t sort of dates the film, as the music is 70's and not timeless.The animation is an improvement over Robin Hood and The Aristocats, but it is still not that great. They used an updated type of Xerography, which uses softer lines, and copies colour, but it is not really eye catching. The colours are dull for most of the movie, and the backgrounds are just portraits a majority of the time. The animated backgrounds don't stand out either.This film has some good qualities, and some mediocre ones. The characters and story are very good, but the animation and soundtrack are mediocre at best. This movie is an improvement over it's immediate predecessors, but it is not a classic either. "},{"Title":"It is a cute movie","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I am one who thought it was a movie about two mice. How cute was what I said. I did not choose to watch because I was of the certain that it was a movie for the children. On a day when I was alone, I watched the movie. This is because I wanted to watch some thing of light enjoyment. I am happy I did watch it. It is a nice cute story about two mice who must do the travelling to rescue a little girl from a bad lady. I will not do the spoilers in here. This is because I am thinking you should watch it for yourself. I like this movie. The animation is good. The music is good and sweet. I like Tomorrow Is Another Day. All the songs are good. I think I like the voices of the characters. Penny is a darling. The mice are good too. I like the backing grounds. They are detailing every thing, and look real.I gave this movie 8 out of 10. This is because the bird is not good. I do not like the bird. "},{"Title":"This film had a seminal impact on us all","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this film when it originally came out in 1978 (here). I was young. Everyone was young and it must have been a seminal moment in our lives. I'm sure it's still a fine film, although I haven't seen it since the 70's. Or am I confusing it with the one where the dogs eat spaghetti "},{"Title":"How unfortunate.","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Unfortunately, this film is based on two beautiful books, The Rescuers and Miss Bianca by Margery Sharp. What is unfortunate, is that this film makes a complete mess of both of them, changing round the plots, locations and even the personalities of the characters. Here is a bit about the film The film is about a society called The Rescue Aid Society of mice, who receive a message from a kidnapped little girl named Penny and are determined to go and rescue her. Well, two mice are ready to rescue her, Miss Bianca and Bernard, these are both their first missions.Now here is the same bit about the film, this time pointing out what it is really like in the book This film is about a society called The Rescue Aid Society(BIG MISTAKE It is the Prionser's Aid Society) of mice, who receive a message from a kidnapped little girl (they heard about it in Miss Bianca, where the girl appears) named Penny (in Miss Bianca her name is Patience) and are determined to go and rescue her. Well, two mice are ready to rescue her, Miss Bianca and Bernard, these are both their first missions (Bernard had had a mission before going on his first with Bianca).Luckily this film still remains to be pleasant, with good animation and beautiful songs. Best for people who have not read the books (and there are many of those people and those people should read the books). So there. "},{"Title":"Minor offering from Disney is derivative but not-bad","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Young audiences of the mid-'70's made this animated tale from Disney, about two mice and their attempt to rescue an orphaned girl from the clutches of jewel thieves, a good-sized box-office hit. It is one of the Disney Co.'s better cartoon offerings from this period, though for grown-ups it has little to offer beyond the frenetic action or the curious penchant it has for lifting character traits and story devices from One Hundred and One Dalmatians. The star-voices (including Bob Newhart, Eva Gabor, Joe Flynn and Geraldine Page) are terrific, and the film does get off to a rousing start, but it flags mid-way through. Followed by a belated, exceptionally thin sequel in 1990. ** from **** "}{"Title":"The Rescuers","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I can remember seeing it once or twice when I was a kid, but I can't really remember all of the film. What I can remember A little orphan girl puts a message in a bottle, and it is found by a bunch of mice. Now Bernard and Bianca mice are assigned together to find this little girl, Penny, and rescue her, hence the title. These two mice might not look like heroes, but who cares. They must rescue this little girl from a forbidden island, and from the wicked Madame Medusa. She is just a bitch, and she has crocodiles for pets! I can remember a few good chase or rescue sequences, and it is quite good for a Walt Disney Pictures animation. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for Someone's Waiting For You. Good! "},{"Title":"All Around The World","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't tend to be very critical on animated movies, since they are made specially for the kids, who expect from it just an entertaining story with a beautiful message, which isn't that hard to do. I've read somewhere on the internet that The Rescuers is a Disney classic-- albeit that's how they label all of their movies--, and considering I don't remember seeing this back when I was a kid, I rented this movie. From the get go, I had the constantly thought of how weird is it, and that's something that lasted until the end. This movie IS weird! The way filmmakers portray the characters and the animation itself are probably what made me think like that. Madame Medusa surely is a hell of a character, which is probably inspired in Cruella de Vil from One Hundred and One Dalmatians, even if not THAT cruel. The photography feels too dark for a children's animation; if I was a kid, I'd surely be scared while watching this trip around the world. Other than that, Orville is a funny and well-made character that may thrill the spectator with such simplicity and braveness. All in all, The Rescuers isn't a movie I'd show to my kids, but it's a regular and modest piece of work to enjoy once in your life. "},{"Title":"Tawdry and unpleasant except for Newhart, Gabor, and a little bit of Bluth","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Between the golden age of Disney animation in the 1930s, 40s, and 50s and the far shorter second golden age of the 90s was a period dominated by odd, awkward features like The Rescuers. Some of the oddness in this movie works to its benefit Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor are unlikely voice actors, being so understated and somehow adult, but they are very cute as heroes from a literal mouse United Nations called the Rescue Aid Society. It must be largely due to their chemistry and vocal talents that The Rescuers eventually got a sequel. Some of the movie's oddness, though, makes The Rescuers an actively unpleasant experience a maudlin take on child slavery, trailer-trash mice in a dismal bayou, and music that sounds like bad karaoke of B-side 70s folk. The characters and some of the animation seem lifted from earlier Disney films, which was something the studio did all too frequently around this time. The depiction of the main baddie is a trashier, less enlightened version of 101 Dalmatian's Cruella DeVille, and much of the supporting cast is straight out of Robin Hood (which in turn had imported many of its characters from The Jungle Book). In addition to Newhart and Gabor, glimpses of the painterly artistic talents of Don Bluth, who worked for Disney before directing his own darker and more fantastical movies, makes The Rescuers just barely worth watching. "},{"Title":"A great fear and a very bad movie","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I had 11 in 1977 when I saw this awful movie. In my opinion, it's not a movie suitable for children, I cried towards the end of the film seeing a skeleton. The colors are ugly, and the villains are too villains for young audience. And most important, the story is very poor. Dysney studio reused the story of 101 Dalmatians, replacing the stolen dalmatians by a young girl kidnapped by a ridiculous villain woman who was a pale copy of Cruela. During a long time, this movie wasn't available in France as a home video cassette or DVD, maybe for these reasons. Forget this movie if you don't want to see your children crying in the theater or at home. "},{"Title":"a native Hungarian would not be named Bianca","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Rescuers is the sort of movie that I watch to heckle like on Mystery Science Theater 3000. When they show the UN building at the beginning I said John Bolton's not gonna like that! I ended up not heckling most of it, just since I couldn't come up with anything. I assume that this was the first animated feature to have the voices of really notable people in the lead roles. Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor remain best know for their roles on sitcoms, although I prefer to think of Newhart's roles in Catch-22 and In & Out. As for Gabor, it ate at me that her character is named Bianca. Anyone who knows anything about Hungary or its language knows that Bianca can't be a given name in the Magyar Republic. Examples of authentic Hungarian feminine names are Dorottya, Erzsébet and Piroska. Other transparently obvious goofs include Latvia's seat at the Rescue Society Latvia was part of the Soviet Union at the time.Anyway, it's probably a movie that the little ones will like. "},{"Title":"A Disney Movie About Talking Mice","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I had heard good things about this movie. Good things from people who, like me, aren't fans of any animated movies, Disney or otherwise. They convinced me to buy a copy-now I have this bad quality DVD, and I'm £5.75 worse off.Let's leave aside the quality of the picture-after all, it only seems to be the new releases which are of good quality. The movie is very, very bland. The basic story is a kid is kidnapped by this woman, and two mice go to rescue her. Very Disney-just a lot less entertaining then movies like The Lion King and Aladdin. Maybe it's just aimed at kids-as a 24 year old, I was less then mildly entertained by this. Kids would probably get a lot more out of it.So, to the movie. The animation wasn't up to the standard of other movies-the 70s animation style, which I always found unbearable. That movie with the cats in it was the same-but I'm not reviewing that.The subplot of Bernard, the male mouse, wanting to marry Bianca was unnecessary. The bird/plane was almost unbearable to watch. It literally made me cringe when they started that part of 'comic relief'. Most movies don't have that effect on me. The villain, Medusa, failed to come across as threatening. As did her sidekick. And the icing on the cake? The mice pop up and start up a conversation with this kid. And she doesn't even blink.This, in my opinion, was nothing compared to the other movies from Disney. The soundtrack, admittedly, was good. Not the best, but at least the characters weren't constantly bursting into song. I'm sorry, that was the one redeeming feature for this movie. "}]