[{"Title":"Drop the Hanoi Jane ban, and see this film","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"53 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Obviously any film about Viet Nam that stars Jane Fonda and Jon Voight is going to cause more than a few knees to jerk. Fondas embracing the enemy and Voights devout pacifism have both been well-documented, so there's no need to elaborate. Don't let this cause you to avoid this film. Many veterans were on hand for the filming, and they saw that they were taking part in something special. If they can draw a truce with Fonda, than you can as well. The opening scene sets a tone for the film that it never veers from. A group of disabled vets play pool, and directly confront each other over why they were there, and what it all means. Director Hal Ashby (RIP) pulls no punches here. These vets aren't scholars debating on MacNeil-Lehrer. They struggle with these questions. They don't have the fancy initials after their names that impress people so much. There just the real people that fought the war.The rest of the film follows on this point. Special care goes into each character.Voights Luke Martin went to war to impress girls and feed his titanic ego. Because Ashby and his writers (Waldo Salt, Robert C. Jones and Nancy Dowd) didn't back off on showing Luke's bad side, it makes his transformation. He becomes a better person, because he develops the strength to look inside himself.Bruce Dern gives an excellent performance, as well, in what is probably the trickiest part. Derns Bob Hyde is GI all the way, but returns from his first combat detail in a state of turmoil. He sees the insanity first hand and, quite frankly, can't handle it. The nice thing here is that he's not simply disillusioned by the politics of the war, but more by war, itself. It's to this films credit, that they didn't have Dern return home and  do an about face and start protesting. That story has been told. Instead, once again, we see a human being struggling to understand things that may be unknowable. What makes a man cut another man's ears off, and throw them in his knapsack? How are you supposed to feel, when your fellow soldiers are boiling the flesh off a human skull, so they can mount it on a stake?Oddly enough, Fondas character, Sally Hyde, may be the least political character in the film. Sure, she sees injustices at the VA hospital and gets involved volunteering, but this is merely as a novice. She asks very rudimentary questions about why the vets are being ignored, but she asks as a sympathetic human being, not an activist. As she eventually expands her horizons, she changes from an officer's wife into a more mature woman. As this happens, she falls in love with Voight. Neither person really wants it to happen. Voight doesn't want to betray a fellow soldier. Fonda doesn't want to betray her loyal husband. No easy answer.It's a shame that Coming Home occupies such a small niche in film history. It's a quiet, thoughtful film that patiently tells its story. It doesn't have a single battle scene, but it remains incredibly powerful. Robert Carradines breakdown while he plays his guitar and sings, is a scene that should be taught in film school. Just one moment in an incredible film.Don't let this gem fade away.   "},{"Title":"strong without forcing it","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"51 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Without a single scene of combat footage, this story manages to convey, in realistically painful terms, how much Vietnam scarred the landscape of America. And this is only a fictional viewpoint. The true life accounts must be gut wrenching. No one returned from the war the same person. To suggest a film be made showing an unaffected soldier would be incredibley unbelievable. When attitudes change and characters grow from harsh realities, you can't help but be caught up in their struggle. People you would never expect to protest a US -involved conflict, or even question it, did so with Vietnam. The Jane Fonda Sally character is such a person. She begins the picture somewhat naive, easily trusting, and sort of tied to her straight laced military existence as the wife of an enlisted man. But then she sees an entirely different world when he's gone, and over months, falls for his total opposite, symbolizing how much she can never go back to the woman she was at the beginning. It's very subtle and deeply felt acting that can achieve this and both Fonda and Voight deserved their Oscars for their moving and expert performances. Bruce Dern is the hardest to sympathsize with on the surface, but you realize he's been scarred by what he's seen too, and what has happened to him in his absence, so his world becomes more bitter as everything he once knew shatters around him. The 3 experiences, his, Voight's and Fonda's merge together at the end, in a series of heartbreaking realizations, until you're left as broken as the country was after the war. You can't NOT be affected by what happened in Nam. It's impossible. And this film clearly shows why. It's the most personal and touching of Hollywood's Vietnam treatments. And certainly the deepest acted. Buy a copy and judge for yourself... "},{"Title":"An important film.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This film, the `other' 1978 movie about the Vietnam War, `Coming Home' takes a different approach than Michael Cimino's stark, shocking, `The Deer Hunter', which won a Best Picture Oscar.Cimino used a power approach to deliver his message, drumming the filmgoer with sounds and images. Hal Ashby's `Coming Home' uses a more subdued, character approach to explore the real price of the Vietnam War.I'm not so sure I'd agree that either Jon Voight (Academy Award-Best Actor) or Jane Fonda (Academy Award-Best Actress) is exemplary (they both won Academy Awards) but I think they are both very good. The bottom line is that this was an important movie, at a critical time, and the subject matter and its presentation really hit home. This is a film that is impossible to ignore, in 1978, or today, no matter what your political or social sensibilities may be. The language, the attitudes of all the characters is open, honest, frank. At the time this film was made, that was indeed breakthrough, for this subject matter, paramount.An absolute must see.   "},{"Title":"A thought-provoking sensitive movie with poignant moments&#133;","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Hal Ashby's film shares many of the characteristics of the other big Vietnam film of 1978, The Deer Hunter. Both are passionate and essentially incoherent in their view of the war&#133; As Ashby and screenplay writers see it, most American soldiers who experienced the war came back mentally and/or physically ravaged&#133; An introductory pool table conversation among several disabled vets establishes the ground rules&#133; Anyone who defends the war for any reason is wrong&#133; Cut to enthusiastic Marine Capt. Bob Hyde (Bruce Dern) and his naive wife Sally (Jane Fonda) in the Officer's Club&#133; It is 1968&#133; A military campaign conducted by forces of the Viet Cong has just started and Capt. Hyde is looking forward to his tour of duty in Vietnam... As a dedicated military officer, he sees it primarily as an opportunity for progress&#133; As soon as he leaves, Sally is forced to find housing off the base and moves into a new apartment by the beach with another Marine wife&#151;the bohemian Vi Munson (Penelope Milford), whose traumatized brother Bill (Robert Carradine) is a patient at the local Veteran's Hospital&#133; Physically, Bill is fine, but they sent him back without an ignition, Vi says&#133; Lonely and looking for something to do, Sally volunteers at the hospital and runs across embittered cripple Luke Martin (Jon Voight). They soon discover that they went to the same high school, where he was the star quarterback and she was a cheerleader&#133;Now, paralyzed from the waist down Luke is subject to furious, self-pitying rages, understandable but still unpleasant and offensive&#133; Sally externalizes his troubles, his scars, and his frustrations&#133;And through Luke's eyes, Sally's absolute outlook on life starts to change&#133; They soon become fairly close turning their friendship into a torrid affair&#133; At the same time, Sally's husband was away discovering the horrors of the war&#133; There was a particular chemistry between Fonda and Voight which gave the film a certain magic&#133; "},{"Title":"Good film, but the Dern character has problems","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"24 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I agree with most of the comments about the overall quality of the film. It was definitely a teamwork political statement. The soundtrack is stunning,not only in the selection of songs from the period - by far the best film in this respect - but the subtle manner in which they are integrated into the film's soundtrack. The acting is good to excellent - Fonda, Voigt and Carradine in particular.However, my one complaint is with the Dern character. In this I speak from some personal experience, as a vet with a tour of duty in Nam. This may be quibbling, but...perhaps his contract had a clause prohibiting cutting his hair, but the locks (for a Marine captain) are much too long. He would have received a direct order to get them cut . Also, the close relationship between Dern and the sergeant is out of character. Marine Corps Captains did not hang out with E5 enlisted men. This is even more blatant in the scene after Dern's return from Nam when he goes out drinking and brings home three enlisted Marines. A Marine Corps Captain would not be drinking in uniform with enlisted men on or near the base - let alone bringing them home. I won't go into the problems I have with Dern's apparent and largely unexplained repulsion at what his men did in the field. However, Dern aside, the film itself has a very authentic feel to it and there are unforgettable scenes such as those in the VA hospital and Voigt's final speech to high school students as Tim Buckley's haunting One I Was can be heard in the background. In many respects this film is the direct antithesis of Kubrick's Full Metal Jacket, which while visually authentic suffers from a lack of emotion. "},{"Title":"Probably the 2nd best Vietnam War movie behind Apocalypse Now (and certainly Hal Ashby's best movie ever).","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"40 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Coming Home was the first Vietnam War movie that dealt with the soldiers' plight sympathetically. Sally Hyde (Jane Fonda) is volunteering at the Veterans' Hospital in Los Angeles while her husband Bob (Bruce Dern) serves in Vietnam. In the process of working in the hospital, Sally sees how the hospital is unprepared to treat the people who are coming back from the war. When paraplegic veteran Luke Martin (Jon Voight) demands better treatment, rather than listen to him, they tranquilize him so that they won't have to deal with him. Over time, Sally and Luke fall in love. When Bob returns from Vietnam, he is completely damaged emotionally. The final scene shows the overall state of the world as a result of the Vietnam War.Whenever I hear the Rolling Stones' song Out of Time, it reminds me of Coming Home. One thing that you get to see in the movie is how, when Sally and Bob are having sex, she is clearly not enjoying it; when Sally and Luke are having sex, she clearly is enjoying it. Fonda and Voight won well-deserved Oscars for their roles, and if you ask me, the movie should have won Best Picture. A solid masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Timely and excellent portraits of two veteran soldiers of Viet Nam returning as changed men, confused and disillusioned, to a woman they each love and a U.S. they can no longer reconcile with the pre-war ima","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"43 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Sadly and surprisingly relevant, Coming Home offers the perspective of one man who's war experience renders him not only paralyzed but unable to deny his own real life experience as a wartime soldier to the extent that he can continue supporting his government's patriotic dogma that one man should kill, torture or oppress other soldiers, men, women and children to defend motives he now views, from a wheelchair, as questionable. Awakening to this perspective is a woman who, attempting to aid the war effort and make herself useful during her husband's time of military service to his country, volunteers her time at the local Veteran's Hospital. As she encounters the soldiers just returned battle with countless physical and psychological wounds too deep to enable their return to duty, she begins to understand the impossibility of their task to get back to a normal life and starts a longer journey out from under her own unquestioning acceptance of obeying principles that manufacture circumstances that make the peaceful pursuits of love and family inconceivable.Her own husband does return to her, an officer who spent his tour of duty doing what he has accepted all of his life is the right thing for his country but he, too, is terribly damaged by what he has seen. When he discovers that he has returned to a wife that has broken both the sanctity of their marriage and the very foundation of their commonality as people - namely, upholding the belief that you must endure and inflict and perpetuate the tortures of Hell, itself, if your government demands it of you - he is unable to find a way forward in his life. As the last institutions that served as the structure of his sanity and happiness are wrenched out from under him, he faces a void too horrible to walk into and turns to the only way out that he can perceive.This film is shot in what seems a sincere approach to relating the stories that were, immediately post-viet nam, being widely reported of and experienced by those U.S. men and women returning from service. It attempts, via narrative, to correlate them to the cultural experiences of the public. It seems to try to offer insight into the collective trauma inflicted by the very idea that war, as an institutional means of problem solving, is an acceptable and patriotic belief that merits the sacrifice of our lives and sanity. Though the film definitely has its own perspective, it maintains respect for each of the characters represented. It remains the imperative of each viewer to decide the question for themselves.  "},{"Title":"a movie definitively worth watching!!!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is not another Vietnam movie.It does deal with the Vietnam war, but here we see how it affects the lives of two people a disabled veteran and a woman he meets while recovering, whose husband is away fighting. These two characters make an emotional journey told in a intimate but resonating way.Well written (it won Best Original Screenplay) and superbly acted (the two leads, Jon Voight and Jane Fonda won the Academy Award, but the supporting cast is also terrific), this movie also has a wonderful soundtrack to match, including classics such as Buffalo Springfield's  For What It's Worth, Hey Jude or Strawberry Fields Forever.One of the best movies from one of the best decades in American cinema.  "},{"Title":"Even more poignant now","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"23 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I'd seen this movie a couple of times, the first time in the theater when it came out.At that time, it seemed we'd learned a lesson about war. Viet Nam was over.So watching it again last night was even more poignant - did we really learn anything, back then? I don't think this is a heavily politicized movie, although it doesn't really show any positive effects of war, doesn't say anything positive about fighting in Viet Nam. How could it, really? They had the recruiter speaking at the high school, about duty and honor and serving the country, all true. But could he say, about Viet Nam, that we won or freed anyone? So showing an unflinching catalog of the aftermath of battle becomes anti-war, simply because war is horrible. Very little dialog is devoted to telling us war is wrong. We can decide for ourselves based on what we see.Another comment says this One could actually describe the film as the 1970s' answer to William Wyler's The Best Years of Our Lives (1946).  That's an excellent point. Nothing was said in Best Years (one of my favorite movies) that was anti-war. In fact, there is a scene in that film where the lead characters get in a fist fight with a man who says the war was a mistake. But we still saw the aftermath, the horrible wounds inflicted, the PTSD that they called shell shock back then, the disruption in home life, the difficulty resuming life at home. The film manages to tell the truth about war (up to a point) without being anti-war.Fonda's character does not become politicized. She wakes up to a certain extent but never takes a side on the issue. She supports her husband and hurts when he hurts. She supports Voight's character and hurts when he hurts. She's compassionate with the soldiers she encounters at her job. She never comments on whether Viet Nam was right or wrong. She only reacts to the pain she sees around her. Taking off her bra and letting her hair curl again, dressing like a hippy, aren't political statements about war. That was just the end of the 50's/early 60's mentality she'd been living under.Dern's character doesn't have a lot of screen time but what he does have is riveting. He's tormented. He has no opinion about whether the war is right or wrong, only that war is awful.People can say what they want about Fonda, but she plays this one pretty close to the vest. Her character never says Gee, we shouldn't have gone to Viet Nam. She reacts with compassion, not judgment or recrimination.I don't necessarily like Fonda in most films, but her turn in this one is excellent. Voight and Dern are likewise excellent, making us feel the confusion, anger and pain of their characters.A classic movie that everyone should see. "},{"Title":"Don't make em like before.","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Man, I watched this with no idea of what is was about, but I liked the directors other films, I was blown away by this films subtle power. A film like this would not be made today. The 70's was such a great time for film-making. The risks that were taken or at least it would be deemed as such in the film climate we are in today. The performances in this film were spectacular, the directing top notch, the pace beautiful and the ending was a punch in the gut to those who want definitive answers. Iloved it. We don't see this nowadays and regretfully probably never will again. At least we can enjoy these masterpieces today and compare to some of the drab nonsense that is produced nowadays. Don't get me wrong there is some great stuff being produced today as well, but you will not see anything as raw and unadulterated as the 70's gem. "}{"Title":"Not worth the bones of a single US Marine","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" During the Vietnam War itself, Hollywood tended to shy away from making films about it, John Wayne's patriotic drama The Green Berets being one of the few exceptions. It was not until a few years after the withdrawal of American forces that film-makers started to take a serious look at the conflict. Coming Home forms part of the First Great Vietnam Cycle, coming out in the same year, 1978, as Michael Cimino's The Deer Hunter and a year before Coppola's Apocalypse Now. There was to be a second cycle of films about Vietnam, including Platoon and Full Metal Jacket in the late eighties and early nineties.Unlike The Deer Hunter or Apocalypse Now, Coming Home is entirely set in America, with no scenes of the actual conflict. It deals with what in earlier wars would have been called the Home Front. It tells story of Sally Hyde, the wife of Bob, an officer in the Marine Corps who is away fighting in Vietnam. During her husband's absence, Sally works as a volunteer in a military hospital where she meets an old classmate, Luke Martin. Luke has also fought in Vietnam but is now paralysed after being injured in action.Following his experiences in the war, Luke has become bitter and angry, and campaigns vehemently against America's involvement in the war. Sally and Luke rekindle their old friendship, and eventually a sexual relationship develops between them. (His injuries do not seem to have affected Luke's sexual capabilities). The character of Luke is said to have been based upon Ron Kovic, a real-life veteran whom Jane Fonda got to know while campaigning against the war. Kovic's story was to be told about a decade later in the film Born on the Fourth of July).Even after Hollywood started making films about Vietnam, it always had difficulties with the subject. American films on the subject have generally taken a vaguely anti-war line but, with the brave exception of Oliver Stone's Heaven and Earth, have always approached it from an American perspective. If the Vietnamese people appear at all, it is normally either as faceless enemies or as innocent civilian victims of war.Coming Home is perhaps the most America-centric of all, fatally handicapped by the quite deliberate decision not to show us anything of the country where the actual fighting was taking place. The film was doubtless intended as an anti-war statement, but it never really works as such. It never quite has the courage to take up the absolutist pacifist position which says that no cause, however ostensibly noble, is worth killing or dying for. Instead, the message that comes across is this faraway country, of which we knew nothing, was not worth the bones of a single US Marine. In the context of Vietnam, that position might have been an arguable one, but this movie shies away from any attempt to analyse the causes of the war or the reasons why either the Americans or the Vietnamese, whether pro- or anti-Communist, were fighting.Instead of rational analysis the film relies on emotional war is hell clichés. Indeed, when Bob returns from the war only slightly injured physically but traumatised psychologically, it was perhaps responsible for inventing a new cliché, the emotionally damaged Vietnam vet. Real-life soldiers suffer from psychological trauma in all wars, fictional ones only do so in wars of which the author or scriptwriter disapproves. There were doubtless many veterans of World War II who were left emotionally scarred by their experiences, but because bien-pensant opinion across the political spectrum holds that they were fighting the good fight against Fascism not too many films get made about them. (Incidentally, I wonder if this stereotyping of Vietnam veterans as psychotic mental cases actually made it more difficult for real vets to return to civilian society).The film could perhaps have worked as an apolitical human drama, but for me it never really works on this level either. We never really understand why Sally, hitherto portrayed as a wholesome, loving all-American housewife, devoted to her husband, should have started an affair with Luke. She never seems passionately in love with him, and has no intention of leaving her husband for him. Doutbless she feels sorry for him, but sympathy and adultery are two different things. I have never agreed with those Oscars for Jane Fonda and Jon Voight, although Voight's ranting performance was the sort that always impresses the Academy, especially as he was playing a disabled character. 1978 was a rather weak year in cinema history, so great performances were thin on the ground, but I felt that Best Actor should have gone to Robert de Niro for The Deer Hunter and Best Actress to Ellen Burstyn for Same Time, Next Year. The best acting contribution here probably comes from Bruce Dern, even though his long hair and straggly moustache makes him look more like a hippie than a Marine officer.Of the year's two Vietnam epics, The Deer Hunter is by far the better. Cimino's film has its faults, but it also has its virtues, including some stunning photography and a genuine emotional power. Coming Home, by contrast, is a dull, slow-moving soap-opera about people some of whom just happen to have fought in Vietnam. 4/10 "},{"Title":"You can't come back...and think you are still there","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Director Hal Ashby's amazing sense of time and place puts us right on the homefront of war, and Coming Home is arguably the best movie about war since From Here To Eternity. When Jane Fonda, newly conscious of the problems facing the wounded men returning from Vietnam to the States, tries involving her women's club in a story about the soldiers and the ladies rebuff her, she doesn't bellow or preach--she does what we all would do, she gets mad and cusses 'em out. Her (extra-marital) relationship with paraplegic Jon Voight steers the movie's narrative away from the horrors of the era in the film's second-half (perhaps unintentionally, Ashby softens the scenario, making these lovers guiltless and a bit saintly). However, the Oscar-winning performances by both actors is admirable, and I loved it when Voight asks Fonda if she'll always be his friend (and makes her repeat it just to be sure). Ashby doesn't treat Vietnam trivially, although the war nearly becomes the backdrop to this affair. Still, these central characters are compelling and emotions run high. Penelope Milford's cynical working-girl is also wonderfully realized, but too-intense Bruce Dern is one-note as Fonda's husband (we don't see the arc of his character, and Dern gives us no variations). An evocative piece with terrific cinematography by Haskell Wexler and a fabulous '60s soundtrack. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"some good performances","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Luke Martin (Jon Voight) returns as a wheelchair bound cripple from Vietnam. Capt. Bob Hyde (Bruce Dern) is sent over leaving behind his wife Sally (Jane Fonda). She's lonely and volunteers at a local VA hospital. Luke is angry but eventually they find comfort in each other. He is released and starts protesting the war. They begin an affair which is further complicated when her husband returns also suffering from his own war experiences.This has the documentary meandering style of the 70s from Hal Ashby. It's a bit prodding. I wish the movie concentrated on either Luke or Sally. It's a lot of personal struggle for both characters. Jon Voight is terrific but Jane Fonda seems a bit too old for the part. She's around 40 at the time. It seems she's playing a naive young person at times. I would rather she play a mother in the movie. It would add to her conflict. "},{"Title":"Some good performances and some obnoxious music.","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I know that Coming Home won several Oscars and is considered a classic, but I have one major gripe with this film. While I liked the film overall, I truly hated the film's soundtrack. Instead of incidental music, the film is FILLED with nothing but late 60s rock and roll in scene after scene after scene. This sort of thing started in the 1970s and a ton of films were just jam-packed full of pop or rock songs. But, it's very distracting to me--and I hate that there aren't enough quiet moments in the film and it feels, at times, like I'm watching MTV and not a serious drama. And, compared to other films that shove song after song into them (like American Graffiti), Coming Home is much, much more invasive in its use of music. The bottom line is that I HATED the soundtrack! The film is about a woman (Jane Fonda) who is home waiting for her husband (Bruce Dern) to return from his tour of duty in Vietnam. To fill her time, she volunteers to work with disabled men at the local VA hospital. Soon, she develops a relationship with a bitter paraplegic (Jon Voight). Over time, he lets go of much of his anger and he and Fonda have an affair. The impact of this on their marriage and Voight's subsequent anti-war crusade make up much of the rest of the film.The acting was pretty good--particularly Voight. As for Fonda, I thought she was just okay and wonder if her receiving the Oscar (along with Voight) was more of an anti-war statement or a show of support for her behaviors during the war. Or, possibly it was just a slow year. All I know is that I expected something more for a prize-winning performance. As for the story, it's very much anti-war--and emphasizes the emotional and physical toll on the men who fight. This is something applicable to all wars--not just Vietnam. This universality is heightened by having no footage of the war. Without the terrible music, I'd give this one a 9--with it, 7. Yes, the music was THAT annoying.By the way, this is a very adult film. It contains nudity and lots of harsh language. So, this is probably not a film to show your mother-in-law or a pre-school class. "},{"Title":"Stale and Uninspired","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This film looks at the effect of the Vietnam war on the home front. The script is preachy and cliché-ridden and Ashby's approach is heavy handed. Fonda is fine as the woman torn between husband Dern and lover Voight. The latter two actors don't fare as well. Initially, Voight overdoes the bitter war vet routine. Then his abrupt transformation from obnoxious and self-centered to sensitive and thoughtful is not believable. Dern is surprisingly normal initially but eventually turns into the weirdo that had been the trademark of most of his career at the time. The movie feels stale and uninspired, as reflected by the lazy use of 1960s songs on the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Classic though uninspiring Vietnam War love triangle","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out and, as a tremendous Jane Fonda fan and with my typical youthful attitudes, I loved it. However, a quarter century of marriage has matured some of my thinking.The film tells the story of Sally Hyde (Jane Fonda) whose husband (Bruce Dern) is a gun-ho marine off fighting the Vietnam War. While he's away, Sally tries to make herself useful by volunteering in a local veterans' hospital, where she encounters an old school friend, Luke (Jon Voight). Luke has been scarred both physically (he's paralyzed, in a wheelchair) and psychologically by the war. Sally finds herself drawn to Luke and then is forced to deal with the return of her husband, who is himself suffering from his own trauma, not only from combat but also from discovering his wife's infidelity.On the positive side, the movie does show war's ravages, both physical and mental, on returning vets (both the husband here and the lover). Also, I will admit Luke's character is a sympathetic one and the love scene between him and Sally is sensitively portrayed.I am no advocate of war. However, in keeping with Jane Fonda's well known sentiments, this movie has a pretty typical war protest message. How many viewers who loved this film would feel very sympathetic these days toward the wife whose husband is deployed in Iraq, if he were to discover upon his return that she had been carrying on with another vet? Call me old fashioned here, but Sally Hyde unfortunately seems to have a little more compassion for her lover than her husband. Of course the husband must be portrayed as hawkish in order for us to sympathize with Sally's actions and not cast her as the villain of the piece. Also, it's quite superficial to simply kill off the husband at the end, so Sally need not make any difficult decisions. She can end up happily with her lover, Luke, admittedly the more likable and sympathetic of the pair, and still come off as a decent individual and reasonable wife, intending no disloyalty but simply victimized by the circumstances of war. Note to screenwriters...killing off one of the parties in a love triangle is cheating and dumbs down both the plot and character portrayal!Still, it's a sort of classic anti-war period piece, I guess, and I wouldn't mind seeing it again out of nostalgia. Lots of 1960's rock music (Beatles, Rolling Stones etc.) in the background. Some reviewers complain too much music, though I enjoyed it. Finally, the Vietnam War may have been futile or wrong, but would viewers react to this love triangle the same way if it had been World War II? I think not. "},{"Title":"Up Close And Personal","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"25 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The strength of Coming Home is its realistic portrayal of the emotional effects of war on individuals far removed from battle. In particular, the film calls attention to the difficulties, hardships, and trauma that paraplegic vets are forced to endure, as a result of governmental neglect. The emphasis here is on life after combat, upon returning home, and the ensuing experiences, personal feelings and relationships, and the drudgery of everyday life. More effective than dialogue, the close-up camera shots of character's faces effectively convey the psychological suffering, the scars, brought about by exposure to war. In this context, I thought Jon Voight's performance was quite good.The subject matter is so totally ... not glamorous. Yet its importance is undeniable. And so, I respect this film for its intent and its sensitivity. The film's humanistic message is surprisingly relevant 27 years after its release.That said, the film's screenplay is weak. The plot rambles and meanders. The love triangle seems incongruent with the heavy-duty political message. The film is anti-climactic from start to finish. You keep thinking something big is going to happen. Then at the end, the film dwindles, and eventually just fizzles out. Finally, the background music, an assortment of late 60's pop songs, is intrusive.Overall, Coming Home is less about entertainment than it is about education. I'm not sure that I would choose this film to watch on a first date. But, I would choose it as part of a high school course in governmental ethics. "},{"Title":"One of the best Vietnam films","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"29 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Sally (Jane Fonda) has a husband fighting in Vietnam and she feels optimistic about American involvement there. However she works at a hospital as a nurse and soon becomes caretaker of a bitter war veteran named Luke (Jon Voight).At first, she is repelled by him - but over time grows to love him and admires his cause. (Luke feels the Vietnam War is a mistake and that countless innocent lives are being pointlessly lost.) Coming Home is the quintessential Vietnam War film - it's anti-war, pessimistic, gritty, depressing, and ultimately sort of whining. Some Vietnam films to go a bit overboard on the tears for the poor souls stuff and become very politically correct - Coming Home is like this and that might turn some viewers off.However I thought the plot, characters, directing and writing were all interesting. Hal Ashby (Shampoo) shows talent behind the camera and Jon Voight and Jane Fonda display chemistry in front of it.I'm not typically a fan of Voight (or even Fonda to be honest) but they both do a good job here. Voight's final rousing speech to the classroom of students at the movie is simultaneously touching and uplifting. And the love scene is handled with care and doesn't seem gratuitous or unnecessary.Coming Home may have its flaws, but I think it's one of the better Vietnam movies to come out of the era. You should see it if you enjoyed The Deer Hunter or Platoon. "},{"Title":"Three Oscar Wins for a War Movie That Isn't' Really a War Movie","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I just watched the 1978 movie for the first time the other night. I thought it was a good film (gave it a 7/10 rating), but I found it highly overrated on the amount of love it got from the Academy. I liked the performances by Jane Fonda, Jon Voight, and Bruce Dern but not sure about the Oscar wins for the first two... I don't see how Fonda won the Oscar over Ingrid Bergman (for Autumn Sonata) or Geraldine Page (for Interiors) - the only other two of the nominees I've seen from that year - or how Voight won the Oscar over Robert De Niro (for The Deer Hunter) - the only other nominee I've seen from that year. I also don't understand all of the nominations that it received. How did it win the Oscar for original screenplay (with one of the screenwriter - Waldo Salt - winning the Oscar for Midnight Cowboy less than a decade before) over Interiors (by Woody Allen), Autumn Sonata (by Ingmar Bergman, someone who never won a competitive Oscar), and The Deer Hunter (by Michael Cimino, Deric Washburn, Louis Garfinkle, and Quinn K. Redeker)? I have no idea!!! I also didn't care much for the performance given by Penelope Milford, but of course she received a nomination for supporting actress!Jane Fonda won an Oscar for Leading Actress her performance of Sally Hyde, the wife of a Captain in the U.S. Marines (portrayed by Bruce Dern, who was nominated for a Supporting Actor Oscar) who wants to do something while her husband is away overseas in Vietnam. After deciding that she would like to volunteer at a hospital for veterans, she meets Luke Martin (played by Jon Voight, who also won an Oscar for Leading Actor), a wheelchair confined man. They begin a passionate love affair that causes a series of events to happen after the return of Sally's wounded husband. Penelope Milford portrayed another U.S. Marine's girl with a mentally disturbed brother (caused from the war). Her performance earned her a completely laughable Oscar nomination for supporting actress.While I do agree with the Oscar nominations for Jane Fonda and Jon Voight, I don't think these performances should have given them an Oscar (Fonda's second Oscar win after Klute). I think both have had way better performances that they should have won for instead of this film. Bruce Dern gave a great supporting performance, and I agree with the Academy's decision to award Christopher Walken for The Deer Hunter instead.Overall, I thought that it was just an alright movie. I didn't find it to be amazing but also not bad. I wouldn't really classify it as a war movie as IMDb does because there I don't recall any war shots in the movie. However, I would classify it more as a dramatic, psychological, romance film about the effects the war had on the returning soldiers and the loved ones that they left. "},{"Title":"A Story of War on the Home Front","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A woman (Jane Fonda) whose husband (Bruce Dern) is fighting in Viet Nam falls in love with another man (Jon Voight) who suffered a paralyzing combat injury there.First of all, credit to Jon Voight. I have never really cared for him as an actor, but he goes all out here. And I do not mean with the paralysis (though he does that well). This is just a character that strikes me as being so far outside of who he is, this is acting at its finest.The story in general is also pretty good. There are plenty of Vietnam stories in movies, and it gets old (at least for me). This was less about the war and more about those who are left behind. How accurate it is, I could not say, but certainly I have known my share of lonely military wives. (Fortunately, I know precious few wounded vets, so perhaps this problem is decreasing?) "}{"Title":"Those Who Went And Survived","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" When all is said and done despite the Vietnam War and its aftermath for those who went and survived, Coming Home is your romantic triangle movie. Jane Fonda is married to Marine captain Bruce Dern who has been sent over to Vietnam in 1968 at the height of the hostilities. Wanting to do something to show she's behind her husband's endeavors, Fonda volunteers in a veteran's hospital and there meets paralyzed sergeant Jon Voight who is having trouble adjusting. She certainly helps him adjust.A lot of Coming Home with the veteran scenes is taken from The Men, the film about a VA hospital where in his cinematic debut Marlon Brando played a paralyzed veteran of Korea. That too was a war where we had no defined objectives in fact Harry Truman called it a 'police action'. Voight is a paraplegic just as Brando was, but as we find out at least there is one part of his anatomy that he and Fonda are grateful still functions.Which brings another movie comparison that of The Sun Also Rises where hero Jake Barnes is rendered impotent by his injuries. In the film adaption of that Hemingway novel Tyrone Power can only sit on the side as the woman he loves goes from man to man. Impotence is a subject even now most are reluctant to treat in film.But Voight helped by Fonda adjusts to his reduced life and in the end finds meaning and purpose. Dern who returns a medal winner cannot adjust and is inspired by Norman Maine. Both Voight and Fonda won Oscars for their roles, the best in leading categories. It is a pity Bruce Dern was not given a nomination as Best Supporting Actor. In many ways he outclasses both the leads in Coming Home.Coming Home could be remade today with the survivors of Afghanistan and Iraq. Just change those Sixties fashions. "},{"Title":"A Fascinating Glimpse Into A Vietnam Affected America","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Coming Home is an eclipse of a romantic drama, one in which there are no clear signs of who should be with who or what should happen to who and who deserves what. Its characters are damaged in one way or another; most are trying to figure out what to do with their fragmented lives. Should they do what is considered to be the right thing? Or should they follow their heart and try to avoid causing even more damage as a result? Taking place in 1968, America has become shattered and unintentionally cynical. With the Vietnam War as a backdrop to everyday life, most are sick and tired of living under the societal pretensions of the previous decades; anger is prevalent, but an outreach of peace is too. Sally Hyde (Jane Fonda) has always been a wife first and a person second, so when her husband, Bob (Bruce Dern), goes off to fight in Vietnam, she finds herself uncertain of her priorities. She has never had to work a day in her life, and she's never been looked at as anything other than another man's property.With Bob gone, she finally has the chance to become the independent woman she never thought she could be. Sally, along with her friend Vi (Penelope Milford), decide to volunteer at the local V.A. hospital. There, she meets Luke Martin (Jon Voight), a past acquaintance who is back from Vietnam after an accident leaves him paralyzed from the waist down. Luke is understandably upset with how his life has turned out, and as Sally gets to know him, she not only develops feelings for him, but she also finds herself more aware of the mess the U.S. is in. She still loves her husband, but he has grown increasingly distant after facing violence on such a regular basis. When he comes home, Sally is forced to decide whether to remain a wife or start her life anew.Coming Home isn't a women's picture as its plot might suggest; it's something much closer to the heart and something more important to American history than a drama where romantic triangles run amok. It is one of the most essential films of the 1970s. Painting an unfiltered picture of life after Vietnam, it is by turns humanizing, upsetting, and moving. The characters are completely different people by the end of the film Sally starts as a quiet housewife and ends as a woman in touch with her surroundings and her personal needs; Luke goes from the mindset of a bitter victim to an impassioned protester; Bob sheds his typical spousal roles and becomes an emotionally impaired disaster. Such transitions are risky, as they may not always ring true in the development of a certain figure. But Coming Home never stops being earnest. It could be moralizing, but like Sally, we are left to make our own decisions.Ashby, a seminal director of the decade, doesn't pick sides, preferring to let his characters go loose and see what paths they set for themselves. Like Robert Altman or John Cassavetes, you can feel his presence, but his presence does not interfere with the naturalness of any given situation. The Stones, Simon & Garfunkel, golden era Beatles, and Jefferson Airplane play at a near constant pace, almost as if Ashby is trying to remind us that times are changing and the world isn't what it used to be. It used to be a place where people only really made it if they got married and settled into domestic bliss. But now, with its preference for soft rock and free love, America isn't content to simply settle. Coming Home carries a restless energy; moving forward, not backward, is the only option. Fonda, Voight, and Dern are all outstanding, even if the third act leaps into melodramatic territory and betrays the realism set so effortlessly in the first two. The '70s explored film in a way that no other decade has, and Coming Home serves as one of the most authentic excursions into a culturally relevant topic. It's a life-on-the-home-front picture that makes life on the home front seem just as alien as life on the battlefield.Read more reviews at petersonreviews.com "},{"Title":"Strong acting underpins this early Vietnam War movie","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Coming Home was one of the films from the first wave of Vietnam War movies. Like The Deer Hunter, also from the same year, it deals with the effects the war had on the people back home in America, both ex-soldiers and wives. It examines the psychological fallout. It's in essence about a love triangle &#x96; a woman, her husband who has gone to the war and a physically damaged soldier who has returned. These personal relationships add a considerable layer of complexity to the anti-war themes directly levelled at the Vietnam situation. So the movie is a quite detailed set of motivations and impulses from a group of damaged individuals. One man is physically crippled, the other mentally broken, while the woman in the middle is lost. The primary reason that it all works so well is on account of towering performances from the three leads, namely Bruce Dern, Jane Fonda and Jon Voight. All three are extremely good and drive the dramatics. The style of the movie is very loose in terms of both dialogue and also camera-work. It lends a sense of realism that works in its favour and keeps the feel very personal.Its director Hal Ashby made a series of highly impressive films throughout the 70's and this is simply another example. The anti-war message is certainly quite clearly given, culminating in a scene where Voight delivers an impassioned speech to a group of high school students about his feelings about his participation in the war; it's a powerhouse moment. It seems that many people don't like the ending very much though, particularly where Dern's character kills himself by swimming out into the ocean. I myself thought it powerful and one that isn't as morally weak as some others believe, after all Dern's suicide doesn't simply resolve the love triangle problem for the other two characters but it also would leave them with a considerable amount of guilt due to their actions contributing to this action. It's an intense but strong ending in my view. Also of note is a particularly strong soundtrack of 60's rock songs, including the very rare use of original Beatles recordings on a film score. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Hal Ashby's Coming Home is another film that tries to tell us how horrible and stupid the Vietnam war really was quoting what Oliver Stone who said in his first best director acceptance speech that we learned nothing from the Vietnam war. thanks to other films that try to prove that to us such as Platoon and The Deer Hunter. The movie stars Jane Fonda as Sally Hyde a woman whose husband (Bruce Dern)leaves for the Vietnam war. Then she volunteers at a hospital where she meets a former high school classmate named Luke Martin (played by Jon Voight) when they try to make love with each other while at first talking about memories back in high school then Martin flipping out about not getting the immediate care he needs. The problem that I had with this movie was that why Jane Fonda got the lead part when she got a lot of soldiers killed 7 years back in 1971, but still she gives a good performance, along with Voight and Dern. Director Hal Ashby has made the feelings of the soldiers who fought in that war come to life in this film. And I really thought that the ending was unnecessary to conclude the movie. "},{"Title":"My name is nobody","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" For those who have consciously witnessed the American war in Vietnam, at least three films are more or less obligatory The deer hunter (riddle what hops through the woods with a machine gun? Rambi), Apocalypse now, and coming home. So it was high time to finally engage in the latter. On the surface it is a story about disabled soldiers, who try to recover in an American hospital. As a bonus the plot contains a love story. In general this combination leads to the typical bitter-sweet vicissitudes like in A farewell to arms. But Coming home is different. Let me explain. Apparently the battle in Vietnam has something special. It is the extremely cruel and gruesome behavior on both sides, which logically results if you are unable to see anything humane in the other combatant. The right to bear arms is slightly less ludicrous than the right to arm bears (Chris Addison). In general soldiers will only tolerate waging war as long as they dispose of a credible justification. In the case of Vietnam such a motive was lacking, because obviously there was never a Maoist threat. In our times South-east Asia has even become one of our valuable business friends. Wars only solve the problems of politicians (Jan Vanspauwen). It is not surprising that some the war veterans can not cope with their experiences, and become mentally ill. The combination of incomprehension and feelings of guilt paves a sure way into a depression. The love-making is shallow and in fact looks like seeking comfort. Actually the characters seem to have a rather immature and unstable nature. They are naive clodhoppers. They fail to understand - as is expressed at the end of the film - that there is a choice to be made. That it is cold out there. That you should ponder. They go with the flow (it just happened), and evidently, without a tried conviction, experience some problems with loyalty. I find the disclosure of human weakness in the film appealing and moving. In particular I recognized the scene, where in despair the crippled Luke enchains his wheel-chair to the gate of the military recruiting center. Suppose they want to start a war, and nobody turns up (Arlo Guthrie)? In the late seventies we felt that the war in Vietnam had been purifying. In the eighties and nineties we believed that imperialistic wars had been abolished. But again we were fooled. See my review of Rethink Afghanistan (and Iraq was even more brutal). Invasions and occupations will probably be with us, Europeans and Americans, for centuries to come. In short Coming home is a shocking illustration of naivety, thoughtlessness, and horror. The accompanying music (Beatles, Rolling Stones, Steppenwulf and many more) has sentimental value. It is better to win peace and lose the war (Bob Marley). In addition I am somewhat fond of Jane Fonda, who also played sympathetic roles in Tout va bien and Stanley and Iris (together with Robert DeNiro!). Old memories about Henry Fonda (My name is nobody!) may also bias my preference. You could do worse than watching Coming home (me). "},{"Title":"Captain Hyde (Bruce Dern)","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This was probably an important political film. It certainly is a heart-rending one. John Voight and Jane Fonda play their roles with grace and expertise. Watching this film at the time of its release and now leaves me conflicted. I like the politics and I admire the quietness and grace of this work. However, Coming Home often seems to have gotten away from director Hal Ashby, one of my favourite directors. I particularly admire his film The Last Detail. For me, this film feels too much like a series of sermons.However, Bruce Dern is one of my favourite actors. He saves this film with his role as Marine Captain Bob Hyde. He is the moral and narrative core of the film. Dern is a fantastic actor; his portrayal here is proof. He plays a military man who seeks to understand the ambiguities of life, particularly his career as a Marine officer.Mr. Ashby's direction of Dern is masterful. The interplay of music (The Rolling Stones song Out of Time, for example) and editing (Captain Hyde's relentless running) creates a memorable and powerful icon. Dern's character has a density and depth unlike that of any other character I know from a film about the Vietnam War with the exceptions of several of those in the film Casualties of War.The casting of Ms. Fonda and Mr. Voight was appropriate. The script seems to be the problem; it just lacks in its entity the subtly that the Captain Hyde character has.Regardless, this film deeply touched me. It is a powerful work. "},{"Title":"Really bad, to tell you the truth","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Probably the most dated of the Vietnam movies of the late 1970s. It's loaded to the brim with every cliché one can think of. The actors are all at least adequate, with Bruce Dern being the most successful. The whole thing might work a ton better if it weren't for the execrable pop music score. I mean, the songs are good, of course, but they're used so poorly. For example, the morning when Dern is shipping off to Vietnam, the lyrics to the song that begins are it was a time of innocence. I'm disappointed in Ashby. By no means is he a great director, but he made some great movies. He really tries to tug at your heart strings. After one character dies, Ashby closes the next scene by tightening the camera on his guitar because, you know, we have to be told what to feel or we won't feel it. SPOILERS. I think that the love triangle plot is quite good, but, despite a pretty good climactic scene, the ending is just awful. They kill off the husband, and leave Fonda alone for Voight. I think that's morally lazy, skirting the emotional complexities. Skip this and see The Deer Hunter instead. Despite some of the deserved flack that it has gotten in recent years, it's very well made. At the very least, it beats the heck out of Coming Home. "},{"Title":"A Bit Vague at the Ending!","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The cast is first rate with the leads like Jane Fonda and Jon Voight winning their Oscars for their performances in this film about Vietnam. Jane played Sally Bender Hyde, a Captain's wife who volunteers at the Veterans hospital where she is reunited with Luke Martin (played by Voight) who is paralyzed from his injuries in Vietnam. Bruce Dern played Captain Bob Hyde, Sally's husband. Penelope Milford played Vi, Sally's friend, a sister of veteran (Robert Carradine played this role), and in love with Bink (Robert Ginty). Anyway Hal Ashby directed a classic film about love and war and how both can destroy and create at the same time. The ending with Dern at the beach really puzzled me. I won't say anymore about it without spoiling it. I really felt the sexual tension between Fonda and Voight in their characters. Fonda played a woman who is torn between two men. The reality of war is never far from the story of the film. In fact, many of the patients were actually Vietnam veterans themselves. "},{"Title":"A great film about Vietnam era frustration directed by a leading light of American independent art cinema Hal Ashby.","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Coming Home is an important film in the history of American cinema directed by Hal Ashby. He was an important cinema author who combined star power with ingenious subject matter.It is a matter of utter shame that films by veteran American independent cinema director Hal Ashby are not much known.This is the reason why he has remained an extremely talented filmmaker whose films have not been properly assessed by viewers.This is a sad thing about a filmmaker whose films always featured famous actors.Many of the films about Vietnam war are overtly dramatic and try to win viewers' sympathies by playing victim's card. Coming home is an exception to this rule as its canvass is broader in scope even though it talks about Vietnam war in an indirect manner.There are a couple of angles associated with this film.One of the simplest angles suggests that this is a simple story about a husband, his wife and a third person in her life.However,it is no so simple as it appears.A different serious angle states that people become frustrated when they don't have their loved ones around them. This is partly true about people who work for defense forces.In Coming Home,there are some good glimpses of life at a military base especially in scenes about peaceful protests led by wheel chair bound Jon Voigt.Jane Fonda is good too in one of the best roles of her career.She shines as a quite soul who becomes involved in everything which happens around her.Coming Home is great film about war without any bloodshed.It is a film which must be seen more than once in order to comprehend some lives whose foundation is built around hopelessness. "},{"Title":"Hal Ashby's powerful anti-war film.","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" COMING HOME (1978), Hal Ashby's anti-Vietnam drama concerning the war fought at home is certainly one of the most gripping films concerning the soldiers of USA made. Sally, (Jane Fonda won Best Actress) who's volunteered to work at the local veteran's hospital while her husband (Bruce Dern) is overseas fighting in the war, falls in love with paraplegic patient Luke (Jon Voight, who won Best Actor). The story is immediately gripping, much because of Hal Ashby's sensitive and caring direction, and though it almost slips into sheds of melodrama from time to time, it takes on a mature approach. The difficulties of this film confronting the sexual nature of the affair between Voight and Fonda, and the confused and unfocused despair of the soldiers who returned home are greatly handled with care and tact, and especially involving is the love relationship. Fonda's character seems naive, caring, and without any specific opinion about anything, and she literally bumps into Voight as he's propelling himself through the hospital corridors, strapped to a bed - he's angry because of the way he's being treated, and so the crash-in with Fonda results with spoils of his urine-bag all over him, the floor, and her. It's a great scene that shows the humiliation both of them goes through, he because of his handicap, and she because of her job. They both went to the same high school, but only knew each other by name (as he humorously remarks), and the observation of these two human beings falling in love is quite beautiful. Ashby lets his favorite music fall like raindrops throughout, and as they don't serve any ironic or obvious comment (apart from Tim Buckley's Once I Was in the powerful ending), I don't really see their effect besides punctuating the cultural wave of the late 60ties. However, this is 70s American film-making with a big heart that wants to say a lot about war, and everything it does to those closely involved. "}{"Title":"Mommy knows best","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Women have no place in the mythology of war. - Carol Lynn Mithers.Coming Home stars Jane Fonda as Sally, an American woman whose husband, Captain Bob Hyde (Bruce Dern), has recently left to fight in the Vietnam War. Left home alone, Sally begins to feel lonely and useless. To fill this void she signs up as a volunteer at the local military hospital. While working there she meets Luke (Jon Voight), a crippled veteran who challenges her take on life, war and patriotism.When Sally's husband returns home, a love triangle develops between these three characters. But it's not romance, or even sex, that Fonda offers Bob and Luke. Instead, she becomes a kind of bridge of understanding between the left-wing cripple (Voight) and her own militant, right-wing husband. The rest of the film watches as Fonda's maternal instincts, her femininity, heals these men. Ironically, it's also this love which drives Dern's character to suicide. If he can't possess Sally entirely, then he has, he believes, only two options kill Luke or kill himself. As his reborn wife has turned him away from all violence, Bob opts to kill himself. Philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre spent several years demanding that the Vietnam War be classified as a genocide. His words fell on deaf ears in the United States, a nation which wraps each of its countless neo-Imperialistic acts in thick layers of propaganda. During the Vietnam War, however, several large public opinion surveys captured the different ways in which men and women responded to such unfolding mythology. Women, the surveys found, were typically against the use of force as a tool for solving conflict. Somewhat stereotypically, they preferred communication, compassion and empathy. Men, meanwhile, preferred immediate action, force and domination. Many feminists at the time thus argued that if women ruled the world there would be no Vietnam war. Later studies showed that women who reached positions of power tended to become masculinized, Iron Ladies akin to Maggie Thatcher and so forth. Either paths to power are currently structured such that they require traditionally masculine, and so ruthless, traits (by men and women), or that these differences are becoming irrelevant in the population at large.On the flip side, the association of women with peace, idealism and impracticality has long served to dis-empower women and keep them in their place (out of leadership positions). Regardless, of the four big Vietnam films which dealt with vets returning home (Coming Home, Rambo, Deer Hunter, Born on the 4th of July), Coming Home is arguably the best. A little slice of pacifism from director Hal Ashby, cinema's lovable hippie and anti-war advocate, the film avoids most clichés, though like most Western war films, it does ultimately ignore the larger mechanics of the conflict. In a war which saw millions of Vietnamese murdered, Coming Home's preoccupied with yet another suffering American soldier. 8.5/10 - Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"a sublime, effectively striking subversion of genre expectations","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Coming Home's story, the bare-bones of it, could be the kind of story one could find for a dime a dozen from the 40's and 50's- love in war, or rather after war, crossed with a certain infidelity aspect. But Hal Ashby's film, one of his best, doesn't go for any easy answers. This is Vietnam, after all, and it was for the Americans that went there more often than not a truly traumatic experience. One can look at this film as an allegory, or even just a straight on love story, but the filmmaker goes past the possible clichés by presenting what goes on in a heart-breaking manner at times, even to bleak, existential extents, without being overly sentimental. Not that there isn't sentiment, which is different than the kind of sentimentality that can be found on any given Lifetime film. Beneath the bright lighting in a many of the scenes via the great Haskell Wexler, is a dark feeling around the characters- there might be hope somewhere, but can it come out of being crippled for life? The acting is what elevates a very good script into the territory of being gripping (as one reviewer on IMDb said, 'without forcing it'). Jon Voight as Luke Martin, a man paralyzed from the waist down, spends the first third of the story trying without much luck dealing with his newly imposed state. This is some of the best acting Voight's ever done, even as it could go over the edge of the over-acting of his ailments. Then as the film goes along, and he does start to come to terms with himself through his new friend, the performance subtly becomes more revelatory, leading up to a final speech that's even more brave than truthful- there's a choice to be made is just as strong a statement as anything in Apocalypse Now. His new friend, as it turns out, is a wife of a marine (Bruce Dern), Sally played by Jane Fonda. She can't stand him at first, of course, but then their relationship evolves, into something deeper than even I could grasp at first. It's more than an affair, it's a tale of lonely people who come closer together.However this last sentence might sound though, it's dealt with a pathos that doesn't pander to the audience. There are little scenes that even have humor, like in the Veteran's hospital Sally works at, or in the middle part of the film, which is usually a 'softy' part of these love stories. When Ashby deals with the sexual content as well it's all the more truthful, intimate, and in tune with the testing-of-the-waters subject matter. And there are two other aspects that make it a different, fascinating film. No musical score; in line with Scorsese and Lucas and others, the soundtrack is filled with the Rolling Stones (great song selection and usage, by the way), Bob Dylan, the Beatles and so forth, and it adds splendidly to the atmosphere of scenes, giving them a certain lightness or depth. Then there's the performance by Bruce Dern. Though Voight and Fonda won (deserved) Oscars for their work, Dern's work is even more deserved, even more soulful in its time. He's not on-screen for long, but when he has his scenes post Vietnam experience, it's just as disturbing as with Voight's scenes; there's a masterful scene with Dern and Fonda in a scene towards the end of the film. It's his character, in a way, that does get in the way of the sort of traditional love story between Voight and Fonda, and it works. The two stars are stars, but Dern is a character actor through and through, and this is one of his very best pieces of work. Like The Last Detail, my favorite of Ashby's films I've seen to date (who knows if Being There or Harold and Maude may change that), Coming Home is a tale of characters from an era of confusion, of feeling resentment and sorrow at what the establishment has done to its 'baby boomers'. And best of all it doesn't outlive its years. The themes dealt with here- the personal trauma of life after possible death, and the truths behind not even the lies of war but the shroud of the gung-ho John Wayne mentality- go alongside other memorable films from the era. It may not appeal right off to the die-hards of Apocalypse Now or the Deer Hunter or Born on the 4th of July, as it has a relationship story entwined in the main subject. Yet it shouldn't be passed over in the years to come, as it makes for good viewing for others looking to join up in today's military. "},{"Title":"I'll be the bad guy","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I'll be the bad guy and add a negative review for Coming Home to this collection of glowing reviews.  I'll stay away from the very sensitive backdrop (which I have no problem with) and concentrate on the storyline and performances.  Why is it that if a lead character in a film is in a hospital or asylum, they have to act like an obnoxious prick, no matter what the circumstances?  Then, through some sort of bonding with either a new patient or outside character, their angry facade is melted away and their true sweet nature comes out?  This is the standard formula that these type of films always seem to follow, and this one is no exception.  Jon Voight's transformation in this film is remarkable.  One minute, he's a psychotic invalid confined rolling on a bed, then the next minute, he's mister happy go lucky rolling around in a wheelchair, and not a vestage of his psychotic self is seen the rest of the film.  Not very good storytelling, nor is the haphazard way the film jumps around, not really focusing on anything.I really didn't feel anything for either Voight's character or Dern's.  They portray their characters, for the most part, with no real depth.  I see Voight as just a soldier who had a mishap.  Same with Dern.  They could have had these mishaps in the US.  Even though we know they happened in Vietnam, they really don't provide us with any mental connection that they've suffered some kind of Vietnam trauma.   That would be OK, if it weren't what the film is supposed to be about.  The Best Years of Our Lives is a great film, and one of my favorites.  The Deer Hunter is also a great film.  Both of them, like Coming Home, focus on war veterans returning home.  Best Years is moving in a sentimental way while Deer Hunter is moving in a shocking horrible way.  I was not the least bit moved by Coming Home, because I think it just stayed in the middle of those two extremes and never strayed close to either one.Jane Fonda is a very mediocre actress, and this is a typical performance of hers.  She is the atypical actress, meaning she always seems like she's acting.  I'm never convinced her words and actions are real, including and especially, her love for either of these men.  Again, I just don't care what happened to this love triangle in the end because I never bought any love in the first place.  As for Bruce Dern's performance, I've seen better acting in commercials.This film is also praised for it's music.  While I thought the songs were fine for the film, I had a real problem with the way they were used in the film.  I found it very distracting to have an entire song played while scenes of dialogue were taking place.  There's a reason why music is used in film the way it has always been used  for transition and emotion.  It just doesn't seem possible to get lost in a scene or in dialogue between two characters when you can hear na-na-na-na-na-na-na Hey Jude over and over in the background.  Music in film was just not meant to be used this way.  It may have been an interesting experiment, but in my opinion, it just doesn't work.SPOILER ALERT  Finally, the film really lost me in the end.  Again, I may be sort of traditional when it comes to how I like my movies, but I think there simply has to be some sort of resolution or wrap up in the end.  Not so much the speech that Jon Voight is giving, which is one of the films better scenes, but the shots of Jane Fonda going to the grocery store and the A Star Is Bornesqe demise of Bruce Dern's character.  Give me a break.  At least James Mason and Fredric March gave us a reason for their suicide.  What's Dern's reason?Overall, I just found the film uninvolving and the performances mediocre.  The dialogue between the veterans at the beginning and Voight's speech at the end raise some very good points, and it would have been nice to feel some of those effects during the crux of the film, and not to see some inane love story that, if you think about it, really has little to do with the after effects of the war.C- "},{"Title":"The Scars Of The Vietnam War","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Coming Home is a drama film that stars Jane Fonda, Jon Voight and Bruce Dern. The screenplay is based loosely on the novel of the same name by George Davis.It was directed by Hal Ashby.The plot examines the impact of the Vietnam War among the men who fought it and the women in their lives. Left alone in Los Angeles when her gung-ho Marine husband Bob (Dern) heads to Vietnam in 1968, proper wife Sally Hyde (Fonda) decides to volunteer at the V.A. hospital where her new friend Vi works. There she meets Luke Martin (Voight), a former high-school classmate and Marine who has returned from Vietnam a bitter paraplegic. As their relationship grows, Sally sees the effect of the war on the soldiers after they come back, inspiring her to rethink her priorities; Luke's spirits begin to lift, and a hospital tragedy helps focus his anger toward meaningful protest. After a Hong Kong visit with her increasingly withdrawn husband, Sally finds a love and companionship with Luke that she had never known with her husband. Once Bob comes home with his own injury, however, the three must find a way to deal with a changing world and with a system that betrayed the men fighting for it. The film ends with Bob swimming out into the ocean in utter despair, presumably to kill himself. As Sally enters the supermarket at the end, the two doors close behind her, accidentally forming the symbolic phrase Lucky Out. She and Luke are now free to pursue their romance.Coming Home is an excellent film which illuminates the conflicting attitudes on the Vietnam War debacle from the standpoint of three participants - Sally,Bob and Luke - and how it has affected their lives. It also has stellar performances from Fonda and Voight,who won Oscar for their role in it.Overall,it is classic film about the scars the Vietnam War left on the bodies, minds, and souls of many soldiers and civilians. "},{"Title":"A Well-Acted Film!","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Based loosely on the novel of the same name by George Davis, 'Coming Home' is A Well-Acted Film! The Performances are Strong & Real. The Screenplay, though depressing, comes across as mature, while the Direction, is impressive. 'Coming Home' Synopsis A woman whose husband is fighting in Vietnam falls in love with another man who suffered a paralyzing combat injury there.'Coming Home' is depressing. The characters, their relationships, their past & present, all come up as complicated & troubled. Robert C. Jones, Waldo Salt & Nancy Dowd's Oscar-Winning Screenplay is unsettling, but mature. It freely narrates it's story without any compromises. Hal Ashby's Direction is impressive. Cinematography & Editing are worth a mention.Performance-Wise Jon Voight, in an Oscar-Winning Performance, delivers remarkably. The Veteran Actor gives his careers most convincing & believable performance in here. Jane Fonda, in an also Oscar-Winning Performance, is terrific. Bruce Dern is electrifying & unforgettable in a strong supporting role, while Penelope Milford is good. Robert Carradine leaves a mark. On the whole, Though not Perfect, 'Coming Home' yet deserves a watch for it's Mature & Impressive Story-Telling along-with it's Strong & Memorable Performances. "},{"Title":"Voight and Fonda Make the Film","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Coming Home (1978) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Hal Ashby's anti-war film centers on a crippled Vietnam vet (Jon Voight) who strikes up a relationship with a volunteer nurse (Jane Fonda) whose husband (Bruce Dern) is currently fighting in the war. There's no question that both Voight and Fonda deserved their Oscar wins and there's no question that this film certainly has an agenda and no matter what political view you take on the subject matter you will at least walk away impressed with what the stars and director were able to do. I think it should go without saying but the real highlight here is seeing Voight and Fonda bring these characters to life. I was really impressed with Voight who had a pretty difficult character to play. Not only does he have to deal with the physical effects of the character being unable to walk but he also has various emotions to have to play. When we first meet him he's having a fit because he's pretty much forced to live life on a cart and his anger of not having anyone to help him is boiling over. Fonda, on the other hand, is a very sweet, caring person who just wants to do good while her husband is away fighting in the war. There's a very human scene between the two as Voight is once again fighting his guilt over the war and coming home and he pretty much throws Fonda under the bus by saying she's just doing what she is because she's waiting for her husband to come home in a body bag. The relationship between the two never comes off as being fake and everything between them seems real and is handled with loving care. Yes, there's a sex scene between the two, which contains a lot of passion and it's handled so well that you never feel as if it's gratuitous. As as I said, Voight and Fonda are so great in their roles that you really do feel as if you're watching real people with real problems. Dern often gets overlooked when it comes time to talk about the performances but he too is very effective. Penelope Milford gets to shine as Fonda's friend and Robert Carradine is also very good as her crazy brother. There are a few problems with the film that keep me from rating it as being perfect and I think the anti-message gets in the way of the love story and the stories overall impact. I don't mind an anti-war film but I think the film does way too much preaching instead of just letting the story tell the message. The film also has some legendary songs from the likes of Bob Dylan, The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, Aretha Franklin and Buffalo Springfield but at times I think they take away from the drama in the film. Many times the songs themselves play fully throughout the movie and while I love the songs they do at times take away from the drama going on. With that said, COMING HOME was one of the first of the big Vietnam movies and the performances and central story of the leads are so good that it's still very much worth watching. "},{"Title":"Is this gonna hurt?","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Not all wars were dealt with the same way by cinema, and I don't mean just in their reflection of public opinion. In World War Two Hollywood got fully involved in the propaganda movement, and movies made after the war looked mainly at reliving the heroism involved. By the height of the Vietnam war, Hollywood was more independent and the war was widely criticised. During wartime this was manifested in numerous examples of veiled anti-militarist commentary, but very little actual reference to the conflict itself. And even when the war finished, it was a couple of years before pictures about it started to be made, but when they did, the Vietnam war movie soon became a prolific subgenre in its own right. Coming Home was one of the earliest, and yet it remains one of the most honest and heartfelt. Made the same year as Oscar-sweeper The Deer Hunter, it dispenses with that picture's before-during-after structure, to focus purely on the aftermath.Coming Home has as its director the very direct and compassionate Hal Ashby. I don't know how Ashby would have handled a Vietnam action movie &#x96; he never really did anything so ostentatious &#x96; but his total focus here on the humanity of the situation makes the lack of some contextualising violence superfluous. Ashby does not use many extreme close-ups, but he is a master of a kind of shot that nevertheless makes a character dominate the screen, with Spartan backgrounds and few camera movements. He doesn't draw our attention too much to the undignified position of the veterans, and their wheelchairs seem almost coincidental in the shot, although he has a great knack of dropping in a reminder so subtly it looks unintentional. For example, there's a shot where Jane Fonda is wheeling along a paraplegic who is complaining about the lack of information he's been given about his situation, and just as he comes fully into view, we see her stick a bowel and bed sign on the end. Zoom lenses were overused in the 70s and their use often looks corny today, but Ashby spares them for moments when you are so totally absorbed in the scene you are unlikely to notice. There are a lot of reaction shots in Coming Home, often while a character continues speaking offscreen, for example during the pool-playing veterans conversation in the first scene, and Ashby really helps to make this a picture about reactions and reflections.This straightforward focus on people pays off in the superb acting performances. What's great about Jon Voight and Jane Fonda, is that their performances are so uncomplicated, unlike much of what passed for good acting at the time. They don't have the obviously improvised look of Robert De Niro or the deliberate gestures and mannerisms of Meryl Streep. They simply believe in their characters and act out the script. The result is that they come across as totally believable. Voight brings through such an amiable personality, and Fonda has such honesty to her every action, that we forget the potential awkwardness or inequality of a relationship between a disabled person and an able-bodied one, and simply see two people falling in love. The only over-the-top performance in the picture is that of Bruce Dern, but it works very well to make this character slightly ridiculous, giving a quality to his rage that is pathetic rather than truly threatening.And after all it is Bruce Dern who is really the most tragic figure of this story. The screenplay by Nancy Dowd, Waldo Salt and Robert C. Jones is bookended by his leaving for Vietnam and his coming home. In the opening credits, the recording of The Rolling Stones' Out of Time seems to imply that he's the poor, deluded one. He may be a bit of a pompous fool, and the antagonist as far as Fonda and Voight's affair goes, and yet he becomes curiously sympathetic. While Voight's character makes his psychological recovery, Dern becomes a victim, not so much of the war but of military life.It's this kind of humanist insight that makes Coming Home what it is. In 1950 there was a movie with a similar plot called The Men, which looked very frankly at the harrowing circumstances of a man made paraplegic in World War Two. Coming Home however does not go into the gory details of disability or even particularly highlight the indignity of Voight's condition. The heart of the movie is in scenes like Voight crying to Robert Carradine's guitar playing, or getting some cheeky kids to help him with his shopping. Even the scenes of protest against the war are not nearly as polemical as in Born on the Fourth of July, but more a sombre reflection of the times. It is less like The Men, and more like Vietnam's version of The Best Years of Our Lives. It's a picture about social cohesion, and the healing of wounds after conflict has ended. "},{"Title":"The best all-round antiwar love story of all time","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Coming Home is the story of three ordinary Californians trying to reconcile their lives with the horrors of war, as well as with the way injured veterans of that war are shunted into a Purgatory of discarded, disrespected cannon fodder. By covering in so understated a manner the daily rituals of Luke's fellow wounded at the hospital, the movie makers compel us to look at how the war has dehumanized all of us. Indeed, we eventually see how even those who were not grossly physically damaged&#151;Bob returns from Nam with a self-inflicted rifle wound for which it is unclear whether it was intentional&#151;are crushed psychologically....For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2008 "},{"Title":"Noble But Somewhat Limp Effort by Hal Ashby","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Coming Home was one of two high-profile movies in 1978 that addressed the challenges -- social, psychological and emotional -- faced by Vietnam veterans as they attempted to adjust back to civilian lifestyles. Michael Cimino's The Deer Hunter was of course the other one, and Hal Ashby's Coming Home, while a noble effort, seems positively limp compared to that other devastating film.Hal Ashby was an extremely competent director, and I very much like some of his movies (Harold and Maude is one of the best movies of the 1970s in my opinion), but his style was just a little too gentle for the subject matter he tackles here. The old-fashioned Hollywood romance he shoe-horns into the plot only diffuses the edgier elements, and the whole thing feels too tidy and agenda driven.But what the movie does have is some terrific performances, especially from the men. Jon Voight gives one of the best performances of his career as the paraplegic who struggles with the bitterness of being discarded by his country, and Bruce Dern does fine work as a fanatical military man, even if his role as written is a bit histrionic and obvious. Jane Fonda, usually a wonderful actress, fares less well as the wife of Dern and nurse to Voight who begins to form her own ideas about the war. I think we're supposed to see a feminist fire ignite in Fonda, but the character is poorly written. Penelope Milford rounds out the cast as Fonda's wild child friend.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Once I was a soldier...a ballad invokes, .as Bruce Dern","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" goes into the ocean, to end it all. He returns from war emotionally damaged, receives the Purple Heart and ends his life. This film is effective on so many levels, it is difficult to pinpoint just a few.I do have to add that my father was a veteran, and disliked Jane Fonda. As a child, I never understood why. I see in this film she is an incredible actress, and her character, Sally, is at first supportive of the war, and her husband, as they are living on a marine base. The monologue Jon Voight has at the end is honest and disturbing. Luke was captain of the football team, 'gung ho' and simply, as an 18 year old wanted to kick ass for his country. In the context of this film, all sides are understandable, which is what makes this issue so upsetting.Vi is Sally's (Fondas) friend, and they work at the VA hospital. Vi loses her brother to suicide in the hospital; she notes that he was the talented, intelligent one, until he returned from the war. The scenes in the VA hospital are disturbing, but not overdone. Sally wants to help out after she collides with Luke (Voight) and he spills his colostomy bag. She becomes his friend, then lover.Many scenes are well-done, and understated. Suffice to say, anyone who does not understand war and the ramifications of war should watch this. The Dern character is right on the mark. When he returns from war, Vi and Sally are asking him what it was like, what happened. He refuses to discuss it. Luke also says to Sally, as bad as he tells you it was, he will never tell you the whole truth of what it was like. This seems true, most people who have been traumatized by war live with it; my father refused to discuss it, and took the war stories to his grave. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Marines with long hair?","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is a very touching drama about the way war affects people. The acting is superb and the story is right on. I just don't understand why the active duty marines in this picture have long hair and mustaches. That totally ruins any authenticity the movie may have had. Haircuts are not difficult special effects. This may seem like a minor point to some, but when you are making a film, you want the audience to feel that the characters are real. A United States Marine Corps captain with long hair and a mustache is not believable. It is insulting to the corps and the audience's intelligence. I'm not talking about the veterans;I'm talking about the uniformed military personnel. This may seem like a minor point to you, but it ruins the film for me. Also, the ending left me hanging. What happened? Did the guy die or what? "},{"Title":"great comment about vietnam war, but also war in general (spoilers)","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  i had to watch this movie with a friend for an english project...  having seen also the green berets (awful!) and platoon, which was ok, i was amazed comparatively by this movie the first time i saw it.  after watching it again, i realized that it is truly a great movie on its own.  the soundtrack is incredible. this movie makes a comment about the war.  Luke is physically damaged, but is able, by protesting the war, to keep himself sane.  Bob is physically ok, but when he arrives home he feels he doesnt belong anywhere.  he ends up killing himself because he was so damaged emotionally by the war.  Luke's speech to the high school kids at the end totally sums it all up.  it is one of the best speeches about war i've seen.  i wish someone like that would come talk to my high school! "},{"Title":"One of the worst!","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" My wife found this movie at the county library and wanted me to watch it with her. Now, I knew that it had two of my favorite actors in it, Bruce Dern and Jon Voight but it also had my least favorite actress in it, which is of course Jane Fonda. Well, I decided to give it a shot and I regretted every minute of it. I lost an uncle in Vietnam in 1968 and my hometown of 2000 lost around 20 young men in the war. The movie starts off pretty good but it loses ground very quickly. Basiclly, it shows returning vets as physical cripples or mental cripples. Both views are wrong but is to be expected if Jane Fonda was involved. In short, this movie is just a bag of anti-war propaganda, no more and no less. If you want to see a movie about Vietnam, watch Hamburger Hill or Gardens of Stone. Both are excellent. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I loved watching this movie at night.  When  Bruce Dern yelled at his wife for cheating, that was amazing. I liked John Voight's character, Luke.  I was shocked that Jane Fonda became so intrigued by him but I guess she fell in love with him. I was surprised to see that Jane Fonda used a body double for that love scene, but then again, it was the Jane Fonda.  I am really sickened by Jane Fonda's anti America stance in general.The other good scenes were when that dude shoots air into his veins to commit suicide.  Or that part when John Voight chains himself to a gate??  That was amazing. That marine got mad!!I love this movie! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have seen in years!","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I saw this one today. It is a really great movie. I don´t want to say much about it - just that Jane Fonda and Jon Voight are amazing. It´s really a glimpse into another world - the world of the 60s (and 70s) which just doesn´t exist anymore. I wasn´t born before 1976 - but it seems like a great time which is described in the movie. The love-story is very, very touching and I feel grateful to have seen these great actors. I´m sure all males in the audience felt like Jon Voight and all females felt like Jane Fonda. Man, it was so great! I cannot say enough how much I appreaciate the message and feel of this movie. The music is amazing too with some good lyrics by Dylan and Stones. It´s clearly an anti-war film but also clearly a pro-humanity film. This is just so amazing. They don´t make movies like that anymore.  "},{"Title":"I have killed for my country, or whatever, and I don't feel good about it. - Luke Martin","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"23 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" 'Coming Home' is a very powerful and meaningful film, but it was released the same year as 'The Deer Hunter' and that absolutely annihilated it when it came Oscar season. 'Coming Home' is a great film, but it is no where near as brilliant as Michael Cimino's one-hit wonder 'Deer Hunter'. Despite this competition, 'Coming Home' managed to win two Academy Awards for the lead actors -- Jon Voight and Jane Fonda. 'Coming Home' is the story of a beautiful, bright yet very understanding military wife, Sally Hyde (Fonda), who is married to the marine poster boy, Captain Bob Hyde (Bruce Dern - Black Sunday). Bob goes off to fight in Vietnam, leaving Sally with nothing to do but worry. Instead of sitting at home and eating bon-bons, Sally and her best friend Vi (Penelope Milford) volunteer at a Veternan's hospital where Sally is re-united with an old high school acquaintance, Luke Martin (Voight), who was a sergeant in Vietnam but know can't walk. The two become great friends but eventually lovers which comes to a boil when Captain Bob returns home after a couple years of fighting. The film also stars Robert Carradine and Charlie Cyphers. Hal Ashby does a fine job directing this picture, and Robert C. Jones and Waldo Salt provide a powerful screenplay. Jon Voight steals the picture which his heart-wrenching portrayal of a physically and emotionally scarred war veteran who reflects on his time spent in 'Nam and just wishes the war would end. Voight was great and won an Oscar, but I felt DeNiro deserved it more for his similar role in 'The Deer Hunter'. Jane Fonda rightfully won her Oscar for Leading Actress as the caring, king and understanding Sally who always wants to help someone and Bruce Dern is powerful in the role of Captain Hyde especially in the last fifteen minutes of the film. Besides winning two Oscars for the leading actors, 'Coming Home' was nominated for six other Academy Awards including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Supporting Actor - Bruce Dern, Best Supporting Actress - Penelope Milford, Best Original Screenplay (which it ended up actually winning) and Best Film Editing. It is a wonderful motion picture, but not quite on the level with the 'The Deer Hunter'. I recommend it for anyone who appreciates incredible acting and film-making. Grade B+ "},{"Title":"A flawed but very powerful film","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A flawed film. But also a film of tremendous grace, power, and originality. The flaws; Bruce Dern's character is criminally underdeveloped, and comes off more as a cliché than the other two leads, which damages the power of the films climax. For the film to fully work, we have to believe that Fonda would consider staying with this man, who starts as a martinet, and ends up frightening unbalanced, and dangerous, while Jon Voight seems a near saint. Fonda's character also starts off as a cliché, but deepens quickly as the film goes on. And some of the use of 60s rock songs are bit too on the nose, their comments a bit too obvious. Yet all that said, there is also magic here; in Jon Voight's magnificent performance &#x96; arguably the best he's done, in Jane Fonda's fine work. In the feeling of almost documentary realism in the moments of their relationship, in the radical (especially for it's time) dealing with sex and a paraplegic, and the scars of Viet Nam of individuals and a nation. Haskel Wexler's cinematography is also very strong. This is a film who's special moments so stick with me (e.g. Voight's speech to a bunch of high school kids) that I can look past the flies in the ointment. "},{"Title":"Great Kitchen Sink 1970s Film By the Late Ashby","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Coming Home is one of the greatest movies about the Vietnam War, only it never sets foot in Nam. Rather than tackling the horrors of the combat itself, Hal Ashby's completely unassuming film showcases the stoic lack of relief and joy in coming home from combat. Rather than focusing on the hardships of metamorphosis of the men directly involved in fighting, Ashby's film addresses the perspective of a Captain's wife.You forget Jane Fonda is Jane Fonda, and it's not even a very demanding, complex role. It's an everywoman, yet she completely becomes her to the point where we're not thinking of her as an actress playing a role. She is very much a whole character. She even says at one point that people don't see her as she really is, that they see, Cheery Sally, the Captain's wife, and says that sometimes she thinks she's becoming what people see. And she brilliantly portrays that hint throughout the film.While working as a nurse in a veteran hospital, she happens upon an old friend played by Jon Voight, in one of the few roles in which I find him interesting, who has returned from Vietnam as a paraplegic. With the entertaining Bruce Dern, Jane Fonda's husband, away at war, a pure connection grows between Fonda and Voight, and she discovers the orgasm. After the suicide of Fonda's friend's brother, another veteran who has returned insane, Voight's single-minded pursuit is to stop at nothing to prevent any more young men from going off to war.A good touch by Ashby is a surprising care given to the music in the movie. The soundtrack is a jukebox of 1970s rock playing through the majority of the film, but at a volume that makes it seem like source music even when it isn't. "},{"Title":"Coming Home","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Coming Home was one of the first films, that dealt particularly with the Vietnam war, but it's not a war film in a conventional sense. It's a first attempt to show the effects that this war had had on the people fighting in it. And at the same time this film also is story of forbidden, but immensely strong love. To say it right away Hal Ashby is successful with this film to a big extent. The love story between Jane Fonda and Jon Voight works really well, they have great chemistry and share a memorable sex scene, that's handled with big sensibility by the director. A bit flawed was the characterization of Bruce Dern's role. You can see he was traumatized after coming back, but why Fonda feels so big love and affection towards him can only be sensed. There is a little bit of background missing. On the political side While the film makes a statement against war in general and bemoans its victims, Coming Home doesn't explicitly question the United States' engagement in Vietnam. "},{"Title":"this movie is powerful in the quietest of ways","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" When watching Coming Home, one must look at the overall effect the war has on people involved (Bruce Dern), once involved (Jon Voigt), and far removed (Jane Fonda). The power of this movie is that it doesn't have a 'hollywood' climax in it. The true climax comes when Bruce Dern methodically takes off and perfectly folds and stack his clothes before swimming away into the ocean. This scene is the 'climax' if you will and demonstrates the destruction of war on the human psyche. If you missed that, then you might find the film boring and overly simple in your eyes. That being said, I would recommend anyone watching this well-written and well-acted film. "}{"Title":"Still Powerful Treatment of Postwar Trauma Enlivened by Ashby and Cast","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" If this 1978 movie feels even less like a Vietnam War-era period piece than it did when it was originally released, credit director Hal Ashby and screenwriters Robert C. Jones and Waldo Salt for making a heartfelt film that manages to transcend its historical context by focusing on the emotional dimensions of the story. Their combined efforts help to humanize the liberal bias of the story in spite of the presence of then-vocal activists Jane Fonda and Jon Voight in the starring roles. The resulting film is poignant and especially powerful in light of the current Iraqi conflict. A new documentary, The War Tapes, vouches for a lot of the same feelings experienced by soldiers who have come home from a war they cannot reconcile with their personal sensibilities.The plot focuses on Sally Hyde, the sheltered wife of an army captain sent away to Vietnam duty. She slowly becomes aware of the world around her by taking a volunteer job at the veteran's hospital. There, she meets Luke Martin, an old high school acquaintance who has come back embittered and paralyzed from his wartime experiences. A friendship and then an unavoidable attraction develop, as Luke gets released and rebuilds his life in a wheelchair. Sally's husband Bob eventually comes back traumatized by his own experiences compounded by what has happened at home. The story unfolds with unrelenting persuasion through episodes that often pierce the heart, in particular, Sally's increasing emancipation, Luke's reclamation of his life and both coming to terms with what the war is about.In a far cry from his recent ham-fisted turns, Voight makes Luke's journey intensely palpable with his career-best performance. Initially, Fonda stretches credibility as a meek Army wife, but she becomes more compelling as the character grows and becomes more challenged by her pre-defined existence. As Bob, Bruce Dern unfortunately has that wild-eyed, psycho persona that was hard to shake, and his performance sometimes has an unwarranted maniacal edge. Yet, he even manages moments of poignancy toward the end. In smaller roles, Penelope Milford and Robert Carradine balance the leads with their youthful vigor as Sally's flower-child friend Vi and her shell-shocked brother Bill.Special mention needs to be given to Haskell Wexler's appropriately softened cinematography that gives the story a time-lost dreamscape and to the period music soundtrack filled with defining songs from the late 1960's. The 2002 DVD has a surprisingly robust set of extras beginning with an alternate commentary track by Voight, Wexler and an especially enthusiastic Dern (where's Fonda?). The same three contribute to a brief making-of featurette. A more general tribute to Ashby is also included as well as the original theatrical trailer. "},{"Title":"Timely and excellent portraits of two veteran soldiers of Viet Nam returning as changed men, confused and disillusioned, to a woman they each love and a U.S. they can no longer reconcile with the pre-war ima","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Sadly and surprisingly relevant, Coming Home offers the perspective of one man who's war experience renders him not only paralyzed but unable to deny his own real life experience as a wartime soldier to the extent that he can continue supporting his government's patriotic dogma that one man should kill, torture or oppress other soldiers, men, women and children to defend motives he now views, from a wheelchair, as questionable. Awakening to this perspective is a woman who, attempting to aid the war effort and make herself useful during her husband's time of military service to his country, volunteers her time at the local Veteran's Hospital. As she encounters the soldiers just returned battle with countless physical and psychological wounds too deep to enable their return to duty, she begins to understand the impossibility of their task to get back to a normal life and starts a longer journey out from under her own unquestioning acceptance of obeying principles that manufacture circumstances that make the peaceful pursuits of love and family inconceivable.Her own husband does return to her, an officer who spent his tour of duty doing what he has accepted all of his life is the right thing for his country but he, too, is terribly damaged by what he has seen. When he discovers that he has returned to a wife that has broken both the sanctity of their marriage and the very foundation of their commonality as people - namely, upholding the belief that you must endure and inflict and perpetuate the tortures of Hell, itself, if your government demands it of you - he is unable to find a way forward in his life. As the last institutions that served as the structure of his sanity and happiness are wrenched out from under him, he faces a void too horrible to walk into and turns to the only way out that he can perceive.This film is shot in what seems a sincere approach to relating the stories that were, immediately post-viet nam, being widely reported of and experienced by those U.S. men and women returning from service. It attempts, via narrative, to correlate them to the cultural experiences of the public. It seems to try to offer insight into the collective trauma inflicted by the very idea that war, as an institutional means of problem solving, is an acceptable and patriotic belief that merits the sacrifice of our lives and sanity. Though the film definitely has its own perspective, it maintains respect for each of the characters represented. It remains the imperative of each viewer to decide the question for themselves.  "},{"Title":"Very moving film","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Coming Home takes a different path than most Vietnam films.  There are no battle scenes, no blood and guts.  Rather, it tackles the issues of vets who were damaged by the war.  I just watched it for the first time in about 20 years, and I was emotionally moved as I was the first time I saw it. The direction by Hal Ashby is first rate.  The acting is outstanding, with Bruces Dern's performance as a gung-ho Marine standing out as one of the most under appreciated performances from the 70's.  The soundtrack also sets the bar very for other films in the combining of film and music. "},{"Title":"another Vietnam movie ...","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" ... but one of the best.  I hadn't seen this for more than 12 years when it turned up on late-night TV recently, and I wasn't disappointed in my recollection of it being excellent.  Jon Voight and Jane Fonda are terrific in this, as is supporting player Robert Carradine.  The only false note is Bruce Dern's angry veteran on his return from war, but you do at least understand where he's coming from by the end of the film.  Also, despite a bit of overkill in the soundtrack the music is usually spot-on - Ruby Tuesday, Sympathy for the Devil, For What It's Worth, and the ubiquitous White Rabbit.  I found it interesting to compare this with the Brando film The Men, also about paraplegics, albeit from another conflict thirty years before.  Both films had honesty, guts and were incredibly involving.  And Coming Home was one of the best of its type, ever. "},{"Title":"Also a wonderful (and sad) love story","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was a teenager and I was really impressed by it. I never forgot it; may be this is why I've always remembered it with a different perspective than what's usual. It's impressive as a story about the Vietnam war, especially because you never see it. And the war is what makes Sally and Luke see each other again. But it is also the story of a wonderful, yet sad love story.Wonderful, because two people find the person they need (in different situations) and love grows over the physical passion. They are made for each other. Sad, because they know they are the perfect match, but it will be over when Sally's husbands comes home. But even in spite of this, they live wonderful times, and we feel the presence of the war.It may be a different way to see a classic film in the Vietnam war area. See it, and I'm sure you'll have your own opinion (even if you don't agree with me)!!! "},{"Title":"Jon Voight and Jane Fonda are wonderful.","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I simply adore this film. There is nothing in here that doesn't feel true. Jon Voight and Jane Fonda are simply the best. Check out Robert Carradine! "},{"Title":"A minor apocalypse","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Compared to the bombast of 'Apocalypse Now' or 'Platoon', 'Coming Home' is a very restrained film about the Vietnam War. But in some ways a remarkable one, made at a time when Hollywood was still shy of the subject and foreshadowing the themes of 'Born on the 4th of July' by almost 20 years. Moreover, it's more subtle and less forced than that later movie, and also benefits from a more rounded narrative arc. And yet for all that, it's curiously uninvolving, especially in its earlier sections. The film certainly feels its age, with poor sound and awkward camera work, but the real problem lies in the soundtrack, a collection of brilliant songs that endlessly protrude into the narrative without the slightest pretext, marring the otherwise naturalistic mood. It's a shame, as the script's feeling for how lives intersect against the backdrop of great (and terrible events) is strong and rarely overplayed. A potentially good film spoiled by musical excess.  "},{"Title":"Best Of Fonda and Voight","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Two actors that usually annoy me immensly, somehow put themselves together and created this classic story of a married women during vietnam whose husband goes off to war, and while hes away, she meets a parapalegic veteran while volunteering at a hospital.  This film beautifully captures the mood of the 60's, especially with all of that great music, including The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, and CCR.  A truly great film with endearing performances by two actors who are usually not very good.  8.2/10. "},{"Title":"Vietnam from a Different Perspective.","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  'Coming Home' is one of the most unique and profound films made about Vietnam. Rather than focusing on a particular battle or squadron, it examines the experiences of the Home Front. The concept of 'Coming Home' is portrayed through several characters, Luke Martin (Jon Voight), Bob Hyde (Bruce Dern) and Bill Munson (Robert Carradine). Unlike any other Vietnam movie it really conveys the reaction of veterans returning to America and Americans to the returning veterans. On returning from combat each of the three men have lost their naivety, each have gone to Nam wanting to 'get their their licks in for the USofA' as Martin puts it, yet all return damaged in some way. 'Coming Home' is the only film to have a female central character Sally Hyde, magnificently played by Jane Fonda. It is through her that we meet the three men. Like them we see her losing her naivety, not only toward war, but to relationships. Her husband's absence gives her the opportunity to enjoy some independence, while her growing love for Luke makes her question the life she has chosen to lead. This film is void of cliches, is not afraid  of delving into difficult issues, and will make you think- like any good film should! It also boasts deservedly Oscar winning performances from Voight and Fonda, a groovy soundtrack and masterful direction from the late Hal Ashby.  "},{"Title":"Flower Power Film.","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The movie deals with the psychological effects of the Vietnam War. This movie isn't about the war, as there are no battle scenes at all. It only reflects the behavior of people who are affected by the war.The film is escorted with a great music of the period (Beatles, Rolling Stones, Janis Joplin and others), however, it is there in EVERY scene! They just played it over the entire movie which was quite annoying.Overall it is a good film about the damage war makes to the soul, and that fighting against war is sometimes right, as war might become the enemy.Great handicapped sex scene.8/10 "}{"Title":"Jane Fonda out-acted by her co-stars","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This film (along with Cat Ballou) particularly demonstrates Jane Fonda's greatness as an actress. It does so because she lets herself be out-acted by all three of her co-stars.Jon Voigt as the paraplegic veteran disillusioned by The War and Bruce Dern as the returning officer insanely and ravingly committed to everything military both make the most of their opportunities to display their different forms of craziness. And even Penelope Milford gets to put on her own display of craziness when she dances on the kitchen tabletop in front of the two guys she and Jane brought back to their apartment from a barroom pick-up.Jane doesn't get to put in this kind of emotionally wrought performance, because her character is really pretty sane and normal, at least compared to Voigt's and Dern's. And if she had tried to ham it up, to match her co-stars' crazed performances, she would have wrecked this movie. As a relatively young actress, in Cat Ballou, she had to play her character straight while all of her co-stars got to ham it up for laughs, and as a mature actress in Coming Home she has to play her character in a relatively subdued fashion while her three co-stars get to ham it up for emotional drama.Sometimes the star has to take a back seat to co-stars, and Coming Home is proof that Jane Fonda's no prima donna who would place her own interests above the film's success. Despite the Oscar, I don't see this as one of Jane's most memorable performances, but that's because for the success of the film she necessarily had to allow herself to be out-acted by her three co-stars, all of whom were Oscar-nominated with Jon Voigt also winning for Best Actor. I'd also add that it's a real shame Maggie Smith (California Suite) beat Penelope Milford for Best Supporting Actress. Bless Maggie Smith as a very great actress, but Penelope Milford's performance here was astonishing.I do have one major complaint that's so great that I really dislike this movie for that reason alone. That non-stop background music made it darn near impossible for me to catch a lot of the dialog!  "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Considered very important in its day, this film attempts to explore the impact of the Vietnam War on those who received wounds while fighting it, and on the wives left at home. It is relatively insightful and it does raise some interesting ideas about why people justify going to war, but the storyline itself is highly formulaic and it is too easy to see where it is heading. The film is also hurt by an overbearing song soundtrack. Almost all the time songs can be heard, playing softly as the characters talk and interact. There appears to be very little thematic motivation behind what is played and when it is played, but above all, it drowns out the on-screen action. The film is a bit on the maudlin side, and one might even say that it is preachy towards the end too, but it is nevertheless a good film. The quality of the acting saves the project, with a strong Jon Voight as a partially paralysed, angry Vietnam vet, and some good scenes with Bruce Dern in the final half hour. It was a big film when first released, and probably meant a lot because of its subject matter, leading to lots of awards and acclaim. It does not seem nearly as good nowadays, but it is nevertheless worth checking out, not only for the acting, but also for a capsule of post-Vietnam attitudes in the late 1970s. "},{"Title":"probably ok, but...","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Why isn't the 1972 film My Old Man's Place (aka Glory Boy) by Edwin Sherin released anywhere? A low budget precursor to this film, it was probably the first anti-war film about returning veterans. I saw it in 1973 and have never forgotten it (or seen it since).  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I loved watching this movie at night.  When  Bruce Dern yelled at his wife for cheating, that was amazing. I liked John Voight's character, Luke.  I was shocked that Jane Fonda became so intrigued by him but I guess she fell in love with him. I was surprised to see that Jane Fonda used a body double for that love scene, but then again, it was the Jane Fonda.  I am really sickened by Jane Fonda's anti America stance in general.The other good scenes were when that dude shoots air into his veins to commit suicide.  Or that part when John Voight chains himself to a gate??  That was amazing. That marine got mad!!I love this movie! "},{"Title":"The Vietnam War","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I saw this movie several times and always enjoyed it. It shows another perspective of the consequences of the war on soldiers and those waiting for them back at home. We follow mainly the story of Luke who returns paraplegic from Vietnam and of Sally, a US officer's wife. We see Luke becoming a responsible, mature and giving person, unfortunately because of his traumatic experience. Sally also becomes more aware of life around her which of course obliges her to reassess her life. Together they understand each other and the need for them to break away from conventional life. "},{"Title":"One of the best (or worst)","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This opus features Hanoi Jane at her best (or worst, depending on your point of view). Worth watching at least once for the excellent period music. Preachy at times, but could have been preachier. Dern is particularly good. "},{"Title":"As Ludicrous as The Green Berets","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Hal Ashby blew a great opportunity to examine the serious moral and legal issues of the Vietnam War. Bruce Dern makes absolutely the worst Marine Corps Officer in the history of movies. Dern's hair's too long and unruly and his uniform is too unkempt. In fact, none of the characters make convincing Marines. Certainly, there were tremendous reasons to criticize the US operations in Vietnam, from the illegal use of troops without declaration of war and the unwillingness to execute the ground operation in a manner at all capable of achieving victory. Instead, we get John Voight pontificating on the physical and spiritual consequences of fighting ANY war and the communist (by her own admission) Jane Fonda pontificating for women's rights (as if they exist in ANY communist country). At least Coming Home can be praised for its depiction of the sorry conditions in VA hospitals (many of which exist today). Of course, The Green Berets can be praised for its accurate depiction of terrorist acts committed by the Viet Cong and some North Vietnamese regulars, who occupied South Vietnam in violation of Geneva Accords.Want to see an excellent movie that addresses these subjects? Take a gander at Three Kings; which, while not about Vietnam, at least addresses the horrific consequences of illegal wars, broken government promises and the cost in lives and quality of life to the victims.I give Coming Home a 5. "},{"Title":"Very good movie, but great propaganda film for war protesters","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I loved the movie. It is, however, just a movie. It is entertaining and thought provoking, but it is just a movie. It is fiction. It is make believe. I know that many will view it and think it represents the truth about the times. It is ,however, shamefully slanted to a war protester's point of view. All sympathy goes to the victims (Voight, Fonda, et. al.). Anyone associated with supporting the war in the movie (Dern, the Officers) are unlikeable and/or shallow. Dern does a good job of coming across like a jerk in nearly every scene. Fonda, the ultimate war protester in real life, was tremendous as the innocent yet sexy wife of Dern. She betrayed him, yet is depicted as the sympathetic victim and tragic heroine. Hollywood has a great talent for putting together movies like this and making gullible viewers believe it is a truthful documentary of the times. On another level, I applaud the selection of music in this fictional account of the 70's. It was perfect. The timing and placement of the songs, particularly The Chamber's Brothers Time Has Come Today was chilling. I recommend the movie to any one that loves good 60's & 70's music. Those songs are among the best ever recorded. "},{"Title":"Good acting can't save this up-yours to the Veterans 3/10","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Look out folks, it's Hanoi Jane! This American traitor has the audacity to play an officer's wife in this silly hippy piece of film making.  I agree with the message this film is trying to say, War is bad, and none of our young men deserve to die, or go to Vietnam.  However, I think the film destroys itself by casting Jane Fonda as the pivotal role in the film.Bruce Dern and Jon Voight are classic.  The film is also plagued by a soundtrack of all the popular tunes at the time.  The music won't let up, and it takes the viewer out of the film.Oliver Stone later made a film with a similar message, but far superior Born on the 4th of July. "},{"Title":"Perhaps Not All That Great","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The problem I have with reviewing COMING HOME is to do with the subject matter . It's unreservedly anti-war which means it makes me feel slightly guilty when I say I don't like it very much . It's the same problem I have with holocaust movies , because of the subject matter myself and other audience members feel we must praise the movie regardless of its faultsThe reason I don't like COMING HOME is because it feels like it was directed by someone who has spent a long time working on TVMs , there's a never ending soundtrack of pop music in the background ( Now I know where Jerry Bruckheimer stole the idea ) and there's little in the way of character arc . When we're presented by the characters at the start of the movie they're still basically the same people by the end of it . Luke Martin may find a focus for his bitterness and anger by the end but compare him with Ron Kovic with BORN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY to really see what I'm getting itThere are good points and it's all to do with the cast . Jane Fonda probably deserved her Oscar for best actress while Jon Voight certainly deserved his . It's also interesting to note that Bruce Dern and Robert Ginty play roles in which their characters are sent to the 'Nam as both these actors would later be typecast as psycho Vietnam vets . And I will praise the fact that COMING HOME is far more successful in showing the pain and anguish on the home front far better than WE WERE SOLDIERS But I still have to stick with instinct that it's far from a great movie and benefits from being released before several other Vietnam War dramas .  "}]