[{"Title":"Pacing could have been more tight, but it's often suspenseful and exciting.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"58 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *** out of ****As a sequel to an immensely popular classic, Jaws 2 had a lot to live up to, and while it doesn't reach the level of sheer terror of the original, it's still effective in creating thrills, some scares, and excitement.  The biggest flaw is the pace, since the scenes on land drag on over and over.  These moments hurt an otherwise entertaining and often fun motion picture.The plot is mostly a re-hash of Jaws.  It even takes place in the same town, Amity.  It's been years since the first shark was killed and Chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider) begins to have his suspicions of another great white in the vicinity when two divers are reported missing, a boating accident that results in the mysterious disappearance of a mother and daughter, and a killer whale washed ashore with large bites all over it.  Brody voices his beliefs to the mayor (Murray Hamilton), who, along with real estate developer Glenn Petersen (Joseph Mascolo), disregard this because of the current production of a hotel on the beach.  Brody's constant paranoia of the situation eventually gets him fired.  Meanwhile, his two sons, Mike and Sean, sneak off to sail with a group of other teens.  When another shark attack occurs and is confirmed, Brody sets off to find his sons before it's too late. I've heard a lot of interesting things involving the making of this sequel.  Apparently, Spielberg and Dreyfuss were interested in returning, but couldn't due to their filming of Close Encounters.  The original story was supposed to be more character-oriented, without as much focus on the teens in peril, but when Spielberg had to back out the studio executives got nervous and went with Szwarc to make a more formulaic and effective sequel.  Roy Scheider would be the only big star from the original who would return.I'm a huge admirer of Steven Spielberg's film, and it would be hard for any other director to equal, much less surpass, his filmmaking techniques.  Director Jeannot Szwarc does an overall solid job here.  He knows what made the first film effective and holds off long camera shots of the shark for a while (in my opinion, maybe a little too long).  The beginning of the film does a nice job of creating interest and a good set-up is appreciated.  However, this set-up goes on a little too long.  A half-hour would have been just fine, but Szwarc takes nearly 75 minutes for the film to focus on the shark hunting down the sailing teens.  You may wonder why I voice my complaint for this when in the original the shark didn't make it's first full appearance until near the end.  Well, in that film's case there were three great characters (only one of whom returned) and some classic suspense sequences to crank up the tension (Dreyfuss and Scheider's exploration of the abandoned boat, anyone?).  While Szwarc should be noted for trying to build up momentum, he slows down everything a little too much and thrill seekers looking for non-stop action may find it disappointing, and it might be more up their alley to look for Deep Blue Sea (which is considerably faster moving, though is an overall weaker film).It is initially interesting to see how this sequel builds up its story with such scenes as the examination of a dead killer whale and a diver who runs into the shark, and it is quite entertaining to revisit Amity again, but Brody's constant back and forth debates with the town committee get tiresome after awhile.  We know he's right and they're wrong and the film makers should have realized that these arguments get old quickly.  To be fair, Scheider's performance does put in a bit more tension into these scenes, but it takes something more clever than that to keep things moving at a brisk pace.The film does finally get moving in the last 35 or so minutes, and it's in those moments that make the film the overall effective sequel it is.  The constant shark attacks deliver the goods.  Szwarc knows how to milk tension into these scenes and doesn't disappoint.  The finale is particularly an exercise in creating seat-gripping suspense.  It's almost a match for the conclusion to Jaws.  The final showdown between Brody and the shark is just as memorable and edge-of-the-seat as his final confrontation with the other great white in the original.  John Williams' score is as effective as ever and serves to heighten the tension factor by a notch.Admittedly, there are some implausibilities abound.  Great whites aren't nearly that aggressive and for one that eats as much as it does, it's really quite hungry.  The shark even pulls down a helicopter in one scene to presumably eat the pilot (In the TV version, there's an added scene of the shark trying to chomp the pilot).  Brody's plan to kill the shark relies on quite a bit of luck, though I won't complain as much about this since it is the film's highlight sequence and is an example of masterful direction.Most people tend to ridicule the visual effects in the Jaws series.  In my opinion, they're more effective and significantly better than CGI renditions of animals seen in the more recent thrillers like Deep Blue Sea, Anaconda, and Lake Placid.  Szwarc's high angle shots of the great white are the best, evoking a sense of terror by just looking at the top of this ferocious animal.  With an animatronic shark, it's not nearly as mobile as what can be rendered by computer technology, but it beats having the animal look like a refugee from a video game.  There are also other things that set this film above those aforementioned movies, such as restraint, seriousness, and no annoying over-reliance on mostly unfunny self-deprecating humor.To mention how effective the script is would probably be a moot point.  Anybody watching this movie wants to see it for the shark attacks.  Howard Sackler and Carl Gottlieb do a reasonable job of repeating what was successful in the original story without completely ripping it off.  This time around, there's no compelling monologue like Robert Shaw's retelling of the fate of the men on the U.S.S. Indianapolis, but the screenwriters can be credited for not writing any laughably ludicrous dialogue.  When the stranded teens argue, everything they say is reasonable within the context of the situation they're in.The film's performances are overall decent.  Roy Scheider has always been one of my favorite actors; he's easily the best here and is very good as the man determined to save his sons.  Martin Brody is still by all means a great character, and Scheider's portrayal of him as an everyman caught up in a terrifying situation makes it extremely easy to sympathize with him.  Lorraine Gray is decent as his wife and though she gets more screen time than before she's still not given a chance to fully flesh out her character. And, boy, we all saw her character develop in Jaws the Revenge, but we all know how that turned out. Murray Hamilton and Joseph Mascolo are appropriately sneaky and sly as the town mayor and real estate developer.  They're really not so much people as they are those who have to be wrong all the time.  It's a cliche, and it's not as effective as it was in Jaws. I can't really say which actor who portrays the teens does the best job.  They're all fairly equal and they are pretty good at not annoying us, which makes it easier to feel for them when the shark attacks begin.It's basically like this  when the film takes place on land, it's sometimes slow-moving and not always interesting.  When it's on water, it's often exciting and tense, with suspense that sometimes equals the original.  It's definitely not as great a thriller as Jaws, but it is a worthy sequel and certainly is better than the likes of Deep Blue Sea, Anaconda, and Lake Placid. "},{"Title":"Nothing will ever compare to JAWS, but this is a great sequel","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"55 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's strange, I wonder how this film would have been received if it was directed by Spielberg instead of an unknown. Because this film is about as intense as they come. Granted, it lacks in the personal relationships and that is what made Jaws such the classic that it is. We all know that there is no way a sequel to Jaws could ever live up to what we experienced with Jaws, but this film is about as scary as they come.Here, I must admit that the characters take a back seat to the shark. But is that necessarily wrong? We have already seen the shark in the first one so the mystery is gone, so now the only thing to do is make sure the audience is scared out of their minds. And that I can assure you is done with just as much perfection and attention to detail as the original. Take for example the opening scene where two divers are looking in the Orca ( Quint's sunken ship from the first film ). They are playfully taking pictures in front of the sunken ship. Then suddenly, a shot from behind them, and the ominous music. You know they are going to be eaten, but the scene is done with so much tension and perfect pacing that you are scared all over again. And when the shark finally does strike, we experience that primal emotion all over again.The story is a fairly simple one but affective at the same time. Brody ( Roy Scheider ) is convinced there is another shark in the waters off Amity and he is having a hard time convincing the town idiots that he is right. But this time his two sons are a little older and they will be involved in the final confrontation with the shark.There is one other scene that I wanted to point out and that is a scene where a picture is being developed. Brody is given a camera of the missing divers from the beginning. The developer then tells him that the pictures are about to be processed. As he stands in the red room, waiting for the pictures to develop, he knows. He has that feeling. Something is going to show up on the picture. And sure enough we see it. The mouth. The black, doll-like lifeless eye appears in the corner of the frame and Brody knows. He knows what it is. This is such a powerful scene in the film and it is directed with such skill that it looks like it could have been directed by Spielberg. I think Jaws 2 is a great film and it is just as scary if not a little scarier than the first, but what it lacks is that it's characters don't have time to develop. We don't care as much about these ones as we did about Hooper and Brody and Quint to some degree. But that is a small detail, because the film does it's job and that is to scare us. Look for one more scene where Tina and her boyfriend are boating by themselves. It will stay with you for quite some time.Maybe if this was Spielberg's film he would have done something different. But the one thing he couldn't do is to make it more of a frightening experience than it is. So that is a compliment to Szwarc, I just wonder what happened to him. Because he has a vision and a style that is very reminiscent to Spielberg's original. If you haven't seen this by now, treat yourself to the first one and then watch this one right after. Especially to all the young people that are on the IMDb, Jaws is a classic piece of film making and I have said that it is the best film ever made, and it is. But if you want to be scared, Jaws 2 will fulfill that need just as well as the first and better than any film that has come out in the 90's.And finally, has there ever been a better tagline in the history of motion pictures? Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water...... Brilliant. "},{"Title":"Slow To Get Started, But Then Has Some Bite","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" No, this wasn't as good as the original, but it wasn't bad, either. In fairness, the audiences knew what to expect in this one and had already been shocked by the killer Great White Shark. Thus, it was no way audiences were going to react to the sequel as they did the first Jaws movie.It didn't have Steven Spielberg directing, but it did have the same locale with same principal characters on Amity mainly Police Chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider), his wife Ellen (Lorraine Gary) and Mayor Larry Vaughn (Murray Hamilton) so one didn't feel as if this was a completely new film. There was continuity to it, and we have the same problem (a big shark eating people). The main difference is that it is just a few years after the first horrifying incidents.This story mainly involves Chief Brody's teenage kids and their friends. Overall, the film moves a little slowly the first hour, but picks up dramatically in the second half. In fact, it turns out quite intense, just like the first film. The main mistake the filmmakers made - which they wouldn't do today, was that it was too slow for too long. That, and the fact that the area residents apparently had a short memory; unrealistically short.Anyway, the shark looks more realistic.....and if you can hang in there, you'll be rewarded with some good escapist entertainment in the second hour. "},{"Title":"As far as sequels go, this one deserves another bite!","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When Jaws was released in 1975, I don't think audiences knew what hit them. People were scared to death to go into the waters and Jaws became the very first summer blockbuster. As set by example by later Hollywood, it made money, WE NEED A SEQUEL. Well, Jaws 2 was an actual book, but why not capitalize on it's success? Jaws 2 actually is a decent movie, I don't know why this film is so picked on. I think because it does have a bit of a slow start, but the ending is fantastic. This was one of the first times we saw good looking teenagers terrorized. Arguably yes, it's silly to think the shark would come back for a second bite, but why not just let go and have a good time with this one? I went back for seconds and still like this movie.Once again, Mayor Vaughn doesn't share Brody's belief that the town has another shark problem and warns him not to do something hasty. The following day, while Brody is in an observation tower, he sees a large shadow produced by a school of bluefish, which he mistakes for a shark. In his haste, Brody orders everyone out of the water and fires his gun, causing a panic. The town council fire Brody for the beach incident, with Mayor Vaughn being the only one to vote against dismissal. The next morning, Mike sneaks out and goes sailing with his friends, but has to take his young brother Sean along to stop him telling his parents about Mike's trip. But as they sail on the waters, the shark decides it's time for some afternoon lunch and terrorizes the teens. Martin realizes with his sons missing, they may be in trouble and goes to save them and their friends.Does the movie have it's flaws; yes. The acting is alright and the plot is a bit silly. The beginning is a bit slow and the story isn't as interesting as the first film with intelligent adults as clearly this was made more for the scare and bringing back old characters for the fans. Not to mention that the boat scene was a bit sloppy where the dumb woman is grabbing a bottle of gasoline to light the shark on fire I'm assuming but looses her balance and dumps it on herself and proceeds to shoot a flare gun! Yeah, she had it coming. There is a really bad mistake caught on film when the shark reaches in to bite Michael, Jaws scraps it's mouth on the boat and the mouth bends as if it was plastic, lol. But one of the things I like about the film is that it still does give a good scare with the teenagers. Especially when Marge has to save Shawn out of the water and she can't get back up on the boat and keeps slipping, as you see Jaws going after her and it just breaks your heart when Shawn witnesses her death. Also I have a guilty pleasure for the actor Keith Gordon(Christine, All that Jazz, and Back to School), this was one of his first films and he does a very good job. The cast seemed to really click and did a good job working together. Plus you have to love how marine Martin Brody gets when he faces down Jaws for his last time and goes for that money shot. Jaws 2 is definitely flawed, but honestly a fun film that too many people judge harshly. I think it's just a fun popcorn flick that you need to let go and just have a good time when sequels had good intentions.7/10 "},{"Title":"This Time it's Kind of Personal!","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"57 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A film like Jaws 2 proves that we can, indeed, get too much of a good thing. Action and shark over substance and character development. Somewhere along the way Jaws went from being about deep, intelligent characters in intense situations to shallow teenagers in B-monster-movie moments.Jaws 2, or Jaws2 (no space in between s and 2), takes place four years after the horrid events in Amity, seen in the first film. Police Chief Brody (Roy Scheider, commonly mistaken for Rob Schneider with today's audience) is a veteran of a shark attack, of course. And like most sequels involving characters who once battled a beast of some sort and survived, Brody is now the official expert on sharks. When a boat blows up off shore, Brody suspects a shark. When a killer whale is found dead with chomp marks, Brody suspects a shark. Heck, you could blow up the state of Arkansas and Brody would probably think it's a shark.Soon Brody loses his job because the town mayor (Murray Hamilton, reprising his role shortly in this film because he had to stop filming to attend to his sick wife) doesn't like poor Brody, even after the events of the first film. Then Brody's seventeen-year-old son goes out on a sail boat and before you can go, Duh-duh-duh-duh JAWS is coming at him and his friends. Brody goes, tries to save them, and you can guess what the outcome is.Okay, here are some things I noticed that hindered this film1. The first thing that hits you over the head here is how this film is painfully a copy in every way of the first film, only about ten times worse. There is no suspense--they show the shark from the beginning on. In a documentary made just for the Jaws2 DVD, the director says that The shark has already been seen, so there's no suspense--you might as well show it. Well, this is a bit true--I hate when horror sequels wait till the end to show the creature (Predator 2) even though we've seen them in the first. But the way they do it here is painfully un-suspenseful. The film really contains no sense of suspense.2. You'd think that everyone in the town would have learned their lesson last time Brody was right about a shark, and he saved the day. Here we see everyone turning back to their old ways and ignoring Brody. You could give excuses for this, but the fact of the matter remains It's just another retread of the first film, done on a much lesser scale.3. The shark here is shown too much--he looks like a rubber ducky in a bathtub. Kids scream as it attacks boats and helicopters--yes, helicopters (that looks strange on paper)--and the shark comes out of the water head first to swim forward. Now, unlike the first film where the shark was never shown very well--because of mechanical problems or not, they still didn't show it--they show the shark many, many times here. And unlike the first when they DID show the shark, in Jaws2 they make the shark look utterly unrealistic. In the first the rubber shark swam like a shark--this thing swims like a giant piece of rubber in an ocean.4. The director obviously went for action over story Steven Spielberg masterfully crafted an instense and scary film, yet at the same time provided a very interesting character study. Here, we just see blood, guts, and big rubber sharks--something that might look good in a B-horror-movie, but not in a Jaws film.5. What are the remote chances that another 25-foot Great White Shark (capitalized for effect) would be off the coast off the small town Amity twice? Perhaps this will answer that questionAfter finding a killer whale, Brody asks a marine biologist (filling in Richard Dreyfuss' most-missed shoes), You don't think if one shark dies, another shark could come and--he gets cut off by the marine biologist, who says, Sharks don't take things personally, Mr. Brody. Well, that's funny, according to the tagline for the forth film they do. Perhaps that is one of the confusing elements of this film. Is the shark attacking because Brody killed the other one four years ago? Or is it just an odd coincidence? We may never know.Steven Spielberg had the smarts to move on after the first project, as did Richard Dreyfuss, and Roy Scheider should have said no, too, because you can't flog a dead fish and expect people to jump. (Did that make sense? Sorry, I had a good catch-phrase in my head but it didn't come out right.)The first film should have been a stand alone, but in the case that they should make a sequel to one of the most cherished films of all time, for heaven's sake, make it good!So now I come back to my original question. What should my header be for this review? And then I got itThis time it's kind of personal!2.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Competent, yet totally unnecessary.","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It only figured that multiple sequels would be spawned from (at the time) the most financially successful film in history. Jaws 2 was not the least bit necessary in terms of story and character development. It's merely an opportunity to put the lives of numerous young characters in jeopardy before our hero from part one (Scheider) can paddle to their rescue. The film is technically well-done, and the action somewhat compelling. This film also made a fortune, but it had nowhere near the commercial or critical success of the original.First of all, the acting talent of Robert Shaw and Richard Dreyfuss is sorely missed. They tried to write the Matt Hooper character back in, but Dreyfuss was in the midst of shooting Close Encounters with Spielberg, rendering his physical participation out of the question. Roy Scheider is back, though. And once again he proves that he is in fact a hell of a good actor. He's the kind of guy whose character you always end up rooting for. This time we see a darker side of his Chief Brody. Convinced there is a new shark in the waters off Amitty, he presses the point so vigorously that he is fired from his job. Keep in mind, the same mayor (Hamilton) is still in office, and he's not the kind of guy who wants his beaches closed for any reason.Despite losing his job, Brody is once again forced to dispose of the killer great white before it devours his teenage son's friends and their sail boats. The film has some good stunt work, and some memorable shots of the killer fish. There is decidedly less blood shown in this one. The original barely escaped and R-rating, and they were obviously not going to chance that again. There are still plenty of frightening scenes, though. French director Jeannot Szwarc is no Spielberg, but he does a decent enough job with the material. John Williams' music still rings true.Speaking of the material, that's the film's weak spot. Sharks do not behave like killers in a slasher movie. They don't use strategy to hunt down their victims like the sharks in these movies. A great white shark is a powerful and dangerous predator, but humans are generally not on its menu. Jaws 2 is however, miles above the next two sequels in the series. Part 3 had only the 3D gimmick to fall back on. Part 4 is hardly worth mentioning unless you like to laugh at really, really bad films.7 of 10 stars for Jaws 2.The Hound.Added Feb 14, 2008 RIP Roy Scheider! "},{"Title":"No Jaws but not bad","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Was there ever a doubt that Jaws 2 wouldn't stand a chance of equaling the original film? One could only hope that on its own level it was a decent film. And that is exactly what we get. To try and view this film and compare it to the original is an impossible task. The original Jaws is one of the great films of all time. Viewers need to approach Jaws 2 with the first film completely out of mind. The sequel picks up a few years after the first film. The setting is the same (Amity Island) and Roy Scheider is back as Chief Brody. Also returning are Murray Hamilton as the Mayor, Lorraine Gary as Mrs. Brody, and Jeffery Kramer as deputy Hendricks. Gary and Kramer have bigger parts this time around while Hamilton still mills about not doing much of anything as he did in the original.The story this time centers around the teenagers of Amity Island headed by the older Brody sons (who are amazingly quite older then just the few years passed), particularly older brother Mike and his friends. They all like parasailing and you know what that means right? Early on Brody starts getting indications of another shark problem and takes his concerns to the town board and mayor. One of the biggest flaws in the film is their attitude, which is the same as the mayor's in the first film. Wouldn't you think they might have a little concern considering what had happened a few years earlier? The movie moves at a snail's pace for the first hour but things pick up in the second half once the teenagers take the sailboats out and realize the trouble that awaits them.On the positive side the shark looks as good, if not better, then in the first film. It is completely convincing. Scheider gives his usual solid performance despite playing second fiddle to a mechanical fish. And the second half of the film is quite suspenseful at times. There is one shot that has to be seen to be believed. An unconscience Mike Brody is in the water with the shark fast approaching. His friends are trying to lift him into the boat. The shark comes out of the water and.... well I won't tell you what happens but I think it is the best shark shot in the entire series of Jaws films.On the negative side the characters of the teenagers are pretty one dimensional and we don't get to know many of them well enough to care if they end up as shark dinner or not. One of the teens played by Donna Wilkes spends the last half hour doing nothing but screaming. The screams are so annoying either you almost wish she would fall in the water and be done with it. A scene with a helicopter in the water is as ridiculous as things can get. The ending (not revealed here) is a touch silly but if you think about it the ending to the original was no more silly. In the end Jaws 2 is a decent but not great followup. For those that truly dislike the film I invite them to watch Jaws 3 or Jaws The Revenge. Those films make part 2 look like the classic the first one is. "},{"Title":"Lacks Dark Terror Of The Original","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  While Steven Spielberg's Jaws a dark, scary, and gripping thriller, Jaws 2 is a scary movie for kids who don't really want to be scared. The imagination and unique style that Spielberg put into the original is sorely lacking here; this is merely a teenagers-in-jeopardy thriller as hordes of sailboating teens are terrorized by the giant killer shark. Spielberg did not expose us to the actual shark until much later in the film, which added to the heightened tension. We see the shark up close right away in this film, and it's no sense of terror. The shark chomps on water skiers, attacks boats, drags a helicopter out of the air and into the ocean, snacks on scuba divers, and the day is once again saved by Chief Brody (Roy Scheider.) With all this chomping and chewing going on, Jaws 2 is oddly ineffective and unscary. While alot of kids were genuinely frightened and scared by the original Jaws, this sequel is more like a carnival ride that provides a few thrills but is forgotten after it is over. The music by John Williams is absolutely fabulous and the atmosphere is sunnier this time around, but Jaws 2 fails to satisfy. It's just alot of kids screaming and falling in the water. While the original is a horror masterpiece, this is an O.K. film for squeamish little children. "},{"Title":"Has some good elements from the first film but mostly just turns out a teens in peril style movie","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It has been years since the shark attack that terrorised the small island community of Amity and many wounds have healed as tourism has grown back to booming levels. However the disappearance of divers, a mysterious explosion of a speedboat and a body of a killer whale with chunks missing out of it has Chief Brody back on his high-horse again. Running around shouting shark without any real evidence does little to impress Mayor Vaughn, who as usual has his eyes on the fickle tourist dollar. However is Brody just reliving past experience or is he right? (Hint the clue is in the title).Following up what is considered Spielberg's classic lesson in fear was never going to be easy but doing it in the manner that this film did it meant that it was rather on a hiding to nothing from the start. The sequel is strongest when it repeats the build up and unseen fear of the original. Sadly this is the minority of the film as the majority is about a load of teens being terrorised by the shark in the way that other groups of teens have been terrorised by everything known (and unknown) to man in an attempt to get the youf market in the door. In fairness the first half of the film does have some interesting stuff in it but mostly it wastes these as part of the build up. The best example of this is Brody himself &#150; he does appeared to be unreasonable and carrying a lot of pain and fear from the first time but this is never something we explore as the film instead just retreads the whole thing between him and the Mayor to little effect.Talking of effects, the shark is as rubbery as before &#150; no better no worse. However what is different is Szwarc's apparent desire to show the shark as a matter of course and does so to the detriment of building up gradual tension out of little touches. The cast are very mixed. Scheider returns as does the best he can but there is no help from director or writer here; so he does his same character the best he can but the viewer is never in any doubt that this is an inferior product. Gary and Hamilton also return but are given very little of interest to work with. The rest of the teen cast are annoying. It is not really their fault because they are told to be teens and scream lots, which is what they do without really achieving much.Overall then a very so-so sequel that has some strong elements that it has lifted from the original film and then lots of lesser elements fill out the film. The teens in peril aspect is a bit tiresome and doesn't do much other than provide fodder for the shark. In its favour though, the film looks like Citizen Kane when viewed alongside the other Jaws sequels. "},{"Title":"Just when you thought, etc","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The definitive sequel to one of the finest thrillers ever made, this continues the story of Amity Island, which is now facing the problem of another man-eating shark.  Unlike most sequels, this is just as good as the original.  The characters are as strong as before.  Chief Brody now comes across as a more embittered figure than previously, and you often feel a combination of shark and apathetic councillors have taken their toll on him - a sequence in which he runs across a crowded beach with a gun poised to shoot something in the water which turns out to be a school of fish is an especially powerful scene.  The feel of the first Jaws is well-imitated.  Yes, there are teenagers, but they are more likeable and better actors than the 'Friday the 13th' types, and very little would happen for the last half an hour without them.  Highly recommended to fans of the original Jaws, but ignore the further sequels and rip-offs which follow. "}{"Title":"An enjoyable underrated sequel that deserves a chance","Date":"5 October 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A lot of people come under the misconception that only Jaws is good while all the sequels are bad but that's not entirely true. Of course Jaws 3D and Jaws the Revenge are the ones you should definitely avoid at all costs but Jaws 2 is the one that gets under-looked and unfairly rated because of the bad rep the later sequels did. I assure you all, Jaws 2 is nothing like those said bad sequels films, in fact this film is actually as enjoyable as it's preceding film.Like a proper sequel should do it directly continues from where the first film left off with most of the same characters returning including main protagonist Police Chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider), he is just an excellent main character, it wouldn't be a Jaws film without him who has the unfortunate task of dealing with another man eating shark that is terrorising the sea of this island resort town of Amity. Although the film starts off slow but as more of the film gets going the better it becomes. I loved the moments when the shark kills the victims like a horror villain should.Now of course Jaws 2 may not match up to the original film but at least the people who made this film actually tried to make a good film with a decent story. I enjoyed it and I highly recommend it, it's one of the many underrated sequels that should be given a chance. "},{"Title":"Shameless Cash Grab But Still Watchable","Date":"6 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" First sequel to the Spielberg classic doesn't have that film's artistry or, well, much of anything that made it so great. But, as far as popcorn movies about killer sharks go, this one's enjoyable. Obviously it's missing Robert Shaw and Richard Dreyfuss, but there's still Roy Scheider and several returning supporting actors. As a lot of sequels tend to do, it tries to repeat the basic plot of the first movie. Once again a great white shark is terrorizing the island of Amity and it's up to Chief of Police Martin Brody (Scheider) to stop it.Did a sequel need to be made? Of course not. But it was made and they did about as well as could be expected following such a terrific film. It's surprising that the movie turned out as well as it did considering the troubled production. I won't go into detail about it here but you should read up on it. It's a miracle they turned out anything better than a turkey. There would be two more sequels after this and, boy, do they stink! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original, but still good.","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the major success of the masterpiece Jaws. Universal Studios came up with the idea for a sequel. Peter Benchley didn't write a sequel to the novel Jaws. So the movie was purely the studio's idea.Despite the doubts from the fans, Jaws 2 is actually a pretty good movie. The use of the score is dead on with the original, and makes many of the scenes with the shark intense. Especially when the shark attacks the sail boat titled Tina's Joy. Some of the scenes are pretty cool too, like when the shark attacks the helicopter.Most of the actors do a good job especially Roy Scheider who returns as Chief Brody. He's still very good in the roll. However some of the acting is really exaggerated, especially the actress who plays Jackie. All I can say about that is, Overacting at its finest. The biggest problem with this movie is that after the scene where the shark attacks the water skier, the movie starts moving slow and barely anything happens until 20-30 minutes later. The common movie goer will probably get bored by this, but trust me, if you're patient, it'll be worth it, because the movie really kicks in at that point and doesn't stop until the end.Jaws 2 is a really good sequel. The middle is a little slow, but the rest is almost as adrenaline pumping as the original. Go see this movie. You'll have a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Great Sequel","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" One of the best sequels to ever grace the silver screen. Rarely do sequels top their predecessor, and Jaws 2 is no exception, yet this is a great movie. The soundtrack alone is reason enough to watch this film. John Williams once again proves why he is the best in Holly Wood. The Harp played at beginning of the film is both beautiful and chilling. The story is solid; a Great White Shark terrorizes the people of Amity Island 4 years after the events of the first movie. You pretty much know what to expect if you saw the first film, people are going to get eaten. Yet it is the characters that draw you in, Roy Scheider is once again great as Police Chief Brody. The cast is excellent and believable. This is the perfect movie to watch on a summer night while visiting the coast. After watching, wait a few hours before swimming though. "},{"Title":"Big fish sequel with teeth","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the phenomenal success of the first movie, it was all but inevitable that a sequel would follow and, as surely as wasps follow cola, 3 years after Chief Brody blew the arse out of the first shark, a new finned menace lurks in the waters off Amity Island.The set up is identical to the first, with the added spice of an extremely agitated Chief Brody spotting sharks everywhere he goes, appearing paranoid, right up to the point the chewed up bodies start piling up.Whilst lacking the sheer menace of the original, and with the unwelcome addition of an annoying bunch of teenagers titting about on catamarans, this is still an enjoyable enough water-borne romp.The shark scenes are reasonably effective, especially when we see nothing but a dorsal fin skimming through the surf, and the presence of the majority of the original cast at least adds an air of authenticity to proceedings.Whilst being as good as the original was a near impossibility, preventing the movie from being much, much worse was some achievement by the director.With plus points already mentioned, the only real lows are the aforementioned spotty oiks, the rather rubbery shark effects when it leaves the water, and the fact that you know it's all getting a little bit silly when the shark takes down a helicopter, so not a bad effort all round.As sequels go, this certainly delivers the goods. "},{"Title":"Good Sequel to Jaws","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" You know this follow up gets panned and I really don't know why. It is a good follow up and continuation of the Jaws story. The director and DP really went out of their way to give the audience some great shots and suspense. I thought Eddie's Death was an awesome build up along with Mike's near chomp. Just because it is a sequel does not make it a bad film; in many ways the director was faced with a huge debt to pay in expectations, just from the title.We get to revisit Chief Brody and his family, along with Amity Island; See the children grow older. Later in the film, the kids are great, and the sailboat/stranded island they drift is a cool set up. We see an even younger Keith Gordon, showing talent and obvious reasons for future roles. Lorraine Gary gives a continued motherly and sympathetic performance that we all loved her for.The score is really good here too, so we must thank John Williams for more great work. The music for the Water-ski sequence is incredible.I wish all sequels gave this much, when so few do not. "},{"Title":"I don't intend to go through that hell again!","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" No possible way to be better than the original. No way. Because the original was basically a creative and productive fluke that became a staple suspense classic due to primarily two things Spielberg's amibitious direction and Verna Fields' FLAWLESS editing. (She won that Oscar for a damn good reason.) Jaws was nothing but mistakes, but Verna Fields' editing covered up every single one. It's basically a miracle of film-making, now how can you surpass a miracle? Jaws 2 does one thing EXTREMELY right it spends time analyzing the trauma resulting from shark attacks, or people that have witnessed them. One of my favorite parts of this sequel is when Brody and some men rescue that girl whose boyfriend got eaten the day before. She was cowering under the rim of the boat the entire night, muttering incoherently, and nearly catatonic from primal fear. I didn't think a sequel to Jaws could invoke something so relatable. That right there gets my props.A lot of reviews for this are too mean-spirited. They aren't necessarily wrong, but they just focuse on the superficial negatives. Watch the film, and a real story does emerge. Chief Brody, forever scarred by his aquatic showdown with Bruce, acts somewhat rash and a little obsessive, but can any one of us blame him? Spielberg put this guy through a wet Hell three years prior (see review title).I'll just say some things I enjoyed about it. It's the only sequel that comes closest to reflecting the visual cadence of the original. Contrary to the above, it does have a nice style, and the photography might be the prettiest you get in the entire franchise. Why does a Jaws movie look so pretty? It is directed by a Frenchman, after all. Apparently, Jeannot Szwarc knew Zanuck and Brown by directing episodes of Night Gallery like Spielberg did, too. He pulls off some gorgeous and difficult shots in this film. (Keep an eye on the shark's POV of the waterskier -- it ain't miniature, it's full-scale live.) Surprisingly, the gore is considerably less than the original, which is basically a bloody mess of a film if you think about it. There is some nasty violence in it though the attack on the boyfriend I mentioned before, and the girl that gets swallowed whole near the end.Look, just have fun with the helicopter attack and the manic girl that won't stop screaming at the end. Love the shark the filmmakers nicknamed Scarface and the fact that he can survive an explosion being only inches away from it. But best of all, enjoy Roy Scheider giving his wife's boss some come-uppance with a parking ticket. Jane Eyre this film is not.Ironically, perhaps the best piece of the DVD is the Behind The Scenes Making Of Feature. It is thorough, comprehensive, informative, and engaging as hell. AT LEAST as good as the Jaws Behind The Scenes with Spielberg and Richard Dreyfuss, which was exceptional. These Jaws crews know how to make something out of nothing, that's for sure.Not necessarily essential, but still recommended. "},{"Title":"The mother of all sequals...","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws will always be remembered in history for so many things, but what I've chose to comment here, is about how sequels are now part of the main stream and how they are marketed.  Planet of the Apes, and few other franchises had existed before Jaws, but none have been copied, parodied, or are engraved in the mind of the public as the Jaws franchise.  Jaws was  one of the first film franchises to use a number after the title, along with aggressive add campains.  For years every sequel that has come out uses something from the Jaws book of how to when it comes to sequels.  Down to the taglines Just when you thought it was safe..., See it before...  The (place your number here) dimension in terror,...and the all too famous This time...it's personal..Face it, the Jaws sequels are bad, and yet still can be watched, because they are not as bad as most sequels, yet taught many film makers what NOT to do with a franchise.   "},{"Title":"Sharks don't take things personally, Mr. Brody.","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The sequel with one of the most mocked and spoofed taglines of all time, Jaws 2 naturally is no classic compared to the terrific original. But it's still pretty well done, if slow to get started, and emerges as a pretty good sequel. One does indeed miss Robert Shaw and Richard Dreyfuss quite a bit, but Police Chief Brody's (Roy Scheider) story is compelling in its own right, as his demons threaten to get the better of him. The large assortment of new characters isn't terribly interesting, but Scheider is a treat to watch as he reprises the role of Brody. The shark scenes do prove to be worth waiting for.The story (the movie is scripted by Carl Gottlieb, co-writer of the first film, and Howard Sackler) is easy enough to predict another rogue killer great white stakes a claim in the waters off of Amity Island. Brody suspects the worst early on, but of course nobody will believe him, not the mayor (Murray Hamilton) nor the new bigwig in town, Len Peterson (Joseph Mascolo). Ultimately it's entirely up to Brody to save the day as the shark, terrorizing some and gobbling up others, sets its sights on a gang of teenagers out day sailing.While we wait for the action to really take off, the movie centres around Brody and his futile attempts to warn people of the danger and the toll that it takes on him. One can't help but sympathize with this guy, especially since we know he's right.The shark effects are basically comparable to those in the first film, no better and no worse. Bruce mark 2 never gets around to actually eating very many people, but he does figure in some absolutely priceless moments one involving a ski boat driver, and the other involving a helicopter.Lorraine Gary is appealing as before, once again playing Ellen Brody, and Jeffrey Kramer also returns as Deputy Hendricks. New cast members include lovely Ann Dusenberry, Donna Wilkes (Angel), Gary Springer (Dog Day Afternoon), and actor turned director Keith Gordon (Christine) as some of the kids.Director Jeannot Szwarc (Bug), brought in to replace John Hancock (Let's Scare Jessica to Death), may not be as masterful as Spielberg but he's no slouch either, and he's assisted by such talents as composer John Williams, editor Neil Travis, production designer Joe Alves, and cinematographer Michael Butler.All in all, a good if not great movie with some good action and suspense - not to mention a hell of a conclusion.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Acceptable sequel based on the characters created by  Peter Benchley","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Bone-chilling movie with scary scenes , fine direction and contains similar argument screen-written by Carl Gottlieb to first entry directed by Steven Spielberg. The film is developed in New England in a shore community named Amity where previously the townsfolk were terrorized by a giant shark that attacked to pacific tourists at the local beach. Police chief Brody(Roy Scheider)happily married(Lorraine Gary)tries convince to local authorities( the Mayor again as Murray Hamilton)who reluctant listen him to empty the resort place , but he's dismissed and they think he's nutty. But the large shark attacks and the victims are eaten and making a real carnage and those serving for lunch.Some adolescents (Keith Gordon, Donna Wilkes,Mark Gruner among others) are sailing on their sporting boats, when the giant shark threaten them. Then,the policeman, the deputy (Jeffrey Kramer) determine to track down and kill it. The sheriff Brody is forced to fight for their lives in a mortal confrontation.It's a passable following with a correct creation of tension,thrills,terror and emotions and brief gore.The shark attacks images deliver the exciting united to thrilling score by the master John Williams( though he copies the original prized with an Oscar)who heightens the suspense. It pack luxurious and atmospheric cinematography by Robert Butler .The original picture considered a real classic obtained three Oscars well deserved, this one is quite inferior but results to be professionally directed by Jeannot Swarc. During the pre-production, production designer Joe Alves recommended him for the film-making's position because of the collaborative work they did together on 'Rod Serling's Night Gallery. Followed by other two sequels much worst,they were respectively directed by Joe Alves(Production designer of the original) titled ¨Jaws 3D¨ with Louis Gossett Jr, Dennis Quaid, Bess Armstrong and directed by Joseph Sargent titled ¨Jaws  The revenge¨ with Michael Caine, Lorraine Gary, Lance Guest and Mario Van Pebbles. Rating Average, but indispensable watching for the ¨Jaws¨ series fans , as you will have on the edge of your seat. "}{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water...","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" JAWS is my favourite ever film but so is... JAWS 2 I loved this film it is way way way underrated. four years after the great white shark terrorised the small resort of Amity, unsuspecting vacationers start vanishing in an all too familiar fashion... only one man knows the truth of what really is going on in Amity Island my favourite 4 films are... 1.JAWS 2.BACK TO THE FUTURE 3.THE LOST BOYS 4.JAWS 2I adore the first two JAWS films and i think it was very unnecessary for 3 and the revenge This film starred... Roy Scheider as Chief Martin Brody/Martin Brody Lorraine Gary as Ellen Brody Murray Hamilton as The Mayor/Larry senior "},{"Title":"Not as good as Jaws, but still a damn good film!","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Steven Spielberg's Jaws is a classic piece of cinema. However, this sequel which was released three years later, is a very worthy follow up. It is just as suspenseful a movie, and should be applauded for NOT just copying the first one - I actually find it quite distressing, particularly in the scene where the kindly Marge is rescuing little Sean Brody. Roy Scheider, Lorraine Gary and Murray Hamilton all reprise their original roles will ease, and there is a terrific performance from Ann Dusenberry as Tina Wilcox (how on earth did Ms. Dusenberry NOT become a major star?!). Well worth seeing, but be warned - keep your fingers in your ears whenever Jackie (Donna Wilkes) appears onscreen! "},{"Title":"You will NOT believe a shark can eat a helicopter","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is about as bad as a teen scream can get. A shark that can swim faster than a speed boat to catch water skiers. A shark that can eat a helicopter. Dumb teens who do little more than whine and scream. They took the premise of a mature thriller like Jaws and turned it into a mindless excuse for teens to act cool and then really, REALLY stupid. The latter 3/5 of the movie Roy Scheider is left twiddling his thumbs lost in the ocean just to give time for a bunch of teens who can't act their way out of a paper bag. Then Roy Scheider pops back in at the end for the most implausible way to kill a shark ever put a film that wasn't direct to video--which is what should have happened to this film. One word -- BAD! "},{"Title":"A B-grade follow-up to an American classic","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  'Jaws' was the first summer blockbuster, and so, naturally, it is among the first examples of a great film being followed up with a cynical, B-grade commercial flick intent on exploiting its predecessor's success.The first tip that something is amiss is the absence of director Steven Spielberg. The second item missing-in-action is Richard Dreyfuss as Matt Hooper. Rather than re-casting the character, script-doctor Carl Gottlieb (who also re-wrote Peter Benchley's original screenplay for the first 'Jaws', and appears in that film as Meadows, editor of the Amity newspaper) wrote Hooper out completely, having the character far away and out of radio contact off the coast of Australia on the Aurora, the 'floating asylum' for shark scientists Dreyfuss's Hooper mentions in the first film.One of the most appealing aspects of 'Jaws' is the buddy-relationship between Brody (Roy Scheider) and Hooper, so 'Jaws 2' starts off with a huge disadvantage, even for B-grade schlock. Fortunately, the script does not employ a replacement for Quint, the mad shark hunter who meets his end in the original, but there is some attempt to enlarge the character of Deputy Hendricks (Jeff Kramer) as a sort of surrogate for Hooper. But in 'Jaws 2' Brody is pretty much a man alone, and you can't help but feel a little sorry for Roy Scheider, who, unlike Oscar winner Richard Dreyfuss, has been mostly confined to roles in B-movies like this one and supporting roles in independent films since the gargantuan success of 'Jaws'. He's a great actor and a good sport in 'Jaws 2', playing Brody with as much conviction as anyone could muster for such a silly story. The premise, of course, is utterly ludicrous, though it might have been easier for an audience to swallow back in the late 70's, when 'Shark Week' on the Discovery Channel had yet to temper the broad public ignorance about the habits and lives of Great White Sharks. The film implies that, somehow, the killing of the shark in the original has inspired a much bigger, even more crafty cousin to wreak havoc off the shores of Amity Island. So if suspension of disbelief is important to you at all, leave this one on the shelf.Even if we accept that, for some possibly metaphysical reason (demonic possession of a killer fish?), a shark might eat people out of revenge (the much more laughable 'Jaws The Revenge' invites us to believe that Great White Sharks have a specific grudge not against Amity but against the Brody family), it's difficult to buy even for a second that the islanders keep ignoring the obvious, explaining away incontrovertible evidence of the shark's presence as 'boating accidents.' Only Brody can see what's happening, but everyone tells him he's being paranoid. Haven't these people learned their lesson?Perhaps to make the townspeople a little less apparently moronic, Mayor Larry Vaughan (Murray Hamilton) is more of an ally to Brody than the antagonist of the first film. In to play the heavy is excellent B-grade character actor Joseph Mascolo, best-known as longtime villain Stefano DiMera on TV soap opera 'Days of Our Lives.' Mascolo plays Len Peterson, a greedy real estate developer who has the hots for Brody's wife Ellen (Lorraine Gary). Unfortunately, Peterson doesn't have a weird, vaguely European accent like Stefano, but he manages nevertheless to overrule the Mayor and get Brody fired so he can keep the beaches open and enable the shark to munch on helpless, hysterical teenagers. Consequently, the movie becomes a vehicle for various B-movie death scenes and gross-outs here comes a water-skiier--oh no! there's the dorsal fin! duh-nuh-duh-nuh-duh-nuh-CHOMP! Bye-bye! Look! The boy fell off the boat into the water! Time for an eat-attack!! OH-NOOOO! Can a shark eat a helicopter? Apparently so--look out, Coast Guard man!! It's like Friday the 13th on the water, with teenagers getting systematically consumed by the E-vil shark, which seems perpetually hungry for its preferred diet of hot, horny young-'uns.Brody's kids--seventeen year-old Mike and middle-schooler Sean--are the vehicle for serving up the high school smorgasbord, and there are some minor romantic entanglements for Mike, who goes against his Dad's orders and takes his sailboat out so he can impress the new girl in town (Sally Field look-alike Donna Wilkes). But that all devolves pretty quickly once Big Whitey starts in on the feeding frenzy, and ends up coming across as a pretty obvious exploitation device.Fortunately for the stupid kids (didn't they hear the music?), ex-Chief Brody--despite his fear of water and his total cluelessness about boats--hijacks the police launch and heads out to save his sons' asses, along with the rest of the teen-moron patrol, who have all managed to capsize or destroy their catamarans and man-o-wars and are gradually drifting out to sea, with Whitey trolling behind, picking off the seemingly endless supply of idiots who keep falling off the wrecks of their boats and into the water.Twenty-five years later, this one is actually good for a laugh, but it was a major bummer during its initial release because the first film was so widely acclaimed. Thanks to the likes of 'Jaws 2', we're now conditioned to the crappy, exploitative nature of most sequels, and, of course, action and horror movies in general have been mostly lame over the past ten years, so the curve on which a film like 'Jaws 2' should be judged has dropped considerably. It's a shame to see a great actor like Roy Scheider stuck in such an unintentionally funny piece of junk, but hey--I'm sure he was well-paid, so feel free to ridicule without guilt.  "},{"Title":"Out Of The Water... AGAIN!!!","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the monumental success of JAWS, Universal Studios felt compelled to turn it into a series. For a second time through, while nowhere near as inventive as the original, it's still a worthy movie. The story After swimmers turn up missing, Police Chief Brody (Roy Scheider) suspects that another great white has staked a claim off Amity Island. Unfortunately, he meets resistance from the obstinate town council. At the same time, Brody's sons choose to go sailing with friends. Know what happens? Do I really need to spell it out? Yep, the shark starts hunting them down. And the film ends with another thrilling finale between Brody and the shark. From this point forward, the other sequels get worse, so be warned!!! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but still pretty damn good.","Date":"27 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While it's definitely not as good as the first film, which had a better story and a bit better flow to it, I think Jaws 2 really does stand out as a well-done sequel. They kept the same style of suspense from the first film and honestly I think at times it's more suspenseful. The way the score accompanies the scenes even though I know what happens from watching this many times, I still find myself at the edge of my site many times throughout. The cast does a great job, in my opinion. Roy Scheider really steals the show for me and he definitely portrays a more evolved version of Brody. He really does a great job of showing what kind of effect the events of the first film had on his mind and the film does have some good moments that delve into his psyche. There are moments where, even though I know another shark is out there, I can still see the others' point of view when they think he's just lost it, and he does clearly seem to be losing it at points. It really is a shame that the rest of the sequels got as bad as they did. Although I always feel the fourth film kind of repaired some of the damage that Jaws 3D did, and it did have some strong moments (I thought killing off one of the brothers was brave until I remembered it was about some stupid shark revenge thing, and I still really like that moment that the other brother has with his daughter and how it parallels a similar scene from the first film between Brody and his youngest) it still wasn't that good.Jaws 2 is definitely the best of the sequels but, for me, it's more than that. I think it was well done and well executed. Did it have its problems? sure. I feel they could have done a better job with some of the side characters, namely the city council. It was very clear they were just there to disagree with Brody. And the climax, while pretty good, isn't as memorable as the first film. But overall I think it's a fantastic film and I almost always watch it if it pops up on TV. "},{"Title":"The story about the same...","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 is the sequel of Jaws and in this movie we have about the same story, a gigantic white shark terrorizing the waters of Amity and police chief Brody has to protect the citizens of this community.I liked this movie but not as much as the first one. Willingly or not we have to compare the first movie with this sequel. I believe that this sequel was not the best sequel for such a great first movie. Although in this movie we have many great interpretations such as Roy Scheider's who played as police chief Martin Brody and Lorraine Gary who played as Ellen Brody.Finally I have to say that if you have watched the first movie then this movie it will let you down because as all of us you will wait for something as good movie as the first one, but it won't. "},{"Title":"Slight above-average sequel, not too bad.","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In Jaws' first sequel, Roy Scheider returns as Police Chief Martin Brody. This time, four years after the events of the original Jaws, the town of Amity suddenly experiences series of boating accidents and disappearances and Brody discovers that a second Great White Shark is the culprit, making the waters deadly dangerous again.Like the first movie, the special effects were great, especially the execution of the shark. Again, you see scenes of people being dragged beneath the waters after the shark's huge fin creepily rises out of the ocean. John Williams' haunting music theme is brilliantly heard once again and director Jeannot Szwarc did a find job, making the movie which I think didn't surpass its prequel still exciting and fresh with a pretty intriguing plot.While a entertaining movie, I didn't like the plot-line where Brody's concerns of a second shark are ignored by the townsfolk and the town's local government officials. It makes Brody lose credibility and the town people's IQ drop several points. And, Brody is almost a supporting character as much of the action and scream scenes involved Brody's son Mike and his group of teenage friends - making this film more like a teenage horror/slasher flick.Again, it's a sequel not surpassing the original movie, but still worthy for a fright night.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Decent Follow-Up To A Classic!","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2, the second installment in the Jaws franchise, is not a bad movie which everyone is claiming to be. It's just not a classic film like Steven Spielberg's Jaws was. This film is more in the reign of a B-type horror film that is entertaining and very thrilling to watch. Each scene involving the great white shark was very intense and kept me hanging on tight. I was sort of disappointed about the lack of suspense, but then again we already saw the shark in the first movie so there is no point in adding any more suspense.Jeannot Szwarzac's film takes place four years after the events of the original movie. Business is starting to increase after the deadly events, but after some unexplained disappearances and a chomped-up killer whale washes ashore, Chief Brody begins to suspect another shark may be nearby much to everyone's dismay and disbelieving attitudes.The acting is really not that bad. Sure the teenagers really did nothing memorable, but they weren't awful and you might have pitied them by the end of the movie. Roy Scheider who returns here is really good and he adds character to this movie. Murray Hamilton returns as the mayor and does a good job.Overall, Jaws 2 is not a classic by any means, but it still is a good film. Granted, this isn't the beloved character study that Spielberg made, but instead this is a decent slasher flick that does not do anymore than thrill. It's the perfect B-movie. I'm glad we get to see more of the shark here and despite some technical flaws, the shark still works in good way. I also liked the return of John Williams's theme because maybe that's why I felt so intense while watching this. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"The legend continues...","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Three year later in 1978 the legend of Jaws continues in this sequel, although, not as good as the original is still has it good points. The sequel focuses on Martin Brody's children &#x96; as we see in the first one Mike Brody likes to go out on his little boat, but in this one he goes sailing with a few of his friends, and before he knows it the shark is after them, and the dramatic score kicks in.One of my biggest criticisms of this film is that there is no resolute ending, they just seem to appear stranded on some desolate island, but who cares at least the shark is dead.Another thing what grinded my gears about this film is Donna Wilkes who stars Jackie Peters &#x96; watch this video before continuing and you'll get the picture &#x96; http//www.youtube.com/watch?v=s_MMTqI6Yxo Now that you have watched that I think you'll understand. Yes, I understand completely they could potentially get annihilated by some shark, but that scream is just hideous and it nearly made me turn the film off.Overall, as a sequel to Jaws the film does seem to have a relatively stable plot. 5/10. "}{"Title":"Unsurprisingly lacking but has glimmers of goodness","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Jaws 2' is an unsatisfying sequel to a masterpiece, no surprises there. I mean how can you follow up a film like 'Jaws' without engaging in silliness? I'm not surprised in the least that Universal wanted to cash in on the popularity of 'Jaws' with a sequel. It's a hard act to follow. As far as unnecessary sequels go though 'Jaws 2' has some charm and is competently made with thrills that pack some punch to them. It's problem though deals with it's total lack of interesting characters besides Roy Scheider's reprisal as Brody.'Jaws' was a great film because of it's characters and how we cared for them. The dialogue, chemistry, and the acting between Shaw, Scheider, and Dreyfus elevated that picture. The fact is the rubber shark in 'Jaws 2' actually looks better in a lot of ways than the shark in the first one. I know a great deal of people credit Spielberg for saving the shark for the last act of the film but I think what adds to that is that the characters are stranded where they cannot get help and are at their most dangerous moment. 'Jaws 2' has that moment too. The Brody boys and their friends are trapped in the middle of the ocean with a shark circling in on them, it is a frightening scenario. What it is missing though is well developed and acted characters. Scheider isn't trapped on the water here and so we have to fear for these under developed characters. I didn't. A great deal of them play like something from a bad 'Friday the 13th' rip off. While horrible things happen to them we just aren't as pulled in to care for their survival. It's a miserable combination of bad dialogue and acting. The scenario is pretty frightening and I think had Spielberg been in the director's chair with a polished script it would have been quite memorable. The film just feels so anti-climatic in comparison to 'Jaws' and it no doubt has to do with the characters because the film tries newer and bigger things to do with its shark.Scheider makes this film work on a certain level. One of the high points of the film is that he is the only character who has changed from his experiences from the first film. Scheider doesn't play Brody in the same way, he's bolder and far more paranoid. I really like seeing this aspect of the character and the performance. Of course we know a great white is terrorizing Amity again but I like the fact that Scheider's Brody compounds the fears to new manic levels where we can see why Amity residents might think this guy is a little unhinged. I think this aspect of the character certainly should have been explored more. It would have added more psychological thrills to the story and it would really give Scheider a stronger role to explore. I would have loved to have seen them explore Hooper in this way as well. Universal should have tried much harder to get Dreyfus back. Besides Scheider everyone else's' character is a carbon copy of their role in one. The fact that Mayor Vaughn got elected to a second term is pretty astounding and of course his first response is boating accidents. Brody's wife Ellen is a bore and expanding her character didn't help the film at all. We'll be seeing more of her later on in the series...All in all 'Jaws 2' is a flawed film but it has some merit to it. I think it has merit and with a more competent director and script it could have been a truly great sequel. I think the film will definitely appeal to fans of Scheider's Brody because it does explore this great character a little more. "},{"Title":"Rubbery sequel but still entertaining","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" An even larger Great White shark terrorises the Amity island community, this time threatening a group of teenage sailors who drift aimlessly after a collision, menaced from below by the fire-scarred white death. Roy Scheider returns to familiar territory, but this time without the benefit of the A-list co-stars that accompanied him on the last adventure; while there's plenty of familiar faces in the wings, it's surprising there weren't more name actors, considering the success of the predecessor. But then Jaws 2 isn't a storyboard masterpiece, more a collage of attacks loosely woven into a beach party theme.Memorable for its water-skier scene, much of the production crew reunited for this effort, but the characterisations lack the depth of the original. Future soap-star Mascolo and Hamilton (reprising his role) are virtually interchangeable in their varying shades of obstinacy, while former studio stable-hands Collin Wilcox and Barry Coe are sorely wasted in frivolous bit parts. Gary Springer is perhaps one of the few younger actors who manages to make an impression, the rest look and act like virtual amateurs.As for the title star, technological advancements apparently took a hiatus in the three year interval following the original, the mechanical shark's rubber mouth bending vertically as it takes aim at a limp morsel dangling over the edge of a sailboat.Plenty of tension and just enough petrol in the tank to last the distance, if it wasn't for the inevitable comparisons with its older sister, Jaws 2 could almost be a good movie in its own right. All in all, it's moody, suspenseful and professionally detailed with the finesse that one would expect from a big-budget Hollywood movie. Better than the average sequel. "},{"Title":"Jaws That Cut Both Ways","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's fitting that Jaws 2 is a sequel, a second film, because it is totally a double-edged sword, equally comprised of positive and negative elements. Of course it's but a fraction of Spielberg's classic, and yet it's about as good as, maybe even a little better than could be expected, with some great scenes that are just about on par with the original, and some authentic scares. It has Roy Scheider returning with an effectively brooding performance as Police Chief Martin Brody, who must confront another Great White terrorizing the waters of Amity Island. And yet again, after all they've been through before, the Mayor just doesn't buy Brody's claims. But what's interesting about the story this time is how Brody deals with the shellshock of his experiences from the first film, how it pains him to have to go through the same thing as before, how overprotective he's become with his kids, who are older and more desirous of their freedom.I like that the plot varies from the original rather than following all the same structural footsteps. It does open with some unassuming swimmers turning into a scrumptious meal for the unseen shark just as the first film did, but director Jeannot Szwarc puts an interesting twist on it by setting this entire sequence under water. We hear nothing but music score, we are immersed in the muted blue-green environment of the predator. However, I comment on the diverging story less because it's a particularly strong point for the movie itself and more because the movie can essentially be considered the first slasher sequel, basically taking a successful initial horror plot and making the source of the horror not so much a mysterious force but a slasher killer, so to speak, so amidst the pendulum of set-ups for teenager-killing, at least we have a character strand that grows from what the first movie subjected its surviving characters to.Made in 1978, hot off the blockbusting coat tails of Jaws, Close Encounters of the Third Kind and Star Wars, spectacle-minded producers and audiences alike seem to have begun to forget that the most effective suspense came from what wasn't always being shown and what wasn't entirely understood, and that the imagination is able to conceive far worse than the objectification of a simple mechanical monster. Nevertheless, Szwarc centralizes the dismay by intercutting between the teenagers, Chief Brody, and the government's endeavors to save them, generating enough tension to keep us stimulated. So as a slasher sequel, it's not half bad.However, the aggravating and constantly screaming teenage characters don't make for very sympathetic victims. I'm resisting the temptation to compare them to the characters in the first movie, which wasn't just a horror movie but had a whole other level of male-bonding between these three unlikely partners who form a kind of diffident brotherhood on their mission. Jaws 2, as a stand-alone film, is not about making us fear for the victims but anticipating the now-traditional slasher-movie spectacle of screaming kids, flailing bodies and blood in the water. Even explosions and electrocutions. It's just not as disappointing because the scenes are so well-constructed as action set-pieces.By the same token, John Williams' pulsing theme music does return intact as a surviving main character from the first film. Here, Williams is broader in his leading tones of approaching terror, he makes more use of an orchestra, using longer single notes and tones for effect as well as the astoundingly famous alternating pattern of two notes. I don't like the sequel's score better than the predecessor's score, but I like how it's built upon, just as other enduring central characters have been.Coming full circle to the double-edged sword notion---and that is not a term I often use, by the way---Jaws 2 is inevitably going to be seen as an average movie because of the reflexive comparison to Spielberg's film. But let's look at Jaws 3-D and Jaws The Revenge, two of the most deplorably stupid, utterly boring and shamelessly campy cash-ins one could ever stumble upon, two films that are only accessible in the mainstream because of their unfortunate affiliation with one of the most successful movies in American cinema history. Now look at Jaws 2, which by comparison is a vastly superior, very skillful and thoughtfully continuous shark attack film. It is the go-between flanked by the milestone which inspired it and the disasters which it inspired. Once again I can't get out of this hole with the double-edged sword thing. I suppose the verdict is that it's the best one can practically expect from a sequel to a turning-point film by a different director. "},{"Title":"Worthy sequel that focuses more on the shark and the human's lives after the attack.","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This time the big shark we all love gets to be the star of the movie. Unlike the original, this one focuses more on the shark and gets toned down in the suspense, thrills, and fear generated by the animal.But I'm not saying that it's not a worthy sequel. In fact, it's a very well done Horror movie but it lacks the winning formula of the original.The atmosphere is still present and the fear for the water raises anytime someone gets into it.To be honest, I think the movie feels more of a slasher movie rather than a solid, tense Horror movie.The plot gets more interesting this time. I really enjoyed the way the characters try to get over the situations from the original. That means there's an intention to connect the events of the original with the sequel in a manner that the shark isn't the only element to notice. But also the human lead characters and their life after the attacks.Give it a try. A worthy sequel. "},{"Title":"Could have done a bit better, but not bad.","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It has quite a boring kind of starting. But the climax scenes rock. Obviously it is better than JAWS 3 & JAWS THE REVENGE(no surprises there). I remember when I watched the movie at the theater I was 11(four years after JAWS). The movie is almost as political based as JAWS but it didn't have the magic. I think the writers' idea of keeping the shark's face burnt almost throughout the movie was quite bad. It would have been beautiful if the shark would have it's own face instead of a burnt out one. But certain parts of the movie i liked very much- 1.The Chief's fight against the town authorities. 2.The destruction of the shark. 3.The time when the Chief shot st the bluefish with great urgency. 4.Mike Brody 5.All the friends of Mike. In fact like the original movie it's a both theater & family entertaining movie. A last word A marine biologist like Hooper said that Sharks doesn't take things personally, Mr.Brody. & another thingthe movie could retain the JAWS magic if there could be a presence of Hooper. "},{"Title":"I don't intend to go through that hell again!","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" No possible way to be better than the original. No way. Because the original was basically a creative and productive fluke that became a staple suspense classic due to primarily two things Spielberg's amibitious direction and Verna Fields' FLAWLESS editing. (She won that Oscar for a damn good reason.) Jaws was nothing but mistakes, but Verna Fields' editing covered up every single one. It's basically a miracle of film-making, now how can you surpass a miracle? Jaws 2 does one thing EXTREMELY right it spends time analyzing the trauma resulting from shark attacks, or people that have witnessed them. One of my favorite parts of this sequel is when Brody and some men rescue that girl whose boyfriend got eaten the day before. She was cowering under the rim of the boat the entire night, muttering incoherently, and nearly catatonic from primal fear. I didn't think a sequel to Jaws could invoke something so relatable. That right there gets my props. The Editorial Review for this is too mean-spirited. It ain't necessarily wrong, but it just focuses on the superficial negatives. Watch the film, and a real story does emerge. Chief Brody, forever scarred by his aquatic showdown with Bruce, acts somewhat rash and a little obsessive, but can any one of us blame him? Spielberg put this guy through a wet Hell three years prior (see review title). I'll just say some things I enjoyed about it. It's the only sequel that comes closest to reflecting the visual cadence of the original. Contrary to the above, it does have a nice style, and the photography might be the prettiest you get in the entire franchise. Why does a Jaws movie look so pretty? It is directed by a Frenchman, after all. Apparently, Jeannot Szwarc knew Zanuck and Brown by directing episodes of Night Gallery like Spielberg did, too. He pulls off some gorgeous and difficult shots in this film. (Keep an eye on the shark's POV of the waterskier -- it ain't miniature, it's full-scale live.) Surprisingly, the gore is considerably less than the original, which is basically a bloody mess of a film if you think about it. There is some nasty violence in it though the attack on the boyfriend I mentioned before, and the girl that gets swallowed whole near the end. Look, just have fun with the helicopter attack and the manic girl that won't stop screaming at the end. Love the shark the filmmakers nicknamed Scarface and the fact that he can survive an explosion being only inches away from it. But best of all, enjoy Roy Scheider giving his wife's boss some come-uppance with a parking ticket. Jane Eyre this film is not. Overall, check this out, it's not a waste at all. I watched this with my sister, a marine biologist, which is a novel way to view something like this. She can attest to some facts about the beached killer whale, but great whites just don't get as big as Shamu. It's fun to imagine if they did. Ironically, perhaps the best piece of the DVD is the Behind The Scenes Making Of Feature. It is thorough, comprehensive, informative, and engaging as hell. AT LEAST as good as the Jaws Behind The Scenes with Spielberg and Richard Dreyfuss, which was exceptional. These Jaws crews know how to make something out of nothing, that's for sure. Not necessarily essential, but still recommended. "},{"Title":"A famous and memorable sequel, occasionally weak but good enough","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" At the request of the fans, Oscar nominated producers David Brown and Dick Zanuck embarked on the task of a sequel to the greatest monster movie of all time. back then, sequels were not status quo in Hollywood, so if you are among the few people who has only recently viewed Jaws and loved it, do not be so hesitant to dismiss Jaws 2 as a pure gimmick. It doesn't quite feel like Jaws, but it looks virtually identical; same cast (mostly), same place, and few other new ideas from director Jennot Szwarc. The only thing missing is a sense of tension equivalent to that which Spielberg broughtSet four years later on Amity Island, Chief Brody (no longer water phobic) continues to live in peace with his family. Ellen works fund raisers, Michael is into sailing with his buddies, and little Shawn still likes to tag along when he can. But calm will not last long. One day, the reported disappearance of a pair of divers, a boat strange boat accident, and later a half eaten whale carcass leads Brody to believe that another shark has come to feed in the Amity waters. Can he convince the town that he is right?The biggest problem with Jaws 2, is one that everybody has noted on. Director Szwarc has such a low opinion of himself that he clearly doubted that he could match the suspense that Spielberg created by hiding his leviathan from the camera. As a result, the twenty-six foot fish is shown a little too much, and sometimes in clumsy ways which hint that the creature is more rubber than flesh. That said, the first shark wasn't terribly realistic or scientifically accurate either. The mechanics are sometimes unpredictable that it often becomes a matter of luck.Both films were not only intended for a mature audience, but for kids as well. Jaws 2 successfully lightens up on the blood a bit. (most sequels including Halloween 2 increase this). I first saw this as a kid. In some ways I preferred this over Jaws because it was fun scary rather than scary scary. It has some memorably suspenseful moments, but it is nowhere near as brilliant as Spielberg's timeless film.Whether it honours or dishonours Jaws will be up to you to decide, but I find it a sufficient sequel. "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to assume that every sequel to Jaws was awful...","Date":"18 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If we can agree up front that making a sequel to a film as flawless and powerful as Jaws is a definite, if inevitable, mistake, the rest of this write-up will be a lot easier to swallow. Unquestionably it's probably safe to have low expectations for a film that, by all accounts, even the participants weren't interested in making. But, when we shrug aside the knowledge that this film is wholly unnecessary, Jaws 2 is actually a pretty damn enjoyable movie that certainly doesn't match the original (an impossibility, this), but adds to the story in a way that respectfully honors the spirit of the original. While the two cruddy chapters that follow this one are bottom-feeding tripe, no one involved with Jaws 2 has anything to be ashamed of.In fact, there are moments of intensity here that would nearly match what we saw in the classic original, if we hadn't already seen them in the classic original. The film-makers were savvy enough to utilize the same elements that crafted such sublime suspense the first time, and the sprawling ocean is once again used like a supplemental character. Once we establish that we have another shark on our hands, every panning shot of the murky depths or deceptively calm ocean surface generates genuine tension, and unlike the other films in this franchise, which relied more on close-ups of their clunky monsters than sustained build-up, the straight visual presence of the shark here is saved for moments of true impact, which the film has plenty of.If Roy Schieder wasn't too excited about revisiting Amity Island, you'd certainly never know it from his excellent performance, which is every bit as good as it was the first time out. The quaint island setting, now thriving once again and trying to put its terrible past to rest, is just as well-realized as we remember. And the returning presence of nearly the entire supporting ensemble certainly adds immeasurably. Even the young cast of newcomers deliver strong performances, and nearly everything about the film seems to indicate that just because the film-makers knew they couldn't outdo the original, it wasn't going to be because they didn't try.Scheider's trailer line I know what a shark looks like because I've seen one up close... and you better do something about this shark because I don't intend to go through that hell again supplements a plausible and rational follow-up to the events in the original film, and while he is clearly the protagonist once again, the film is smart enough to note that Chief Brody was never a hero in the first film, just a small town lawman thrown into supernatural and horrifying circumstance. It would have been far too easy, and typical, for Jaws 2 to up the action to compensate for its lack of originality, and while the second half certainly loads up on the shark attacks, we are spared the unrealistic idea of Chief Brody charging into the sea to save his town from terror once again. No, like any normal person who once stared into the black eyes a murderous great white, Brody wants nothing to do with this returning menace, and Schieder's nuanced performance never allows even his bravest deeds to overshadow the fear bubbling inside Brody's stomach.When he finally does step into action, it isn't because he's keen on facing down the beast that continues to haunt his sleepy little township, it's because his two sons (who have aged abnormally quickly in three years, but no matter) are trapped within the tour de force that is the film's second half. After a firmly suspenseful and understated build-up, the frenzied pace of the lengthy climax is a welcome shift, packing as many bits of shark mayhem into 40 minutes as possible. While many will shirk at the idea of our perhaps unreasonably intelligent shark pulling a helicopter down into the sea, even moments like these are handled with utmost care, and they are certainly not as silly as they would have come across in lesser hands.Again, only the familiarity of the carnage dilutes its impact, and seeing Eddie dragged in dreadful fashion across the surface while his girlfriend looks on in helpless horror, we still get the same charge of squeamish delight drawn forward by the ground-breaking effects of the original. By making teenagers the central items on the shark's menu this time out, it's obvious the film has demographics in mind, but Jaws 2 is far too slickly made, well-paced, and splendidly-plotted to be a mere slasher film at sea. As the dwindling survivors drift aimlessly on their decimated water-crafts, their myriad expressions of despair and fright are realistic and relatable, because as we saw with the disparate, quibbling personalities of Quint, Hooper, and Brody in the first film, fear does different things to different people.Perhaps that's the key here. The original Jaws wasn't really about a shark, it was about human beings facing terror beyond imagination. Jaws 2 keeps this point in mind, and while the titular teeth are certainly factored in more prominently this time out, the themes of the original are well-upheld.So, they couldn't top the original. But, in terms of continuing on after an impossible act to follow, this sequel succeeds more admirably than perhaps any other film in its predicament. The very fact that it's not insulting to its audience is a triumph in itself, and considering the abysmal franchise that followed it, Jaws 2 is almost genius in comparison.Give this one another look, and a fair chance, and you'll be pleasantly surprised at what you discover. "},{"Title":"A good film , extremely under rated.","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I could Jaws as being one of my favourite movies. Its character and script are of the highest quality. Watching Jaws 2 is interesting. Althuogh I don't think Jaws 2 is quite as exciting I do think that it is a exceptionally good film and if it wasn't a sequel would be much more highly rated.The story is similar in certain ways to the first whilst just being different enough to the first to make it interesting. It is much more a like a slasher film with the shark (even giving the shark a deformity). Even having the teenagers as victims. I think the acting is generally good Roy Scbieder is particularly good as a policeman at on the edge. The rest of the cast hold up well and I rarely found the teens in the film annoying.Jeannot Szwarc does a good job, keeping the style of the film similar to the first film. The cinematography is of a very high standard and editing again works very well. John Williams reworking of the original theme works extremely well coming in at just the right moments. The only slightly silly part is the helicopter but even then I think it is forgivable and done well.Jaws 2 in my mind a extremely good film. It does pretty much everything right and has been treated rather badly by people on this site. "},{"Title":"What a spectacular sequel to the original classic chiller, Jaws!","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Roy Schieder reprises his role as Chief of Police, Martin Brody. It has been 4 years ever since the first great white shark infiltrated Amityville's waters. Now, just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water, the terror continues! As new vacationers that have moved into Amity Island begin disappearing in an all-two familiar fashion. Only one man knows the truth. A second great white has got its hands of Chief Brody's sons, Sean and Michael, and their friends. With no way to get lifted out by helicopter or swim back to shore with their sailboats being brought down by the shark, Brody must now go after this great white on his own and ensure the rescue of every single kid who's left abandoned into the open ocean holding pen of the shark. Jaws waits...8/10 "}{"Title":"A good sequel lacking many qualities of the first","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first JAWS was a well done masterpiece. That is obvious. However, where JAWS is at its strongest, JAWS 2 lacks greatly. Sure, it's a good sequel, but it lacks so many qualities from the first. Let me list just a few1. A bad supporting cast. Richard Dreyfuss and Robert Shaw made JAWS riveting and funny. This movie has a lame supporting cast. Murray Hamilton looks pretty much evil and Lorraine Gary is OK. Everyone else are nobodies. 2. Not a lot of strong characters, so they have to make up for it with far too many characters 3. They took the direction from Jeannot Szwarc, who also did SUPERGIRL (not exactly a classic) and that was pretty much it. So the directing is not exactly top-notch. 4. Not enough suspenseful moments to be up there with JAWS. Sure, there are a couple of moments in this movie where I was on the edge of my seat, but it wasn't enoughThere are good qualities about this movie. Roy Scheider is excellent as the paranoid Brody, who is the only person that thinks there is a shark. John William's score is terrific and is better than the first. The story isn't too bad either. For people who haven't watched JAWS will probably find a dislike to this movie. For people who have watched JAWS or are die-hard fans, it's definitely worth a look.Overall 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A sequel that thankfully doesn't bite!","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Directing a sequel to a really good (read perfect) film is more often than not considered suicide in the annals of the entertainment industry, not only are the chances extremely thin as to almost be non existent that the film will top or at least stand side by side it's original, but the chances are very good that the sequel will be a recipe for disaster, mainly because the sheer motif behind sequels to really good, successful films is studio greed over a quality film & hacks looking for a pay check & a two picture deal contract whom agree to work cheaper that are hired to helm the project instead of the original creators, who usually want more money to return. Such however is not the case with JAWS 2, which despite not being as good as it's predecessor winds up being pretty darn entertaining & provides a relentless thrill ride for fans of the original movie.The film displays some beautiful underwater photography & best of all there is plenty of shark action on hand here. JAWS 2 even has many edge of you're seat suspenseful moments, that should give even the most seasoned of horror fans a jolt, especially in the water ski-ing chase scene. In fact, many moments in JAWS 2 actually in some way or the other, tend to rival many of the original films terrifying shark attack set pieces. I also like how the sequel focuses a little more on the Chief Brody character. Returning actor ROY SCHIEDER actually manages to put in an even better performance here, with an emphasis on his character being more edgy & paranoid when he finds that the bodies that been turning up on the shores of Amity, might indeed be the result of a shark attack, while the entire township led by Mayor Vaughn thinks he might be going off his rocker & imagining it all, which admittedly would have made for an interesting plot, but of course we can't go in that direction now can we? that there is no shark & that Brody is imagining it all, that would kill of the chances for any further sequels now wouldn't it? Director JEANNOT SCZWARC (Replacing John Hancock, who was fired over clashes with the studio) tends to reveal the beast much more on camera here than what we seen in the original, not surprising really since this shark tends to work, where the older one used for the Spielberg original, kept shutting down. While many fans may disagree with this approach, I feel that showing the shark a lot more worked in this films favour, since JAWS 2 is able to deliver a series of tense moments, especially during it's attack of the water ski-iers boat, the scenes where the kids are stranded & in a real memorable moment when it attacks a helicopter pilot sent to rescue the kids. The acting for the most part is pretty good & the films final act basically reverses how the original worked, in that film, the shark was the hunted, here it's the humans that are the hunted, which provides for plenty of tight knit suspense sequences. In this case, JAWS 2 takes an almost slasher film like approach to the material, upping the body count & adding a bit more gore than its predecessor & the film manages to stay on course throughout (although it would no doubt have been even tighter if they had did a little more cutting to shorten the film too lengthy running time).On the downside I will agree with many that a sequel to JAWS was not needed, still as a film critic I tend to be open minded than most film goers when it comes to sequels being announced to films that didn't need them to begin with. However as much & all as I enjoyed JAWS 2, I was still left thinking to myself by the time the film was over & this is a definite sore point on the sequels story Just what are the chances that yet another monstrous great white shark would find it's way to the same small town of Amityville long island & even more so what are the chances of it too being a rogue shark? LORRAINE GRAY returns, but was really not needed since the scenes with her in them are mere filler & the teen characters who wind up fighting for their lives against the monstrous beast at the climax, are so thinly developed & completely uninteresting they could have been played by cardboard cut outs & one wouldn't know the difference, which waters down any emotional attachment the viewer might have had to these characters & the fates that befall them, not to mention the fact that there is far to many teen characters. One of the girls named Tina who is crowned Miss Amity & whom is featured quiet extensively in the early half of the film looks to be set up as the heroine simply because she finds the dead whale on the beach & witnesses first hand the killings of the two women on the boat, only for her to be dropped oddly about midway. The film just doesn't have the same emotional involvement with the characters or interesting fleshed out lead characters like Matt Hooper or Quint in the first film. The script clearly needed a much tighter, stronger hold on the teen characters & the climax that brings them & Brody together also could have used a good polishing before being put in front of the camera. The script is just too loose in some areas. Many of the crew members return here from the original, JOHN WILLIAMS yet again dominates with a fantastic score, while JOE ALVES serves as a production designer & associate producer & second unit director here, in fact he would later go onto direct the next sequel JAWS 3 ***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Without Spielberg and certain members of the original cast, this sequel to the seventies smash was never going to come close to being as good as its daddy. It has its moments though, with a good amount of scares, humour and fair performances.Jaws 2 takes place in the same resort town Amity a few years after the original, with Sheriff Brody trying to lead a safe, peaceful life with his family. However, a few recent deaths cause suspicion in his mind, and he finds the half-devoured corpse of a killer-whale he believes another Great White is attacking in the area. Naturally no-one believes him, thinking he has grown paranoid over past incidents. The money grabbing mayor is trying to make the town popular again and will not listen. A sailing event is taking place soon, and although Brody warns his kids to stay out of the water, they disobey him and go with their friends in various tiny boats an catamarans. Brody is fired for scaring tourists, and he goes looking for his kids. Meanwhile the shark attacks the many boats, killing some, and soon each person is struggling for their life on pieces of driftwood.Jaws 2 is a film which takes a deeper look at Brody's family life, as well as the Mayor's, dealing with similar issues to the first. However, the action and death count is increased, but unlike most sequels this does not cause it to suffer. There is a good amount of tension created, and we never know whose boat is going to be attacked next. Once the sizes of the boats and shark are compared, we know the kids have little hope. The mix of kids is good, with certain characters giving funny moments. Mostly the performances are good, particularly from Scheider, while most of the annoying characters are happily eaten. Memorable moments include the finale, the water-skier scene, and of course the helicopter scene. Much better than the next two, though remember I have a habit of marking high.7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Spectacular reinterpretation of the first one, with more action and less horror","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" First, sorry for my English 'cause I'm Spaniard. Jaws 2 is a movie that always arouses different feelings. In one hand, it's a good (watchable) sequel with more action and less tension (because we already know what will happen due to the first movie) with good-designed characters (more credible than Hollywood's new hits) and well-showed Amity Island's life. In the other hand, and source of the bad reviews, is that Jaws 2 is basically a reinterpretation of Jaws, the first one (with the same virtues, with the same fails, but the same), the main characters are the same, the context... Nothing has changed, nothing new is contributed... is to tell the same story, few years later. J2's got the same fails and virtues of a 2nd part too more characters (adopting the model of teen's horror movie). But, if the first one was good, this one can't be bad. I think that in a franchise like this is impossible to contribute new things (Jaws 3-D could have done it with a story in a new context Sea World building, but it didn't well) so, the only reason to make a sequel was to amass a succulent box office and go on entertaining the audience. Furthermore, the Jaws franchise became the most reliable series to be a blockbuster, because other imitations (plagiarisms) were failures. Jaws 2 did well on the Box-Office #1 in the opening week. Worldwide gross $209,000,000 (one of the ten most successful movies of the 70's decade). It shows that the audience went on trusting in Jaws. So, Jaws 2 is also the only sequel that the most of people like, and the only one that did well on the Box-Office. I think if the Critics crushed it it's because it's like the first one, but the first one had got a surprise. Jaws 2 is a good movie, a very good sequel, but is also the loser when it's compared to the Jaws, because it was a Milestone, the birth of a new kind of cinema that moves the masses to the theaters and influenced the society. Jaws 2 only follows to tell the same but more spectacular, and less bloodthirsty too. Some scenes are very good like the shark's pursuit with the water skier, the ending, the attack to Mike... I think a sequel was necessary, but only one sequel. Jaws, a true scary movie. Jaws 2, an excellent adventure film. The rest, are rubbishesSpielberg's is a classic, Jeannot Swzarc's it's a good movie and a good sequel of a classic. 8/10 "},{"Title":"I liked it, but not as good as the first by any means","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2 is an entertaining Saturday afternoon flick, by all means.  Not anywhere as good or as intense as the original, it is nevertheless a fun watch.  The shark has returned to feed on the citizens of Amity, and once again the town sheriff (Roy Scheider) must save the day.  A group of teens, including the sheriff's two sons, have gone out for a day of sailing, and all Hell soon breaks loose.  OK, I admit there is one glaringly unbelievable part when the shark meets up with a helicopter, but other than that it packs solid thrills.  Ann Dusenberry, who plays Tina, gives a haunting performance after witnessing her boyfriend become shark chowder.  Donna Wilkes is perhaps one of the top three screen screamers of all time.  After watching this one, you'll think twice about ever waterski-ing in the ocean.  I would have preferred a better ending, I will admit, but if you haven't seen it, check it out on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"Only Scheider and Hamilton left","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Years after the first shark attack, police chief Brody (Roy Scheider) is investigating a supposed accident off the shores of Amity Island. When a killer whale is found on the beach, Brody is sure another shark is hunting off the coast. However mayor Vaughn (Murray Hamilton) is once again unconvinced. He's more worried about putting the shark attack behind them and luring new business onto the island. Brody spends the day scanning the waters from the beach tower. He mistakes a school of bluefish for a shark causing a panic. When he presents a photo of a shark's eye that one of the dead scuba divers took, nobody would believe him. Discouraged, he is about to quit when a shark attack is confirmed. His kid and a bunch of other teens are stranded by the attacking shark on a rocky island.The film is trying to marry Jaws with a teen slasher movie. The return of Scheider and Hamilton helps with the old formulaic adult story. The problem is that there isn't a compelling teen in the movie. All the young characters are generic and unimpressive. There is nothing surprising or new. We are left barely holding on to the side of the boat. "},{"Title":"Blows the First Film Clean Out OF The Water!","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There is a reason for the words I put in my summary. That's because I found elements in common with the films in question. Having that said, it's not that this movie lacks originality or something. Even the most original movies take inspiration on others. That's almost inevitable.While not tremendous, I prefer this anytime over 'The Blue Lagoon' and especially that mediocrity called 'Grease'. This comparison only takes place because the three movies in question were directed by the same person.The small island resort town of Amity is trying to bounce back from the financial problems it had after becoming known as the site of shark attacks four years ago. Mayor Larry Vaughn is welcoming developer Len Peterson and his new resort to Amity. Two scuba divers are exploring the area where the Orca sank after police chief Martin Brody killed a huge shark four years ago. A shark shows up and kills the two divers, but not before one of the divers takes a close-up picture of the shark's eye, and sometime later, while a mother is driving a boat that's pulling her water-skiing teenage daughter, the shark kills the daughter and causes the mother to accidentally blow up the boat, then a killer whale is found on the shore with a huge bite on it. After Brody sees this, he knows there's another huge great white shark in Amity's waters, but Vaughn and Peterson explain these attacks away as non-shark accidents, because the thought of another shark in Amity's waters would drive tourists away from the new resort and cause the new resort to lose money. It looks like Vaughn is still a mayor who puts money ahead of people's lives. Brody tips his gun's hollow point bullets with cyanide and melted candle wax and tells his sons Michael and Sean to stay away from the beaches and tells them to not go sailing with Mike's friends, who include Vaughn's son Larry Vaughn Jr. Everyone thinks Brody's fears are shark trauma-induced paranoia. Brody even tries to call his friend Matt Hooper, who is doing research on a boat in the Antarctic Circle, and Matt will be in the Antarctic Circle for a few more months.While keeping an eye on the waters from the beach's shark tower, Brody sees a huge dark spot in the water and rings the tower's alarm bell, but it turns out to be a school of bluefish. Vaughn fires Brody for causing this panic at the beach and scaring tourists and their money away, and even though they were told not to, Michael and Sean go out sailing with Junior Vaughn and their friends, unaware that the shark is trailing them. Brody knows it's up to him to find them before the shark kills too many of them.It's touching when the moment he returns to his family, he decides to go back to his old life, no matter the risks (which aren't few). The story has a happy ending.Overall, it's an enjoyable movie although a little sappy at times. Despite its faults, it gives a feeling of nostalgia. A movie like this could have been made in no other time but the 80's. There are a few decent special effects, but not too much of them.This should definitely be on Top 250. "},{"Title":"Jaws 2 (1978) **1/2","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" (Possible Spoilers)JAWS 2 has always been a strange sequel for me to rate. My first encounter with this much-anticipated followup to the classic original came at a Drive-In back in 1978. At the time I was 16 and a huge fan of the first movie, having seen it several times back when I was only 13. With a carload of teenagers around my own age, we took the summer drive one evening and watched the new sequel. I was greatly disappointed at the time realizing, even at that young an age, that this was an uninspired cash-in with no real story and a quickly contrived plot to utilize a group of know-it-all kids who are on a carefree sailing trip only to become fish food for the newest Great White shark. Subsequent viewings on home video never improved things that much, though I always maintained that Roy Scheider was exceptional in his return role as Chief Brody.Well, time has been kinder to JAWS 2 for me lately, and I've come to enjoy it enough on its own terms, even though it pales greatly in comparison to Steven Spielberg's classic. It's still got a weak script, and it's still contrived, but I've come to give the teen bait angle more of a free pass. I used to say that JAWS 2 and its teenage victim scenario was too much like a cheap slasher film cop-out, in the vein of a Friday THE 13th flick or something along those lines -- Take a group of irritating kids - throw 'em out there as fodder for the killer, and tally up the body count. But recently I got to thinking that when you really analyze it, the now-formulaic slasherfests were not even around when JAWS 2 made its theatrical debut. Even the first HALLOWEEN (the one that started it all) didn't come out until four months after JAWS 2's June '78 premiere - in October of the same year.A few years have passed since the last picture. Chief Brody is still on the job as sheriff at Amity Island, married to Lorraine Gary. Brody hears about two missing divers, and later two women who vanished during some sort of water skiing mishap. When he sees the chewed remains of a giant killer whale washed ashore, the chief feels a gnawing sense of deja vu and suspects he's got a second Great White on his hands. Retrieving the divers' camera at the bottom of the ocean and developing its film, Brody comes up with a photograph of bubbles and what appears to be the black eye of a killer shark.Once again he confronts Mayor Murray Hamilton (also back from part one) about his hunch, but is dismissed as paranoid. Brody's anxieties come to a head when he fires his gun on a crowded public beach, shooting up a school of bluefish he mistakes for a Great White. He then finds himself without a job and with two missing sons who have taken it upon themselves to go sailing with a group of other young friends against dad's orders. Way out on the ocean, the teenagers are being terrorized by this latest man-eater. Their tiny sailboats are getting smashed and at least one of their friends gets devoured. Even when a friendly helicopter pilot sets down to help out he finds his own aircraft being bitten and pulled under the surface where he meets his doom. It seems like all hope is lost until daddy Brody shows up in a stolen police boat and lures the shark to bite down on an electric power cable which puts a fiery finish on this dashed-off chapter of the JAWS saga.The real assets to the film are director Jeannot Szwarc (who inherited it when original director John Hancock retreated) and returning star Roy Scheider. As director, Szwarc does a capable job with the script he's got, making many scenes much more interesting than they otherwise might have been. Scheider had recently walked off THE DEER HUNTER and Universal agreed to forget about it if the actor would do the Jaws sequel. Once the studio offered to count this film as two for Roy, he reluctantly agreed. He gives a very good performance despite his misgivings for the project, and he's extremely effective as a tormented man at odds.The biggest problem with JAWS 2 is its script. While the whole business about Brody's nervous obsession is involving, little else is, really. Reportedly, Steven Spielberg and JAWS star Richard Dreyfuss wanted to participate, but they were committed to further work on CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND. So rather than wait it out, Universal wanted to go ahead with the sequel at any cost and what the price turned out to be was a great story. As it turned out, we got the aforementioned teens in peril approach, with a film aimed at a younger audience. JAWS 2 is not without merit; some of the shark sequences are well staged, and one scene that is especially chilling features Ann Dusenberry as a terrified teen found cowering inside her tiny boat after her boyfriend has just been eaten by the shark; it sends shivers down the spine. Yet the film just can't compete with the awesome power of the original, and in particular the marvels provided through the conflicting characterizations from Scheider, Dreyfuss and Shaw. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Not worth it","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER WARNING the first sequel of the Jaws series is just ridiculous...... first, the idea of another killer shark appearing in THE SAME island is of course not believable......second, any sequel or imitation to Jaws would never cause the same impact as the original, and of course, this one doesn't at all......it's just too stupid........ third, the shark in this film is shown with a huge scar on it's head to make it scarier(!)....please!!!...........this first sequel is the first one to ruin the original Jaws movie.....but just a little bit compared to the next ones..........why did they ever make sequels to such a great movie???? ** out of 5 "},{"Title":"As much as the first...","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"   Just as scary as the first, with an even more threatening feel, because the teenagers are the more threatened of the victims. I have to say the pace and timing is all the same. The intellect rate is down just a notch with the lack of adults, but Scheider, Gary, and Hamilton keep up brilliant appearences. I can't begin to brag on how involving and deep this one takes you, as another killer of the ocean comes back to bite Amity Island in the A++ once again. As Scheider says  I don't intend to go through that hell again, we all know the sad and terrifying truth. We know the only thing just as terrifying as the original JAWS, is when another feels the liberty to attempt what the first shark failed at! Full of suprises, shocks, breath taking action, and a wonderful score by John Williams, this one gets just as innovative as the first, although it IS a sequel, don't let that fool you! It is great! Listen to my words, and hear my cries, JAWS 2 is an A+!  "}{"Title":"Oh Dear","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It doesn't get much worse than this...Throughout watching this film I got the constant feeling that the script was being made up on the spot...perhaps the actors wrote it day by day 10 minutes before filming.Jaws worked because between the meaty bits, ie the shark scenes, there was a jelly holding it together that worked. There was an interesting 3 way dynamic between engaging characters played out by excellent actors. Here we have arrant idiocy acted out by, what I assume to be random kids they pulled off the street. Bleuwch!!This should have a much lower rating. "},{"Title":"Awful sequel","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Surely one of the worst sequels of all time. Leave out everything worthwhile in the original movie (the great chemistry between the three main characters, the genuine suspense, the great chase scenes, the original ideas, etc), keep one of the main characters, hire a couple of no-talent scriptwriters, make the shark look ten times more artificial, and this is roughly what you get. No wonder Spielberg was appalled. "},{"Title":"Ho hum","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Even in the 1970s, when a film was successful enough to have made a profit, a sequel was something of an expectation. Sequels have long had a reputation for being a lesser copy of the original. Exceptions have sprung up over the years Aliens and X-Men 2 come to mind, but Jaws 2 is definitely not one of them. If anything, Jaws 2 is a rather mediocre retread of the original. This is understandable, given that most of the talent that made the original such great shakes is conspicuously absent here. Roy Scheider, Lorraine Gary, and Murray Hamilton return for this retread, but I am racking my brain trying to remember instances of the other cast members having acted in anything before or since.Since the surprise factor of the original is also gone, Jaws 2 goes straight for the throat, leaving behind any and all subtlety. As a result, every shark terror scene is stretched out further than it needs. As a result of that, scenes that should be terrifying become boring. The dramatic tension created by Scheider, Dreyfuss, and Shaw is conspicuously absent here. Indeed, about the only link this film has with the original, cast members aside, is that the opening diving scene supposedly takes place around the wreckage of the Orca.Strangely enough, Jaws 2 is almost the same length as the original, and yet so much less happens during its running time. This leads me to believe the comment I read previously was right when the author stated the best of the Jaws sequels is still boring. Unlike the latter two sequels, which do not even reach the hundred minute mark, every scene in Jaws 2 seems to be distended. Whether this is sloppy writing or an attempt to pad out the running time is probably beside the point.In spite of missing a few actors from the original, and the fact that one is hard-pressed to remember a singular new character as the credits roll, Jaws 2 feels overcrowded. In fact, the ease with which one forgets members of the cast probably stems in part from the overcrowded status of said cast. The fact that the emphasis has shifted from the humans hunting the shark to the shark itself probably doesn't help matters. I think it should be entered into the laws of film-making that in creature features, the filmmaker should be kept aware at all times that the creature is not the main focus. The people are. If you need any better proof of this than the difference between Jaws and Jaws 2, try taking a look at Aliens and Alien Resurrection.Another way of looking at Jaws 2 is that it is a more personal film than the original. This is fair enough, since Brody's family and livelihood are more threatened by the shark. Unfortunately, since the care with which Brody was made to seem like a three-dimensional character is absent from this sequel, it also runs the risk of ringing hollow. Those who have not seen the original, and I know there are a few of you out there, will simply forget that the Brody family or Mayor Vaughn have a second dimension. I know I certainly did from time to time.I am giving Jaws 2 a six out of ten. It has its moments, but it seems rushed in spite of having a three-year gap between it and its predecessor. It is too good to fit into the so-bad-its-funny level of the latter two sequels, and it is too bad to warrant repeat viewings. It might be worth renting once. "},{"Title":"It's okay, but if you want a good movie, watch the first one.","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2. Often regarded as the best of the Jaws sequels. That of course isn't much of a brag. That's like saying, I'm on holiday in Iraq, the best of countries that are currently a war zone. Okay, the film isn't that bad. But when you compare it to the original, this one just seems flat and lazy. The plot is that another shark is terrorizing the beaches of Amity Island, Massachusetts. So Chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider) has to go deal with him again. But Mayor Larry Vaughn (Murray Hamilton) doesn't want Martin to make this public because it will hurt publicity. It sounds like the first movie but here Vaughn and Len Peterson (Joseph Mascolo) get so fed up with Martin that they fire him and replace him with Deputy Jeff Hendricks (Jeffrey Kramer). But Martin's fears of the shark are proved correct when the next day when his sons Mike Brody (Mark Gruner) and Sean Brody (Marc Gilpin) are sailing and they get attacked by the shark with Mike's teenage friends. Martin climbs up on Hendricks's boat to go save them. The problems with this movie lie mainly in the story. It's mainly a repeat of a lot of the elements in the first film. And what's different about it, is still nothing new. Just a bunch of teenagers in trouble. That we see enough of. Also because it's a sequel it's just not as scary or suspenseful as the first. I watched this movie knowing it was going to be like that and those standards are met. But overall it's an okay movie. If you're curious go see it. "},{"Title":"Jaws 2","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" What I look for in a sequel to a great horror movie is the continuity and bringing back past actors as their former characters. I give Jaws 2 respect for having those characteristics and with a big budget they could play around with some quality effects. The beginning of the movie was solid, starting out with a unique story and introducing a lot of new characters. It was fun seeing old tension between Mayor Vaughn and Chief Brody go at it again and also seeing the relationships between Brody and his two sons, Michael and Sean.When the story progressed, and focused on Michael, Sean and the other teenagers, the story didn't fall apart, but it kind of staled. There was a lot of fluff time, showing a lot of windsurfing scenes, which I found disinteresting. I thought the death toll would also have been a little bit higher in the movie too considering they had great shark effect scenes, similar to the original. The closing moments, also like the first Jaws, had a pretty far-fetched ending that anyone could see happening a mile away. Jaws 2 was a good follow up but it didn't quite meet my expectations considering everything it had going for it. "},{"Title":"Very underrated! This is a thrilling sequel!","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't understand why this movie only has a 5.7! This is a fun and epic sequel with all the suspense and tension that is in the original, although there are a few flaws, especially when it comes to the actors in the film.Roy Scheider of course is brilliant in the film, giving a convincing and sometimes humorous Martin Brody. The actor who plays Brody's apprentice/policeman on the other hand doesn't give a good performance.The suspense and tension in the film is brilliant especially during the scene in which the shark eats a water skier and causes a speedboat to explode, a very cleverly written scene that is well good enough to be in the original film.There is one scene that isn't a shark attack that I love a lot and it's when Brody shows the developed photograph of the shark to the Mayor and the people in the Town's Hall and there is a thrilling argument with incredible dialogue and acting.The climax to the film is brilliant, as good as the original in my opinion! Brody accidentally crashes the police boat into Cable Junction but then lifts an electrical cable line out of the water, he then climbs along the line and starts hitting it with a paddle which causes sounds underwater which attracts the great white. The shark then powers it's way directly towards Brody who at the last minute lets go off the line and the shark bites on it electrocuting it. A very thrilling finale that is cleverly written for me.Overall of you are wanting to watch this movie watch it. But avoid Jaws 3 and Jaws The Revenge as they are nowhere near as good as the first two. "},{"Title":"Not so bad like people thinks","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Look first start with the universal questionsIs better than JAWS? No! Is worst than JAWS-3D or JAWSTHE REVENGE? No.Actually the movie is good is very entertainment you never get bored and keep you in your set.Of course the movie belongs to Roy Scheider this time is more experience and more clever and the charming of Sheider still there.The action is great,the music too and even that director in NO SPIELBERG he give a lot of emotions in all movie.If you want to spend almost 2 hours of exciting and action with average characters this is your movie but don't expected to see another JAWS again because is not going to happen. "},{"Title":"Not a very good movie","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not saying Jaws 2 is a bad movie. I'm saying it has a hell of a lot of expectations to live up to. Jaws 2 is missing a lot of stuff the first one had. It is quite unrealistic too. A second shark comes to Amity and starts eating people. It chases a ski boat and ends up killing the skier and the ski boat driver. I don't think a great white shark could even swim that fast. It attacks a helicopter and brings it crashing down and eats the driver. Wouldn't the blades have sliced the shark? The second Jaws seems to have an interest in boats and planes because it attacks a lot of those. The teens screaming honestly gives me a headache. There were some good scenes. When the shark eats Eddie, it was entertaining but his lump of a girlfriend doesn't help him up. I think the very best scene was when the shark ate Marge from behind. This is the only scary scene in the film and still scares me. These two scenes are the only reason I gave the movie a 3. The ski boat chase wasn't too bad but it was highly unrealistic. So what I'm saying is Jaws 2 isn't a bad movie, it just wasn't that good and had a lack of fun and terror the first one had but it is very far much better than the next 2 sequels. "},{"Title":"A plodding second bite","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" (44%) One of those sequels that gets made purely because the original was a big hit (see Jurassic park 2, Speed 2 etc), besides that reason alone this movie, and movies like it wouldn't exist, although as unnecessary sequels go this is not too bad. The first 30 mins is plodding, there's a decent shark attack, Roy Scheider gets paranoid (the films highlight) resulting in himself getting fired form the police force, then both his sons go boating against his wishes then guess what happens? There's a lack of ideas, lack of excitement/tension and it's about 20 mins too long, but on the plus side Scheider is good and it is quite well made, its just a little too redundant for its own good. "},{"Title":"you have to wait an hour before the sharks really comes in","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The seventies and the eighties were full of blockbusters but all had one problem, they all needed sequels. And sometimes it did work out other times it was a complete disaster. It started all with Planet Of The Apes (1968).It came clear to the producers that the first Jaws (1975) was a major success so a follow-up had to come but they had one problem. Steven Spielberg didn't want to be involved anymore. So they hired another director who didn't understand to make monster flicks so the fired him and came out with Jeannot Szwarc who already had a big name in the series genre. He wanted to create a special atmosphere with shots not seen in the original one like for example, the camera on the shark itself.On part of the scary parts it did work out fine but I watched it with my 12 year old daughter and she said, well, it take a while before things go wrong and the shark do appear. And that hit the nail. I had the same feeling but I must say that once the shark do start to terrorize Amity this get moving on. It do has a few jump scenes like for example the burned body and the helicopter scene. Still worth picking up before the shark will grow in the next parts of the franchise and starts to get funny and ridiculous.Gore 1/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 3/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "}{"Title":"The only worthy sequel to the original Jaws.","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The original Jaws is one of the greatest films ever made. Jaws 2 is more or less a mediocre sequel, but one that doesn't destroy and tarnish the appeal of the Jaws franchise(until Jaws 3-D and Jaws The Revenge).Jaws 2 picks up about four years since the original events of the first film. Amity is barely recovering financially, Brody's kids are older, and they frequently go sailing with their friends, and oh by the way a new shark claims the territory of Amity Island once again. This movie is by all means not perfect, and it sorely misses the presence of Richard Dreyfuss and Robert Shaw, but it is quite enjoyable. What makes this film work is Roy Scheider. His performance as Brody is arguably better than the first film mainly because of how the script develops his character. In the film he's very paranoid, scared, but he is certain that there is another shark out there and is upset that Mayor Vaughn(Murray Hamilton) and Len Peterson(Joseph Mascolo) or no one at Amity Island believes him. There are wonderful moments of doubt and fear Brody displays and a touching moment with him and his younger son Sean when Brody shoots down a school of blue fish, mistaking it for a shark. Roy Scheider is able to bring depth and complexity to his role, making him very believable and one can't help but feel sorry for him. His wife Ellen Brody played by Lorraine Gary is more fleshed out here too and she provides a great supporting role. She and Scheider have a nice banter among each other and you believe them as a couple. The teens are pretty much throw away characters that are in this film to be shark food, they're quite irritating and they scream a lot, especially by a female named Jackie played by Donna Wilkes, but for a movie like this it comes within the territory. A few including Mike Brody(Mark Gruner) have more to do than others. Jaws 2 also had a troubled production like the original Jaws. Give credit to direct Jeannot Szwarc for doing the best job he could, he even butt heads with actor Roy Scheider quite a bit. What Jeannot Szwarc smartly does was to show the shark a lot more than the first film did. He wisely knew repeating what Spielberg did was just a cheap repeat and rehash of the original. I liked the idea of seeing the shark's point of view in certain shots of the film, and he shoots all the action scenes with care and they are quite impressive. The score by John Williams is also excellent. It's very different from the original film, but still contains some elements of that original shark theme. The problem with this movie is that, while the script has decent moments, it ultimately is a slasher/murder horror film, mainly because there is much emphasis on the teenagers who we don't care for, but like I stated it comes within the territory, but it very much has that been there done that type feeling. I was much more intrigued and entertained with all the character moments. As impressive some of the shark scenes were, they're could have been less, at times it gets overwhelming and sort of drags the movie quite a bit messing with the momentum of the film, and frankly quite boring. Overall this is a decent film, it's not as horrible as other's might say it is, it feel that way because this film, as I've stated before has that been there, done that, feel. Jaws should have been a one and done film, but this film does a commendable job of trying to be a good movie at the very least. 6.8/10 "},{"Title":"If you seen the first... this ones basically the same","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As you can see some of the cast are back (Roy Schieder,Lorraine Gary,Murray Hamilton,John Williams for the music etc.) but this feels like too similar territory (being it set in the same island etc.) Another great white shark is killing the bathers of amity island and Martin Brody (Roy Schieder) has to stop it... this time alone,no one on his side (you would think the mayor would learn by now surely) Lorraine Gary is back too as Martin Brodys wife who again doubts about her husbands views, and Murray Hamilton returns as the Mayor of Amity Island who dismisses Martys beliefs about another shark This is an OK film... but like every sequel it fails to build on the success on the first (not counting Terminator 2,Spiderman 2 etc.) but there is worse yet to come... trust me. "},{"Title":"Craving bloody seconds.","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I guess you could see the fin coming. No surprises a sequel was churned out since the original was a whopping box-office smash hit that left a terrifying impression on most movie-goers and would launch Steven Spielberg's career. I haven't watched this sequel in quite awhile, but some moments do linger in mind. This one scared me when I was a kid when I first saw it, as the following day at school was pool day&#x85; oh great timing that was. Anyhow I've seen the other two sequels more often than this one (for me to say that Jaws 3-D would be the best of the sequels), and every once in awhile I'd catch bits and pieces of the original on TV. Now re-watching it again, I see it as a worthy follow-up that truly outdoes the third film (which I still don't feel is as atrocious as it's made out to be). As sequels go, Jaws 2 does what one should do. Give us the repetitive formula, but along the way more of the shark (robotic as ever) and bringing back the main character in police Chief Martin Brody (the soundly likable Roy Scheider) to once again come to grips with a great white problem. Scheider and especially a sincere Lorraine Gary have really grown into the roles. Jeffery Kramer and Murray Hamilton also reprise their roles. Joseph Mascolo, Mark Gruner, Ann Dusenberry, Donna Wilkes, Keith Gordon and Marc Gilpin are also acceptably fine. The script the actors have to work with keeps the witty humour intact, but cook also up the harrowing points and growing anxiety in a predictable manner.Director Jeannot Szwarc's handling plasters out the jarring jolts with reasonable intensity even with its steady pacing, but it does lose a bit with showing the shark early on and within most of its attacks. The mechanically rubber creation doesn't look too bad. Nonetheless I guess that's what the audience wants, after being kept in the shadows for most of the original's running time. His out to exploit the concept, which it does come off and he makes the water feel just as ominous to what's lurking in it. We open with John William's majestically booming score (and quite a lively one too), which immediately imposes that this is going out big for the occasion. In some regards it's bigger in its excitement, but not particularly better. I found the first hour to be actually rather well developed and grippingly suspenseful (even though its kind of exercising the original), but when the focus starts to centre on the annoyingly rowdy teenagers later on and that of their troublesome sailing trip it seems to lose a bit of something and go on for a bit too long. Also they would go onto kill off the most affable teenager character (who really doesn't get all that much to do, but makes an imprint nonetheless), which at least makes it quite an effective moment and the best staged death sequence. Surprisingly the amount of teens it has at its disposal, too many survive. "},{"Title":"Return of some mighty white trouble.","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Roy Scheider returns in the central role of Chief Brody as the small island of Amity is, would you believe it, terrorised once more by a rogue great white shark. It's all a bit more personal this time around though as Brody's sons have decided to nip away on a careless little boat trip with their mates.Of course this sequel was never ever going to live up to the reputation of the first movie and of course it fails in almost every way when compared to that classic BUT it has to be said that I have always really liked this film. I have always felt that it followed the rule of sequels rather well and also added some interesting moments such as the use of sound/vibrations to distract the shark away from potential victims. It also has one or two great jump scares and stays consistently entertaining throughout.Going along with the standard sequel rules, everything feels a bit bigger (from the shark to the potential bodycount) and a little bit lazier but it's hard to feel let down by a movie that delivers almost exactly what the audience is after and also throws in a scene where a shark attacks a flaming helicopter. And compared to the sequels that would come after it, this remains an above-average killer shark movie.See this if you like Jaws, Piranha, Deep Blue Sea. "},{"Title":"Doesn't have the same magic as the first one, but it works as its own animal","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Steven Spielberg's Jaws came out as it open to critically acclaimed reviews, and making a sensational success at the box- office, a sequel was made and many people were split by this movie. So, the movie takes place after the first one as another great white shark attacks more people on Amity Island, while Martin Brody comes back as he has to go through the trouble again in order to kill the shark as he tries to save the people from being attacked. I understand that the movie doesn't have the same magic as the first one, but it works as its own animal. How can I be so sure? Because the movie isn't trying to be a carbon-copy of the first movie, and surely trying not copying its success. I know this movie did well at the box-office, but not as sensational as the first one and it did at least made enough a decent profit. I will admit that the movie does have some problems. I really do appreciate that movie is trying to be different, but it kind of slow some things down a bit as we kind of get so many scenes with the teenagers as they go parasailing, and wish they cut some scenes out for a bit. Also, the teenagers aren't really as interesting as the three main characters from the first one. I mean they're okay and so is there acting being okay, but they at least to their credit tried their best on how to survive, and try not to let the shark get to them as they are being stranded out by sea. While the one girl name Jackie that is being stranded with the group, doesn't help much as she keeps on screaming and getting hysterical at times; she is played by Donna Wilkes, but I'm not saying that her acting is bad nor against of being scared by a shark which its understandable, but can't she stop freaking out so much and learn how to be strong a bit like what the other teenagers were doing? That is just me, personally. With that said, the movie does have some good acting for Lorraine Gary and Murray Hamilton as they reprise their role from the first one, but the best one in the movie is Roy Scheider for reprising his role and given out the best performance that he is ever given. You root for him as he tries to deal with the shark, and doesn't intend to go through that problem again. Unfortunately, the people wouldn't trust him or help out which it now makes Brody to be the only one that handles with this kind of situation. The story itself is fine for what it is, and nothing more that I can say about. The direction by Jeannot Szwarc does a decent job on directing the movie. He may not be Spielberg, but he is at least a capable director on making this sequel decent. Of course, John Williams comes back from the first one and he really does a great job with the music as the music acts on its own, and not rehashing some of the same music that has already been done before. The shark itself is just as good as it was from the first one, and really do like the look of it where parts of its' face burns off like as if it were either Freddy Krueger or Two-Face. Also, still doing the same mixture of practical effects and real life shark footage by Ron and Valerie Taylor. The movie does deliver some good parts that are quite suspenseful like the scene, where the teenagers are trying to get Mike Brody out of the water as the shark tries to get him. So that is how much I can say about Jaws 2, and I really don't think it deserves a bad rep. At least, with that kind of rating it gets on IMDb. I'm not say make the rating higher than the first, but at least give it a decent rating. Also, its nowhere near as bad as the other Jaws sequels had. For my suggestion, I say give this one another look while compare to the other two sequels as how bad they are instead of this one. Again, it doesn't have the same magic as the first, but it at least works on its own. I enjoy Jaws 2 for what it is, and I give an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Why such lower ratings then the first?","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is not as good as the first but it seems like a lot of people hate this one while really liking the first one and that does not make sense to me. The acting and directing is good and its just as thrilling as the first the only bad thing I would have to say is its the exact same thing as the first one so its really nothing new.This movie is about chief brody (Schneider) who has to protect the citizens of Amity from a monstrous great white shark ( yes the same as the first one ) This movie is a lot like the first but if you like the first one you will probably still like this one although with the addition of more cast members the acting from some is not great "},{"Title":"As Good As The Original!!!","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't get the reviews on here?! Though I missed Robert Shaw and Richard Dreyfuss, this movie was every bit as good as the original! The story line was excellent and the teenagers brought a younger feel to the movie. And of course Scheider, Gary, and Hamilton were awesome!!! This movie has the same great feel that the first one did, and continues the awesome story of Jaws in a fresh, yet familiar way! It's nice to see the Brody children older and dealing with the shark like their father. The kids are all great actors and i love that there are two stories going on here at the same time...You've got the kids trying to survive, and Brody trying to find the kids. The tension is fantastic and the shark looks better than in the first one. GREAT FLICK!!!!! "},{"Title":"Very good sequel! If not as good as the first, then possibly better....","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Steven Spielberg's Jaws was an obvious instant classic. Back then, it was considered a dark, gruesome, intense horror, that greatly made people think twice about going into the water. Although, just as people were one step away from getting over their fear, just as people were starting to go back into the water, they soon discovered that there was a new creature lurking around them. And it's name is.... JAWS 2! Perfect timing, eh? Haha. Seriously, I just loved it! What was so wrong with it? A group of teens, just like every other horror movie back then, are rule breaking, hormonal, fearless, and fun loving. Chief Brody was in it, Ellen was in it, the Mayor was in it, and I actually think it was more fun/action packed then the first! Not saying the 1st wasn't great, because it was, but look out everybody, because here comes.... JAWS 2! There was nothing wrong with it, but there will be if you expect another instant classic horror movie such as the 1st. Just watch it and have fun. You'll like it! And if ya hate it, that's your choice! 8/10 ( PG-13-For Some Intense Shark Attacks And Sequences, And Some Language. "},{"Title":"Don't expect any surprises...","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the success of the original film, there just had to be a Jaws 2.The storyline consists of similar events in the first film, but with a lot more bloody bits. Chief Brody is faced with another Great white shark lurking in the Aminity beach resort, this time his grown-up sons go boating with there friends where an accident occurs in mid-drift, and all falls apart when Jaws resurfaces.Although we expected a different story-line, Jaws 2 is basically a cheaper version of the first but with all the clichés like kids screaming Oh no, a shark!, especially the constant screaming. Its a sequel you'll find disappointing for many reasons and not just because the shark looks a whole lot worse... "},{"Title":"It's not anything","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If there's one rule to sequels, it's that everything should be bigger, louder, faster, gorier and with more flashing colors and stuff than the original. Same goes for rip-offs, if they're not the same thing altogether. Don't bother being original, because you have no talent. If you would have talent you wouldn't be making horror sequels. Jeannot Szwarc (that's barely a name) tries to put in suspense but in those thirty years, the fear has just been converted into boredom. Yes we know the shark is there and usually I know whether somebody dies or not. And if I'm proved wrong, I'm still more bored than surprised. Jaws is above blood and guts, which is too bad because there's not really anything else to offer, considering the serious pacing problems. People get killed off-screen, people just get dragged down, people have to wait forever to get killed, and the memorable scenes that should justify the cool poster are seriously lacking. It tries to be classy, like an adventure thriller but it's not. It doesn't try to be cheap horror but it should have. Extra points due to fairly realistic shark. "}{"Title":"Scary.","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Let's just say.. I HATE SHARKS, so of course, they frighten me. This is a good movie -- it actually can relate to real life (somewhat), hence reality is the sharks DO really kill as they show in the movie. The plot is really good. For those who loves scary movies, this is one of them to see if you haven't already. Even imagine that you're in that position, you wonder what'd you do. / So the feel of fear is really there, imagine the shark going at you, that'd be pretty scary big time. I saw most of the movie, and I must say it was excellent, from the beginning to the end and I enjoyed it. I have ordered this movie on a DVD to send to my place so I could watch it again. Hopefully, I won't be as scared next time. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Sequel with a GREAT Director","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jeannot Szwarc http//www.imdb.com/name/nm0844358/ is not just some french director who wants a piece of American cinema. He's a director that's proved he can take a good idea if it's done right and exceed your expectations. He has a Spielberg quality as a director and unlike many directors has an uncanny ability to pull fantastic acting out of no-names. This film is a classic Jaws homage and is a sequel listed among the many few that are close to being as good as the original. 10 stars to Jaws 2 for a job well done and they should have stopped here but I'm a fan of all four for the simple entertainment aspect. After all, that's the original intention of most films before critic's pick them apart. I'm not one of them I'm proud to say. "},{"Title":"Corked Teeth.","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Studio cash cow sequel of the 1975 smash hit has Roy Scheider warning mayor Murray Hamilton of another shark, but his words fall on deaf ears. Naturally wife Lorraine Gary and the rest of the town believe that Scheider has lost it mentally. The audience knows better though. Jaws 2 ends up being a silly teen exploit picture as Scheider's oldest son (Mark Gruner) and a whole host of others (wise-guy Keith Gordon in particular) do their best to get back in the water and tempt the crazed man-eating shark. Just avoids being tedious because of Scheider and nothing more. Director Jeannot Szwarc just is not on par with film-maker Steven Spielberg (who directed the original) and the tension/stress of the original is replaced with sorry dialogue and ho-hum situations. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie, just like I loved the first one. This movie rocks.  Growing up on the same street as the ocean, smelling the ocean air, the movie takes me back to being young.  Not caring, worrying about anything, but just having fun.  Just like the boys and girls who just cared about having fun on the ocean riding the waves in their boats.  It reminded me of my friends.  I LOVE THIS MOVIE.  I LOVE THIS MOVIE. I LOVE THIS MOVIE.  I LOVE THIS MOVIE.  I LOVE THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was 13 when this clunker came out and saw it at the new indoor theatre in my hometown in Penna. I highly anticipated it and had loved the original Jaws so muchim sure alot of you couldn't wait to see it .Welcome back Roy Scheider ,Lorraine Gary and Murray Hamilton. But sorely missing are Shaw and Dreyfuss. Shaw had passed away anyway and Dreyfuss moved on to the Goodbye Girl -another wonderful movie. When scenes are on land movie really stinks . It degenerated into a teen slasher movie like feel. As Friday the 13th kicked off the slasher movie craze.I think the makers of Jaws2 tried to cash in on that . I always have liked Roy Scheider but he shouldve passed on it as Dreyfuss did. Lorraine Gary was wasted as was Murray Hamilton . It did have the same feel as Jaws as far as the location settings but that was it . Stick with the original. Man i wished the shark had eaten all those winey teenagers. Even the 2 who played Brodys kids were annoying . And by the way how come if this was only 3 years after the events in Jaws were Mike and Sean so much older . Sean was only 5 and Mike 10 in the original .They look alot more than 3 years older in the sequel. "},{"Title":"Mostly boring and unbelievable-","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Most of the movie except for the shark attacks and maybe some other scenes was downright dull. The shark attacks seemed to have missed the intended effect on me. To me they seemed unbelievable and so looked more like ridiculous instead of scary and/or tense. This especially goes for the shark attack on a coast guard helicopter which had landed on the water. This turned out to be a good movie to laugh at. Because I don't think that was the intention and because of the things I mentioned, this movie gets a 3/10. "},{"Title":"Dull at times.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The one thing that dragged this film way down was that it was two hours and in between the scenes with the shark(which were pretty long) the movie was boring. Sure some of the death scenes were a bit scary and the shark didnt look too fake there was something that this one didnt have that the first one had. What was it?????????? Oh yeah now  I remember, it was the suspense and scariness in every death scene. It is inferior to the original without a doubt, but it still isnt that bad. No, it is pretty bad. If the original is your favorite movie of all time, if you loved it and havent seen this, DONT SEE THIS, or you will know real horror. "},{"Title":"Fails to impress...or do anything for that matter...","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" PROLOGUE For the record, I somehow managed to have not seen Jaws (1975) in my 21 years of life until yesterday, and let me say, I was pleasantly surprised and impressed. It was well- written, well-paced, and masterfully directed, somewhat sketchy in parts, but left open enough to remain believable. I was thoroughly engrossed in the movie from start to finish, and after viewing, could see how three sequels could stem from the lurking thriller, especially with Steven Spielberg in the chair. All I really knew about the movies was that the first was awesome, the 2nd was okay, the 3rd was lacking, and the 4th sucked. So from that, I'd somehow assumed that Steven did the first two and not the last two, and stupid me, I didn't check the listing before I watched the 2nd, so I went into it thinking that Steven could've made it reach newer heights with a better animatronic shark, better attack sequences, and a little more explanation. But I only proved that what they say about assumptions is right&#133; Now, you'd like to think that if you make a movie about a killer shark, no matter how lacking the plot is, no matter how inexperienced the director, it would encompass *some* modicum of suspense&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;..you'd like to think.So we're back in Amity, four years later I believe, and yet another monstrous Great White shark has appeared, eating people&#133;.except this time, instead of a shark, it's a giant gray piece of rubber popping up and opening and closing its mouth. I mean, seriously, if you can't fork out the cash for a better animatronic shark, then why bother? The shark is so blatantly fake, you never even view the people as being in danger. And what's worse, they show the shark a lot more this time around, which gives you plenty of opportunities for good, long looks at the over-sized piece of rubber.And unlike the shark in the first which really seemed to possess some intelligence, this one seems to get his kicks by simply stalking people and biting boats. It actually kills like what&#133; two people? And when it finally did, there was no blood! Was this the director's vain attempt to keep the movie at a PG rating? Umm, newsflash Szwarc&#133;Spielberg had believable attacks with blood and still maintained a PG rating.And silly me, I actually thought there might be some attempt at an explanation for how and why the shark exists and why another equally large one has come to the shores of the same small town four years later&#133; What was I thinking??And to further aggravate matters, the mayor and townspeople are actually dumber in this one as they were in the first, refusing to believe Sheriff Brody (Roy Scheider) when he proclaims there's another killer shark in their midst, despite the fact that this actually did happen four years prior. But I guess we can chalk that one up to short-term memory loss. Oh wait&#133;that would be LONG-term memory loss&#133;&#133;so much for that theory.The plot in general is very unstructured and choppy, following no clear direction. It's just a series of poorly put-together 'shark stalkings' as I'll call them, in the last half with the kids on their sailboats, always allowing them ample time to swim back to their boats so it can once again scare the girls into screaming for their lives before it once again brushes past the boat, knocking someone else into the water, and swimming around till they get almost back in the boat and then coming after them and just barely missing. Give me a break! By the end, I was so frustrated, I just wanted it to get *somebody*, even if it *was* Brody's son!!In my opinion, there was no reason to make this movie&#133;this is exactly what Jaws (1975) would've been like with a different director (other than Spielberg).VERDICT Jaws reincarnate, minus the suspense, the intelligence, and the masterful direction &#151;nothing more than a cheap remake of the first. See the first and quit while you're ahead.3.5 out of 10.0P.S. I would like to take this time to applaud Steven Spielberg for saying no to money and yes to cinematic integrity&#151;he saw there was no story to be told and turned it down. Kudos to you Steven. "},{"Title":"Like Most Sequels It's Not Very Good","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" !!!! MILS SPOILERS !!!!If this was made today I would have jumped to the conclusion that this was a recruiting film for Al Qaeda . Seriously I would have , how on earth can an audience empathise with what must be the most unsympathetic characters in cinerama - American teenagers ? Not just any American teenagers , ones who have been spoiled rotten by their parents , drink even though they appear under age and have lots of sex . Are we supposed to relate to them as they sail around the Atlantic Ocean ? It's also a fact that people who go sailing around in boats are very stuck up so right away I was hoping they were all on the shark menu . I was bitterly disappointed that some of them survived to the end credits and let's not forget that one of the victims who weren't part of the brat pack ( Captain Birdseye helicopter pilot and Mrs Napalm Lady in the boat ) deserved to die because they were hopeless actors . I get the feeling that empathising more with the shark rather than its victims wasn't part of the game plan It's not just this that spoiled the film . It's also badly paced with Sheriff Brody wandering around the beach making sure no one is going to be gobbled up by the shark which is something we saw in the first movie so there's little plot advancement or character development . There's also a lapse of logic to all this since despite several people being killed by a shark in the previous movie no one is willing to believe a shark has returned to the waters . There's a motivation for this scepticism from some of the characters ( Money - Just like in the first movie , or any Peter Benchley novel ) but other characters would have no motivation for wanting to disbelieve Brody especially when all the evidence is staring them in the face There's another thing I found lacking and that's the lack of character conflict in the script . In the original much of the movie is carried by Robert Shaw's character disliking Richard Dreyfuss's character along with Sheriff Brody . Here there's little character interaction because most of the characters are screaming teenagers who are on the verge of dying at the jaws of a great white shark , and I so much hoped the shark was going to be the sole survivor at the end "},{"Title":"As good as the first one..","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 is the only good sequel after the Classic Original movie, Roy Scheider returns as Martin Brody and faces another deadly Shark that brings terror in the sea one more time. The cool thing i loved from this movie is the way the creature's face has been marked with a scar and the way it died was amazing and beautiful. The real question is tho is this movie as good as the first one? cause the reviews are pretty mixed well i tell you this Jaws 2 is The Dark Knight of the Franchise next to Jaws 3-D and Jaws The Revenge. Another thing is this movie scary? well yes it is if not as scary as the first one is definitely scary on it's own. This is a great underrated sequel and you definitely need this on your collection don't bother with the others. "}{"Title":"Wasn't Too Bad!","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Spoiler Alert! I'm glad the film at least brought back Roy Scheider, the only one who actually had the balls to fight against the great white shark! If it was a bad sequel he wouldn't of been in it and if it was an abomination they would of said he died like that stupid fourth movie. But this film is so good that they brought the original shark back too. Yep it's the same shark, no cgi like the 3rd and no shark that looks like a turd in the 4th. This film is literally the only good Jaws sequel and will forever be remembered by me. The best and scariest scene is when Jaws attacks this boy Eddie and slams him face first into the boat before being pulled down where his fate ends. I like this sequel and I'm surprised some people actually prefer the 3rd to this film. Like seriously are you people on drugs? The only good thing about Jaws 3 was that it didn't have the turd-looking shark in the 4th. I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Underrated sequel","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Obviously Jaws 2 is not as good as the first.. it doesn't have Quint and Hooper. It's still a good movie though and feels very much like a continuation of the first in terms of it's look and feel, since it was made very shortly after Indeed some scenes in this movie are easily good enough to have been in the first one. The part with the water skier is really well shot and the second diving sequence when the diver gets the bends is very realistic. Also the orca section and the part where Brody fishes out the boat wreckage are interesting scenes, as is the ending Some people have said that it doesn't make sense that a second shark comes to the same place, but actually it does, this could easily have been the other sharks mate and the point is that it was in the same territory as the first shark and around the sunken boat just a few years after the events of the first film. It's not nearly as far fetched as the other two movies The music in Jaws 2 is also excellent with some really lovely atmospheric harp sections for some of the underwater sequences. The score is probably better than the first actually since the signature Jaws tune remains, but it doesn't include the sea faring style parts that were a bit corny from time to time in the first movie Brody is as good as ever too, and overall minus the silly helicopter sequence, this is an excellent sequel "},{"Title":"Cmparing it to the original-why bother?","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This half baked sequel once again takes place on Amity Island, and, you guessed it, there's a giant killer shark on the loose to feast upon unsuspecting vacationers. I guess I have to compare it to the original, although it seems a bit pointless. While the film benefits from including several of the cast members from the original, the script is probably the weakest aspect of the whole production. Let's compare. The original had lots of humorous dialog from many of the quirky islanders and even added a bit of realism by often showing several conversations happening at once, whereas this one is flat and dull. Also, in the original, you can sense the strong bond Brody has with his family, with many little charming moments like the scene where he and his son make shark faces at each other. This one has nothing even close to that, except maybe when Brody hits his head on a low hanging lamp in their house. This movie also suffers from the inclusion of a bunch of annoying teen characters. Most of them have very little to add to the film, except to become damsels in distress of a sort for Brody to rescue at the end. Most of them have hardly any interesting character traits or even become shark bait, so there was really no reason to include so many of them. The original was the perfect Man vs. Nature film, but this one just feels like a bad slasher flick where barely anybody dies. To it's credit, this movie does try to have a real storyline involving Brody's dismissal from the police, not just the shark eating random people, but I would have liked to see more of that than scenes of the teens sailing. It's also nice that Hendricks (Jeffrey Kramer) has a more substantial role, and, to it's credit, it does have some nice shark attack scenes for undiscriminating movie monster fans. It's just nowhere near as good as the original. It may have been a bit better if Spielberg had stepped behind the camera again. Either way, while the original introduced us to the most terrifying killer shark in movie history, this one is little more than a cinematic plate of fish and chips. "},{"Title":"This is not as good as the first one (duh!), but it's pleasant in some way","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 continues the story of the shark who terrorizes Amity Island. Chief Brody, of course, learns about this shark and tries to convince them that another one has come to Amity Island. They don't believe him, of course, so they go on with their lives. However, a series of deaths occur in the water, so now it's up to Brody to kill this shark and save the day once again.Now, don't get me wrong it's a good movie, but it doesn't quite live up to the awesomeness that is Jaws. There are parts in it that are somewhat lacking in scares and depth at the same time, but it's not overpowering the film. There were some sequences were the shark effects weren't that great, but I'll let you be the judge on that.Overall, I recommend this to anybody who wants to have a good time watching sharks, but don't expect much. "},{"Title":"Decent enough","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It should have came to everyones' mind that before they saw this they knew Jaws 2 was not going to be better than the legendary original, and in my opinion, and probably most everyone else's who saw this, it was certainly not. The original set new standards for horror, as did many Horror film classics back then, and the sequel, while certainly not as satisfactory in the fields a film like this needs to be, lives up to what it could and in the long run is just a really good time that you should not expect too much from if you have not seen it yet and love the first.While the first has an amazing score, nice jump effect and killer dialog and execution of scenes, this manages to have all those attributes, but half the deliverance. We are not as effected as we were with the first, because we have seen it all before, and we are really just in it for the fun, because from the first twenty or thirty minutes or so, you kind of realize you are not in for a masterpiece and rather a nice attempt at a sequel to a movie with such a high criteria to follow behind. Still, the film accomplishes entertaining the audience with the characters from the first, who even though we did not love as much as the shark succeed in bringing us a sense of enjoyment for just their presence in general, and the plot is respectable.There are no high adrenaline thrills, maybe a sense of sympathy for some of the characters who fall victim to the shark, some at least, which is more than I can say for the two films following this one, and like I said, it does not fail at being enough to satisfy anyone who is not expecting way too much from it. It is a good movie, in my opinion, and that is really all I can sum up about it if someone were to randomly ask my outlook on it. It has obviously not gone down in history like the first has for certain reasons, though. "},{"Title":"A fun b-movie flick that lacks the cinematic touch of Spielberg but still holds good entertainment value","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 may smell a little bit of cashing in but i believe the producers genuinely wanted to continue the story of the Brody family and make a good film.The signs are there at the start of the film.There is a lot of time spent around the Brody clan on Amity Island,the film doesn't seem to have any direction here though, ts almost as if the director saw what Spielberg did and thought to try and replicate it but Spielbergs family moments in his first film were tighter and more effective,here they are borderline boring.Once the film slams in to gear though,it does take on a life of its own and there is tension and drama in spades.John Williams' score is largely to thank for that.Williams once again delivers another outstanding soundtrack,it is almost impossible to not feel a slight touch of suspense when that dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum kicks in.In summary Jaws 2 gets nowhere near the dizzy heights of success created by Spielberg but has a life of its own as a fun B-movie outing. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Fishtail economics","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Jaws franchise, more than any horror film series, exhibits studio executives at their most unscrupulous. Take a perusal through eBay's selection of original Jaws memorabilia and you'll get a sense of the cultural impact these films had and the extent to which they were pimped out back in the day. To argue back in 1975 -- when the original Jaws was scooping up awards and critical praise for its flawless intermingling of creature feature exploitation and Melvillian leitmotif, while laughing all the way to the bank -- that the notion of a second film was dishonorable would have been met with a hearty guffaw and a good swatting with a bushel of C-notes.Enter Jeannot Szwarc, the French director who brought American audiences what they wanted a smash-bang sequel that delivered more of the same thrills. Szwarc takes the standard blockbuster sequel approach by substituting subtext with plain old fun, and thus avoids muddling the original film's potent message. Instead of the grizzled and multi- faceted Quint, we get carefree and one-dimensional teens. However, this is not to say that Jaws 2 doesn't bring its own intrigue to the table. The return of Roy Scheider is an essential component of this film, and the subplot where Chief Brody spectacularly loses his job is both interesting and well-executed (even though this storyline has been blamed for singlehandedly giving the film a sluggish pace).Szwarc's focus is graciously straightforward, and his handling of action sequences is so clean and taut that he nearly goes toe-to-toe with Spielberg. At times, the style of Jaws 2 matches the first film so well that I often confuse the two (which one has the waterskiing, again?) The production is filled out by highly competent actors. Along with Scheider, Lorraine Gary, Murray Hamilton, and Fritzi Jane Courney are three other players from the 1975 feeding frenzy who make welcome returns here. Newcomer Ann Dusenberry turns in a rather arresting performance as one of the distraught teens. Furthermore, it's all punctuated by another original score by John Williams that is even better than the music he created for the first film.Whatever its narratives, the Jaws series is a fundamental study of the economics of the film business. Whereas the original Jaws spurred a paradigm shift in marketing, the salary and personnel negotiations that must have occurred in preparation for the sequel must surely be enough to write a book about. If I am going to study financing, at least I have two good movies to use as case studies. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone makes it out to be","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While Jaws2 isn't an instant classic like the first film, it is not as bad as people make it out to be. As far as sequels go, it was actually pretty good.Sure, the shark looked slightly fake and unrealistic, but come on! It is still better than the other two sequels. Compared to the obviously fake sharks and the flat story lines in Jaws3 and Jaws The Revenge, Jaws2 is a stellar movie.I thought there was nothing wrong with focusing on Chief Brody's family, or the rebellious teens. I felt it was a very realistic account of teens going against their dad's will, not knowing what was good for them.I didn't find that Brody acted like he was a shark expert. He had reason to believe their was another shark because of the missing divers, the boat accident, the dead whale, and the pictures. If you had fended off a shark, then found a dead killer whale with bite marks, as well as a picture that looks like a shark, wouldn't you suspect that another shark could have staked a claim in the water again? I thought it was a reasonable sequel and it was very well done. It was not a hit like Jaws, but it wasn't terrible, either. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The small island resort town of Amity is trying to bounce back from the financial problems it had after becoming known as the site of shark attacks four years ago. Mayor Larry Vaughn is welcoming developer Len Peterson and his new resort to Amity. Two scuba divers are exploring the area where the Orca sank after police chief Martin Brody killed a huge shark four years ago. A shark shows up and kills the two divers, but not before one of the divers takes a close-up picture of the shark's eye, and sometime later, while a mother is driving a boat that's pulling her water-skiing teenage daughter, the shark kills the daughter and causes the mother to accidentally blow up the boat, then a killer whale is found on the shore with a huge bite on it. After Brody sees this, he knows there's another huge great white shark in Amity's waters, but Vaughn and Peterson explain these attacks away as non-shark accidents, because the thought of another shark in Amity's waters would drive tourists away from the new resort and cause the new resort to lose money. It looks like Vaughn is still a mayor who puts money ahead of people's lives. Brody tips his gun's hollow point bullets with cyanide and melted candle wax and tells his sons Michael and Sean to stay away from the beaches and tells them to not go sailing with Mike's friends, who include Vaughn's son Larry Vaughn Jr. Everyone thinks Brody's fears are shark trauma-induced paranoia. Brody even tries to call his friend Matt Hooper, who is doing research on a boat in the Antarctic Circle, and Matt will be in the Antarctic Circle for a few more months. While keeping an eye on the waters from the beach's shark tower, Brody sees a huge dark spot in the water and rings the tower's alarm bell, but it turns out to be a school of bluefish. Vaughn fires Brody for causing this panic at the beach and scaring tourists and their money away, and even though they were told not to, Michael and Sean go out sailing with Junior Vaughn and their friends, unaware that the shark is trailing them. Brody knows it's up to him to find them before the shark kills too many of them.Exciting sequel picks upon many actors from the first movie of Jaws. Good acting, scripting, but a tiny bit is destroyed by the story.Rated PG for Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"No teeth","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Roy Scheider reprises his role as Police Chief Martin Brody in Jaws 2 the sequel to the successful and vastly superior original Jaws.It is 4 years since the original great white shark terrorized the ocean resort town town of Amity. Now another shark is back. This one swims more naturally than its smaller brother and he's more efficient at eating people.The plot consists of a series of shark attacks on single boaters, multiple sailors; this shark doesn't seem to be very picky about his victims. There are many teens in the film who love to sail on their catamarans and they are fair game for Mr. Shark.This film is pretty dull and very slow. The bad story makes it sink like a stone. "}{"Title":"Week-Old Soup","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" But still, not bad. It's nowhere near as bad as a lot of sequels I've seen. There is much that is both good and bad about this movie.THE GOOD. It tells a good story. It takes its time and doesn't rush into things. The way Brody gradually realizes there is another shark on the loose is very well done. Plus the shark laying siege to those kids made for some very tense moments. Also, this is a good lesson for kids. When your parents tell you to do something, by God do it. They know what's best for you. Many posters have already commented on the improbability that the town counselors would not have believed Brody the second time around. Folks, these people are politicians and bureaucrats. They couldn't see the obvious if it bit them right in the ass. That's their nature.THE BAD. The shark jumping out of the water and eating a helicopter was a little silly. So was the killing the shark with an electric cable routine. I would think that everyone else in the water would have been electrocuted as well.All in all, it's not as good as the original JAWS, but it isn't bad, either. Just a little flat in places, but that's to be expected. And John Williams has another great score to his credit. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Jaws 2 is an OK horror flick","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 is a decent sequel that even though it loses its class and becomes more of a gory shark movie like Shark Attack it is actually an alright movie. This time the movie is still about Chief Brody and another shark and once again the stupid Councelers are too stupid to want anything apart from Money. It may not have the depth and is more stupid then the first one it does still hold up better then most Horror flicks story wise anyway. Overall I rate this movie good but not great and certainly not as bad as Jaws 3 and 4 so see this movie if you wanna see a decent horror flick so I think that I will rate it a very solid and very fair sixty two percent. "},{"Title":"O.K. Jaws Sequel","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 is a 1978 horror&#150;thriller film directed by Jeannot Szwarc. It is the first sequel to Steven Spielberg's 1975 Oscar winning classic Jaws. Although there would be two further films in the series, Jaws 2 is generally regarded as the best of the sequels. Set four years after the events of the original film, another great white shark arrives on the shores of Amity Island. After a series of deaths and disappearances, police chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider) suspects that the culprit is another shark. However, he has trouble convincing the town's selectmen. He has to act alone to save the group of teenagers, including his two sons, who meet the shark during a sailing expedition.Like the first film, the production was troubled. The original director, John D. Hancock, proved to be unsuitable for an action film and was replaced by Szwarc. Scheider was also unhappy during production and had several heated exchanges with Szwarc.The film's tag line, Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water..., became one of the most famous in movie history and has been parodied and homaged several times. "},{"Title":"Loose Pacing Does Not Destroy The Enjoyability","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This time, the shark takes it personally.With the return of all the major players (except for Richard Dreyfus), this worthy sequel manages to generate the same level of atmosphere, excitement, and enjoyment as the first. There are two factors that make this inferior.The first factor is the story. The premise has been done now, so the fresh edge is done and gone. That doesn't detract from the work, and opens the opportunity for the story to take over. And it does so, with a vengeance.The second factor was the absence of Dreyfus. He was the strongest supporting character the horror genre had ever seen, and this work lacked for lack of him.I found this remarkably good, slightly inferior, but still quite enjoyable.It rates an 8.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"We've got another shark problem.","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" My Take A huge step-down from the first, but definitely not an awfully bad sequel as it might have. (This is an extended version of the review I wrote on February 2007)If there's one thing bad about JAWS is that it spawned a series of sequels that try so hard to duplicate the success the original, that they tarnish the goodness. The aptly-titled JAWS 2, the first among these follow-ups, is not nearly as bad compared to where the series has fallen, but where else could all this possibly start? This sequel to the blockbuster-hit classic Jaws lacks the right pacing unlike the first. Moves a bit slow and almost all the shark attacks take place in the second half. But still, this sequel is a distance from the oblivion JAWS THE REVENGE has reached. Roy Scheider reprises his role from the first film, and manages to be a fine. His heroic battle in the last parts was especially exciting. The film also has another good scene where the shark sinks the rescue helicopter (who even knew he could do that?) . But still, some parts show great suspense like the first film. But all is occasionally worn down by some blah human dimension that only wears down the pacing. Not even some effective performances can save these slow scenes. Overall, I kinda liked it, although not much as the original, but still Jaws 2 is good stuff, a nice movie to add to your collection.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Not that bad at all","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws II isn't as good as the first one, but it's actually really decent on it's own merits.**SPOILERS**As Amity prepares for a new resort complex to be opened, Police Chief Martin Brody, (Roy Scheider) and wife Ellen, (Lorraine Gary) are still taking care of sons Sean, (Marc Gilpin) and Michael, (Mark Gruner) due to their constant involvement in the water. A series of boating accidents in the local waters prompts Martin to suspect another shark in the area, which is laughed away by Mayor Larry Vaughn, (Murray Hamilton) for fear it would ruin the local developers. When a false alarm at a public beach leaves him without a job, he imposes a stricter ruling on his sons going out in the water. When he finally gets evidence that it's a shark in the waters, Michael goes out with friends Tina Wilcox, (Ann Duesenberry) Jackie Peters, (Donna Wilkes) Eddie Marchand, (Gary Dubin) Andy Nicholas, (Gary Springer) Brooke Peters, (Gigi Vorgan) Paul 'Polo' Loman, (John Dukakis) Timmy Weldon, (G. Thomas Dunlop) Larry Vaughn Jr., (David Elliot) and Doug Fetterman, (Keith Gordon) and goes water-skiing. When they are attacked by the shark, Martin races to their rescue before it takes them out.The Good News There is actually a lot to like in this one, and it's surprisingly decent. The shark in here is the best feature, being featured prominently and getting a chance to show off how great it looks. It's more believable than in the first one, and there's some really good suspense fathered from it's deformed and scarred face. The burn marks go the extra mile and give this beast a little more menace to it since it really looks more demonic and with the personality demonstrated, it makes for a more effective threat. There's a couple of great early attacks, where the fin surfaces behind an oblivious water-skier and trails them underwater for quite a long time until the eventual chomp, and the suspense is full-on and never really denied. All of the attacks lead to the film's one truly imaginative scene, the debacle at the beach when what Brody thinks is the shark turns out to be nothing more threatening than a school of blue-fish. The suspense apparent at the beginning is obvious, as the approaching figure does vaguely look like a shark at the spot from which it's spotted at, and the ending resolution is a nice twist. The film's main feat, though, is the sailboat massacre, which is a long, drawn out affair that really serves as the film's best part. From the moment the fin breaks the surface, causing general pandemonium to the continued assaults and breakthroughs of the defense barriers that follow, this sequence never stops. Throwing in the fear of devourment with a couple of really well-done stalk-and-bite scenes that really hold up quite well. The one scene that really holds a lot of cleverness is the spotting of the one place of sanctuary and upon realizing they're going off-course, paddle toward it only to be reminded of the shark and all immediately remove their hands and look around for it. Those little touches really make it effective. The helicopter downing is handled nicely, having an obstacle thrown at them that hammers home the hopelessness of the situation really clearly. The method for dispatching the creature isn't new, but it's nicely handled and really gets some suspense going, especially the shot of the massive creature bearing down on it. All in all, this wasn't all that terrible for a sequel.The Bad News There really isn't a lot here that this doesn't do right, and most of that is the fact that film feels too padded out at times. It takes forever to get to the center-piece of the film, the assault on the sailboats, and the wait to get there is filled with certain scenes that really don't need to be as long as they are. It takes far too long to get started, as there's too much time at the opening party, the sub-plot of the firing takes a little too much time to come forward when it's obvious early on, and the several others, while necessary, just take a while to get going. The film also really falls short when it comes to the feel in the town. There's a flatness about it, a lack of imagination in the camera set-ups and the establishing shots, and along with an over-reliance on travelogue-y fun-on-the-water inserts, robs the film of much of its potential visual interest. One of the most annoying things, though, about this film is the repetition of the we-can't-close the-beaches plot thread from the original. The mixture of skepticism and greed worked in the first one, where no one had any reason to think there might be a shark around; and here, it's acceptable in the developer who is new in town. However, this attitude is farcical in anyone who lived through Amity's previous nightmare summer, and even more so in a man whose son spends all of his free time out on the water. The repetition of this useless and really irritating subplot really takes most of the film's energy from it, but beyond these, the film isn't that bad.The Final Verdict Unnecessarily maligned for such a really good film, this is a surprisingly watchable film that lives on it's own and really comes across as a decent film in it's own right. Watch it in a really open mind-state and it might be an entertaining thrill ride, but going in expecting a repeat of the original will really deprive of much that the film does right.Rated PG Graphic Violence and some Language "},{"Title":"Not the complete meal, but still a worthy snack..","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" To this day and (Iam now approaching my 30's), I still think about what is underneath me when I swim in the sea, now this is completely down to the first film of course although Jaws 2 has received some battering, complaining of cashing in on the original but then thats what ALL sequels do, now admittedly this one badly lacks Dreyfuss and Shaw especially the drinking and singing Show me the way to go home, however it thankfully still has Scheider without him I doubt if I would have bothered referring to films 3 and 4. Scheider's Brody still has the screen presence that you know he is about to kick some butt, the shark itself does still look a bit fake but then it was late 70's and it was not done by CGI, the shark still terrifies and quite frankly I was glad to see a lot more of it as it is basically the star of the film opposite Brody, all in all it is no way better than the original but then not many films are, but this is a worthy follow up.. "},{"Title":"Great Film, But Its Got Its Flaws!","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I recently just watched all the Jaws Movies on DVD. Jaws 2 starts four years after Jaws 1. Amity is still losing money because of the shark attacks 4 years ago. Roy Schieder returns as Chief Brody also Lorraine Gary and Murry Hamilton return from the first movie. The movie starts with two drivers exploring the bottom of the sea as they stubble along the bottom they find the Ocea as they are doing this they get attack and eaten by the shark. Its not as scary and thrilling like that start of the first movie because you see the shark and the thrill were's off. Jeannot Szwarc was the third director chosen to direct this film. Steven Spielberg was first choice but refused because he had already made his shark movie, second director John Hancock walked off the movie 2 weeks before filming started, he stated that this movie was too much for him, then French director Jeannot Szwarc took the director's chair and stayed. This movie is full of flaws and you can notice them in the film. First they show the shark too much in this film, the shark in this film worked better then the shark in Jaws 1 but it still couldn't move like a real shark that's why you hardly even saw the shark in the first movie. Second the story drags on and sometimes puts you asleep if you are really tired. The running time of 111 mins go's on and on and it feels like you watching Titanic. Also I notice when I see this film it has some pretty weird camera angles and stuff like that. Jaws 2 made about 191 million at the box office and was the 5th highest grossing film of 1978, Producer David Brown said that it made about 40% world wide in the squeal business, and that's classify as great. My overall of Jaws 2 is a 8, it loses stars for showing the shark too much and for the slow story. But it still a good movie and it was the last good Jaws movie made. Jaws 3-D followed then Jaws the Revenge in 1987. "},{"Title":"John Williams score and Roy Scheider save this first sequel","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The start of this movie is excellent...two scuba divers discover the wreckage of The Orca only to be mauled by another Great White Shark...John Williams majestic and wondrous opening music is one of the few saving graces in this flawed sequel.This movie has exactly the same setup and location as the first one, but it does not have as much suspense or sense of adventure.If anything, the Amity kids who are into day sailing are just plain boring and irritating, especially when they are all attacked by the new shark towards the climax, Donna Wilkies as Jackie goes way over the score in the screaming stakes and in the end i did not really care for any of them...well okay, i liked Kevin Gordon's character, he was good but that is it.Its up to the great Roy Scheider as Martin Brody to save the film and this he does with considerable effort, despite the fact he did not want to be in the picture it just goes to show how good he is in a star making role.As far as the shark thrills and spills go, the best action sequence in this movie is when the water skier gets hunted down and gobbled up. A very tense and exciting moment enhanced by William's music. The climax is a little bit like the end of the original, instead of an exploding shark we get a sequence where Brody rams a power cable into its gaping mouth and it gets fried. Its good, but you laugh when Scheider shouts 'All right ya big bastard, a got something for ya now!'7 out of 10.......one good bite deserves another! "},{"Title":"not bad sequel","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" jaws was a blockbuster in 1975,it made people afraid of the ocean. so you know this sequel was coming.it picks up after the first,this time centering on chief Brody and family.another shark comes to amity,possibly related to the first,maybe a brother..., or sister. the action is there,there's more of the shark then the first one. the mayor of amity is still a jerk,even after chief Brody survived the last outing with a great white.not returning is Richard Dreyfus who moved on to do the goodbye girl with Marsha mason.Roy sheider delivers a great performance,as well as co-stars;Lorraine Gary and Murray Hamilton as the mayor.Steven Spielberg didn't direct this time around. when this was released in the summer of 1978,its main competition was grease with john travolta/Olivia newton john.but i think jaws 2 is a good sequel,not great, but good.8 out of 10.check it out. "}{"Title":"Jaws 2","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Distributor MCA home video Plot It's been 4 years since the great white shark attacked the small town of Amity, but there is another one in the ocean. Now Chief Brody must fight to save teenagers (including his kids) who are trapped on sailboats in the middle of the water.Audio/Video Not too bad considering the one I viewed was a VHS from 1983.Extras None. Not even any trailers from other MCA attractions.Final thoughts For some reason I really liked this one. Maybe even more than the original because it is more exciting, more intense. Buy it right away because this is a worthy sequel to the classic Jaws. "},{"Title":"Scary? Who cares","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2. The best of the sequels in the Jaws series. And a worthy rival to Jaws. True the special effects leave a lot to be desired, including the infamous folding mouth sequence. Despite the lack of technology, Jaws 2 was probably almost as scary as Jaws. It certainly proves that sequels can be almost as good as the original.The climactic and spectacular ending, with an electric cable certainly was a surprise when I first watched the film. It looked very real and gave the film the ultimate Jaws ending. One can not help but feel a bit sorry for the shark at the end. In all, Jaws 2 is a dramatic and powerful continuation to the saga that kept people out of the water. "},{"Title":"Sharks don't take things personally Mr.Brody Oh yeah?","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There's definitely something in the water surrounding Amity Island. Three years after the Island's police chief improbably blew up a great white shark with a gun and a canister of liquid oxygen another sub-aquatic serial killer decides to do the copycat thing and help itself to the victims, sorry Islanders. If you think the serial killer conceit is a nothing, throw away kind of comment then its time you sat down and watched Jaws 2 again. The first and best sequel, not that that's saying much, in fact its like saying blood in the urine is better than a cleft face, is the one where the shark makes the transition from mere man eater to evil teen-stalking murderer. This one's got more in common with Halloween than the first film in that all the victims here tend to be attractive adolescent girls and their slightly awkward boyfriends plus in true, have I watched Scream recently or something - sequel style, the body count shoots up in addition to the ante. This is all backed up by a curious supernatural undercurrent - a sort of evil killer back from the dead kinda vibe. The crucial scene is the one in which the marine expert tries to put Brodys mind at rest by making the factual (and obvious) point that Sharks don't do revenge. Brody has other ideas though and as the hero is ALWAYS right in these situations, especially when up against any kind of institutional expert who holds the opposite view, we know there's something in his idea that If one shark were killed, you don't think another shark would... Would what Chief? Come back to kill you and your sons and all his friends? You better believe it. In fact as he looks ominously out to sea and up comes those foreboding strings, we know we're not dealing with any normal finned muncher - this one has an agenda. If the plan is to lure Brody out to sea for what it imagines will be a fairly one sided contest (this thing isn't afraid to eat a HELIPCOPTER!) then the execution is faultless. The first shark's twisted twin knows exactly how to push Brody's buttons. Kill a water-skier? Fine. Feed the police a few sinister pictures - not the face, just the eyes? Done. Build his on land based paranoia to threaten his career and sanity? Easy. And of course target the teens knowing that the great man will be duty bound to follow through and come looking? Holy human-steaks, its like a moth to the flame. In the end the Chiefs only hope against this Machivellian chew-machine is the pipe dream that the ocean will throw up a giant bolt of lighting from its mud strewn floor to fry the undersea equivalent of Peter Sutcliffe. If you were a betting man you certainly wouldn't be fielding a monkey on the local law enforcement.So thats Jaws 2, or to put it another way some text I've written about it. In a movie where Sharks survive explosions and what happened in the first film isn't enough to alert anyone to the potential dangers you just have to suspend your disbelief that little bit further. It's very watchable but more in a throw away fashion than the essential way in which you tend to regard the original. The guy who directed this when on to do Supergirl y'know. Makes you think doesn't it? "},{"Title":"Better than its reputation.","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw Jaws I was interested in seeing any sequels there were right away. However a lot of people told me to stay away from the sequels, because they were horrible. I ignored all this and saw Jaws 2, and believe it or not, I LIKED IT. Sure, there was a bit of amateur acting in the movie, and sometimes it moved a bit too slow, but I think the shark scenes more than made up for any damage the rest of the movie caused to me. I've also seen Jaws 3. No, it's not as good, but I still liked it. I've yet to see Jaws The Revenge and from what I've heard of the story it is stupid beyond belief. I will see it someday, and I know the story will make me throw up, but I feel like I still won't hate it as much as others do. I'm a person who always looks on the bright side when watching movies, and I've only seen a few I've completely hated. "},{"Title":"The Best","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 is by far the best Jaws movie you have to see. It's got screams, gore, language, sex, and a huge 30 foot shark eating more people. I guess it's time to start the partying with laughs then screams.Starring Roy Scheider, Lorraine Gary, Murray Hamilton, Joseph Mascolo, Jeffrey Kramer, Ann Dusenbury and Mark Gruner.Once again a 30 foot shark terrorizes Amity. People are killed left and right,kids take jokes and seriousness the wrong way and the police are smarter than the mayor and other such powerful people when it comes to protecting civilians. Mike Brody(Mark Gruner)is now a young teen. He already gotten a girlfriend, a boat and a life of his own. But when the shark comes abroad when he and his friends go rafting the fun turns to screams and entertainment.I'm glad they made this one. The other sequels weren't as good as this one. Heck, the third and the fourth were crap compared to this. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Jaws 1, but a lot better than Jaws 3D and Revenge.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This sequel to a classic Shark movie, is nowhere near the crap level of the last two movies. It is the closest sequel that comes close to being decent. The acting is mediocre from the whole cast. The shark scenes are nowhere as thrilling as the first movie, but they are very well done for the time this movie was filmed. Steven Spieldberg and Richard Dreyfuss both turned this movie down because they were running behind on Close Encounters of a Third Kind. The movies suffers largely because of their absence. If they agreed to do this movie, it would be a lot better film than what I just saw. It is not good or bad, it's just OK. If you want a good opinion, just watch Jaws 1 and Jaws 2, then skip the rest of the films. "},{"Title":"Good, but will never match up to the true JAWS","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I loved the first JAWS by Spielberg it was just genius but as for this one, when watching I didn't feel as entertained like the 1st but there were good death scenes including Marge's which is the one I remember most, sadly people could not leave JAWS to be one singular film they had to make a stunning sequel from it but the other directors failed to do so, but a good 2nd start I must say but as I said JAWS is just the daddy! And how could someone continue it from a brilliant ending of the 1st it made sense then but to continue it was a bad idea and I knew right when I saw JAWS that people would just die to make another and guess what...THEY DID! "},{"Title":"Just when you thought there wouldn't be a Jaws sequel...","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Given the fact that Jaws did so well at the box-office, a sequel was almost inevitable. And that's exactly what happened. Jaws 2 is far inferior to the original classic but it's still a lot better (from what I know) than the next 2 sequels that followed.I quite enjoyed Jaws 2 despite its flaws. One of the best things about it is that Roy Schieder is back. He gives another strong performance which adds a lot of credibility to the film. The rest of the cast, which includes Lorraine Gary and Murray Hamilton who both reprise their roles, wasn't too bad either. Jeannot Swarc does a decent job directing (although he doesn't come close to Spielberg), creating some good action scenes. But this movie is not without it's problems. Probably the biggest is that Swarc just couldn't muster enough suspense to create that eerie atmosphere that was in the first movie. He tries to do it by replicating Spielberg's style a bit (with the shark POV shots) and twisting it to fit his own mold but it just doesn't work. The silly plot, which looks like something out of a slasher movie, didn't help things out either. I mean, how can we sympathize with a bunch of teenagers who are as flat as cardboard?? And the shark in this movie looks even more fake than it did in the first one, which is weird because they've already had a shark for practice. Overall, if you are casual viewer, you can take or take or leave Jaws 2. But for hardcore Jaws freaks, this is a must-see.Star Rating 3 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Very nearly as good as the first","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The annoying thing about 'Jaws 2' is that it is so close to being as good as the first. The thing that lets it down is the teenagers. They are to 'slasher'. It doesn't really work in a suspense thriller.  The script is pretty good, and the story-line is good. It also isn't afraid to try something new. So, overall, i give it a 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Lacks touch of the original but still an effective follow-up (major spoilers)","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The original Jaws film set a standard for shark and horror thrillers that will probably never be equalled.  The film's own sequels have struggled to equal this Jaws 3 is the weakest of the bunch, Jaws The Revenge is ludicrous but effective and then there is Jaws 2, the earliest and clearly the best of the Jaws sequels.The story is set nearly four years on from the original Jaws and Police Chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider) is now fully settled into his job and his life in tourist town Amity.  However, the mysterious deaths of both a pair of divers and a water skier lead to fears that another Great White is lurking off Amity's shores...The plot follows basically the same line as the original (the shark's prescence is established, Brody tries in vain to persuade disbelieving locals of threat before eventually going off to deal with it himself) but actually develops some character and story ideas from the first film. Police Chief Brody is no longer afraid of the water, but still relies on his nervy deputy (Jeffrey Kramer) to handle all sea duties. is still having problems relating to the locals and his now teenaged eldest son Michael (Mark Gruner).  The town's mayor (Murray Hamilton) is now firmly in league with big business, having allied with himself with a rich local hotel developer (Joseph Mascolo), who has eyes for Brody's wife (Lorraine Gary).This complex background gives the film some of it's best dramatic scenes a showdown with Brody and local officials, the opening scene in the hotel swimming pool, a false alarm scene at the beach, and exchanges Brody has with both his wife and hte mayor.  The script isn't too bad either and gives the adult cast quite a few memorable lines Brody wonders What is it about this place, everybody's a boat freak. It's an island, his wife reminds him.However the film does not give this enough emphasis, and instead focusses on it's flux of teenage characters, who are a whiny, unsympathetic and fairly indistinctive bunch who are there purely as shark fodder.  Not a single one of them develops the necessary depth to make the audience sympathise with them.  When the shark surfaces to attack them, you don't fear for their lives or care if they survive.  This renders the last third of the movie a touch repetitive during quieter moments.Whereas the original film was clearly intended to be taken, on a certain level at least, as a realistic thriller, this sequel sees the series slide, inescapably, into B-movie horror. This is noted not just through the teen emphasis (later made popular by the Friday The 13th films) but the way the shark attacks everything in sight, including catamarans, parachuters and in one memorable scene, a helicopter.Barring the tedious bunch of teen characters, the shark attacks themselves are very effective.  The shark is seen from the beginning this time and while the scenes might not be as frightening as they could be, they are consistently well-staged and exciting.  Gore is kept to a minimum here, as is the actual body count.  There is nothing in this film inherently unsuitable for children.The shark model for this one is convincing in the early scenes up till the point where the shark is burnt in an explosion.  The sight of a mock scar on the side of the shark slightly reduces the impact of it's presence.Performances are for the most part excellent.  Scheider is once again on form as the embattled police chief, and while Robert Shaw and Richard Dreyfuss may not be around he still has strong support from Murray Hamilton as the mayor and Lorraine Gary as his loyal wife.  Jeffrey Kramer and Joseph Mascolo are also very good in their parts.Not quite up to the class of the Spielberg original, but still an entertaining shark movie. "}{"Title":"This time, we shouldn't have gone back into the water!","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Worthy follow-up to the masterpiece original about another great white shark that attacks Amity once again, this time teen sailors, and their only hope is for Chief Brody to save the day.I mean, what can I say? I didn't expect anything like the original. I didn't even expect for this to be even average. Well, I guess you could say that they surpassed my expectations. Good direction by Scwarc and good acting from Scheider, Hamilton, and Gary. Also, a wonderful tagline. Do not see any more of the series beyond this point.3 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Solid Sequel to a Legend","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  With the return of the main actors from the first movie (barring Dreyfuss, who would have made this movie even better) 'Jaws 2' is as solid as most sequels come. We ain't talking 'Empire Strikes Back'-calibre here or anything, but it's good. Very good.It has the same feel to the first one, which is great credit to the director having to follow in the footsteps St. Spielberg. The water action is thrilling and bloody while the interplay between leads is as electrifying as ever.My only gripe with the movie is the complete disregard shown to Chief Brody by the council members. After what he did for the town in the original film it's a totally unreasonable plot-line for them to fire him.However, the film is well made and doesn't drag at all. Thoroughly recommended. But don't be swayed, this should be the only Jaws sequel, Jaws 3D and 'The Revenge' should not be watched. Terrible movies that disgrace what went before. "},{"Title":"More,more...less","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There is more of everything (except good movie) in this sequel. Yet, it has many fun and enjoyable qualities. More shark...more victims.... more teenagers on sailboats reading poetry and having a grand old time. The shark is larger....and it still has Roy Sheider in his best ocean related roll (sorry, SeaQuest fans). No, this - like Rocky 2-5 - is not the same quality movie that the original is. In fact, this and its following sequels have probably hurt the reputation of its excellent predecessor. Anyway...blah blah. This movie is good. The best of the sequels to Jaws and there are some interesting shark cams (like the top of the fin cam) and some really good shark shots (that look like a trip to Universal studios now) but were probably pretty cool originally. Also; unlike the dumb sharks in the real world - the shark in this movie ROARS!!!  "},{"Title":"An Underrated Film; Not Godfather II, but Well-Made, Well-Acted and Very Scary.","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film was the first sequel to the classic Jaws and so was inevitably compared to it. However, it is unfair to compare this to the original and not give it a chance on its own merits. I was 11 when I saw Jaws and 14 when I saw Jaws 2. I knew it had been made mostly because the original was so successful, but even at 14 I wanted to see it in part at least, for what it might have to offer. I was not disappointed. Granted, it was not directed by Spielberg, but I think Jeannot Swarc did a more than competent job. Roy Scheider, Lorraine Gay and Murray Hamilton reprise their roles and give very good performances, as good as in the original film. I thought the shark effects were good. The shark does not look fake. I think considering the technology available at the time, the shark looks pretty darn real.SPOILER WARNING If you have not seen Jaws 2 you may not want to read any further, as I discuss some scenes that reveal certain plot details.Maybe they show the shark a little more than Spielberg did, perhaps a bit too much, but the scenes where the shark attacks are well staged and convincing. The water-skiing scene is terrifying; makes you think about skiing on the ocean! Even the much debated helicopter scene. It was well staged and it's pretty scary. I don't think it's implausible with a shark that big, but that's all I will say about that. I was not bothered by the focus being on Chief Brody's sons and their friends going out on sailboats during most of the movie's second half. What's wrong with that? There is a sort of rivalry between Murray Hamilton's son in the film, Larry Vaughn Jr, and Mike Brody that I thought was interesting and at least rings true. Larry is the rich mayor's son; Mike is the Chief of Police's son who has to work during the summer; both are young, good looking kids, interested in the same pretty girls. The scenes with the boats play into that. (This rivalry was also present, albeit to a greater extent, in the novel which came out at the same time as the movie.) Ok, so maybe Richard Dreyfuss and Robert Shaw are not here, but remember that Shaw's character was killed; Dreyfuss probably had better things to do after winning his Oscar for Goodbye Girl, or perhaps simply wasn't interested, but I'm thinking, maybe it would be too easy to just bring the Dreyfuss character back. I think it makes at least some sense that this time Brody is on his own. At least he has some idea of what he's dealing with. As far as the Jaws movies that followed this one, all I can say is, if someone thinks Jaws 2 isn't at least worth watching (and it is a lot more than just worth watching! ), you should see the other ones (At your own risk!); both Jaws III and Jaws 4 are awful (Dennis Quaid and Bess Armstrong  were pretty much the only good things about Jaws 3, and even so their roles were badly written. Quaid should have passed on that one and Bess Armstrong probably ruined her carreer. Michael Cane missed picking up his first Oscar in person because he was filming Jaws 4. He was wasted in that film. He should have gone to the Oscars, finished the film, and fired his agent.). Fair warning. Jaws 2 may not be the greatest sequel ever made, but like Damien Omen II, it is a worthy sequel to a classic film; it has a good cast, good performances, it is well made, it is entertaining, and yes, very scary. I must say also that I loved the original tag line just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water.... That was simply brilliant!! Since I last saw this film on widescreen laserdisc, which at least restored the aspect ratio, Jaws 2 has been released on DVD. I waited about a year or so and just recently bought it. I must say the film looks great, even if the sound is the original mono, and the bonus materials are superb!! I particularly liked the two making of documentaries and the worn-looking, nostalgia inducing theatrical trailers. I also recommend reading the novel, if you can find it. As a film collector, I am more than happy to include this film in my library next to its classic predecessor. "},{"Title":"Just When You Thought It Was Safe to Go Back into the Water.....","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Starring Roy Scheider, Lorraine Gary, Murray Hamilton, Joe Mascolo, Jeffery Kramer, Mark Gruner, Ann Dusenberry, and Colin Wilcox.*Spoilers*  Four Years after the shark attacks on Amity, The beaches are getting ready to open again. Scubadivers go to investigate the sunken Orca. They are killed underwater by something. There has been an boating accident on the beach that a woman has witness. Chief Martin Brody is concerned again for the town. Two teens notice that a whale has been massively attacked. Chief Brody goes to Mayor Vaughn again to warn him, but once again, Vaughn tries to ignore it. Because of Chief Brody's actions, he has been fired from the Amity Police, without his kids knowing. The next day, his kids go sailing with they're friends. Mike sneaks out along with Sean without his father knowing. When they are in the middle of the sea, a Great White Shark attacks them, killing one of the friends. When Martin Brody finds out that his kids are out sailing, he gets on a rescue Police Boat and comes across a girl in a sailboat. She says that a shark killed her boyfriend. Now Brody knows that there is a shark, and he must get to his kids before the shark gets to them first.  I rented this and when I finished, I was pretty surprised. This was surprisingly good. This movie would've worked well with Steven Spielberg and with Richard Dreyfuss as a co-star. The very inferior sequels, Jaws 3 and Jaws The Revenge, were horrible. Stay far away from those, but this one is pretty good. If you loved the original, then you'll love Jaws 2.2.5 out of 4. My IMDB Raing 6.0/10 "},{"Title":"Less about characters...more about chomping.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie isn't as well acted as the first, but it has a bit more of the shark attacking and action.  It isn't as good, but it is still a rather fun movie, though it is partly responsible for the let's add teenagers to every horror movie mentality.  Roy Shieder returns as do a couple other characters though I do believe Michael grew up a bit to fast as he now appears about 16 or 17 when in the last one he looked maybe 10 or 11.  There may be another shark and the sheriff is the only one who believes there is.  Though this is kind of annoying as people should be more willing to listen and worry less about the tourist season this time around.  His sons go boating against his will and this leads to numerous shark attacks on a bunch of the kids who just had to boat for some reason.  Not as good as the first, but it is still a good movie and I love the conclusion. "},{"Title":"Without Spielberg, not as good","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This sequel is, like most sequels, not quite up to the original. Of course, the original was directed by Steven Spielberg and this one was not. Don't get me wrong, this film is still pretty darn good, but it lacks the punch of the first one. Perhaps it's because the viewer already has an idea of what to expect, so this film doesn't have the shock factor that was present in Jaws. The cast is largely the same, at least the principal characters, and the story is nearly as strong as the original. I believe that the first one was so great because of the suspense of being in that scenario for the first time. The second time around, it becomes far less intense and the film suffers because of that. This film is far from ho-hum, though. I don't mean to imply that this is a boring story, because it certainly isn't! This one, judging by the rating number being considerably lower than the original, just didn't strike the same chord as the original. Few sequels do. This film is good, but not great. "},{"Title":"An allright sequel.","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's four years later, and the small town that suffered from the shark, seems to have recovered. But when a diver disappeare, and a skier has an accident. Martin Brody (very well played by Roy Scheider) again suspects it was a great white shark. But the town tells him he is being paranoid. Martin's teenage son Michael loves to sail, and seems to have forgot about the shock he suffered four years earlier. Can Martin prove again it was a great white shark, before it's too late. An allright seguel, that seems to miss Spielbergs touch. This film was almost over done with it's self. Roy Scheider makes the film work and carries the most of the film, next to the shark. "},{"Title":"Would not have been so successful if it was an original movie.","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  JAWS 2 is the sequel that should be oh so very grateful to the original JAWS. Because if this film wasn't its sequel, it would not have been as successful as it was. Carl Gottlieb has still managed to write a worthy film sequel to live up the original JAWS. If JAWS is the grand-daddy of action adventure movies, then this film is its son. Roy Scheider and Murray Hamilton both return to reprise their roles from the original. This time its up to Brody to save his own sons and their friends from another killer shark that is attacking their sail boats.This plot is pretty good. It is original, and thankfull it has not yet been imitated by a stupid wannabe movie. If you are a fan of action adventure movies or if you were a fan of the original JAWS, then you need to see this film.JAWS 2 gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"Jaws II. And Just When You Thought it Was Safe to Go Back in the Water.","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         It has been four years since the last shark attacks on the peaceful island town of Amity and now the town has finally gotten back on its feet. Some scuba divers were under the sea with an underwater camera taking pictures of the wreckage of The Orca, the vessel the shark hunters used in the first movie. Then, all of a sudden, something came out of nowhere and attacked the divers. The camera snapped pictures of it all. The attacker was Jaws II, a bigger and meaner shark than the first Jaws.        Chief Martin Brody and his wife Ellen attend the opening of a new hotel and are at ease these days because there's no real catastrophe in Amity, except Brody is swamped with police work. Brody's eldest son, Michael goes sailing with his friends. His younger brother Sean often goes with them. One afternoon at the beach, a mother and her teenage daughter were water skiing. Everything was peaceful until Jaws II swam up and attacked the girl, then he went for the mother on the boat and a chain reaction caused a huge explosion. Was this the end of Jaws II? Hardly. Later, a dead killer whale washes up on shore with enormous bites taken out of it. Brody was convinced it was a shark and was even more convinced there was another aggressive man-eating shark out there. Once again, he told Mayor Larry Vaughn they should close the beaches and once again, Vaughn didn't listen; Brody noticed a dark spot in the water and thought it a shark, so he yelled for everybody to get out of the water and shot at it, but it turned out to be a school of blue fish. But soon, Brody discovered the pictures from the underwater camera which was found. One of the pictures was an unclear close-up of Jaws II. He showed the pictures to the city council and not only did they not believe him, they fired him.         Though forbidden by his father, Michael Brody decides to go sailing with his friends. Sean goes along. The kids' trip goes fine until Jaws II shows up. He attacks one of the kids. Brody takes a harbor patrol boat out to find the kids and before long a harbor patrol helicopter shows up and was about to rescue the kids when Jaws II attacked it. The kids face further danger when their sail boats tip over and are nearly devoured by Jaws II. But soon it's Brody to the rescue! With the hook and wench on his boat, he surfaces a power line that supplies power to Amity. That gave Brody an idea. He lured Jaws II towards him, holding the power line at the ready It worked! Jaws II jumped up and sank his teeth into the power line, rendering him deep-fried. Brody and the kids reach land in triumph. Amity was once again safe.         Great movie. Just as good as the first. Maybe even better. Roy Scheider returns as Cheif Martin Brody, and was just as good in this film. Lorraine Gary returns as Ellen Brody and Murray Hamilton is back as that no-good Larry Vaughn. Jaws 2 was followed by Jaws 3 and Jaws The Revenge, both of which didn't do too well at the box office. Oh well, a formula works only so long. That's pretty much all there is to say, so if you liked Jaws 1 and would like to see another man-eating shark attack on the small town of Amity, check out Jaws 2! By the way, that shark still looks fake.- "}{"Title":"Not bad, but not great","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"    I know I haven't commented on the original Jaws (which will forever be in my movie top ten), but I like this film all the same.   Obviously, it wasn't going to match up to the original.  But so what?  That doesn't mean it was bad.   In fact, I would've given this film an eight if it wasn't for the corny ending with the teens on sailboats being attacked by the shark (did like the scene where the helicopter was dragged under, though).   Roy Scheider is a trooper, and he did very well, as did Lorraine Gary.  Murray Hamilton, who gave a great performance in the original as the bureaucratic mayor, reprises his role but (sadly?) only has a one-scene cameo.  None of the new characters are particularly memorable.   Six stars for not being that bad. "},{"Title":"This sequel is worth a view!!!!!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Im a big (HUGE)JAWS fan to begin this review,so it means that almost anything related to the big great white is cool to me,but im going to be reasonable in this review. Chief Martin Brody(Roy Sheider) returns in this sequel to put an end to the new great white shark attacking on Amity Beach,everyone thinks he´s insane,well,just the government guys who want to keep the beaches open again,yes,we are talking about Mayor Larry Vaughn (yes,he´s back too)and the only one on his side is his wife Ellen Brody (Lorraine Gary)and Hendricks The Cop (Yep,they´re back too)so now to the gory details His oldest son Mike,his kid brother Shawn and Friends go out on catamaran boats with andof course they get attacked by the big shark so it´s now up to dad to save the day. The acting is O.k...Not counting the kids everything is good,the bad is that we don´t get the suspense about the shark as we had on the original movie,so it becomes flat sometimes,Hooper should have come back but they just did´t get dreyfuss to agree with this movie. Theere are some scenes that just Doesn´t work and there are some like the girl on the boat and the skier,it was fun and the action was cool,the ending is a little too Hollywood but they wanted a big finale like in the first movie....it´s o.k I´ll give it a good 9 out of 10 on JAWS Sequels.  "},{"Title":"Ummmmmmmmmmmmm.....","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ** Starring Roy Scheider and Bruce the Great White Shark!Brody, still a little too worried about the shark, must stop the great white from eating more people.  Yay!!!  No....  The movie is trying to get some cash and it does, indeed, but the movie fails at many levels. "},{"Title":"We're gonna bite right through an electric cable too, and then we'll take it higher!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This wasn't a bad sequel. Laughable maybe, but not bad. Of course it doesn't come close to the brilliance of Jaws but hey how many movies do? Somewhat decent acting all around, even though I think they could've concentrated a little more on Roy Scheider than those kids posing as shark bait but oh well. Lorraine Gary before her disastrous turn in Jaws The Revenge plays the wife part well here again. I don't know, this movie could have been better but there's a lot more that works than falls flat here. The shark looks cheesier here than it did the first time around. There's one point that it opens it's mouth and you can clearly see the machinery operating it inside. People do get bitten, eaten and dragged through water only to smack up against the side of a sailboat. Even helicopters are disrespected. You can't ask for more than that from a movie like this. The DVD is pretty nice too. Rating *** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Not a bad follow up","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It was said that the original concept for Jaws 2 was a more character driven film than its predecessor. To my knowledge, its first screenwriter had been fired and when the script was re-written more action had been added. This however did not have a negative affect on Roy Scheider as his character becomes more complex and interesting. The world of chief Brody has expanded as we see how strongly these shark attacks have influenced his personal and professional life. Even though he is right about another shark terrorizing the locals, you do have a sense that he is being driven insane as his emotional reactions surface even when there is obviously no danger.Jaws 2 will never live up to the original, but it is a good sequel with a great performance by Scheider, good photography, and one of the best scores by John Williams. If there had been no pressure by the studio to release the picture by the summer of 1978, Spielberg and Dreyfus would have gladly gotten involved with the project a year later, and Jaws 2 would have been even better.    "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel to the classic original","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2 is a worthy sequel to the classic original .Roy Scheider,for an actor who did this for the paycheck,turns in a strong,compelling performance as Martin Brody.Murray Hamilton turns in a decent performance as financially obsessed Mayor Vaughn,with soap opera superbaddie Joseph Mascolo as his sleazy sidekick.Lorraine Gary is also good as Ellen Brody.I love the scene where she tells off Mascolo's Peterson character.The kids are  decent,too.John Williams delivers a terrific score.Jeannot Szwarc handles the director's chores competently.Considering his later movies(anyone remember Supergirl?) this is probably his best outing and the best Jaws sequel. 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Pretty exciting follow up","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2 is worthy of being called a pretty good sequel.  Despite the fact that the character drama and shock factors are now gone, this movie just comes right out with showing the shark on a rampage.  Jeanot Szwarc did I fine job, with an interesting horseback shot on the shark.  Definatly the better of the 3 sequels, and still holds up well. "},{"Title":"Pure Crap","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was a really disappointing sequel. There was one scary part and that was when a body was washed ashore. Nothing else scary happened. Jaws was good but this was pure crap. It was nothing like the first film. A group of teenagers go out to sea in tiny boats and you can guess what happens to their boats. Martin Brody says there is a shark in the water and just as in the first film they don't believe him. 3 out of 10 as I am being very kind. "},{"Title":"Shouldn't have been made","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2 is a film in my opinion that shouldn't have been made, not just for the fact that it was never going to equal the superb original, but it is really, really difficult to believe the simple fact that the same man and same island would once again be terrorised by a man eating shark. Also once again the local mayor would refuse to believe that their was any danger blah blah blah. Its the same thing done over again except without Richard Dreyfus and Robert Shaw's characters for Roy Scheider to interact with, instead he's out on his own trying to save some really annoying teenagers I for one was looking forward to seeing them turned into sharkfood. The director even tries to replicate the part from the film that made you jump out of your seat with fright and misses by miles. Actually thats a tad unfair because the director didn't to bad a job, and I suppose if you haven't seen the wonderful first film then you might get something out of this movie which was surely made for one reason only, the huge amount of money it would make at the box office. Lacks bite ***3/10*** "},{"Title":"Terrific Stand Alone Picture","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2 has many detractors. Usually it is hardcore fans of the original, sulking that their milestone picture has been ruined by a number of inferior sequels. Well, I am the hardest, biggest and most loyal of hardcore Jaws followers. And yes, Joe Alves' 3-D was bad, and Joseph Sargent's 1987 installment (The Revenge) is perhaps one of the worst films ever committed to celluloid. But Jaws 2, made in 1978, is a damn good film. Make that a great film. Ignored by most people who have never really watched it, Jeannot Schwartz's film is technically superb and has moments of real tension. This is a lot darker than Spielberg's original and for my money a little more frightening. The shark itself is not as realistic than 'Bruce', but still has more visual kick than a 1000 CGI shots could accomplish. The film has a dour, downbeat feel to it (almost depressing) and yes, the ending is a little hard to swallow. But as  both a sequel and a stand alone film, Jaws 2 more than delivers. Scheider is back, the key to the whole film, and is magnificent. Brody is now more confident, more stoic, and still THE greatest everyman hero in cinema. The rest of the cast are terrific (Hamilton, Gary, Mascolo and a youthful Keith Gordon in particular), Williams delivers a more complex musical score and Schwartz does a great job of giving the film a fresh feel. Filming a sequel to any film is difficult. Filming a sequel to the greatest motion pictury ever is impossible. Shwartz pulls it off, and has never had any real credit for doing so. Jaws 2 is a satisfying thriller, and the second greatest shark movie ever. "}{"Title":"Not as good as the first","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't mind this movie to be honest, even though it's not as good as the original film. I think what most critics didn't like about it was that it misses the adventure side that the original had and just goes for the shark scenes and gore. But if that's what you're interested in, and (I'm sure many were) then this movie is definately for you! "},{"Title":"the Rubber shark is back!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this gets a 10 ...why? because it made people jump in the right spots...and had people still freaked out afterwards!!! and the cast of teens were Awesome!!! for a 1970's flick, this one is tops!!! back in a time of simplier pleasures, when you could drink a coke out of a tall bottle...and get ice cream from the ice cream truck...jaws 2 was another blockbuster that made alot of money...and struck fear into young people's hearts once again... "},{"Title":"A Very Tough Act To Follow","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Given its extremely intense combination of terror, drama, suspense, and actin, it is not surprising that JAWS should be such a tough act to follow.  Nor should it be surprising that the three sequels that followed were more and more like let-downs than real movies.  JAWS 2, however, manages to have at least a little bit of panache to it, even though Spielberg, who had been busy making CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND at the time, was too busy to helm this movie.  Instead, the director was Jeannot Szwarc, whose credits included the weird 1975 horror movie BUG.It is three years since Amity's police chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider) had an uncomfortably close encounter with a 25 foot-long Great White shark.  But now, a couple of divers investigating the wreck of the Orca have disappeared, and so it's not surprising that the chief senses trouble.  A woman is then killed in a boating accident within a few hundred yards from shore.  And when a whale gets beached with more than a few teeth marks in its skin, Scheider is very sure that there is another Great White shark in the water.Unfortunately, Scheider is once again unable to do his job in protecting public safety because the mayor (Murray Hamilton) is too interested in the lucrative real-estate developments taking place on the island.  Instead of caving in to the pressure from Hamilton and a greedy business tycoon (Joseph Mascolo), even after being fired, Scheider takes matters into his own hands.  And when the shark starts to go after the island's teens, including his two sons, it becomes a personal matter.  An attempt to rescue a group of teens stranded on a boat close to a lighthouse ends in failure when the rescue chopper is consumed by the shark.  But Scheider comes in and leads the shark to chew into the underwater electrical cable, electrocuting the fish.Would JAWS 2 have been as good as the original if Spielberg had been the one in the director's chair, instead of Szwarc?  Almost certainly.  It is perhaps pointless, however, to compare the two directors because it is clearly a lop-sided comparison.  JAWS 2 has more improbable moments than the original, but it does have moments where the suspense is fairly palpable, including one of the teens (Ann Dusenberry) urging her boyfriend to get back in the boat when she spots the shark approaching him in the water.  John Williams returns with another very good score, and Scheider is, of course, at his very best in his second and final turn as Brody.One would have hoped the Carl Gottlieb/Howard Sackler screenplay would have given Scheider and the rest more to work with; but given the ludicrousness of this film's two successors, it does more than anticipated.  So, while it is certainly not at masterpiece status like the first one was, JAWS 2 still warrants a rating of '7'. "},{"Title":"Hmmmmm, not bad","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Considering that JAWS 2 is a sequel to one of the most popular movies EVER, and that big-name studios never seem to be able to get sequels right, this ain't bad. It's no classic but it's a whole lot of cheesy fun.The film takes place three years after the events of the original. Chief Brody is now a highly respected figure in Amity ever since knocking off the shark from the first movie. However, he's still a bit traumatized from what happened on that boat so many years ago. Meanwhile, two scuba divers have been gobbled up by ANOTHER shark that just so happens to be passing by. Out of pure coincidence, Brody finds one of the diver's cameras and develops the film, to find that the frightened man took a picture of his attacker. Naturally, no one believes him (which is a pretty silly plot twist due to what happened in the town three years earlier) and Brody gets fired. What he doesn't know is that the shark is still prowling the waters. For no other reason then to pick up the pace, a group of teens, led by Brody's son, decide to take a trip out into the sea aboard their less-then sturdy sail boats. Naturally, the shark comes a' calling and it's up to the chief to find out what to do.Despite its stupid story and ridiculous plot twists (the shark bears a PHANTOM OF THE OPERA-style scar on one side of his snout), JAWS 2 is a fairly competent sequel and by far the best of the three follow-ups.B+ "},{"Title":"Don`t waste your time and money","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a terrible movie. My brother wanted to rent Jaws 2 becausewe thought Jaws was a good movie. The old sailor in Jaws was aHemingway figure and made for a very interesting part. AlsoDreyfuss as the shark expert. The clue is to make it matter for theviewer that the killer shark eats them. In Jaws 2 however, we get only kids and hysterical girls with noscreen presence what so ever, I was glad when the shark took agood bite. You are much better off renting Anaconda or even Hider in theHouse with Gary Busey. Gary Busey with a false shark finn wouldhave been MUCH more scary than the shark in Jaws 2.  "},{"Title":"Not THAT Bad","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  `Jaws 2' gets a bum rap sometimes.  Yes, it's not as good as the original `Jaws,' but it's still pretty good.  Considering the conditions under which it was made (constant rewrites, changing directors after filming had started, the usual technical difficulties), it's better than it could have been, and much better than the sequels that followed.Now, being a sequel shouldn't automatically doom a movie.  When you have a logical continuation of the first movie, or a new adventure with the same characters, then you're okay.  It's when a sequel repeats the original, that's when you get a bad case of `sequelitis.'  `Jaws 2' is the same basic story as the original (shark terrorizes seaside community), but there are enough variations on the theme to make the movie exciting.  You see much more of the shark, which isn't always a good thing the script manages to give the shark some impressive burn scars, but otherwise it's indistinguishable from the original.The overall feeling of `Jaws 2' is lighter, if not lightweight.  There were times when `Jaws' seemed like a Hitchcock film; much of the time, `Jaws 2' is like one of Roger Corman's 1950s monster movies, and that's not necessarily bad.  It's an entertaining way of killing two hours, leaving pleasant memories of itself and its predecessor in its wake.  "},{"Title":"A solid sequel!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Sequels are almost an afterthought these days, if a movie has any kind of success, a series of sequels follow. Only a few times could it be said that a sequel deserves the classic status of its original. The Godfather 2 is an example, but it is really not a sequel, but a continuation, Aliens is a sequel that is even better than its predecessor. Most sequels that are entertaining but mostly forgettable.Now, on to Jaws 2! When this movie came out I was only 9 years old and even then, i had loved Jaws. So most people regard it as a disappointment, which is in a way, unfair, because it is a well crafted movie. It has a basic structure that is similar to the original, Chief Brody warning the town's head honchos that a shark is endangering Amity island. Roy Scheider again is terrific as Brody, he plays him as an intelligent but obsessed man, deeply affected by what he had gone thru 3 years earlier. The other star of the film obviously is the shark. The first film benefited from not seeing much of the shark until the last half of the film. Anyone familiar with Jaws lore will remember that Spielberg and Co. could not get the mechanical shark to work most of the time, they HAD to focus more on suspense and character. The first film is a classic.In Jaws 2 the filmmakers really could not get away with not showing the shark, they Had to show it more. And yes, it looks fake most of the time,but It looked fake in the first one too, the action scenes are done very well. Well directed by Jeanott Szwarc, the shark scenes move quickly and sustain the suspense well. These days they would have used CGI, but as an example, Deep Blue Sea had the nifty CGI effects, but no suspense, I'll take good suspense over SFX any day!. Jaws 2 is not a masterpiece like its predecessor, but it doesn't try to be, the filmmakers wanted to entertain the audience in more of a monster movie fashion, and they succeeded. Next to Jaws 3 and Jaws 4, Jaws 2 IS a Classic!!!Grade B "},{"Title":"A more than effective sequel","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I suppose I'm in the minority,but I enjoyed Jaws 2 more than the original.It was action-packed and fun cinema.For starters,both Jaws and Jaws 2 have more than their share of flaws,but the biggest thing the original had going for it was that it was not a follow-up of anything,so it didn't have the problem of being immedietely compared to something.I thought the shark in Jaws 2 was overexposed a bit,but nonetheless there were some effective scenes.SPOILERS          My favorite scene in the movie,believe it or not,did not involve a fatality,but was very effective.A group of divers are down in the ocean depths,and one of them is sifting through and searching around a kelp bed,looking for lobsters.Out of nowhere,the shark lunges into the kelp bed,stunning the diver.Frightened silly by the shark,who has a sinister burn scar on the right side of its face and   head, the diver swims to the surface in a panic,and is in shock once he is pulled into the boat by his comrads.The music during this sequence was brilliant.In fact,I feel the musical score by John Williams was superior in Jaws 2 than Jaws,in which it won several awards.                                                                                                                                         This movie is underrated,and as I stated previously,I actually enjoyed it substantially more than the original.   "},{"Title":"Excellent sequel.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2 is a great sequel but is crap compared to the original.  Those of you who feel you must bitch about how the sequel should be better that it's original version than you should go watch the God Father Trilogy maybe it will make you feel better.  I absolutley agree with the fact that it was a bad movie when being compared to the original Jaws.  I think that Jaws 2 is a ligitament film and I will be able to watch it many times in the future. One weak element about this film was the fact that they didn't bring back Richard Dreyfuss as his charcater.  I think that this movie would have been better with Richard Dreyfuss instead they made a brief reference to his charcater during the film. I believe that this movie is truly one of the great sequels in movie history. "},{"Title":"Stop expecting the First Movie again, this one stands on its' own!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Now that the widescreen DVD's of Jaws and Jaws 2 have been released by Universal we can see that they are very similar in quality and entertainment. Jaws 2 maybe more than any sequel in the summer blockbuster era (that began with Jaws in 1975) seems to really badly suffer from peoples' need to have the same thrills that they did in the first film. We as human beings 'expect' things from everyone in life. Expectations lead to disappointment. Fans of the first Jaws always say Richard Dreyfuss and Robert Shaw are sorely missed in this sequel, but consider this - Shaw's character is dead and Dreyfuss' character does not live anywhere close to Amity, not to mention why would he come back to hunt down a shark again when that is not even his job. It is much more realistic for the town of Amity to have to deal with the shark on its' own. And they don't even know for sure that it is a shark until the latter part of the film. Also, neither Jaws nor Jaws 2 is a realistic story. A shark would not continually terrorize a town so much as the sharks do in both films. However, if it happens once in nature, it can happen again - lightning does strike twice and therefore the premise for Jaws 2 is plausible.Jaws 2 is an excellent sequel, and it can proudly stand along side the original, unlike the other two horrible sequels. It has a verrrrry underrated John Williams score, many of the townspeople from the original film have better, larger roles, it has great shark scenes, solid direction, Roy Scheider, and the outstanding Producer team of Zanuck and Brown. Those guys were old pros and knew how to deliver a different story that also still builds on what the original created. Had they had a chance to produce another Jaws sequel, then maybe the series wouldn't be so malignly regarded as it is now. Even the Superman series with the horrible 3 and 4, just got a boxed set release on DVD. Back to the Future and Indiana Jones and Star Wars certainly will too. So out of the great blockbuster series of the late 70s thru the 80s, only Jaws has not been released as a set. It certainly is not because of Jaws 2, which is one of the great surprises of DVD this year. Universal was not stupid. They realized this was the last good Jaws film, and that they could still make money off of it. They treated the film with respect. The bonus materials are amazing!!!!Jaws 2 is a terrific movie for those of you who are willing to give up your expectations and let the film guide you to its' entertainment and satisfaction. "}{"Title":"Despite Most Opinions, This Movie Is Well Done","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Most would disagree with me, but I tend to like  Jaws 2  more than the first  Jaws . Having Roy Scheider in it obviously helps it's cause, but I think  Jaws 2  tends to hold more excitement than the first, though with less suspense. The most exciting part is when the kids' boats have capsized and they are forced to tie together and drift upon the wreck, hoping that they are not attacked by the shark and that they can make it to land. I think the strongest individual scene that this movie offers is when Cynthia Grover's character Lucy is sitting by herself upon the wrecked boats praying to God and Mary that she and her friends will be saved. Later in the movie, Lucy is almost killed as the shark rushes toward her, but God must have been looking out for her, as the shark grazes her and she survives. I'm quite impressed with Cynthia's acting ability, though I've only seen her in  Jaws 2  and   Network  ( where she is credited as Cindy Grover ). "},{"Title":"Hunting season´s open!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This sequel is all right! The psychological suspense from the original has gone, of course, but in this second part the shark appears more often and the body count is much higher. In the 70s Spielberg´s Jaws caused a lot imitations, the so-called animal horror was born. No species was left out spiders, snakes, piranhas, barracudas, crocodiles, dogs, bees... The most of those flicks were lacking in suspense, because their stories were foreseeable and these movies had just to be in the element of the huge success of Spielberg´s classic. Watch Jaws 2 and you will recognize that it´s one of the best of its kind... 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not the original","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The original Jaws is my favorite movie ever, so you may think I dislike or even hate Jaws 2. But that is not the case. I realize why Jaws 2 was made, and that is as an excuse to make money. It is only natural to feed the public a sequel, and feed more bathers to a great white. As a movie, it is good, although not even close to the same league as the original. Jaws 2 is more of a teen slasher pic than a carefully crafted thriller like the first movie was.The biggest drawback is the fact that Roy Scheider has to carry the acting workload, without Robert Shaw or Richard Dreyfuss to play off of. Scheider does an admirable job as the stressed out police chief Martin Brody, once again trying to convince the town fathers there is a shark on the loose. But after awhile, a lot of it just boils down to him running around like a madman yelling Shark!. Murray Hamilton as Mayor Vaughn is sympathetic to Brody this time, but the opposition now comes from Joseph Mascollo as a real estate salesman and Mrs. Brody's boss. The interaction between him and Brody is nowhere close to the byplay between the chief and Mayor Vaughn in the first movie. It's just a plot device to allow people to be attacked. Of course, it's the kids that take the beating, as the shark mauls everything in sight. As far as the shark, well, Bruce (The name for the shark dubbed by SS himself during the first film) gets pretty much exposed in this one. At one point, he looks like he breaks his upper jaw and nose straining to take a bite out of a kid, making him look like a foam rubber puppet. By the end, he gets too much screen time to be scary anymore. Where as the first Jaws had a lot of things that a 25 foot shark would actually do, this one just stretches the bounds to make the shark seem more evil than the original. By the way, at several points in the film they toy with the idea that this shark wants revenge for the death of the first great white. This, of course is a prelude to Jaws The Revenge, a movie I DO hate and refuse to consider part of the Jaws legacy.Jaws 2 is not a bad film, but it can't help but pale in comparison to the first. It made a hundred million, entertained the people, but aside from that it won't stand as a classic.    "},{"Title":"sha sha sha sharrrrrrrrrkkkkk!!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The movie rocked. You don't expect a sequel to eclipse it's original so what the .....! Yeah the shark looked like it was constructed around a $200 budget. And yes the film was Jason pre-incarnated as a 25ft monster fish, but the movie was fun. Of course the shock value of the original was evanescent, but J2 made up for it by capitalizing on the advanced 1978 technology of Technicolor that its predecessor lacked.(ha ha) On a scale of five stars I give it a 3 1/2. Star Wars will probably go down in history as the only Trilogy to pull close to five stars in multi-episode cinema. What they should have done for shock value for J2 is instead of showing a quarter eaten Orcinus Orca lying on the beach, simulate the actual attack. A 25ft GW would make short work of a 30ft Orca with a surprise attack from below. But 25ft is over-exaggerated for today's carcharias. I'd hate so see what would happen if Megalodon happened to surface!!!!  Orcas are gay anyway, they hunt in pods. Wusses. Safety in numbers! "},{"Title":"Thoughts on the attacks, and cut scenes...","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is missing everything that made the original so great.  Everyone knows that the chemistry and acting is worse, so I'd like to comment on the shark and attack scenes.  The shark looks much worse.  If you thought it looked fake in the original wait 'till you see this thing.  It looks very rubbery, the top center of the mouth has a point, and it seems to be able to close its mouth completely with no teeth showing, like a human.  That is forgivable and I'd still take this shark over any CGI, but the kicker is that we don't really see it eat anybody!  Even the last attack of the movie is shot from behind the shark's head so we never actually see an attack!  When compared with the graphic detail of Quint's death in the original, this movie seems very tame, like a Jaws for kids.Many of us have now seen the additional footage of the helicopter pilot underwater after his helicopter gets flipped.  The shark menaces him for a few seconds.  Now why on earth was that cut out?  This is not like the stupid unnecessary cut footage from the original, this is shark head footage here!  It could be argued that this is the best scene in the movie, the poor guy is forced to drown himself because if he exits the helicopter he'll be eaten.  I would've liked it even more if the shark took him, but oh well.That brings me to my last gripe about Jaws 2- not enough teens get killed!  It's like watching a Friday the 13th movie where all of the annoying teens survive, and the ones that are killed are done off-camera.  I can't recommend this, but it's leagues better than Jaws 3 and 4.  Obviously I don't hate it that much or I wouldn't care that the DVDs coming in a few days, with a making of and I intend to buy it for that alone.  "},{"Title":"Second verse, same as the first!","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...But what is most tragic, is that it didn't have to be so.Originally, the script for Jaws 2 had a much different emphasis, which is WHY so many of the original principles returned.  (Even Spielberg and Dreyfuss wanted to be involved, but they were marooned on reshoots for Close Encounters and the studio moved forward with an arbitrarily-set-in-stone release date of 1978, which directly conflicted with Spielberg's first sci-fi film.)  The storyline was meant to have less emphasis on the shark attacks, and more emphasis on the characters.  In the original scripts, Brody is still haunted by the shark (much less composed than he is at the beginning of Jaws 2).  The Brody boys are a little younger (Mike is 15 instead of 17, making for greater continuity), and Brody has fought hard to keep them out of the water (Mike has hydrophobia as a result of the events in the first film).  The Mayor has brought in condominiums, but with the condos has come mob corruption in the town. Brody has given up the ghost, so to speak.  The shark attacks were few and far between, and the final attack on the sailing party was actually an attack on a regatta which the teens were participating in.  A baby seal marooned on the beach after its mother is killed by the great white is taken in by Sean.Details like these are what clearly invited the actors back.  The studio however got cold feet, and realizing that they could make a killing (pun intended) by attracting the teen audience, had the script rewritten, emphasizing death and teens-in-peril ... the first but not the last example of a studio pulling in the reins on a production.  Even the film as it stands is not necessarily trite -- although the presence of a new great white is never fully explained.  (The closest we get is Brody's you don't think that another great white... followed by, Sharks don't take things personally, Mr. Brody.  But Dreyfuss' territoriality rationale from the first film works better, and is more believable -- if one shark dies in a bountiful feeding ground, another could just as easily swim in to take its place.)  Nice character moments include Brody's psychotic run on the beach, and coming home after being fired -- Scheider's eyes alone tell stories of where Brody has been, and where he is going.  Scenes like these elevate the film from its otherwise let's watch 'em get eaten storyline.Finally, a minor quibble -- in a horror film, characters should never say lines like I'm bored, as the old man in the sea does.  Also, the teens on the boats are allowed to look bored as well.   If characters in a movie are bored, so will the audience.   "},{"Title":"not a bad sequel","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hey viewers, I'm tired of people saying this movie is SO BAD compared to the first one.  In fact, I have seen both movies at least 10 times, and they are remarkably SIMILAR.  Plot is about the same, dialogue is the same, characters are the same.  Guess what I'm trying to say is that maybe the first movie wasn't that good to begin with.  They are both in some ways mediocre movies, but there are a couple of reasons I like Jaws 2 better than the first one.  John Williams' score is better and more sophisticated, for one.  You can almost feel the sea spray on your face and experience the joy of catamaraning by hearing his fantastic score.  Two of the best scenes in this movie are  when Brody's son comforts him after Brody has shot up the beach and made a fool of himself.  The other great scene is where Brody wades into the water.  That scene has the most beautiful New England beach and sky of any scene in the movies--fantastic cinematography. One great moment in the beginning is when it shows the boat in the harbor at night creaking (what a lonely, scary sound).  I just think the original and the sequel are SO similar;  maybe the first one wasn't that good!! "},{"Title":"Unworthy Teen Slasher Fare","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  **  (of ****)I saw JAWS 2 at a drive-in back in 1978 and have been regretting it ever since. No matter how many times I've revisited this letdown on home video, it never improves at all. I recall reading reports at the time which said that Roy Scheider wanted no part of this sequel, and he would have walked had he not been legally obligated.So what's wrong with JAWS 2? Besides the obvious need for Richard Dreyfuss (that isn't the major problem) there isn't a real story here. It's just a film catering to the teen slasher crowd, with a big shark knocking 'em off one by one (and most of the brats are too annoying to care about). I like to see that in a FRIDAY THE 13th film; not in a sequel to one of the greatest motion pictures of all time. When I viewed this film the first time I was 16 myself, and the prime age for the shenanigans playing up there on that Drive-In screen...but I knew even in 1978 that I'd been had.JAWS 2 is not a bomb...it's just your average movie. If not for the participation of Roy Scheider (and my fetish for continuity) I wouldn't even have it in my personal collection (I have never even owned parts 3 and 4...) "},{"Title":"A good sequel to watch!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is an inevitable sequel, and it's a good follow up. I am really sure, that it's good for saturday matinees. At some point, there are more boat accidents, and a killer whale washed up on the beach with multiple bites. Brody was right, all along there was another great white shark on the loose.The teens go sailing, and that includes his two sons! Mike and Sean. Another thing, Donna Wilkes is like one of the top ten scream queens. Watch this on Saturday afternoons.  "},{"Title":"Worthy follow up.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2 is better than many people give it credit for. Okay, so the absence of Spielberg, Shaw, and Dreyfuss are blatantly obvious, but Scheider, Gary and Hamilton still bring strength to their performances.The story is similar to the first in that a great white shark starts terrorizing the New England town of Amity once again.  But after a few random folks get killed, it shifts gears to share more in common with movies like Halloween or Friday the 13th. No, the shark doesn't wear a hockey mask, but a group of teenagers take a few rafts and boats out on the water, and the shark slowly picks them off. The shark hides under the waves, attacking mercilessly, and without warning. Just like a summer camp style slasher flick, the killer is all around the teens, and has the advantage. The attack on the rescue helicopter by the shark, and the shark's clever demise (cool effect on this one...) are scenes to watch for in this worthy follow up to a true modern cinema legend. "}{"Title":"It was ok.","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie in no way can compare to the masterpiece that the first Jaws was, but it does have it's good points. In the same place, in the same ocean and in the same town as the last one, this one features Chief Broady once again facing a killer shark. But this time the shark is after a bunch of teenagers in sail boats. Now once again, it still wasn't that great, but it was worth the price of admission. one cool but confusing scene is when the shark takes on a helicopter, but I won't spoil it. The soundtrack was the usual theme, which was to be expected. Let me tell you folks, after this Jaws, the rest go down hill and crash at the bottom. See it when there's nothing else to rent or it's a boring day and your in the mood for something you haven't seen before. I give it 3 out of 5.    "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first or the third","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worst of the worst.Our hero from the last movie has to save a bunch of teenagers who are on summer break from another great white shark.The only good thing about the movie was the music and the fake shark.He saves the small island again and the shark is gone no he bothers the Brody family a lot more.So if you want to see a jaws movies see the first one or the third one please. "},{"Title":"It's not safe to go back in the water just yet.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Three years after a large great white shark wreaked havoc on a small resort town, the people of Amity Island are experiencing something again all-too familiar A couple of divers inspecting the wreckage of the Orca on the bottom of the ocean encounter a great white, and in the process, happen to snap some photographs during the attack. In the search for the missing divers, the camera is retrieved, and the film exposes part of the shark. Chief Martin Brody takes the evidence to the City Council, who don't see the photographs for what they are. The beaches remain open, despite many tragedies, and when the chief's son, Michael, decides to go on a sailing excursion with friends against his father's orders, it's up to Martin to save the day (again).The film more or less runs in the same vein as the original Jaws did. There is some suspense, some good (and bad) special effects and a few laughs here and there (some intentional, some not). It's a fun and sometimes cheesy film, far superior than Jaws 3 or Jaws-The Revenge.The great score is by John Williams, and it really adds to the suspense. The acting is good; although Donna Wilkes goes a little overboard with her performance toward the end of the film, and Ann Dusenberry is a gem as the stressed-out Tina. Roy Scheider reprises his role as Chief Brody, as well does Lorraine Gary as Ellen Brody, and Murray Hamilton as the mayor of Amity. My rating 8 "},{"Title":"Interesting Sequel","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2, is another one of my all time top ten favorite films. It's an inevitable sequel to watch, and the shark looked different until Jennot Coulter burnt the right side of the shark's head. I saw Donna Wilkes in The Incredible Hulk, and I was like, 'I saw her in Jaws 2'. Well, the sailboats were great but, the shark destroyed them, and it wasn't a bad sequel. "},{"Title":"A Good Sequel","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This Jaws, is an inevitable sequel. It's also another one of my top ten 70's films at all time. The shark was shown too readily, when it demolished the boat after the water skier became clam chowder. Few scenes later, it was shown the giant burnt mark on the side of its head when, Jeanet Coulter burnt its head. I even spotted Donna Wilkes, on The Incredible Hulk when she portrayed an alcoholic she did her screams in that one. Good Sequel "},{"Title":"The best sequel, but not a patch on Spielberg's original","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's rather a shame that this first sequel to Spielberg's smash-hit shark story has suffered so much due to the age-old sequels are rubbish syndrome.  Unlike the lacklustre and ridiculous JAWS 3-D and the dire JAWS THE REVENGE, JAWS 2 does maintain the feel of the first movie.  Great photography, a class music score from John Williams, and far better effects on the shark, combine with an above-par script and some competent performances, to make an enjoyable and well made sequel.  The last twenty minutes in particular is tense stuff (even if that girl's screaming does drive you up the wall!), and the end-duel between Roy Scheider and the shark is brilliantly put together.Not as good as the original then, but a worthy and underrated sequel nevertheless! "},{"Title":"Not quite as great...but good fun.","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2 is as close of a worthy sequel as we may ever get. It doesn't quite manage to capture the pure exhiliration the first one had, but it's still fun, and perhaps less adventure and more horror. And theres a couple of death scenes that are downright terrifying, especially for a PG movie. Not particularily gory, but scary. "},{"Title":"Certainly not as good as the first, but certainly better than the others.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2 is an ok sequel, but the first one was scary and superb.  After all, it was directed by Spielberg!  Anyway, Jaws 2 is the last one to have a little bit horror left in it.  The original director of this movie was fired and since the new director changed the original book story.......well, it wasn't as good.  Roy Sheider is back as Martin Brody but it likes Dreyfuss and Spielberg, and Robert Shaw.  (Well, he was gobbled up in the first movie anyway).  Anyway, watch the first Jaws before this one, but it's an ok flick and will always be better than Jaws 3 (Which will bore you) and JawsThe Revenge (Which will make you cry).  Go see it one day if you have nothing else to do.  "},{"Title":"not that good","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is the only Jaws-sequel worth watching, unfortunately. If you watch Jaws 3-D or The Revenge, this movie looks like The Godfather. It is very dull, but occasionally entertaining. The only one good in it is Roy Scheider, who saves this movie from failing completely. The rest are just a group of stupid teens who go sailing and--Surprise!--the shark harasses them. All they can do scream, yell and shout 'till it makes you deaf (especially that girl who played Jackie). And, of course, sheriff Brody is the only one who can save them.Jaws 2 was inevitable. Everyone knew it had to come. When will they learn it-some movies must be left alone! Jaws is a cinematic classic and this is a totally unworthy sequel! 4 outta 10 from me.  "},{"Title":"Superbly great movie","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Chief Brody has another problem in this second Jaws movie, and he's the only one who has that sick sense, which no one else can identify with, that a shark is cause of many recent deaths and disappearances.  But the story goes deeper than this.  It is more person for the Brody family.  Like the common theme in a lot of horror movies, this evil predator has targeted a specific location and specific individuals, namely the Brody family. Considering the 70's when the movie was filmed, the movie was really well done.  The picture is not as good as in Jaws the Revenge, but the special effects are comparable.  Granted the shark is sort of fake looking; the first Jaws movie did a better job with this because they keep the shark concealed most of the time.  The fear of a creature that camera doesn't let us see can be intensely horrific!This Jaws movie highlights Roy Scheider's last performance in a Jaws movie.  He is really good for the Captain Brody part - but quite stupid to go shooting his gun off at the beach and chasing everyone away.  He's got the sternness, a little to much in fact, that makes his character very believable.  I wish that he'd been in the third and fouth Jaws movies as well.  He's really the idea person to kill the shark.  In my opinion that's the reason Jaws 3-D failed.So long Roy Scheider -  "}{"Title":"Okay followup","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2 tries it's hardest to live up to the first movie, but it doesn't cut it. It might not live up to Jaws, but it is still very good. Jaws 2 similar to Jaws, which may have made it good or not so good to others. The effects are little bit more improved than those of the first one and it has the same old suspense of the first one. The story seems to just drag on and on for a while though. Jaws 2 might not have the quality of the first one but it is way better than Jaws 3 and 4. "},{"Title":"A Notch Up from the Original","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2, I think, is a better film than the original Jaws. The plot is fairly simple 4 years after a great white shark attacked people on the small resort island of Amity, a new shark has appeared and Chief Brody has trouble convincing the townspeople that it's there. Most of the cast from the original has returned except for Shaw and Dreyfuss, and the music is, again, excellent. The scenes with the shark are fantastic, especially when it's attacking the kids in the sailboats. Very suspenseful. There is also less gore than in the original. I also like the death by electrocution, very original, I never saw a shark burned to death...until I saw this movie! Anyway, this is a great film, so if you haven't seen it rent it, you may like it.   "},{"Title":"Better Than People Say","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The same heart-stopping suspense and gripping adventure that enthralled movie audiences throughout the world in 'Jaws' returns with this worthy sequel to that film classic.So trumpets the VHS box summary sentence for Jaws 2, an effective horror movie and underrated sequel. For once, I pretty much agree with a movie's usually-overstated tagline.The plot Chief Brody (Roy Scheider) thinks there is yet another great white shark in the Amity Bay. Indeed, there is, but nobody can believe him. Meanwhile, a group of teenagers (including Brody's two beloved sons) go out sailing and are attacked by the shark.The teenager sailing scenes during the day are actually quite haunting and, occasionally, even terrifying. Personally, if I had been given the honors to direct, I would've had those scenes takes place at night; the darkness is naturally scarier than daylight and the shark could seem more realistic because it wouldn't have to be so lighted.I suppose the reason this film wasn't to well-received was because it is so much of a horror film as opposed to a rip-roaring adventure that the first film in the series was. Mark my words, if you want fun adventure with a few great scares, see Jaws. If you want horror with a little too much gore, see Jaws 2. Rated PG. 116 minutes. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It was OK I guess. There was a fairly realistic story line and there was the return of the 6 original characters. It sorely missed Robert Shaw and Richard Dreyfuss, But Roy Schneider did an OK job.The actress who played Jackie is a tough contender to Jamie Lee Curtis in the Scream Queen contest. Now then there was not enough blood by any cost, was there a corn syrup famine in 1978. I was wondering, the Orca has the left side of it smashed up by the shark in Jaws, but when the Orca is found under water the left side is fixed!!!I give this a well deserved 5 and a half out of 10 "},{"Title":"The ONLY decent Jaws sequel","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In the wake of Steven Spielberg's original game-changer there came many, many imitators, most of which were so lazy that they were just named after whatever leviathan might be eating people on that occasion (Orca, Piranha, Great White, Alligator) and they were all absolute garbage (although Orca does have some decent melancholic pathos). Jaws 2 seems to have been degraded by the flurry of imitators, but that doesn't mean it's a bad film. It's actually quite good.Three years after Martin Brody destroyed the original shark another (with a rather cool Phantom of the Opera burn across its 'face') has come to Amity Island and is gobbling-up the locals. No one wants to listen to Brody's suspicions, leaving him to deal with it all on his own. His two sons, meanwhile, go out sailing with a bunch of friends and are terrorized by the shark when it paralyzes their flotilla.Many critics have compared Jaws to a teenage slasher movie, which I think is unfair. That particular sub-genre didn't really take-off until the release of Halloween, which came out 4 months later. Plus the teenagers in this movie are actually likable and have decent characterization. Even the stuck-up Mayor's son is good character. In a modern movie he'd die horribly as creating unlikable fodder is a common way for lazy writers to encourage blood-lust in the audience.However, the movie is very, very short on blood, which is one of its biggest faults. These shark attacks are far too clean and sterile. The first movie had way more, why not this one? Jeannot Szwarc is no Steven Spielberg, and struggles to build tension and suspense. His effort is not bad, especially during early scenes such as the dead whale, and body in the surf, but the poor editing of the action scenes suggests he couldn't capture much on camera and left it to the editors (Verna Fields did not touch this film) to put it together any way they could. Brody is somewhat demoted to a sideshow character in the second half as the teenagers shout and scream at the circling dorsal fin. A better balance of scenes could have been found here.John Williams' score is a step-down from the first, though still a good score in its own right. It's just a pity that the movie has only ever been released in Mono as the music could use a decent, spacious remastering.I feel that if a different, more prominent 70s director had taken control of Jaws 2 (such as John Frankenheimer or Willia Friedkin) then we might have ended up with a tighter, more exciting film. As it is, Jaws 2 is merely a respectable sequel before the excruciating awfulness of the further two that followed. "},{"Title":"Jaws2 Corn Syrup Famine hits Amity","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2 is by far the worst jaws film....... HA HA HA HA HA only joking, this is a pretty good film actually and if only the stars Robert Shaw or Richard Dreyfuss were starring in this, this might have been a very worthy sequel. There are some good parts in this film,the death of the divers at the beginning was good,but......on 3 of the deaths there was not a single trace of blood......what was there a corn syrup famine in 1978 or something? There was a really fake part in which the shark is about to eat Michael Brody ,as Brody is saved the sharks mouth bends into a weird shape, showing that it IS made of rubber. Also at the beginning when two divers find the Orca the ship is lying on its right side , with the left side showing up, the left side has not been damaged at all, and the glass is still in tact, but....after the first shark killed Quint, did not it smash through the left side to get to Brody ????This is the second best Jaws film out of the 4, possibly soon to be 5. Jaws is the best by far,Jaws 2 is a worthy sequel....just, Jaws 3 is crap but better than the worst film that I have possibly seen Jaws the Revenge.Jaws 2, like I said needed the presence of Robert Shaw or Richard Dreyfuss. note* Robert Shaw`s character of Quint was killed in Jaws so it was impossible to recast him, unless he was super fisherman.All in all I will give this film a 5 and a half out of 10, because of the recast of 6 of the originals. Let's just hope if there is a Jaws 5 that it will be a sequel better than the original.THE girl who plays Jackie is a good competition for Jamie Lee Curtis as Scream Queen. "},{"Title":"An Okay Sequel","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2 certainly can't hold a candle to the original, which is one of the greatest movies ever made, but it manages to work as a sequel because it at least retains the stylish form of the original, with the return of Roy Scheider, the location photography, and an outstanding John Williams score that doesn't just recycle themes from the original.  All that's missing is the substance and depth that Robert Shaw and Richard Dreyfuss provided in the original, along with Spielberg's direction.All in all, Jaws 2 is worth a look and holds up on repeat viewings as a guilty pleasure, which can't be said of either of the two horrid films that followed it.   "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not a hideous sequel and definitely better than the last two.  It involves another shark this time attacking teenagers on sail boats.  The suspense works well.  "},{"Title":"Compared to what followed, it's not that bad","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Sequels are usually inferior to the original, and this one is no exception. Even though the cast is just going through the motions the movie manages to avoid becoming a disaster, unlike the laughably bad JAWS III, and the just plain bad JAWS  THE REVENGE.  "},{"Title":"Was it safe to go back to the water?","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" No film could have topped the original Jaws.Plot was not too bad.I wish there was more meat in the middle.Roy desperately needed Robert or Richard to help out.There are too many shots of the shark as well.This is a okay sequel in a line that began to show signs of sinking in 1978.I am not a fan of sequel folks.Grade for the flick is a B-. "}{"Title":"It Could Be Worse...Proved By Jaws 3'","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws, Highlander, should have been left alone. As Connor MacLeod said, 'There can only be one', which also applies to this movie. They should have caught on by the poor reviews at the time and buried 'Bruce', instead of copying, Planet of the Apes. It is over and was over back in 1975. I wish the studios had taken their stinking paws off this epic, and had come up with more original thought. The original is, without question, one of Steven Spielberg's crowning achievements. The cast was perfect, the directing was perfect, the scenery was perfect, the musical score was perfect and even the boat, 'The Orca' was perfect (and yes, they did need a bigger boat). With that said, why in the world would anyone want to make a sequel (and then another, and then another, and then another.)? I know some may think these movies get scarier sequentially&#x85;no that is wrong, they do not. They progressively sink to the lowest or low. Granted, as good as the first one is, the storyline, when dissected, is kind of lame. But come-on, this is Hollyweird, the job in Tinsel Town is to entertain and lame is the name of the game. I found Jaws 2 not to be entertaining in the least. This fiasco ended up being a very irritating follow-up. Sadly, Jaws 2 fostered several un-scary sequels. Nothing (excepting the surviving cast-members and theme song) is memorable about this poor copy. If you need a nap, watch this joke&#x85;just don't wake everyone up with your snoring. "},{"Title":"Ace!","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Have seen this one time & time again & it just gets better & better with each watch, it's great & even better than the first Jaws!The town of Amity is once again terrorised by another Great White Shark after 4 years of the town trying to build it'self back together after the events from the first film. A victim get burned & blown up after a shark attacks the boats contain petrol. Just the first film numerous attacks occur, but this time Martin Brody grows paranoid & the town's major dislikes him & thinks he's mad! But this proves them wrong as there is indeed another Shark in the water!The kills in this film were slightly better than that of the first Jaws film. The victim who managed to scorch the Great White at the beginning of the film made the Shark more menacing & evil looking than the first film did. Jaws is also seen a lot more in the film which ain't a problem considering the first one was about suspense, while this one people already know what Jaws looks like & so we see more of Jaws which is great!The ending was pretty epic & truly the greatest ending to a Jaws film ever! It was epic, prolonged (in a good way) & spectacular in all levels!People keep saying that a sequel wasn't needed are wrong! I mean this was a truly great sequel to any film & was done really well considering! 9/10 An ace Shark film! "},{"Title":"Not Jaws 1 but a great sequel","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Original Jaws was an intense, scary masterpiece. How does Jaws 2 hold up? Well, it is definitely not a masterpiece but it succeeds at giving us a watchable & enjoyable flick. Story revolves around another shark attack on Amity Island. Chief Brody tries to convince people that it is indeed a shark but no one believes him. It's up to Brody to defeat the shark once in for all. Best part of the movie is John Williams score. They are menacing just as the first one. Acting is solid and ending one liner is back with this one. I would say let this one pass. It is not a masterpiece but it is most definitely fun to watch. Beware for the other sequels... "},{"Title":"Jaws 2 has Bite","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There are few movies that are better than the first. Especially if the original is considered a masterpiece. Jaws 2 is no exception. But it's still a very good movie.Plot In A Paragraph 4 years on from the shark attacks of the first movie, things finally look to be on the up in Amity Island. But when a couple of divers go missing and a mother and daughter die whilst water skiing Police Chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider) fears that a new shark has come to Amity. Once again those in charge of the town trying to play it down because they feel Brody is paranoid. The main reason to watch this film is Roy Scheider, he gives an intense performance as you can see his paranoia show on his face. The worst thing is there is a sense of de ja vue as just like in the first movie Brody tells everyone there is a shark, and the powers that be won't listen till it's too late. The script has the potential to explore how Brody's fear of another shark affects his loved ones but it chooses not to in favour of wasting screen time on the teenagers (including Brody's eldest son) who Brody needs to save at the end of the movie. Another element of the story under explored is the property developer Len Peterson (Joseph Mascolo) whose obvious feelings towards Ellen Brody are never really explored. There are some good deleted scenes on the DVD that would have made the movie better, but they were scrapped do the movie could focus on the kids developing summer flings. Steven Spielberg didn't return neither did Richard Dreyfuss leaving Roy Scheider to pretty much make Jaws 2 work on his own. And he does a superb job. It is because Scheider is so good, that no Jaws movie should have been made without him! He is the glue that holds it all together. "},{"Title":"Ocean Still Isn't Safe...","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water...(did anyone really think it was?) comes the inevitable sequel to the mega-blockbuster. Story has another killer great white shark loose in Amity four years later, and once again Chief Brody(Roy Scheider returns, and is quite good) tries to convince the mayor and town council that the threat is very real...but of course they don't want to hear it! As sequels go, this isn't bad, though Steven Spielberg did not return as director, fellow Night Gallery director Jeannot Szwarc stepped in, and did a fine job, since the scenes on the ocean are quite effective, with a memorable finale. Pity the scenes on land are so mundane, with the focus being on a group of teenagers(Brody's sons among them) entering a ill-timed sailing race. Marginal quality film just misses, but still has some merit, and is at least tolerable. "},{"Title":"Fails to repeat the magic of the original","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" First of all, I have never seen 'Jaws 3' and 'Jaws 4', and frankly, I don't intend to. Nevertheless, I wanted to see at least 'Jaws 2'. Even though I already imagined that it wouldn't be as good as the legendary original, I gave it the benefit of doubt to see how it compared. Sure, the original is a legend and it would be very difficult to repeat the greatness of that one - that is the cross carried by most sequels to awesome movies. 'Jaws 2' is an okay movie, not great but also not bad. It's watchable but it won't exceed the boundaries of time.Nevertheless, for good and for bad, on one hand this is more of the same and on the other hand it is different enough. But admittedly it lacks the same charm.Here the shark is slightly bigger, more dangerous, more sudden on its attacks, stronger, more resistant and quicker than the original's. Also, the movie has more shark attacks and the shark is introduced from the start. And yet the original film feels strangely scarier. How to explain this? What is the secret of the original? This happens because on the original, the shark is slowly introduced, which accents the mystery towards the great beast. The unseen enemy is scarier and more unpredictable on when and how it will attack (and what will it do). Plus, the original movie has that creepy John Williams's score when the shark shows up. Yes, the same music is on this one either, but it was modified for 'Jaws 2'. The result of that musical metamorphose was cool but not as good as the original.The shark here still looks a bit like a rubber shark but it doesn't look as frightening and as intimidating as the previous. This film takes place 4 years after the horrifying events from the original. Roy Scheider reprises his role as Chief Brody and is great once again, however the actor had many conflicts with the director during filming, he was unhappy with it and reluctantly reprised his role. Also back are Lorraine Gary as Brody's wife and Murray Hamilton as Mayor Larry Vaughn but it wasn't directed by Spielberg this time. Brody's sons are already bigger. Sean is still a kid but Michael is a teenager. They aren't portrayed by the same actors. Why? I don't know, but I think they should have been played by the same kids from the original.I have to say that the Mayor Larry Vaughn continues to be the same prick as usual. He didn't learn anything from that tragedy. Even after the previous events, after seeing that Brody was right all the time and after Brody ends up being the one who saves the situation, he has the same attitude here. He won't close the beaches for anything in this world, all he cares about is his honey and this time Brody even loses his job thanks to the Mayor and his people. They simply refuse to listen to Brody and only see what they wanna see. Even the residents of Amity Island ignore Brody's wise advices.There are boring moments in this film. The best part is the ending because that's when it becomes intense and suspenseful. The end of the shark, while not as memorable as on the original, was also awesome WOW, that is one heck of a shock the shark gets! It bites a power cable and gets electrocuted, catches fire, gets completely roasted and sinks like a ship. Creepy! On the original film, I don't have much to complain about the characters, including those with minor roles. But this one has too many obnoxious teen characters with awful haircuts and the screams of some of them really got on my nerves.Matt Hooper is greatly missed here. He never appears, they only make one or two references to his name. Also greatly missed is Quint but he couldn't be here because he dies on the first one. Even if Quint had survived, the actor Robert Shaw died in the same year 'Jaws 2' was released. "},{"Title":"better than average sequel","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In terms of a sequel to a much better original film, Jaws 2 is actually pretty decent compared to many other lousy sequels for other films that had better originals. Roy Scheider again stars as Chief Brody, and he does a commendable job as the embattled chief who once again battles another menacing shark. From what I gathered, Schieder wasn't enthralled playing him again, but put forth a terrific effort and appeared to enjoy himself and is the star here. If nothing else, Jaws 2 had some very interesting kills, such as the helicopter pilot, and the water skier plus her friend on the small boat. Look for the shark attacking the kids with the afros, it's quite a hoot. Perhaps there's a bit too many shark attacks here, but it's what carries the film; of course, Scheider's performance helps out a lot too. After this film, please refrain from watching the other Jaws films. "},{"Title":"A real disappointment.","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 picks up a few years after the first film left off. Police Chief Martin Brody finds proof of another shark living in the Amity Island region and goes to the mayor for help so he can close the beaches again. Everyone passes him off as paranoid due to previous events, even as the new shark begins to pick off swimmers in more unbelievable and violent ways. When Brody's two sons, now teenagers, go sailing with friends and are attacked by the shark, Brody must go out into the water once more to kill the creature. Jaws 2 attempts to stick close to the first film, but it fails because it's missing the smart dialogue, the good direction, the good acting, and the suspense.Stevn Spielberg brought his unique directing style to the original Jaws, but this film was directed by a TV show director who clearly wanted to imitate Spielberg but failed. The suspense is gone because we see the shark more often and the deaths are more gratuitously violent. When was the last time you heard of a shark causing a motor boat to explode? The plot of this film is really under developed compared to the first one. Pratically the whole movie sets up the end sailboat scene where the action starts. The filler is Martin Brody walking around like a scared puppy wondering what to do about the shark.The acting is another story. The acting in the first movie was so good, you'd think that getting three of the original actors (Sheider, Hamilton, Gray) back for the sequel would be a good thing. Well, it wasn't. Sheider seems lazy this time around, like he doesn't want to be in the movie.Overall, Jaws 2 is a major disappointment to fans of the original because everything that made the first film good is missing. However, it is the best of the sequels and provides a modest entertainment.5/10 "},{"Title":"most memorable is Marges death.","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Not as bad as everyone says,there's far worse out there folks,especially fromtodays bad horror films.Its actually pretty entertaining,and very smart idea on the film makers part to have a group of vulnerable kids who are likable trapped on a raft out in the middle of the ocean by a great white shark.You generally worry for them,but id say the part of the film thats the most memorable,is the death of Marge the nice girl out of the group, played by former kodak modelMartha Swatek.At the end of the film little sean brody falls into the water, marge who is the nicest to him and seans favourite, jumps in and single handedlysaves him from the shark,but sadly the boat she puts him on is to slippery for her to get on herself and while she struggles to get on board with sean, the shark shockingly comes up and kills her infront of sean and everyone else.Very smart to kill of a character that is likable and very sad to watch, you feel bad seeing her get it,unlike a lot of other horror films today that kill the typical people that are not likable but annoying and you want to see them get it,therefore you don'tworry for them and its anti-climatic.Overall not a bad film check it out. "},{"Title":"This fish product contains traces of turkey","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws, the original film, was a frightening and well crafted film that had an impact on generations of film goers. Can you honestly swim in the sea without the tiniest orchestra in the world playing the theme music in your subconscious? Its a shame then that Jaws II and all the films that followed it are so bad. Its hard to criticise the plot in Jaws II as its virtually identical to the first film. You still get a chief of police trying to convince a disbelieving community that there is a great white off their coast. Now forgive me but if I had laughed off such suggestions the first time round only to have a huge shark chomp its way through some of the population a second time round I'd be more willing to listen. It seems not though. There is no mileage made of the you were right last time but.. angle, in fact only the chief seems to ever mention that this has happened before. One of the best bits of the first film was the sinister glimpses of the shark itself. In Jaws II though you see plenty of it, and it looks as rubbber as you could want. In one scene the shark brushes against a boat and can be seen to visibly bend as rubber meets wood. This is not good, less is more sometimes. The only thing to commend Jaws II is that the obnoxious shark investigator appears only briefly. She has all the charisma of a dead whale herself and looks completely bored by the whole thing. If ever there was an actress who had no screen presence at all it's her. The rest of the cast do their best rehashing the original plot but understandably they seem a bit weary. I can't think of any reason to watch this film over the original. The original is far scarier and Jaws 3d is by far the more amusing for bad film fans. "}{"Title":"slackjaws","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I missed the big brouhaha over the first movie in 1975 and had to settle for this warmed over retread. It was perfect for an eleven year old but that's about it.I eventually saw the original but I'm NOT a big fan. It contains too many overbearing Spielberg moments and the breakout score manages to intrude at every conceivable moment. But back to Jaws 2 This is a bad movie. My least favorite portion is the finale in which everyone forgets how to drive a boat. Brody also forgets how to drive a boat, and the shark apparently knows that he needs to attack the vehicles of his prey to get to his meal. He's a real two-stage thinker this shark. Conveniently an electric cable appears which conveniently kills only the shark...blah blah blah "},{"Title":"Bad Fish, Bad Sequel (bad spoiler)","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, a remake of an idea (as in this case) I can deal with. Who knows?  They just might improve on it.  It is the general film quality that irks me beyond belief.  Had they spent more time in the cutting room they could've saved us a lot of boredom and made the movie twice as good.There is only one artistically sound moment in this movie.  That being when the shark decloaks from under the water around the beginning.  Other than that, it's a amalgamation of phony terror, teasing, and boredom.The shark look horrible, even before its hideous burn (pardon me now as I laugh my way out of my seat).  There were times during the 'sea siege' when I just thought OK, this is getting a little old, please get to the fireworks quickly so that I can go back to cherishing the original.If they were trying to top the original, they didn't.  This almost delves into the realm of fantasy as it nears the two-hour mark.  Even the concluding fireworks took too long in build-up that I felt nothing could beat the amount of suspense they were trying to build up...and I was right.Overall, really terrible sequel that astounds my imagination as to how horrible it is.  Read the novelization because it is about 1,000 times better and goes into more depth without being inane. 2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"More like a slasher flick than a sequel","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The shark is just a substitute for the knife wielding killer first introduced in Halloween; it's just here all the annoying teenagers are trapped at sea, where frankly, they should have stayed. When you get a shark that can jump out of the water and swallow a woman whole as well as over-turn a helicopter, you know you've crossed over into unbelievable-land. Ole Brucie looks more fake than ever the second time around but he can still act rings around the young cast.  By the way, Roy and Lorraine should be given medals for returning. And somebody, please, toss that screaming girl into the pool for shark bait. She really gets grating by the final reel. You almost root for the shark. An amazing box office smash is still better than Jaws 3 and Jaws 4. Be thankful Jaws 5 was never made. It would probably star the cast from the Love Boat "},{"Title":"A good movie between the first and fourth.","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent film, almost as good as the original. Anyone who thinks that this one is bad should watch Jaws 3, and then complain, if you still can. A few years after the attack in Jaws, Brody suspects that another shark may have come, when two divers are missing, as are a mother and child that were out on a boat. Brody tries to warn the mayor of Amitty, but is ignored, and eventually fired. Brody's two sons and some friends decide to have a boat race and must be stopped before the shark gets them. Gets a 9.5 in my book. Jaws gets a 10, Jaws 3 a 0.5, and Jaws the revenge a 8.5. "},{"Title":"Not a patch!","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad film but loses the Spielberg touch where the characters are concerned.  The emphasis on all the kids makes this film have an atmosphere more akin to the horror slasher movies of the same era.at least the mechanical shark worked...........sort of!!! "},{"Title":"There should have been TWO sharks..","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  WHEN I first saw this movie I was terrified and thrilled. I even thought it was better than the original. I was about seven then, and now I can clearly see the original is far, far superior. But if Spielberg had directed this sequel it could have been, if not as good as that classic, far better than it is. The script is good, with another shark menacing some stranded teenagers, and the shark attacks, while never being 100% suspense as the original, are exiting and well-staged. The cast are okay, although nobody stands out, the shark effects are good and Brody destroys the shark in another inventive and climactic way. Not an amazing film in any sense but very entertaining nevertheless. The movie would have been so much better and original if there were TWO killer sharks menacing the Amity public - imagine how cool and thrilling that would have been!   "},{"Title":"Just When You Thought It Was Safe To Stop Watching Sequels....","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Comes Jaws 2! It is my favorite of all the Jaws films.I love this movie's action and plot the best!The story starts out like thisTakes place years after Jaws,and set in the same place,though.Martin Brody is back,and badder than before!After two divers are killed,and a photograph from the divers is found,Brody claims that it's the picture of a shark.The whole town thinks he's crazy,and fires him from Chief.When some teens sneak out,including his two sons,and some are met to horrifying deaths,as a helicopter is flipped,Brody goes to save the survivors,but will he survive long enough to get there?This sequel is filled with PLENTY of suspense,and action.It was a really great plot with the kids and all,making it more suspenseful!I thought this was the best Jaws sequel! Maybe even the best creature feature sequel!I would recommend this movie to ANYONE who loves plenty of scares,and action! "},{"Title":"more unbearable suspense and tension","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" this movie is quite good,in my estimation.it doesn't differ much from the original,but i think it has more suspense and intensity.this movie really had my adrenaline flowing and my heart pumping.being a sequel,obviously it would have less impact than the first one.as entertainment,think it is better than than the first one.it does not have the flaw that the first one had,at least i don't think so.also,we get to see the shark more.i like the story a bit better too.i think a lot of people automatically give lower rating to a sequel,just because it is a sequel.many people believe sequel could never outdo it original,particularly if the original has the impact that the original Jaws had.i don't happen to agree with that point of view.when i say,i think Jaws 2 is better than Jawsi am not minimizing Jaws's impact. i think Jaws was a brilliant film,but for me,its sequel is slightly better.For me,Jaws 2 is a very strong 9/10 "},{"Title":"... really good when I was 7-  really mediocre when I was 30...","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film in the theatres in 1978 when it was released (this was one of the first films I saw, so of course it was trip since I was only 7). It captivated me, since I was subjected to a movie diet of Disney and Star Wars, so this was cutting-edge SCARE--EEY !!! I saw this subsequent times in the theatre (I think 3) and then rented it umpteen amount of times when it was on videocassette. But then a year later I saw the re-release of Jaws, and there was no comparison. That and the fact I had a few more movies under my belt by then, so Jaws 2 was beginning to underwhelm me. Still, if you dissect the sequel, it's not good, but it is watchable to a degree. Roy Scheider does what he can with such a weak script (and God, the dialogue sounded like lines from the new Star Wars movies at times). There is hardly a climax, but they still managed to integrate a little suspense (even though they shot themselves in the foot by showing plenty of the shark from the beginning). Was hardly any blood in this movie, but it had a higher body count. The editors/producers had the contrived motion picture formula down to a science.Now in my thirties, I bought this film on DVD to cruise Memory Lane whenever I was sick or bored enough. The special features to me were better than the film IMO, and it wasn't until then I was picking this film apart and watching it objectively. And did I. The dialogue was water-logged, and I don't think even the magic of Steven Spielberg could of resuscitated this fish tail (remember 1941?). This was doomed from the beginning, and classic films like Jaws should never have sequels. Actually, this was one of the first films to template the teen-ager slasher films of the late '70s/early '80s. As I had mentioned above, this had it's moments, and I am still haunted from the images of watching Tina's boyfriend (Eddie) die along with the shark swallowing the teen-age chick whole (the one who rescues little Sean Brody). They weren't all that bloody, but the imagination turns on as you think about just how long did it take for that girl to die afterwards. Or just what did the shark devour before finishing off Eddie? I even thought the napalm woman who burned up died a pretty horrible death. And that was 1978 where special effects were by no means sophisticated like they are now, and the imagination was more in the front seat back then. But if they hired some better writers and maybe some better actors, we would of cared more for some of those bantering, loud, and unlikable teen-agers (who looked like they were really in their twenties). If Universal wasn't in such a hurry to get this made, we may have had a more elaborate story (not to mention a possible triumphant return of Steven Spielberg & Richard Dreyfus). I'm all alone out here! DUH !GO AWAY !Sometimes some of the most beautiful girls are the loneliest... -That's a crock of sh*t ! I know, I know...?????????!!!!!!!!!One good bite deserves another. Well, if you take another bite sometimes you might taste a worm. They did in this case, and just when you thought it was safe to go back into the theatre along came two awfully asinine sequels and a possible 5th installment. "},{"Title":"After a spectacular first film, Jaws has already belly-flopped.","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Before I go on, I should say that Jaws 2 is not an absolute disaster in the way my summary line suggests. Yes, it's a bad movie, but there is enough of the strength of the original still clinging to the material to make it almost worthwhile. Roy Schneider gives another great performance as Brody, the Amity Island Chief of Police, and a lot of the same tension is there in the atmosphere and tone of the movie, but the script could have been written by a junior high school kid and the shark has turned from a vicious but natural predator and into a movie monster.The massive lapses of basic logic are encompassed mostly by things like the way Brody is shunned by everyone on the island, even the Mayor, who is anxiously trying to attract investors and tourists to his island. The last thing he needs is someone running around yelling about a shark, he has to get the island back on its feet after those last shark attacks&#133; I really hope that this is meant to be a brilliant display of magnificent greed, because otherwise it is nothing less than jaw-dropping stupidity. This guy is trying to save the island from all the trouble that it went through after the last shark attacks, and so not only does he ignore a sudden proliferation of missing and dead teenagers, but he and his whole panel of advisors see a picture of what is unmistakably a shark's eye and claim to see nothing. Wow.That picture of the shark was probably the best part of the movie, particularly the scene where Brody is in the darkroom watching it get developed. The circumstances under which the picture was taken make for an excellent scene, probably the best in the film, but one that is quickly ruined when we have to sit and watch a whole panel decide that it's safer to assume that it's a picture of nothing. After all, they could get SUED. Needless to say, there is no mention of what to do when a lot of people turn up dead from shark attacks and it is revealed to the public that these people not only promptly ignored photographic evidence, but fired the man that brought it to their attention. 'Sued' does not even begin to cover it.When two kids turn up missing early in the movie, one of the island's three police officers is assigned to drag the bottom of the water, an assignment to which he complains, 'For how long? It's gonna be dark soon!' The only thing he didn't say was Wah! Wah! Wah! And not only that, but when they succeed in accidentally pulling up the power line to the island, he says, 'Let's get out of here before we DO find something!' That's some excellent police work there, little buddy.The movie is able to exist because of the difficulties that Brody has in convincing anyone that there really is a shark out there. This is what allows for the creation of much of the tension in the movie, but it is also the source of a lot of the stupidity in it. When a bunch of tourists or investors or something is being taken for a tour, the mayor looks up and is dismayed to see Brody up in a lookout tower watching the water. He tries desperately to distract anyone from seeing him, apparently unaware that anyone with a thought in their head would see a guy in a tower watching the water, and immediately identify him as a lifeguard and not give him another thought. Not in this movie. When asked if anyone had any questions, it's not hard to predict what some lunkhead is going to wonder about. Not tourist traffic, not real estate costs, not the costs of managing resorts or anything rational like that. They want to know why there's a guy in a tower watching the water. Please.By the way, why does no one notice the fin in this movie? Every time the fin pops out of the water, everyone is looking the other way, even just after an attack, when it would seem that everyone would be watching the water frantically. When a group of divers has a run in with the shark, they ascend in a panic, and because they came up too fast, the air in their lungs and blood expands and one of them finds himself with perforated lungs and an embolism. While he is being attended to, his friends mention that something must have spooked him.Now, I've been diving and I've been snorkeling, and I have to tell you that when you wear one of those masks, everything underwater appears in perfect clarity before you, exactly as if you were looking through clean air. So are we supposed to believe that these guys didn't notice the 25 foot shark that was not more than a few feet away from them? Now, in the movie's defense, Roy Schneider is just as good as he was in the original film, it's just that he had nothing to work with. He had badly written lines, as did everyone else, and then he had these ridiculous bouts of idiocy written into his character. When he finds the tiny sailboat with his son and a couple friends on it floating out in the water, he hugs his son and then tells him to get to shore. Any real father, or policeman, would have grabbed him and yanked him onto his boat rather than leave him out floating around where he found him. Then when he's trying to rescue the kids off the wrecked boats near the end of the film, he gets spooked when the shark shows up and, despite being the CHIEF OF POLICE, succeeds in crashing his boat into the rocks and stranding all of them. Brilliant.Oh, and in keeping with the subdued level of thought put into the movie, no mention is made of anyone who might have been in contact with the water, and thus a fatal amount of electricity, at the end of the film.But hey, that's just details&#133; "}{"Title":"ugh","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There are reasons that sequels have bad reputations. This movie fulfills all of them. Only Rocky 2 has less reason for existence. People may argue that the Jaws movies that followed this one were even worse, but at least they tried to do something different. Hollywood should be spanked for unleashing this film. I own a book called the '50 worst albums of all time', and while it has it's share of obscure failures by people no one ever heard of, it makes the argument that the worst albums are ones made by people who should know better, saving the top 2 spots for Lou Reed and Elvis Presley (and makes a strong case against everything Billy Joel has ever done). This film certainly fulfills that roll, considering that at least most of the people involved were part of the original, which is certainly a great film. I really can't see anything harder to watch than such an obvious lunge for the quick buck.  "},{"Title":"hmm?","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film rehashes most of the storyline from the first film. Once again on Amity Island a great white shark comes to the island. Chief Brody again is paranoid and the mayor doesn't believe or dosen't want to believe him, because he is only worried about tourism. Again the shark feasts on the people.  "},{"Title":"More shark + more Lorraine Gary = less thrills","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I wasn't a big fan of the shark killings in the first movie (Steven Spielberg showed off quite a morbid side of himself, and a perverse delight in bloody carnage), and this sequel, with empty spots left by Robert Shaw and AWOL Richard Dreyfuss, is filled with shark attacks. Still, the overblown B-flick is less unpleasant than the first film simply because it's such a cartoon. An early shark attack on a water-skier is so ridiculous it's embarrassing. Poor Roy Scheider, tanned to the point of being mistaken for a Mexican cliff-diver, is lean and alert throughout as Chief Brody, but the script offers him empty heroics and nothing more. Screaming teens take up much of the running time. But nobody was fooled; the picture made money but the lack of a star-director or solid supporting cast left everyone languishing in drive-in hell. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Mediocre At Best","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The problem with this sequel to the original masterpiece is that it completely lacks suspense. It comes off as predictable and hokey. However, it is better by far than the two sequels to follow The campy and cheesy (and not in a good way) Jaws 3 (and in 3-D theater showing no less to add to the misery) and the worst of the lot; Jaws 4 The Revenge. But onto Jaws 2. Director Jeannot does get to the action pretty quickly but his problem is it's done like the drive through window at a fast food restaurant. There's nothing building up to it and it is what it is. Roy Scheider returns to his role as police chief Martin Brody,as does Lorraine Gary as his wife Ellen as well as Murray Hamilton as the mayor of Amity. Scheider evidently was reluctant to star in the sequel but had a contractual obligation to fill with Universal Studios and was allowed a percentage of the profits as well. He fought with the director repeatedly, saying there was no character development and I couldn't agree more. In fact Scheider gets top billing but his character gets pushed into the background while the director insists on making this a screaming teen flick which undoubtedly will annoy many viewers. Spielberg and Dreyfus were reported to have been ready to film this sequel to the original but since they were both under obligations to finish Close Encounters Of The Third Kind, it prevented them from doing so. More's the pity as it would have been interesting to see what would have been if that had transpired. No doubt it would have been much superior than this lukewarm sequel. "},{"Title":"The Amity Horror Returns and Causes Teens to Scream A lot","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Budget for this Movie was Three Times that of the Original. But it's Not Even a Third as Good. The Movie has no Heart or Soul, just a Lot of Teens Posing for the Camera and Screaming, then Posing and Screaming Some More.In Fact, anytime the Shark is Not On Screen the Movie is Dismal, Slowly Paced, and Boring. Roy Scheider Reluctantly Reprises His Role to fulfill a contractual Obligation and it shows. He Feuded constantly on the Set with the somewhat Inexperienced Director, especially on a Big-Budget, and Roy Scheider stated that He was Fawning over the Kids all the time to the Dereliction of the Entire Production.The Shark Attacks are OK and it's Not the Worst Sequel of All Time. But it is Big, Bloated, and Empty. Some of the Shark behavior has been Criticized as being Ridiculous, but that could be Said of the Original.Overall, full of Pointless Scenes and with a Lack of Style. It Looks like it was made by Amateurs and all that Money was mostly Wasted. Average at Best, but considering the Pedigree and the Funding, a major Disappointment.Note...The Tagline...Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water....did become entrenched in the Popular Culture. "},{"Title":"A Jaws without Spielberg.","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first one who invents something new you can call a genius, the one who follows a path...you call...a follower. Of course this second Jaws-movie was made without the 29 years young, fresh, imaginative, risk loving Steven Spielberg sitting in the director's chair. It was made by someone already in business. If you follow a path, a known pattern you risk less, you can avoid mistakes other people have done, you can use devices of story telling, filming etc. but you can never create a fresh movie. That is what happens to almost all sequels of great movies. Two divers find the ORCA under water somewhere out in the waters of Amity, then suddenly they are attacked by a great white that goes on eating tourists on the coast of Amity. Brody yells again to close the beaches, authorities don't listen, so he has to fight again the beast, all alone. Sounds like the first movie.Burn marks on the shark's face, a shark hunting down teenagers on boat trip, etc. JAWS 2 adds nothing new to the concept after all, except Brody and the audience learns that sharks are not only attracted by blood, but by noises, too.Calling JAWS 2 not a great movie would be right. Calling it a bad movie would be wrong. At least it gets the story going all the time. It's not that exciting like JAWS, because we already know from the first 5 minutes there is a shark again and we can imagine how the shark looks like - indeed it looks a bit different this time, some say better, I say less natural but still very much OK. Someone said he would also be afraid even if he knows the shark is only mechanical. True! There was always a difference in the look of Bruce. He looks more menacing then a real great white - but this movie never fails to entertain - what sequels often do. It still keeps up with all the other good shark movies that followed to this day. "},{"Title":"Epic sequel! (Mild spoilers, don't read if u haven't seen Jaws, or don't want to know about the design of the shark)","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This one sequel with a whole lot of bite. It almost rivals (or even tops) the original in a few fields, including shark attacks (tops #1, so many shark scenes), scares (Not quite there, more cool than scary, but the scariest of the sequels), characters (well not really but they are still very good), and (obviously) scenery, as the film is filled with colorful, beautiful, aerial shots. And despite practically the same basic plot description as #1 (killer shark, Police chief Brody attempting to kill it) Jaws 2 is nothing like the original. The plot, as you will see, takes a much different turn than in one, and it takes on such a different tone than Jaws also. Jaws has a dark, creepy feel too it, and Jaws 2 has this fun, action-horror thing going. So don't make the mistake I did and assume this is a ripoff of one. Another change to this film is the size and design of the shark. First off, the shark seem smaller ( much more like 13-16 feet, not 25) and much more agile. And second, he gets a bit of a makeover (you'll know what I mean). So with all these changes, Jaws 2 manages to be an epic, exiting film. I liked it. "},{"Title":"The bite's back","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" So where to begin? This is not a bad movie but it is a movie that suffers from being the sequel to a superb movie that still stands the test of time. Well let's start with the positive. Roy Schneider is as usual superb and so is Lorraine Grey as his wife. But unfortunately they alone can not carry the movie. The new cast are a bunch of interchangeable teens that are so stereotypical they could be from any teen horror flick. Then there is the shark. For one he look so less realistic than in the original which I think maybe be down to less being more in the amount of the shark we get to see compared to the first movie. Also he seems to have to much personality and intelligence rather than just being a stone cold killer. Giving him battle scars and the intelligence to know how to destroy vehicles just does not work for me. Still there is some suspense and a satisfactory conclusion, it just does not cut its predecessors mustard. "},{"Title":"More of a comic-book film.","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" WARNING Contains plot spoilers.The beaches of Amity are once again plagued by a killer shark, this time more ferocious than its predecessor. Martin Brody tries to warn the mayor but is fired from his job after causing panic on the beach. Brody then tries to rescue a group of teenagers stranded at sea before the shark can get to them.Just when you thought it was safe to go back into the water, comes the sequel to the first true blockbuster. Jaws 2 is helmed by French director Jeannot Szwarc, a television director, & is co-written by Carl Gottlieb, who wrote the original film.A lot of people treated Jaws 2 as crap when it came out, which did not stop it from earning about $100 million at the box office. Unlike them, I tend to disagree &#x96; the film may not be as good or even in the same league as its predecessor, but it's a pretty good film.Szwarc keeps the film moving at a fast pace, pioneering the shark's POV shots as it races towards its victims, something that actually comes close to recreating the fear that JAWS had over its viewers. Roy Scheider delivers another fine performance as police chief Brody & Murray Hamilton is a hoot as the cowardly mayor.Jaws 2 may not be as scary as the first JAWS but is a damn sight more spectacular, with the shark taking on (& destroying) speedboats, sailing yachts & even a helicopter! There's even a rousing showdown where Scheider kills the shark by causing it to fry after biting an electrical cable. Cool as it may seem, these scenes propel the shark tale into some kind of comic-book film, as well as making it more hi-tech (it better be, at a budget of $22 million!).The only thing keeping the film from joining the revered heights of the original is the weak script, which copies the first film wholesale, & the shark attack scenes which may be quite spectacular but become very silly when you think about it afterwards &#x96; how can a shark blow up a speedboat or even sink a helicopter? It doesn't make any real sense, although this film is not for those who want to watch a realistic portrayal of a shark's life, just like the original, this film is pure escapism. "},{"Title":"An unnecessary, but respectable sequel to the classic","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Horror films were very hot in the 1970s and there are a few key movies that truly terrified moviegoers and have been imitated over and over for years to come. The 1975 film 'Jaws' brought the fear of sharks to screens across the world and still has that effect today so many years after it's release. Not surprisingly Universal pushed for a sequel, following in the footsteps of Warner Brothers and Twentieth Century Fox, responsible for sequels to their hits 'The Exorcist' and 'The Omen.' For the most part, sequels proved to be big money makers and in 1978 Spielberg's classic got one. The original was a tough film to follow and no sequel could top it, but this first of three does a pretty good job of trying.Pros Performances are good. John Williams returns with another good score, utilizing the now iconic main theme. Some awesome underwater photography. Gorgeous beach and coastal town scenery. A sufficient amount of scary attack scenes that the series is famous for. Moves at a pretty good pace. Director Szwarc does an alright job of building suspense and tension. Special effects are much improved.Cons Nothing new to see here. Pace could have used some tightening in the first half. This is one of those films where you'll be constantly yelling at the screen because of the stupidity of some of the characters, on and off land. Too many characters to keep track of and get to know.Final thoughts There really was no need for a sequel to 'Jaws,' but we got one anyway and all things considered it's a pretty good and entertaining effort. Best thing to do is to go into it expecting to have a good time and jump a few times and not expect something on the same level as the original and the experience should be positive. Plus it is much better than the crappy sequels that followed.My rating 3.5/5 "}{"Title":"Bad shark! No treat!","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The big giant hungry man-eating sonuvabitch of a shark ( or his brother, anyway) is back.The Amity Island Idiots didn't get the message and now they have to contend with another fish - sorry, 'mammal' - that likes to have a little meat with his seaweed salad. Roy Sheider is 'Chief Brody' once more and must save a motley group of delinquent teens from being served on the half-shell.Jeannot Szwarc directs this time around and his work ain't bad, but Robert Shaw is gone (he was the lunch special in the last film) while Lorraine Gary as Brody's wife does her best as usual to stay at his side when things get dicey.OK time-killer material. "},{"Title":"New Shark, Old Story.","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" We know what's going to happen you go in the water &#150; you get eaten. Pretty much.A comedian once noted that reporters of shark attacks always sound surprised A man was attacked by a shark at the beach today! Well, how surprising can it be if sharks live in the water? As Quint (Robert Shaw) said in the original and best JAWS (1976), Cage goes in the water, you go in the water, shark's in the water... The comedian noted he'd be surprised if there was a shark attack DOWNTOWN. Ipso facto, JAWS 2 spends so much time neck-deep in sea and surf it's no surprise everybody's getting eaten.Not directed by Steven Spielberg (rather, Jeannot Szwarc, who has the distinction of having one of his movies featured on MST 3K - CODE NAME DIAMOND HEAD, which he directed just prior to JAWS 2 - some pedigree he brings to the table!), and missing two of the major characters from JAWS (Dreyfuss and Shaw), JAWS 2 was sunk before it was launched.Roy Scheider reprises his Sheriff Brody from JAWS (the only one who seems to be taking all this seriously - his acting job and his Sheriff's job), Lorraine Gary is still his blond-suffering wife, the mayor is still Murray Hamilton and he and his council elder nutjobs are still in-denial when a new killer shark threatens their tourist trade on Amity Island.There's no denying the events in the first movie happened, which makes the mayor even more incredibly insane - when Sheriff Brody alerts him to the new shark, he might as well be reading his sides from JAWS, as he poo-poos Brody's assertions and warnings. Has the man no short-term memory? The climactic threat this time is towards Brody's two young boys, one of them a typical 70's teen - anti-authority, bad hairstyle, terrible acting and worse looping.But we feel no sympathy for any of these people who have heard all the warnings, lived through the first shark frenzy in JAWS, and still insist on putting their warm, salty bodies in the open sea.They're just asking for it, in the same way this film can be described EAT ME! --Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania). "},{"Title":"We're Gonna Need A Bigger...Helicopter!?","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 was an inevitable sequel, perhaps, but not a good one. Even by the standard of slasher sequels, for which Jaws 2 is a forerunner, coming out earlier the same year as the first popular slasher-film hit Halloween, it's only okay, and only after you sit through a great deal of boring exposition.Three years after a Great White fed off the human population of Amity Island, Sheriff Brody (Roy Scheider) could be forgiven for thinking it's safe to go back in the water. Little does he know a second shark has already begun eating divers around the shipwreck he escaped, and is making a beeline for his two young sons. He could even be forgiven for thinking it's personal this time.Jaws was the great scare film of the 1970s, and the possibility for a Jaws 2 that works is not far-fetched. So what if Great Whites don't really hold grudges, or take up station along the Eastern Seaboard? But the filmmakers this time seem so bent on delivering the thrills of the first film, they forget about the story and characters that made Jaws such a timeless adventure story.Give director Jeannot Szwarc credit for capturing the look of the first film, the sun-bleached sands and lapis-lazuli horizons that gave Jaws much of its vibrancy. He's no Spielberg, but he's not helming the same kind of first-class script. This time Brody's wife is working for a callous developer, and the focus for more than half the movie is on a group of teenagers who include the Brody offspring, growing faster than Chia pets.The film even recycles the friction between Brody and the Amity Town Council, never mind his saving the life of the son of Mayor Vaughn (Murray Hamilton) last time. This time, when Brody reports a killer whale carcass with suspicious shark-like bites, Vaughn shamelessly replies Martin, don't press it this time. Yeah, because you were so off-base last time.The problem with Jaws 2, other than excess length, is it expects its audience to share Vaughn's amnesia. When Brody goes out on a boat in search of his sons, we're supposed to forget that he did this before, and not so stupidly alone. When he goes mano-a-mano with the Great White, we aren't to remember that this was exactly how Jaws went down, with a rifle instead of a power line.Scheider is good, though, playing the part with the needed extra brio to compensate some for the absence of Richard Dreyfuss and Robert Shaw. I know what a shark looks like, because I've seen one up close, he shouts, eyes agog. And you'd better do something about this one, because I don't intend to go through that hell again! Nice scenes, too, help lift the film on occasion. In one, Brody loses it when he thinks he spots the shark off a beachful of bathers (it's just a school of bluefish), and fires his revolver at it, pretty much ending his public-service career. But his youngest son is there to help him pick up the emptied cartridges in the sand.The final confrontation with the shark, which corners several young people off the coast of Amity, has its moments, too, though signs of desperation as well, none more than when the shark goes after a Harbor Patrol helicopter, taking it and its pilot out by chomping on one of its floating pontoon struts. Well, the first one took out a whole boat, I guess, but that time it was attached to the vessel with harpoon lines.There was no reason to make Jaws 2 except for the money. Thirty years later, the sequel doesn't exactly reek, yet only serves to diminish the first film's considerable legacy. "},{"Title":"Something fishy going on here!.","Date":"4 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Police Chief Brody, four years after ridding the Amity waters of a Great White Shark, finds there may just be another on the loose. Once again he finds opposition from the townsfolk, once again he hopes he isn't proved right, once again............Tho this, and all the subsequent sequels, were not called for, and outside of cash cow greedy executives, wanted, this could have been far worse. Using the same formula as Steven Spielberg's monstrously successful original from 1975, the makers here have achieved a level of B movie entertainment, but it only just about keeps its head above water hrr hrr hrr. Having both Roy Scheider and Lorraine Gary return from the first picture puts a bit of gravitas into the proceedings, but come the final third of the picture, all sense of credit has given way to a teens in peril slasher formula. It's here that we realise that the man against beast heart of the original Jaws is sadly missing, we of course will be with Brody all the way, and little boo jump sequences are handled adequately, but after having no worthwhile story to care for, we now simply expect the obvious, and sadly after getting it, it feels rather flat. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Good, not Great.","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" None of man's fantasies of evil could compare with the reality of Jaws, but this is still a good sequel. The first one was great. This is good not great. This is not a bad film like Siskel and Ebert said. Jaws 2 is a good sequel and this is where it should have ended. Even though I have only scene a little bit of the third one and I haven't scene the 4th one, I know that 3 and 4 are horrible and I don't want 3 and 4 to ruin the first 2 for me. Jaws 2 is a good not great sequel. I recommend it. If you have not seen this, then I recommend you on renting it. My overall rating for Jaws 2 is 7 out of 10 stars. Enjoy the ride. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Not terribly frightening","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Once again inferiority is the order of the day as we are presented with yet another lesser sequel which fails to reproduce the entertainment level of the original.Jeannot Szwarc (Somewhere in Time- much more the director's forte) takes us back to Amity three years on, where another summer has begun to turn sour for chief Brody with the occurrence of some mysterious deaths. The plot has two major problems - a) we've seen it all already, and b) no-one tells a story like Steven Spielberg. Since script writer Gottlieb was never going to be able to surprise his audience, he had to devise a way of scaring them more than they were in the 1975 film. His bid to present us with such a situation fails and we are left with a rather implausible and unsatisfactory finale.Production values are again good, John Williams pens another appropriate score whilst lead players Roy Scheider, Lorraine Gary and Murray Hamilton perform well. What does not resurface is the suspense, tension and pure thrills of the first Jaws, along with the splendid acting turns of course. Reasonable entertainment, but not terribly frightening.Saturday, June 4, 1994 - T.V. "},{"Title":"It was acceptable i guess","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 is set 4 years after those unforgettable events in Amity. This time the chief's sons are older and have more storyline than the original.In this film Brody's eldest son is an adolescent obsessed with sailing and teenage girls. He is nagged repeatedly by his father about the dangers of the water. Chief Brody however gets a new problem. A new shark has decided to pick off amity's residents. After numerous clues, such as a dead killer whale, chief Brody becomes more and more cautious. One day Brody's son and his friends decide to go sailing for a long time. The rest of it is pretty predictable.My problem with jaws 2 is that it has unsympathetic victims. The teenagers are incredibly annoying and stupid. The pacing could have also been faster too.The good Roy schieder is great as the chief and portrays his character with more emotion than expected. There was some good action also. "},{"Title":"sequels are rarely ever a patch on the original, many sequels are mediocre","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first Jaws is, in the opinions of many people, one of the finest movies of all time. It broke box office records, became the most successful film of all time and held that record for two years, and is still today regarded as a classic and one of the most terrifying and chilling horror films in the history of motion pictures. It is of no surprise that with a film that successful that the producers would want to throw in a sequel or two to cash in our the success of Steven Spielberg's epic masterpiece. This is typical studio behavior and as a result, Jaws 2 was a film that was quickly rushed into production, thrown together quickly, and is overall not a patch on the original film. Not that it could have been if more effort was put into it, but Jaws 2 is overall a mess. It's not a terrible movie and is far better than Jaws the Revenge, but is a mediocre horror film and is neither frightening nor compelling.Thankfully, one of the positive aspects about this film is that we have many of the cast from the first film returning to reprise their roles. Including Academy Award-nominee Roy Scheider, Lorraine Gary, and Murray Hamilton. All three of these are wonderfully talented actors and actresses and excel in their roles almost as much as in the original. The down part is that they don't get their great moments again. Murray Hamilton's part almost seemed unnecessary, for his character does very little in the film and is not developed very well. Roy Scheider, once again playing Police Chief Martin Brody, did well at his job and the screenplay was designed to keep him showing fear for sharks and not so much fear for the water as a homage to his last lines from the first Jaws. Lorraine Gary does not really fit quite as well as Ellen Brody as she did in the first film, again, because of the weak development. Her character was given more screen time here, but did not work out all that well.As for our new members of the cast, they are mostly a large group of teenagers who instead of driving cars, like to take small sailboats and sail recklessly across the Atlantic Ocean. And as you might expect, some of them will come upon our antagonist, another fearful great white shark, who also gets shown on screen a lot, as a result, making it less frightening and more revealing. Its attacks on the teenagers, in fact, it's attacks on all of its victims are not unexpected and only once in the film do we really get a moment where we MIGHT jump a bit with shock. The responses of the sailing teens is always the same hysterical screaming, pandemonium, shouting, and one of them getting chomped. These characters get very little development and we really couldn't care less for any of them when they get eaten. We don't even remember their names or really remember anything about them. And unfortunately, the ones who get eaten are mostly the ones who we get annoyed by the least.As I stated before, the shark in Jaws 2 is shown at a much greater deal than the shark from the first film. This shark is probably a bit more realistic than the first one, but is overall, not a very frightening villain. Not concerning its looks, but just the way it is handled. The way it attacks after a not very suspenseful moment, how we always have plenty of warning before it attacks and know exactly when and where, we can tell when it's going to fail in its attack, and so on and so forth. And too much footage was used of real sharks, which differ quite greatly from the mechanical shark, so that you can easily tell they are two different techniques. Unlike in the first Jaws, where the combined live action and mechanical sharks worked out to great the illusion of this killer, terrible animal that hunts and kills mercilessly.Jaws 2 is a mediocre sequel, however it is watchable. Like I said, it was created simply to cash in on the success of the first Jaws, so that the studio could make more money, which they did. But I was kind of hoping for a film with more suspense, thrills, and creativity put into it. Basically, it's an okay horror film with a fairly good John Williams music score in the background. "},{"Title":"Treading in the same water as the first, yet doing things worse.","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Although eagerly anticipating the sequel, I was aware of the negative opinions surrounding Jaws 2 and even though it had been a long time since I'd last seen the first film, (which I remember loving) I was still looking forward to some suspenseful, beach located, shark action. It turned out that Jaws 2 felt more like a bit of a re-make than anything else.The reason for this is that it's main character from the first film returns and so does the actor (Scheider). The character of Hooper (Dreyfuss) seems to return but in another form. From what I recall, he's given a smaller, almost, wimpy role in Jaws 2 and it doesn't help when some iffy acting is thrown in. Since Brody is now the all action, hard bodied hero; the need for a 'Quint' character isn't necessary.Jaws 2 gets some things right but most of the time misses the mark. Spielberg's first Jaws film is really the inspiration for this film and the director doesn't bring too many new things to the sequel. The elements of suspicion and attempts at persuasion are still there but whatever else is missing has been replaced by a subplot revolving around a group of Amity teens and their lusts for sailing and one-another. Consequently; they hang around at bars and on beaches, talk to each another and do quite a bit of screaming when in peril.The actual premise for the film is something rather perplexing. The shark seemingly comes from nowhere and the feeling I got was that it had some kind of vendetta against the town in which the first shark was killed. Making this film a revenge flick was a daft thing to do as although I don't know much about sharks, I'm pretty sure they're not smart enough to want to go all out in an act of revenge due to an earlier killing. Maybe the shark from the first film was a friend or family member; who knows? Since the character isn't human, you can't give it a back-story.The script is another point of interest. I thought the script was a little laboured with poor teen dialogue but it also contained certain holes that really opened up at just the wrong moments. One of these was the fact that there was more than one photograph of the shark taken at the beginning yet Brody only has one to show the board. Another is the fact that although these shark attacks have happened before, the board ignore Brody's pleas and shrug him off. I understand the need for suspense but this was too unrealistic. It has happened before, Brody has the experience and know-how of sharks due to the first film but it now, apparently, counts for nothing. This made the film frustrating and longwinded.Although interesting at times, with a reasonable finale and some genuine good moments involving the real star of the film (the shark); Jaws 2 never really feels like it's able to elevate itself above that B-movie, cheap thrills, horror routine that, arguably, defines late 70s to early 80s films of this genre. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original!","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The problem with sequels is that they never really capture the essence and sensation of the original film. The same goes for the Jaws sequels. None can ever match the magic of the original classic film of all time. Richard Dreyfuss is not in this movie but Roy Scheider and Lorraine Gary play Chief and Ellen Brody. The film also has Joseph Mascolo better known for his role on Days of Our Lives. I love the woman who plays Mrs. Taft in the Jaws films. I love Murray Hamilton who I always confuse with Hal Holbrook. They could be brothers. She seems just real as the character. Anyway, the writing could have been better and it could have been more dramatic but it's not as strong as the original. It's a good attempt though but it could have been so much better. "}{"Title":"Cheesy summer-fun","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Only three years after Spielberg's blockbuster-success Jaws 2 hit the cinemas. And everybody's back, the crew and the famous soundtrack, but the play-maker's gone; Steven Spielberg. He made the first one so thrilling and brilliantly simple and effecting, this second installment has lost it's genius touch and only achieves it's goals by playing it safe and following many basic rules of making a thriller entertaining. Picking up three years after the original it finds the Amity Island free of concerns and troubles, and it's not been a shark-problem since whatsoever. But out of the blue a killer-shark arrives the beaches and starts his summer-vacation, this forcing Martin Brody to again go mano-o-mano with the great white.Jaws 2 has got some simple qualities; some scenes are campy fun, for example in one particular scene where a woman's water-skiing and behind her the infamous fin comes up threw the surface, hunting her without her even noticing - and the cheesy fun is always in the right place in such a empty sequel as Jaws 2 is. There's obviously no depth to it, and that's totally okay as this is being a summer-movie; and Jaws 2 makes some fun, and though it's not really scary or chilling, it's the pure entertainment that keeps it some better than the two others to come. "},{"Title":"THE Jaws Sequel.","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A few years after events in the original film, another shark pops up to start causing trouble. Chief Brody attempts to warn the mayor and his cronies, but they would rather not hear about it, are more concerned with local trade.I'd put this film on a par with the original. In fact I'd say it was my personal favourite of the series, succeeds in capturing the spirit of the first film very well. Brody is now a more embittered, cynical character, many of the other locals from the first film returned and the film has a fast-moving script which has both chilling and witty moments. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first one, but alright.","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Do you remember the town named Amity and do you remember the shark that invaded the beach that one summer. Well it's four years later and the town seemed to have recovered and everything seemed peaceful where most of the teenagers loved to sail. But when a diver vanishes and a skier has an sudden accident. Chief Brody begins to fear it was another shark attack like 4 years earlier. But the whole town is telling him he is crazy. Can Martin stop the terror before its too late? This movie was good, but it really began to drag itself as it went on. It was good because I liked Roy Scheider reprised his role as Chief Brody. The film would not be much of a hit without him. "},{"Title":"good sequel WARNING MINOR SPOILERS!!!!!!!!","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  good sequel is tension filled and suspenseful with great acting once again by Roy Scheider he gives an awesome performance and is extremely likable i was rooting for him all the way and he has great chemistry with Lorraine Gray who also does good now this is nowhere near as good as the original it is still a tension filled suspenseful and enjoyable time that manages to be a well made romp now the rest of the acting is okay but the screaming tends to get to be a bit too much and the shark still looks impressive and he looks more determined well and good reason he got half his face burnt and there is a really cool moment when the shark drags the helicopter into the water now the ending is rather weak still i enjoyed this sequel and you should too the score is excellent once again Murray Hamilton plays the unlikable mayor well once again i give this a *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"The greatest tagline in motion picture history.. WARNING; POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT IT WAS SAFE TO GO BACK IN THE WATER.I first encountered this line in a trailer to JAWS 2 which played at a screening of STAR WARS in 1978. When the trailer was over and the curtains drew in preparation for the main feature, John Williams' score was played, causing much anticipation in the cinema.Although the sequel doesn't have the element of surprise that the first film did (Jeannot Szwarc is not Spielberg) there are still some good moments in this one (the shock that Brody gets whilst on the beach looking for evidence is still my favourite moment) and thanks to Roy Scheider and Murray Hamilton's performances, the film is lifted to a more credible level.Inevitably, the limits of doing a film involving a shark are more apparent (even more so in JAWS - THE REVENGE!!) and it is essentially the same story all over again.  "},{"Title":"Watchable, But Ultimately Unfaithful to the Original.","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Another great white shark is lurking aroung the Amity Resort, and, once again, it's up to Roy Scheider to save the day.  JAWS 2 had the potential for a good sequel, but it is more like a rehash than a sequel.  There are some young and good-looking actors including Keith Gordon in a small role.  This film, however, lacks the bite of the original and it's not as scary.  Again, JAWS 2 was successful at the box office, but it's only tolerable at best.2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"More the same!","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is nothing special, it is just more the same.  With some new twists.  The shark is very hungry and Broady's older son wants to hang out with the teenagers they all are into boating, and take the chance of becoming potential shark food.  I was rooting for the shark in this one.  Its not bad, it's watchable, but far inferior to the original.  I would give this a 6 out 0f 10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining, fun sequel","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Surprisingly solid sequel, though it doesn't come close to the original.  After a series of freak boating accidents and disappearances, Sherriff Scheider suspects another shark to be lurking the waters of Amity Island.  Of course, no one believes him, and he becomes more and more obsessive about proving it.  Little does he know, his son has snuck out to go sailing with his buddies...  Nothing great, but entertaining enough, with some decent suspense and scares along the way, plus a rather fearsome looking shark, made even scarier by the burn scars on its face.   "},{"Title":"Why would you do such a thing?","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Even as a run-of-the-mill Killer Animal flick, this would have been pretty lame.As a sequel to *Jaws*, it's appalling.Unfortunately, the director and screenwriters insist on reminding us repeatedly of the real *Jaws*, with lines and shots deliberately crafted to recall that great film. All they succeed in doing is proving that this film never should have been made. "},{"Title":"Big disappointment.","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie isn't worth watching in my mind. I was excited after the first Jaws film to see the second one, but I was disappointed. Only Roy Scheider returns from the memorable trio of actors that the first film gave, and he wasn't nearly as good as he was.This Jaws is, in two words, a teen movie. There's suspense, oh yeah, whop-de-doo. Not. (here's a few spoilers; don't read on if you don't want it spoiled) After a couple of really stupid scenes, a bunch of teenagers are trapped on a boat in the middle of nowhere with a killer shark lurking in the depths of the ocean, and only one person can rescue them all and save the day (guess who?)What else is new?What I'll say now is probably what you'll hear most often when you ask somebody about this film It could have been a lot better. "}{"Title":"Lacks Quality Of Its Immortal Predecessor","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Though during its time, Jaws II was the highest-ranking sequel ever (possibly next to only The Godfather, Part II), this installment in the shark series--the only decent one in terms of sequels--lacks the overall intensity and pure quality of the original. Many key elements are missing. No gripping, poignant dialogue; no strong characters (aside from Chief Martin Brody, reprised by Roy Scheider, who incidentally accepted the role only to end his contract with Universal); no intriguing plot; and the visual effects seen in the original Jaws have dimmed. One explanation for this may be the fact that the filmakers began shooting before there was a finished script--a bad move for a thriller, especially one that originally had a great sense of character and plot development. The director's attempts to make a people movie, not a shark movie failed.  But, Jaws II does have its good points; a witty climax (with a signature remark to the Great White from Brody). And though the character development is limited to that of Brody, it really does manage to explore the character a bit further. But finally, for a performance that Scheider accepted to get out of a contract, he does some pretty impressive work...not equal to that of his performance in the original, or The French Connection or The Jazz Singer, but not too bad. The best in all three sequels. Jaws II is as good as the original compared to Jaws 3(-D) and Jaws The Revenge. --Bud Sturguess, Texas "},{"Title":"Not as Good as Jaws, but Still Okay","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Without Doubt not as Good as the Original, But it is All Right. Had a lot more Scares and Gore than the First One, But that is Fine in My Book. The Second Best in the Jaws Series and a Fine Addition. If you Like Horror or Suspense, You Need to See This! "},{"Title":"Good Sequel","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Good Addition to a Mighty Fine Horror Series. This one got a Little more Violent than the Original, But, I Liked It! I Would Say that Jaws 2 is another one of the Sequels that can compare to the original. I Would Recommend This to Everyone. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Actually better than the original!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  All I can say is that I was overwhelmed with this kind of suspense! I did like part one, but this sequel is even better. The actors are first rate, and so is the gorgeous music.I loved to see the beautiful Martha Swatek in a rare film appearance as (shark victim) Marge, and it blows my mind every time I hear Donna Wilkes scream.A MUST-SEE! "},{"Title":"mr. jaws is back","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The terror from Jaws is back. Well, sort of. A handful of the team that made Jaws possible returned to create this clunker of a sequel. The shark is obviously a leftover from the original, but that's not to say it's not good looking. In fact, having half its face burned off improves the look.The movie can best be compared to a teen-slasher film. At most. True, seeing the shark pull a helicopter down is a bit much. But all else is fine. But what the film really needs is Richard Dryfess. Then it would be the perfect sequel. "},{"Title":"could of been better, could of been worse?","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Pretty good movie.  Best of any of the other that followed.  I do wish however could be made more thrilling like the first.  movie has some low trills.  Nothing to make me say OH MY GOD, I NOT GOING BACK IN THE WATER! like the first one did.  But still pretty good movie! "},{"Title":"The ending was the best part!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Because that meant it was over! This one is a SOLID 5.  You can't get much more bland than this, and compared to the other sequels, this one looks like Citizen Freakin' Kane. Basically if someone offers you this movie for free, its ok to take it (you can always tape over it later) but 10 cents is too high of a rental fee for this movie.The worst part other fiction movies are making realistic vampires, aliens, and other fantasy creatures; these guys couldnt even make a realistic REAL animal. "},{"Title":"It Drowns Quickly.","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 (1978) Dir Jeannot Szwarc / Cast Roy Scheider, Lorraine Gary, Murray Hamilton, Jeffrey Kramer, Donna Wilkes After the masterpiece that is Jaws, Steven Spielberg wisely stepped away from this washed up trainwreck sequel. This one more or less repeats the same story only to embarrassing results. Roy Scheider returns as Chief Brody who can play this role in his sleep. Actually, he should have been asleep for all the good this film does his career. After his heroics in the first film he is reduced to embarrassing scenes where he believes he sees sharks and screams foe everybody to evacuate the beach area only to discover that it wasn't what he thought. He eventually gets fired, which Scheider likely wished was a reality for the film. The screenplay plays like the standard slasher flick only instead of a masked madman, we have a shark snacking on everyone who enters the water, including one imbecile who lights herself and her boat on fire thus killing her but the shark survives. Lorraine Gary returns as Scheider's wife, and Murray Hamilton returns once again playing an authority figure making bad decisions, such as being part of this film. Jeffrey Kramer plays Brody's less than intelligence deputy. Donna Wilkes appears as eye candy before being discovered hiding in a boat after her boyfriend became shark food. Clearly a special effects film that should be chucked in the ocean and never to resurface. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"We're gonna need a bigger tolerance","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The biggest problem with Jaws 2 is it ain't no Jaws, and it feels like writer Carl Gottlieb and Howard Sackler wrote the film with the original's screenplay sitting right next to it. The film has some seriously suspenseful sequences, a handful of decent location shots, but doesn't have that come from behind vibe its predecessor had the benefit of. The feeling of watching a great film that was plagued by problem after problem is traded for a film that feels like mediocrity and money were the prime goals from the start.What made Steven Spielberg's Jaws such a surprising and terrific motion picture was that, despite numerous production problems including going grossly over-budget and having three mechanical-shark failures on set during shooting, it had several people that took the project seriously and made it a truly captivating picture. They were director Spielberg, editor Verna Fields, and music-composer John Williams. Those three, along with the gifted cast of characters, made the film what it is today and are to thank for its mark on classic cinema.The only soul to reprise his role from the original film is Roy Scheider as police chief Martin Brody, who must now deal with another great white shark terrorizing Amity Island. As in the first film, the entire town is panicked, the backbones such as the village, the managers, and the police of unsure how to respond, and Brody continues to not be believed by his peers about the dangers of the shark even though it's common knowledge that he battled one before. You'd think that the people would consider that Brody has been through this and has a viable idea about how this sort of thing works.Immediately, we have a conflict that feels stretched and rather perfunctory. Perhaps the film doesn't work as well because it has very, very few people from its predecessor on board with it. Only Scheider, Williams, and writer Carl Gottlieb return, but you can see it's a challenge for them to try and liven material that was exercised to capacity in a film just a few years ago.Thankfully, there is suspense present, but the use of it, along with the editing, is gratefully inferior to the original film. Consider the scene where a woman is on a boat and her friend is several feet away from the boat and a shark fin appears out of the water. It now becomes an unintentional race to the boat between the shark and the man and director Jeannot Szwarc keeps the focus on this scene for maybe thirty, forty seconds. This is easily one of the strongest scenes in the film, but like every good scene in the film, I can't help but wonder how Spielberg and Fields would've conducted it and what tactics they would've employed. To add fuel to the fire, it has been reported that Scheider and Szwarc had numerous on set disputes about creativity in the project, only leading for one to assume that, doing this before, he knew that Spielberg had the talent and ingredients to make the project work.The final element to mention in Jaws 2 is the shark. It is a known fact that the original film was plagued by difficulties with mechanical sharks, with having all three on set fail in some way or another. But Jaws 2's problem is the sharks look inherently fake and I can't find any information that says the crew had difficulty in getting the sharks to work and function fluently. What does this say about the capability of the crew on Jaws 2 compared with the crew of the original Jaws film?Starring Roy Scheider, Lorraine Gary, and Murray Hamilton. Directed by Jeannot Szwarc. "},{"Title":"Stop it; you're killing me","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The problem with the Jaws movies is -- basically it's just one joke. But it's a really HILARIOUS joke, if viewed properly. These movies really require a DVD player to fast-forward thru the stupid stuff (tired, recycled old plot lines you can follow perfectly at 5x speed), in order to get to the _really_ stupid stuff.This go-round has plenty of fresh teens and preteens to be devoured and/or thrown into hysterical terror (some of that acting is actually pretty good, given the parameters). The shark tears through 5 or 6 boats _and_ a helicopter; stuff blows up. This is one hungry shark. A killing machine, mindless, yet capable of nursing a grudge. Well... finally he lights up spectacularly on a high-voltage underwater cable(?!?), but the scheider feeding it to him is left unscathed (thanks, I believe, to the prayers of a young blond virgin.)Definitive shark-jumping. You'll bust a gut. "}{"Title":"Jaws 2 The Definite Electric Boogaloo","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 gets dumped on. All the time.Let's begin by never, ever comparing it to the masterpiece #1 was. With that being thrown out, it's not a terrible movie. It's exactly what a sequel (especially summer sequel) should be more of everything.In this case more blood, more attacks, more shark sightings, more sexuality (girls, duh,) more inventive kills/chomps, and more ways of ridding the world (uh, beach/water) of the title menace.They delivered in spades. Now, on its own, it's not great, but it's fun.When I was a kid, I loved sequels more than the originals. Why? For the very reasons already stated. I was an impatient kid (well, kinda still am&#x85;) and I wanted to get right to the reason we came to the show. I was the same with Superman II vs. Superman The Movie&#x85;You got to see Superman right away(!) in part II when you'll have to wait an hour plus in the original.As an adult, I can contest the originals are oodles better, but from a kid's POV, I liked &#x96; and rewatched &#x96; the sequels more.That all said, just watch this movie as a sequel. No real depth, no real message. Roy Scheider reprises his Chief Brody role from the first one, amongst most of the other reoccurring cast members and adds very little to his original starring character. Again, he plays a wild-eyed, water-hating chief who has since survived a shark attack and spews lines to anyone who would listen, such as But I'm telling you, and I'm telling everybody at this table that, that's a shark! And I know what a shark looks like, because I've seen one up close. And you'd better do something about this one, because I don't intend to go through that hell again!(Thank God, he chose not to return to parts 3-D and The Revenge. Because, his rants, or reason he chooses to stay close to water, would be even more far-fetched as the later sequels will become&#x85;)Anyways, suffice to say, everyone thinks it's safe to go back into the water and lo, there's another shark near Amity Island near New York, USA. (In a funny side note, Brody thinks it's after revenge for the destruction of the first movie's shark&#x85;also named Jaws? I hope that wasn't the inspiration for the horrid part IV&#x85;)That's about it. Really. Let's see, I've already mentioned Brody trying to convince everyone lightning struck twice and there's another shark. Okay, fine, throw in a group of kids, including the two Brody boys, who drift out into the ocean while Jaws has its fun with them. Brody must come out and kill Jaws again in an unrealistic, but fun way.Did I mention Jaws eats a helicopter? Am I losing you&#x85;if I haven't already?Again, forget remotely comparing it to part 1. Remember it's just a mindless, summer movie and have a little fun. And think 1970s, a lot. I mean all the boys are attracted to a girl sooo plain that she would've even make Devine look pretty. "},{"Title":"One of the better sequels","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In the world of sequels, it is extremely hard to get a good review, because everyone assumes sequels and remakes automatically suck. In this film, this is not the case. I will admit, although it is nowheres near as good as the original, take a look at some other sequels. Weekend at Bernie's 2, and of the Ernest films(though I respect the man for his enthusiasm of the outdoors, may his soul rest in peace.), etc. There have been some bad sequels out there, but I don't count this in with them. There is an entirely original plot line, the reprisal of the characters in not too shabby, and the special effects are stunning, especially the electrocution of the shark at the end. Overall, this is not a bad sequel. Though, I must say I don't care for the similarity of the ending to the original, where he keeps telling the shark to do things with its mouth. That last part sounded kind of creepy, so i'm cutting it off here. Good sequel. 9/10. "},{"Title":"good, but the Orignal is better","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws 2 was a good movie but the first Jaws movie has got to be the best Jaws movie out of all the others. Because i would think it would take some beating to make a movie that is the best and when they make another, they try so hard to make it just as good or better than the 1st they did. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"the best in the series!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i have always believed jaws 2 was better than the first one because better killing scenes and more entertaining people. what's more scarier - 3 drunk old guys on a boat hunting a great white shark or a bunch of scared to death teens on a sail boat?just because steven spielberg didn't direct this movie doesn't mean it's not as good as the first one.i think jaws 2 is a great movie.i give jaws 2 ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Horrible sequel to a great film","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In the words of Roger Ebert I hated, hated, hated this movie. Uninteresting, pointless, predictable. Those last two sentences express how I felt about Jaws 2. I try to avoid using the word boring in my writing but I am forced to use it here this is a boring movie. Dreadfully and painfully boring. It is strange to me how a brilliant film such as Jaws could have such a bad sequel. But this movie shows how possible it is. Not only was it uninteresting, but it was incredibly predicable. In my mind (or sometimes out loud), I would say what would happen next and, by golly, I was right almost the entire time. And to make it even worse, the story line was unoriginal. Based on what you know from the first one, it is a given that there will be shark attacks. But all that consists of the story is a group of rebellious kids who decide to go sailing and...well I'm sure you can guess what happens next. Without the talents of Steven Spielberg and Richard Dreyfuss, this movie suffers greatly. The only part of this movie that was even relatively interesting was the ending, which I am not going to give away in case, for some reason, you do end up seeing this film. "},{"Title":"Worst movie sequel ever made (and that's with stiff competition)","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 followed up a pretty good movie, with such a lousy sequel that it made the original look like a classic. I was pretty close to a teenager when it came out, and even then I thought it was a goofy portrayal of teenagers. It looked as though someone tried to create original real dialogue, but didn't know how to. Everything is very contrived, even to the point where the only non blonde girl teen is killed (courtesy of director-writer combo so neo Nazi that they couldn't even be sublime about it). During this era, however, it was probably impossible to produce a movie without killing some non-blonde woman. So although I count this as a spoiler, it really isn't, and it helps make the film lack any suspense, whatsoever. WE know which characters will be killed almost to a tee. Its pretty close to which is worse, this or Jaws 4. Both make you shake your head with the feeling that you're watching complete garbage and wasting your time. I give the nod to this one for being worse because of the one dimensional characters so bad the writers didn't even know they were one dimensional. "},{"Title":"Just when you thought sequels were safe to go and see again","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Dear oh dear. Travesty comes to mind when I saw this film, (some unprintable words occurred after the second time).Jaws 2 has about as much bite as a canary on drugs! Why oh why did Scheider & Garry every agree to do this I will never know. The money perhaps, but surely their reputations must have sunk quicker than the original Orca, afterwards.Yet another GW shark hoves into Amity Island, probably bent on revenge after the first film no doubt! It starts eating people before it trains it hungry little black eyes on a bunch of bratty kids, including the police chief's son.Unfortunately, Brody saves the day (and most of the bratpack) with a most unconvincing method of binning the shark and all live happily ever after until the next pay cheque....ooops, I mean the next film offer turns up.Save for John Williams' score (and I'm surprised he got involved in this mess), Jaws 2 just doesn't do it. Admittedly it had to work very hard to even come close to it's older relation, but you can't help but feel the scriptwriters made a  bad choice using teenagers for a sharkbait storyline - obviously trying to appeal to that kind of audience as opposed to the more mature adult adventurer's in the last hour of the first film!But to be honest a sequel was to be expected, so I wasn't really surprised that it got ripped to pieces by the press when it was released in 78/9.However, what I couldn't get my head round was the audacity of Universal studios to go on an make even more sequels!!!Oh well, let them keep making sequel after sequel; as far as I'm concerned there's only one true Jaws. ...dah..dum....dah...dum....dah dum dah dum dah dum.....**/***** "},{"Title":"Not bad for a rehash","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The original Jaws was a summer blockbuster that time has proved to be an unexpected classic. (I mean, they teach that movie in film schools now.) When Jaws 2 was conceived, the studio didn't think in terms of doing justice to a classic; they looked at the amount of money that Jaws was piling up very quickly and hoped to make lightning strike twice. So Jaws 2 was, in the words of Steven Spielberg, an exercise in corporate business. It jettisons the interaction among the mismatched trio of shark hunters from the first film in favor of putting a group of mostly whiny (and in one case, relentlessly shrieking) teens in jeopardy. It asks us to believe that ANOTHER jumbo-sized great white shark would happen upon the same little East Coast island resort. It is erratically paced and often poorly written (by a couple of the same team of writers who shaped the original Jaws script). It is marred by some special effects shots that should have either been re-shot or scrapped (at one point, the shark's lower jaw is CROOKED as it lunges out of the water).Even so, this Jaws fan has a soft spot for Jaws 2, because it's the only one of the three sequels that has enough elements of the original to make it watchable. (In fact, Jaws 3D and Jaws The Revenge are beneath contempt.) Reprising his Jaws role, Roy Scheider is as good as could be expected given the lack of a consistent script or any opportunity to work with costars on the level of Richard Dreyfuss and Robert Shaw. John Williams turns in one of his most underrated scores, building on the sound and style of the original without lamely repeating himself. Director Jeannot Szwarc does manage to create some pretty scary and suspenseful sequences, unlike either of the directors who followed him in this series. And even if the whole thing is nothing but reheated leftover fish cakes, it still tastes pretty good. "},{"Title":"The 2nd one is scarier then the 1st one","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Like most horror movie sequels this film is underrated. This is no 5.7. It is a 10. The original Jaws is a very scary movie. But this one is scarier. This is one of the scariest movies from the 70's. Jaws 3 is scarier. But still this is very scary. This movie has a great story line. It also has great acting. It also has great special effects. It is true that Steven Spielberg did a great job with the first Jaws movie. But Jeannot Szwarc did a great job with this film. It is one of the scariest movies made before 1983. Roy Scheider was a great actor. Lorraine Gray is a great actress. This movie is very intense. Murray Hamilton was a great actor. All the Jaws movies are must sees. "},{"Title":"Deja Vu All Over Again","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Roy Scheider returns as Police Chief Martin Brody who is once more called upon to investigate a series of incidents that occur in the water off of the island of Amity. When some vague clues surface which might lead to another great white shark as the prime suspect he is once again ignored when he tries to take action to resolve the situation. To paraphrase Yogi Bara, it's déjà vu all over again. That said, while this movie is certainly watchable this sequel is hardly as good as its predecessor. While part of the reason may be the similarity of the plot, to me there were two other reasons which were more significant. The first was the incredibly ludicrous scene involving a helicopter. The second was the appearance of the shark which didn't quite resemble a shark at certain key moments. Again, this movie was watchable. But quite frankly, if you're expecting something as good as the original then I believe you will be severely disappointed. Average. "}{"Title":"Worst than the first one. What a deception!","Date":"5 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" My vote 5/10. I didn't really love it. I thought it was kind of medium. The shark is very good and has the right size to scare people (like usually). I liked the scar on his face. He looks like a devil and really is scary! Good thing to have added it for the film. But the real problem in the movie is that there are some long scenes without the shark. I know, perhaps it is normal (same in the first Jaws) but still, I don't like it! It bored me to death. The other boring thing is that the shark after he attacks the teenagers, every time the film comes back to silent while the shark is still wandering around them, every time it is the same. That is the real problem. It is just not right. The filmmaker should have added stronger scenes with more attacks and more actions. It is a real deception. Sorry to say it. By the way, the shark's death was a real success! The special effects were cool! The shark gives us a good fear feeling! Bravo! I don't recommend it strongly, anyway. Between the four shark movies (Jaws) the film I disliked the most is the one I am just writing about. I prefer the first one that I found good! Thank you for your attention. I am Constantin O'Rourke. "},{"Title":"Really?","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I can't even BELIEVE that this was the sequel to Jaws, which had to have been such a hot property for Universal pictures that they should have taken much more care about how they created the sequel. I've read that Spielberg and Richard Dreyfus were both on board for it, but were busy finishing Close Encounters of the Third Kind. Universal decided to just go ahead and make the movie without them, and...good God, how stupid it ended up. Did anybody involved in this film even watch the original? The shark is on screen wayyyy too much, and much of the time it looks really fake (because it is). There are pacing problems galore, as the film begins at a snail's pace and breaks into a slow plod somewhere around the halfway point. By the time it takes off running, there's only about half an hour left to it. A couple of scary suspense scenes don't really make up for it; after the tenth time someone falls off of a boat into the water, you already don't care anymore. "},{"Title":"It was okay, but it lacked the feel the original provided","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There were several things I felt were wrong about this film, and several I felt were great.First, the pace of the film. It started out very slow. I had to enable close captioning because I could barely hear the actors. I had no real idea what was going on. It took a good hour before anything exciting occurred.Second, the lack of music. Almost half the movie was just people talking, or things happening. Whatever happened to the music that is put in almost every scene of movies these days? Finally, the general behavior of people. Didn't they just witness several shark attacks four years ago (in Jaws)? Didn't the whole problem with the shark cause them to be frightened? How come everyone is ignoring this, denying the possibility of a shark, etc? But on the other hand, some good things about the movie.First, more shark horror scenes. Which is probably the main idea with the whole story.And second, just in general it seemed to improve with the camera angles and the technical aspects.Unfortunately, there was a ton of unnecessary swearing and a few making out scenes that didn't need to be added in.So all in all, 7/10. "},{"Title":"Gutted sequel offers vaguely clunky charm in lieu of originality","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Just when you thought it was safe to trust that the newly founded 'blockbuster' film (a concept born from the incredible financial success of Steven Spielberg's classic Jaws) could justify its massive popularity by balancing a penchant for thrills and excitement with genuinely quality storytelling and vivid, compelling character development... of course there had to come the sequel. However, while subsequent entries in most horror franchises prove generally capable of matching up to the less than lofty demands of their predecessors, when following a film as universally revered as Spielberg's aquatic classic, inevitable shortcomings would seem near inevitable. However, shortcomings are one thing, but it would hardly seem too much to ask that a sequel at least muster the effort to generate a plot not exactly identical to that of its predecessor, but it would appear director Jeannot Szwarc somewhat missed the boat on said front, making Jaws 2 nothing more than a pale carbon copy at best.The real problem is that mirroring the exact narrative template of the first Jaws (shark arrives to terrorize Amity Island, Chief Brody's demands to close the beaches during busy tourist season lead to his isolation, but he is forced to protect the town against the shark regardless) comes across as ludicrous as well as lazy, making the town's unwillingness to take the shark threat seriously in the wake of the previous tragedy an almost farcical affair (a trope which could have been exploited for poignantly troublesome social critique in more capable hands). Furthermore, Swarc's plundering from Spielberg's film manages to neglect the original's interesting supporting characters (instead offering a tiresomely banal subplot involving the town teens, including Brody's sons), technical prowess and infectious sense of heart &#x96; in short, the attributes which made the original such an abiding classic. Instead, the flimsiness of the plot comes across as even more of an overt excuse for thrills, this time gorging on cheap shocks rather than the tastefully taut tension of its predecessor. Similarly, while Spielberg's unconvincing shark prop led to his genius innovation of largely hiding it from the audience, thus amplifying the sense of threat and dread, Swarc blithely exhibits his antagonist freely, undercutting any sense of threat by the sight of the visibly fake shark lumbering through the water like a rubber toy dragged by a string (particularly when drowsily attacking an aeroplane, an unfeasibly, 'need-to-see-it-to-believe-it' low point) and providing too docile and dopey an antagonist (apart from the fleeting excerpts of admittably thrilling real shark footage) to generate much fear, or much of a point.Nonetheless, in spite of such ample complaints, there remains a particular elusive charm about the film which remains somehow sufficient to continue to win the viewer's interest throughout. To his credit, Swarc gamely instills his film with a much needed sense of self-effacing humour (when Brody speculates on the latest shark attack being related to the previous incident at Amity, a marine biologist sternly replies sharks don't take things personally, Mr. Brody &#x96; if only she had been around to inform those responsible for the monstrosity that is Jaws The Revenge), and generates a scattering of actual thrills and scares in the midst of shoddy special effects and mishandled emotional directing. Similarly, the film's script is (surprisingly enough) a relatively quality fare, counterbalancing the action with human drama well (albeit at a tryingly sluggish pace) and coughing up memorable lines here and there in the midst of things. While the film falls easily short of conventional movie-making standards, let alone the standards of the first Jaws, it is this strange sense of quirky charm and scattershot quality which somehow keeps it from warranting outright dismissal, particularly in the wake of the two downright abysmal further sequels to follow.While his return as gruffly lovable Police Chief Brody may have been ill-advised, Roy Scheider manages to be the film's single best attribute, rekindling an impressive quantity of the charisma, cheeky humour and surprising potential for grave drama (his drunken 'celebration' turned miserable self-reproach upon his being fired is viscerally affecting and memorable)which made him such a compelling protagonist in the first place. It is a pity that none of the rest of the cast can match up to his level, as most returning characters such as Lorraine Gary as Brody's long suffering wife and Murray Hamilton as the slightly more sympathetic yet still greedily tourism oriented Mayor appear largely on autopilot, offering bland and listless reprisals of previously intriguing characterisations. However, the worst is the film's excessive focus on the town teens (likely vying for a 'young, hip' viewing demographic), as the collection of stereotypical and uninspired performances and writing alike prove one of the film's greatest disservices.While it is easy to imagine Jaws 2 functioning as a perfectly functionable and mildly entertaining disposable suspense/adventure thriller in a cultural vacuum, its inexcusable re-hash of the framework of the first film make the rampant similarities far too irksome to properly appreciate the film's paltry collection of strengths. Nonetheless, the clunky but slightly more lighthearted retread of its predecessor makes Swarc's film an amiable watch nonetheless, but one in which the question why am I not watching the 'good' Jaws? is bound to inevitably surface countless times.-5/10 "},{"Title":"Didn't these nitwits learn *anything* from the events in the first film?","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The original Jaws is one of my all time favourites, and has been for my entire life. I've watched it countless times, and l've even had the pleasure of seeing it on the big screen, in a re release in 2012. I spent my life, however, avoiding the sequels, not wanting to sully and tarnish the memory of the first film. I finally caved in last week, and watched all four of them on television. I'm not going to compare this film to Jaws III, or Jaws The Revenge, because those films had not been made at the time this film was released, so audiences couldn't say that in response to this film on its original release. Can you follow that? Apparently, many people commenting on this film can't.A lot of the original cast and crew (director Spielberg, Dreyfuss, and, initially, Roy Scheider) declined to participate this sequel that no one asked for to one of the most popular films ever released, so what could possibly go wrong with doing it anyway?Plenty. An overly self aware intro, in which two divers are surveying the wreckage of the Orca, serves as an early example of continuity porn. And was the shark swimming around the wreckage to celebrate the anniversary, like people celebrate anniversaries now for seemingly every event? Nearly twenty minutes elapse before anything of note happens, so the film takes its time getting started, and then once it has finally gotten up and running, it isn't worth the trouble. Four years after the events in the original film, another great white shark is stalking residents, specifically teenagers, in Amity, giving this sequel more of a slasher movie/ teens-in-peril feel than its suspense-filled predecessor had, and Scheider's character returns to battle with the shark again. But he was turned from an unlikely hero, an everyman, in the first film, to a sort of hybrid between Richard Dreyfuss' shark expert character from the first film, and a raving, gun- waving nut, in this second film, even firing wildly into the water (from on land) when he thinks a shark might be present. Part of the suspense in the first film was not knowing which one of the three men would kill the shark. But here, we know who it will be Scheider's aforementioned raving and gun-waving nutjob hero. In his defense, Scheider does the best he can do with the subpar material, but he just doesn't have much to work with here. The shark scenes are mediocre, the climax is contrived and weak, and it all pales in comparison to the first film. Far too much time is given to showing us (lamely) what the original film only hinted at, and did so much better. The music score in the first film complimented the film itself, but here the music score is distracting, like it is trying to draw attention to itself and away from the film.The original film's screenwriters (Carl Gottlieb and Howard Sackler) were rehired to basically rewrite the highlights from the first film and replay them ad nauseam, and after a while, the whole ordeal looks more and more like a TV-movie ripoff of the first film, with elements of slasher flicks added. "},{"Title":"A really great film","Date":"10 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In a word--great. How can you follow up to the original? It's almost impossible. But the director actually does it. You actually care about the various characters and you don't question a ludicrous premise--a giant shark attacks the same exact community--this is GREAT directing. You don't question it. You believe it. The second film is harder than the first film to pull off. The director did a great job at changing the tone of the film, which is much more pop culture and bright, when it would have been very easy to imitate the darker more serious tones of the first film. In some strange way, Jaws 2 is really the father of the summer blockbuster, where Jaws was an artistic anomaly. Jaws 2 was a machined confection, perfectly engineered towards a big summer audience. "},{"Title":"More enjoyable than the Original","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" No doubt the first Jaws movie is by far the best and no one can or should ever dispute that, but I have found the sequel to be more enjoyable for it's young cast and story line.Jeannot Szwarc did a great job by putting into effect a young cruising culture into the movie in the form of sailing, just like what we find with young people and cars today. The young and unknown cast back than who are still unknown today all played a great part in the movie, especially towards the end when they were all stranded out at sea with the shark terrorizing them.Originally the movie was headed in another direction, but the director decided to go back to the island of Amity with the original cast members from the first Jaws movie. A great decision which kept the interest from the first movie still going.Three scenes really stand out with the shark which gives the movie it's deserved terror, young Eddie being eaten alive while his girlfriend witnesses in terror, the shark eating the helicopter which may seem a bit unbelievable but a great moment added to the movie and the final scene with chief Brody and the shark. The earlier scene with the water skier was enjoyable which gave the audience a taste of things to come.I think if most people don't try and compare Jaws 2 to the original they will probably appreciate the second movie a lot more and give more credit which it definitely deserves.For me it's a 9 out of 10 and the last Jaws movie worth watching a number of times. "},{"Title":"Stupid sequel","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Another shark attacks Amity (the same place attacked in the first film). Sheriff Martin Brody (Roy Scheider) again has trouble convincing Mayor Larry Vaughn (Murray Hamilton) that a shark is attacking. Right away this movie throws reality out the window--Vaughn was convinced at the end of the first movie--why is he so ready to disbelieve him now? This movie ends with a bunch of annoying teenagers adrift in the water with the shark ready to attack.This movie concentrates more on the Brody's home life and their kids. None of it is terribly interesting but it's better than the scenes dealing with these utterly boring teenagers. Those kids don't talk like any teenagers I knew (and I was a teenager when I first saw this). Basically this movie has a terrible script which nobody can make work. Also it's too long and pretty dull--I had my finger on the fast forward button a lot during the last hour. No real fireworks happen till the kids are attacked during the last half hour. Also look for the scene where the shark opens his mouth and you can plainly see the machinery operating him inside! I seriously gave up on this when the shark knew enough to drag a helicopter down(!!!) that was there to save the kids!There are a few things (very few) to recommend this. It is well directed by Jeannot Szwarc--particularly when you consider he was chosen to replace the original director at the last minute. Scheider didn't want to do this movie--he was forced into it--but he was professional enough to still give out a good performance. Lorraine Gary is back as his wife Ellen and she's good also. Hamilton is very good especially considering his character does a complete turn around from the first movie! The shark attacks are well done and pretty scary--especially when Tina and Eddie are attacked. Still, all of this doesn't help a film that's far too long and has a terrible script. This can be wisely skipped. "},{"Title":"Totally Unnecessary","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film is entirely unnecessary, it shouldn't even exist, I loved all four as a boy, but now I'm matured and see how truly naive I was, I realize these films became more and more terrible as they progressed, but really, I love the original, it is a classic, it is fantastic. This film shouldn't have happened, this film should never have seen the light of cinema, it is repulsive and unattractive in every way, I mean, the rare occasion of an enormous great white, a misfired rogue attacking an idle beach community created the masterpiece of Jaws, repeating this is purely idiotic, I mean trying the same thing twice, thrice and ultimately four times is just plain lunacy, and I mean it, doing the same thing over and over and expecting the same results is the definition of insanity so I'm told. And this is what they did, they were quite insane, I would like to have stopped Jaws 2, and in effect stopped 3-D and The Revenge, I would like to have preserved Jaws as a stand- alone classic, and left it at that. But they couldn't leave it alone could they, they just couldn't help themselves. I suggest ignoring all these entirely unnecessary sequels because for pity's sake, the fourth film forgets the third, and the continuity becomes truly deranged, so its best to be ignorant, and just to only accept the original, to leave your world at that. Dear god, let these rumors of Jaws 5 just be simply that, or I might cry. "},{"Title":"A sequel with bite.","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Water skiers, divers, parascenders, sailors and swimmers the coast of Amity Island is like an all you can eat buffet to a Great White Shark. Only three years after destroying Bruce, the man-eater who came to sample the island's local delicacies in Spielberg's summer blockbuster of '75, Police Chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider) finds himself facing another toothy terror with an equally voracious appetite.Although there's very little in the way of originality in Jaws 2, the film being little more than a mechanical rehash of elements from the first film (Brody screams 'shark'; nobody believes him; Brody hunts shark), this sequel from director Jeannot Szwarc still has enough bite to make it a fun flick (and it's a bloody masterpiece compared with the sequels that followed!).Admittedly, Szwarc is no Spielberg, and his handling of the film's scenes of domestic drama is less than scintillating, but he rises to the challenge when required to deliver suspense and action, with plenty of well crafted and shocking shark attacks guaranteed to have the audience jumping out of their seats in fear (which I imagine was the top priority for studio execs&#x97;nothing pulls in the crowds like teens being chomped).7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb.N.B.&#x97; Horror/exploitation fans... keep an eye out for early appearances from Keith Gordon (Dressed to Kill, Christine) and yummy Donna Wilkes (the teenage high-school hooker in Angel). "}{"Title":"Jaws 2","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" With the worldwide success of the blockbuster adventure thriller from director Steven Spielberg, a sequel was pretty inevitable. Three years since the previous film, the music might still be composed by John Williams, and Roy Scheider does return as Police Chief Martin Brody, but this film is just ridiculous. The island resort town of Amity is trying to get back to normal since the previous incidents, but there is evidence that leads Brody to believe that another huge shark is terrorising the town, which there is. It is the same story with Mayor Larry Vaughn (Murray Hamilton) not learning anything since the last time, and only Brody's wife Ellen (Lorraine Gary) is comforting him. Brody does lose his job, but he still heads out to sea to save a gang of teens on a boat, and his son who he finds out is with them. The first film saw the shark blown up in an eruption of blood, this time he is electrocuted and cooked by biting a large cable. Also starring Joseph Mascolo as Len Peterson and Mark Gruner as Michael 'Mike' Brody. Sheider does add a few moments of okay chat, but that is just the biggest problem with this sequel, too much chat and decisions and not enough shark action, and when there is you can tell they haven't got a real one. I have only given it two extra points for the last 20-30 minutes of the film, the rest is just pointless. Adequate! "},{"Title":"The Shark Is Bigger This Time","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Before there were Mega Cinemaplexes, we had to stand outside in the hot summer heat for hours just to get the chance to watch a disappointing sequel like JAWS 2. I think for this reason alone, I have been far too harsh in my criticism of JAWS 2 over the years. And, I'm happy to report today that the memories of the anger and disappointment that I experienced that day has diminished enough now that I can provide a unbiased and objective review of this movie for what it was, instead of what I thought the movie ought to be. I can finally put behind me, once and for all, my first summer movie blockbuster disappointment that left me permanently cynical of the movie industry, and temporarily sunburned at a very early age.(I was 9 years old at the time)First, allow me to demonstrate just how far I've come since then by admitting that JAWS 2 was probably the best of the JAWS sequels. Which admittedly is like saying that a kick in the rear is a lot better than a punch in the face. Or, as in the case of JAWS 4, a hammer to the head for that matter. Not much of a compliment to heal the pains of yesteryear, but it's a start anyways.Unlike the future sequels, JAWS 2 at least started out promisingly enough by continuing the storyline of Chief Brody and his family. And, even made a decent attempt (early in the film) of recapturing a sense of terror from the unseen ocean depths that the original movie magnificently accomplished.However, JAWS 2 started going horribly wrong when the audience first sees the shark far too early in the movie. Maybe it was impossible for the sequel to recreate that first big scream moment when we first see the shark? But, to show the shark so early, without much build up either, leaves the audience feeling that this isn't the movie they paid to watch.This idea to show the shark so early proves to be such a major failure for the movie, that it makes you grateful (truly grateful) that the shark in the original JAWS broke down, forcing Spielberg to use the eye of the camera, and by proxy the imagination of the audience as the substitute for the actual shark. Big difference.Eventually, Chief Brody becomes the lone person attempting to prove that the mystery of the sudden strange deaths and disappearances on the island is the result of another giant shark in the area. Strangely, no one believes Brody that another giant shark is terrorizing the islanders again, and the town counsel becomes convinced that Brody is suffering from some type of giant great white PTSD, or something. Despite the fact that the island was terrorized by a giant great white just three years ago.The final resolution to the story eventually develops into a teenagers-in-jeopardy movie. In a 70's exploitation flick kind of way. Strangely, the teenagers are being slowly terrorized at sea by a giant shark that has over the coarse of two movies (by my count) already taken down three boats, a Killer Whale and a helicopter. But, can't seem to figure out a way of dealing with these teenagers in tiny broken sail boats for some reason, who have no means of defending themselves.I mean c'mon! What is the shark waiting for? Is the shark just biding his time, cruelly toying with its intended victims until he makes his final move? What ever the case maybe, the sudden uncharacteristic behavior of the mass murdering giant shark towards the teenagers destroys any sense of suspense and intrigue for the audience. And, you actually end up rooting for the Shark to just attack the teenagers to get the whole thing over with, so we don't have to spend anymore time with these people.After the movie, I remember walking past a long line of people waiting outside in the hot summer heat in anxious anticipation of seeing the sequel to JAWS for the very first time. Just as I had done only a few hours ago. Somebody waiting in line asked me as I was passing them, How was the movie?. I turned and replied, The shark is bigger this time!. Admittedly, it's not exactly a ringing endorsement, but at least it was one good thing I could say about the movie at the time. "},{"Title":"The thrill is gone...a mechanical sequel...","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As good an actor as he is, ROY SCHEIDER cannot reprise his role in the first JAWS and be half as effective if the script and director are not up to the challenge of producing a first rate sequel. Putting Scheider through the same paces again in Amityville, with the John Williams music looming over the soundtrack whenever appropriate, is not enough. There are no new elements to the story of shark attacks--and, in fact, it all seems just as mechanical as the shark itself that is shown once too often.Some of the shark scenes are effective, particularly the opening scene with the divers and the one with the girl on water skis, but the moment the film hits dry land the story hits rock bottom and drags on and on until the next incident. The presence of a few familiar faces doesn't really help. Missing are Richard Dreyfuss and Robert Shaw and the gripping story that made the first movie so terrific. As a replacement, we have some annoying teen-agers who've been warned not to go sailing just yet, one of whom is Scheider's son.As sequels go, this is barely fair...but the fright factor is not strong enough this time to prevent you from going into the water again. "},{"Title":"DVD has saved this movie!","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I recently purchased the DVD edition of Jaws 2 and was pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed the movie.  I had seen the film periodically over the years, always on VHS, always pan and scan, and always with the picture oddly compressed - the characters appearing taller, skinnier, etc.  I think that such things really detracted from what I now consider to be good film and worthy sequel to Jaws.Although Richard Dreyfuss's Hooper is missed, the time spent on character development in this film more than compensates. The relationship between the Chief and Ellen is finally developed - something that was lacking in Jaws. I also thought that Jeannot Szwarc did an excellent job directing. I still have trouble swallowing (pun intended) the ending, but in the end have concluded that Jaws 2 is every bit as enjoyable as Jaws. I think that the DVD edition will help to cement that impression among the many critics who have been far too dismissive of the film.Be sure to check out the Making Of documentary as well, it was quite enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"The only worthy sequel is still a DULL movie.","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Jaws series is much more famous than it deserves to be. The only entry REALLY worth watching is the first one, which is a very good movie but no masterpiece - the subject is too insubstantial. Jaws 2 is preferable to the abysmal Jaws 3-D (the bomb of the series) and to the passable but dumb Jaws The Revenge , but it's still a dull sequel - actually a dull rehash of the first movie, without any sense of style. The pace is slow and there are just too many idiotic, Friday The 13th-type young characters that you don't really care about. And Jaws The Revenge may be a worse film, but it certainly has a better look. "},{"Title":"1st of 3 terrible sequels.","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Cashing in off the original here comes Jaws2.All the hype of just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water here we go again.The problem is there is no surprise or riveting moments or for that matter any acting. Jaws already had scared us with the fear of the unknown man eater and some riveting moments.This movie has neither ,we know whats coming and its just a matter of time who gets munched.The opening is promising however with 2 divers for whatever reason exploring the wreck of Quints old boat the ORCA and then they get munched by another great white. After that the movie goes totally downhill,most of this movie is spent with stupid dialogue and hearsay situations that the audience will find of little interest. There is no Richard Dreyfuss who wisely passed on this mess and Robert Shaw who had died the previous year, regardless his Quint character had been killed off in Jaws anyway(I seriously doubt though that he would have returned even if he was still alive and his character had not been killed off,he had to be persuaded to do Jaws as it was). Instead we have a plot involving a bunch of stupid teenage bimbos who cry and scream their way through the rest of this movie. I got so tired of that stupid whining bitch who was with Brodys son Mike.I wanted her to have the crap beat out of her and fed to the shark. The end of the movie is even more stupid with Brody holding an underwater power cable in his hands while in a dinghy,the shark leaps out of the water and bites the cable electrocuting itself and everyone lives happily ever after. Of course who cares that Brody lost his job? What was Roy Scheider thinking doing this movie? He should have taken a hint when he read the script and fired his own ass off this movie. Lorraine Gary who was in the original Jaws as well returns and has the same bad acting skills ,she also reprises the Ellen Brody role in the abysmal Jaws 4, the lady has no acting skills and therefore these are the only kinds of movies she will ever get roles in.I think that Jaws should not have had any sequels , maybe a prequel about Quint in WW2 but who would you get to play him? Oh well .... Nuff said this movie is only of relevance if your a diehard fan of B movies. "},{"Title":"You're gonna need a better screenplay","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ha! Anyone get my semi-clever review-title joke/reference towards the famous quote of the original Jaws? No, okay...onwards with the review then. A couple of summers have passed and the little island town of Amity suffers from an increasing amounts of mysterious deaths again. Tourists and divers go missing, half eaten corpses of humans and even orcas wash ashore, etc... You would expect that chief of police Martin Brody has a lot less difficulties convincing the townspeople for the potential danger of another great white shark, but no... Everyone in Amity seems to suffer from amnesia, the mayor is still corrupt and greedy and even Brody's own children carelessly continue to sail in the open sea like there's nothing wrong. Simply because nobody believes Brody, the first half of the screenplay is just a repeating of Spielberg's original and therefore very dull and unbelievable. When everyone eventually acknowledges the shark-problem, the film doesn't really get more exciting, since the over-sized shark goes after a group of screaming youngsters that you don't really care for to begin with. Even though the budget for this first sequel has clearly gone up enormously, the hi-tech special effects and underwater-cinematography looks less convincing. Every small success-element that made the original the first big summer blockbuster ever is shamelessly re-used here, like John William's score and shrieking girls in colorful bikinis. Roy Sheider clearly knows that he's stuck in an inferior and repetitive role, but he's a professional actor so his performance is still very adequate. All the other acting performances are bleak. With yet another two dire sequels in the 80's , Jaws is one of the most overrated franchises in cinema history. "},{"Title":"Acceptable sequel, but lacks the qualities that the original had","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I will say this, Jaws 2 is much better than the abomination that is JawsThe Revenge, but at the same time it lacks the qualities the original did have. The original film is a masterpiece and one of Steven Spielberg's best movies. Not only was it brilliantly directed and wonderfully scored, but it was genuinely atmospheric too. In fact, Jaws was the film that made me afraid to go into the sea.What let Jaws 2 down pacifically was the narrative and story, too predictable and sedate for my tastes. The dialogue also lacks polish, with some of the more tense moments not quite coming across as believable and the more humorous moments feel forced. The direction is lacking in tension too, which is disappointing considering that was one of the main reasons why the original worked so brilliantly, while the film is not as efficient pacing-wise with one or two scenes feeling rather overlong.However, the production values are far from cheap, in fact with the crisp enough cinematography and editing and authentic locations it is quite striking. John Williams' score is still as thrilling as ever, another component that made the original so genuinely atmospheric, the shark attacks are well done with enough suspense (though it could have perhaps been a little more) and the shark is adequately menacing. The acting is fairly good, all the characters are likable enough, and the actors seem to be having fun in alternative to looking and sounding bored.All in all, acceptable while lacking. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"We really didn't need this movie","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In the first movie Roy Scheider had to convince the townsfolk that a shark was attacking swimmers, but no one wanted to believe him. In this first sequel Roy Scheider has to convince the townsfolk that another shark is attacking swimmers, but no one... you get the idea. No new ground is broken here, no tension is created, no memorable characters appear and no reason for the film to exist (beyond financial gain) ever materialises. The original film had Roy Scheider, Richard Dreyfuss and Robert Shaw under the direction of Spielberg at the height of his powers. This one has a bunch of annoying teenagers under the direction of Jeannot Szwarc, director of 'Supergirl' and 'Santa Claus The Movie', with Scheider returning under duress. You can see the problem. It starts rather well, to be honest, but then plods along repetitiously for the next ninety minutes until the extended finale. The film makes the mistake of revealing the shark too early, eliminating any suspense as to whether Scheider is right about a possible shark problem (yes, that's where the movie has to go but it could at least try to create some dramatic tension). It's all right, I suppose, but it's all very ordinary, not to mention completely pointless. "},{"Title":"I have had experience with sharks. More of the same but still enjoyable.","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 starts with two divers exploring the underwater wreck of a boat named the 'Orca', a name that will be familiar with those who have seen the original Jaws (1975). Suddenly they are attacked & presumably eaten by a huge 20 foot long Great White Shark. Just as the small coastal community of Amity is returning to normal after being terrorised by a Great White some years previous, the unfortunate divers abandoned boat comes to the attention of Police Chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider) & his Deputy Jeff Hendricks (Jeffrey Kramer) who discovers a camera on the ocean floor nearby the deserted boat. Strangely a boating accident occurs where Terri (Christine Freeman) a water skier & her friend Diane (Jean Coulter) are killed when their boat mysteriously blows up & two local teenagers Tina (Ann Dusenberry) & Eddie (Gary Dubin) discover a mutilated Killer Whale washed up on a beach which Brody thinks was killed & mauled by a Great White Shark, a theory seemingly confirmed when local marine biologist Dr. Laureen Elkins (Collin Wilcox Paxton) agrees with him. Can Chief Brody convince Mayor Larry Vaughn (Murray Hamilton) that another Great White intends to eat it's way through the residents of Amity?Directed by Jeannot Szwarc after the original director John D. Hancock was fired Jaws 2 had a lot to live up to after the huge critical & commercial success of Spielberg's brilliant original, personally I think it's a pretty good film & I think it had an almost impossible task in following & trying to live up to or even better the original. The script by Carl Gottlieb & Howard Sackler is a little slow at times but just about managed to keep me interested & entertained for it's near 2 hour hour duration. When all said & done Jaws 2 is pretty much exactly the same as the original, many of the ideas & themes are brought up again & reused. But as I say it's still all quite enjoyable & there isn't much else you can do with the basic premise without it becoming totally ridiculous & for proof I point you in the general direction of the absolute disaster that is Jaws The Revenge (1987)! The character's are well fleshed out & are likable enough, even the teenagers which is unusual in a film. I wish the shark had eaten a few more people on screen & the gore content is distinctly lacking compared to the original although there is a chewed up Killer Whale, a burnt corpse & a bit of blood. The attack scenes work well & director Szwarc manages to create some tension but he ain't no Spielberg that's for sure. With a budget around the $20,000,000 mark Jaws 2 is a very well made film with nice widescreen cinematography that captures the sea & landscapes, that fantastic Jaws theme from John Williams is back & the special effects are OK but the shark still looks a bit rubbery & fake. The acting is good throughout & Scheider puts another fine performance in. While not as good as Jaws, Jaws 2 is still a great film in it's own right & well worth watching & better than either of the subsequent sequels Jaws 3-D (1983) & the awful Jaws The Revenge the least said about which the better! "}{"Title":"Not bad, just silly","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The idea of making a sequel to Jaws wasn't bad, however you need to have a better story then this if you want to make it a decent movie.It could have been worse. For instance imaging it wouldn't have Roy Scheider and all the other characters and actors from the original in it. A big plus is that it also have the special comedy elements in it that the original also had, without it it would have been a terribly boring movie to watch. Another thing that makes the movie worth watching is the fact that John Williams did the musical score again.However the idea of letting the movie evolve around a group of teenagers on boats was a very very bad idea and made this movie just an average B-monster movie. The story also lacks the tension and the scary moments that the original all had and some of the dialog is just laughable.Still the movie isn't that bad, somehow it knows to manage to create the same special atmosphere that the original had. However it just misses the great main characters of the original as Quint and Hooper, instead now we've got Jackie, Polo, Timmy and all those other teenagers that are nowhere interesting and special enough. It makes the movie just silly.Nowhere as good as the original but still a decent movie that lacks some things of the original.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Decent Cash-In","Date":"18 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jaws 2 (1978) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Sequel to Spielberg's masterpiece finds another Great White shark in Amity but no one will believe Chief Brody (Roy Scheider) until a group of kids sailing are under attack by the huge creature. OK, we all know sequels are pretty much remakes, reboots or at least unoriginal attempts to cash-in on the success of the original and that's pretty much what we get here. This certainly isn't a bad movie but over the years I find myself liking it less and less each time I see it as the flaws are certainly pretty clear. For starters, the film has an overall made-for-TV look to it. I'm not sure what it is but this just doesn't really look like a big-budget Hollywood movie and some of this might be due to the director just not doing that good of a job building up anything in the film. I mean, there's very little in terms of suspense and he also has a story built around a bunch of kids, many who can't act to save their life. The film is often criticized for not building up suspense and for showing the shark too much but I've got mixed thoughts on this. I'm sure everyone involved knew they weren't going to top the Spielberg film so they instead went with a slasher mentality of just having the shark stalk out its victims. I didn't mind the fact that they kept showing the shark because they really didn't have anything else to do since there was no tension and the story was really lacking. However, by seeing the shark too much it becomes clear how fake looking it actually is. We got a pretty decent attack on a boat, which causes the shark's face to catch fire, something that has come under attack by fans, but I didn't mind this too much. As for the attack scenes they're all pretty tame but it's clear the filmmakers were trying to get a PG rating so there's not too much violence or blood. The most memorable one would have to be a scene where one lady gets eaten whole. Everyone knows Scheider didn't want to do this film, for good reasons, but that didn't stop him from delivering a fine performance. He really gets back into the character without problem and I thought he handled everything very well. Lorraine Gary returns as his wife and Murray Hamilton is back as the Mayor. I think it was a big mistake making the Mayor someone who didn't believe Brody again as this was used in the previous film and you'd think he would have learned his lesson. With all the negative things it's still hard not to get some sort of entertainment out of this thing. It doesn't come close to anything in the original movie but at least we did get three characters back and at least they did try to continue the story (even if it wasn't believable). In the end, this is certainly a mangled sequel that's only goal was to make money which it did. "}]