[{"Title":"Incredibly underrated","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I know what you're thinking- I'm such a huge Eastwood fan so my opinion isn't that significant. Honestly though, this has got to be one of the most underrated movies of all time. I laughed harder and had a better time watching this movie than just about any comedy I can think of. Clint did an excellent job in a different role for him as a guy who isn't so clever and great with the ladies. His best friend Clyde turned in an awesome performance as well. I also loved Geoffrey Lewis and the gorgeous Beverly D'Angelo and Ruth Gordon does a typically great act as the tough old lady. I agree with an earlier writer with respect to the one negative here- Sondra Locke's acting and singing. The only justification is that in the movie her character is just as bad. I have to believe that even people that aren't major Clint Eastwood fans would still like this one. Big fans should love it. "},{"Title":"cultural classic","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Right turn Clyde.  A man, a monkey, some hells angels wannabee's and some dude named Orville.  What more could you want?  Throw in some bare knuckle action of Clint breaking everyones face loose and its a classic. This is without a doubt one of the all time late night classics. The story, (its fluff), revolves around blue collar tough guy Filo Beddo and his buddies.  One of which is Clyde, an orangatan and Orville, a greasey tow tuck driver.  Which is worse is up to you. The gang gets into some bare knuckle boxing fights for cash and heads out on the road.  Running into trouble with a hilarious wannabe biker gang and ending up with a showdown between Tank Murdock and Philo for some sort of tough guy championship. The movie is dated, has some cheasy music, (at least its not disco) lots of fight scenes, some great running gags at bikers, cops, rhinestone cowboys, and generally anyone clint doesnt like, but its very enjoyable and definitely worth a trip to blockbuster. "},{"Title":"Tons of fun from start to finish","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"33 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I'm currently taking a Clint Eastwood course at UT Austin, and we recently watched this movie.And its a bit confusing. I'm not sure what to make of this fun, wacky, and somewhat random movie. Eastwood himself seems to strive and always aims for ambiguity in his work. And it shows here.There were a lot of dumb ass critics in the 60's and 70's that liked to bash Eastwood and used the popular buzzword of fascist and labeled him as such. So in response, Eastwood was very particular about what he did afterward and would do things that contradict (in the eyes of critics) his previous work or characters. This of course confused critics and ultimately forced them to look at his work again and see that they were being dumb ass idiots and were just going along with the popular liberal clap trap at the time.So we have this movie, in which Eastwood is this hillbilly mechanic and competent street fighter and his adventures with his orangutan (not a monkey Afsheen, they have 12 ribs like us). And its this almost really weird PG comedy. It has these sort of random plots and events that are kind of incorporated into the story and well, not really sure how I can best put it into words, but its just fun. It shows that Eastwood can do this wacky road, comedy.But it has some surprisingly dramatic moments as well. The audience is well aware of the Sandra Locke's characters true intentions before Eastwood's Philo. And when he does figure it out, its pretty brutal. And I really bought into that emotional confrontation and Philo's reaction. And then Eastwood throws a fight, and in some ways its bleak. But in other ways it isn't. Philo I think found a little bit about himself and learned who his true friends are, people like Clyde and Orville, and Orville's girl Echo(a young Beverly D'Angelo).The character of Tank Murdoch I believe is meant as an allegory to Clint Eastwood and his celebrity status, his celebrity and his star persona. Philo wants to challenge Murdoch and beat him. Murdoch is a guy who everyone knows and has this huge reputation. And then Philo sees Murdoch who's really pretty sad. His friends turn on him and aren't real friends, and he realizes he doesn't want to be Tank Murdoch. And he doesn't want other people gunning for him. So at the end of the movie, it almost feels like it was Eastwood REJECTING his own star persona and choosing to stay in obscurity with his friends. Makes me wonder how Eastwood truly feels about his celebrity status.Jeffrey The Vile One Harris "},{"Title":"Almost a plotless movie.","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  But I like it anyway.  This one follows a kind of a street fighter played by Clint Eastwood as he tries to find this gal he had a fling with. Accompanying him is his pal and his pet orangutan.  There is a plot to some extent, but this movie really just kind of goes from here to there.  My favorites are the bad biker gang the Black Widows who constantly get the crap kicked out of them by whoever they fight.  There are other very funny scenes as Ruth Gordon is also great in this one.  This was in the time where Sandra Locke was in every Clint Eastwood movie and she is in this one too. That had to be a case of someone who got roles more because who she was dating.  This one goes from place to place and fight to fight and there is no great super ending, but a nice simple one instead.  All in all a nice, fun, comedy to watch. "},{"Title":"Deactivate Brain Enjoy The Movie","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Spoilers Ahead;The movie, as a good reviewer wrote, is plot less. It follows Philo's concomitant chasing of Lynn and Tank to be the best street fight fighter. Why watch it? Isn't the monkey awful and annoying? Yes, to both questions, but watch it for two reasons Ruth Gordon and The Black Widows. The latter are the worst motorcycle gang ever formed wherever their perambulations take them they get the crap kicked out of them. Everyone beats them up, Philo's mom blows up their motorcycles with a shotgun. The are the personification of Rodney Dangerfield's catch phrase,I don't get no respect. Ruth Gordon is drop dead funny and with the worst tough guys ever assembled the amount of laughs will make up for the many flaws. Geoffrey Lewis is great like he always is; they both are straight men to mom who is old, fighting to get her driver's license and in a really bad mood. I love when the cops try to hassle her and after about five minutes alone with her get back in their car and drive away at high speed.The movie's main problem, besides the annoying and unfunny monkey, is Sondra Locke. Yes, what man did not love the nude scene? She was always scorching hot but her singing is even worse than her acting. Not since Harry Truman's daughter, the aspiring opera star, have you heard dreadful, off tempo, two key off combination speaking and mumbling which she thinks is being sultry and seductive. Olivia Newton John she is not. It is best to get up kill ten minutes then come back to the movie. Otherwise, this is why they made that chapter skip button on your remote. The monkey is not as bad here as in the unwatchable sequel which put the A in abysmal. Still, a little of Clyde goes a very long way. As you can tell, by my rating, it is borderline. This is a great one showing movie but do not buy it or you will be sorry. The movie consists of Philo driving around with a monkey while being stalked by these retards who get the crap beat out of them by everybody. When they do corner Philo, things do not go well for them. He gradually starts taking more and more of their bikes until the end they are all riding double. If you turn off your brain, a requisite, you will laugh at this movie. Unlike the dreadful sequel and Bronco Billy, this is a funny movie. Sondra's singing can be skipped, I wish it could of in 1978 when we had to suffer; I got up and got refreshments. Wait until you hear it, you will understand. Philo's invincibility may be taxing to your sense of reality; yes, I know, that is what I meant by turn off your brain. If you are not a big country western music fan, like me, have that volume control where you can get at it quickly. A great watch but never buy this movie.A little nonsense now and then relished by the wisest men. "},{"Title":"In Eastwood's top films!","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is my childhood film of which I have seen hundreds of times. Although originally Clint Eastwood was told by many friends and co-workers not to play a part in this film, it turned out a success due to its down to earth humour and a well selected cast. Watch this film to see a different approach to Clint Eastwood's work, as he lives a relaxed and happy life with his ape 'Clyde'.The sequel to this film is just as good as the first one, with new characters and well supported music that suits the period as well as the film. They have finally released both films on DVD in England and is worth the investment for a classic collection. "},{"Title":"Rollickingly funny comedy with Clint","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" EVERY WHICH WAY BUT LOOSE (1978) *** Clint Eastwood, Sondra Locke,RuthGordon, Geoffrey Lewis, Beverly D' Angelo. Rollickingly funny comedy with Clint as tough-guy Philo Beddoe and his best friend, Clyde the scene- stealing orangutan and Gordon stealing scenes from both as Philo's feisty ma. Plot is simple Philo has fallen in love with country/western songstress Locke and entails some adventures in his pursuit. Lewis lends some able, amiable support as Philo's best bud and fellow beer drinking good ol' boy. Fine jukebox offering of C&W and filmed on location in sunny Bakersfield, California.Redneck humor was never this pugnacious! "},{"Title":"Clint And Clyde","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" In Every Which Way But Loose, Clint Eastwood not only shares the screen with lady love Sondra Locke, but with an orangutan named Clyde. He had to call on all his skills to keep the film from being stolen by an ape.This and its sequel Every Which Way You Can will never be at the top of Clint's cinema achievements, but it's a nice rollicking comedy about a bare knuckle fighter. If it were set in today's times instead of the Seventies, Eastwood's Philo Beddoe would be on the extreme fighting channel.Seeing Clint's living quarters reminded me of John Wayne's similar arrangements in True Grit with Chin Lee and General Sterling Price the cat. Clyde's quite a bit more the handful than a cat. He lives with Geoffrey Lewis who is his second and corner man in the bare knuckle fighting business and handles all the wagers and Lewis's mother a 'helpless' little old lady with a shotgun, deliciously played by Ruth Gordon.Making his living as a bare knuckle fighter, Clint just seems to run into people determined to take him down. That includes an involvement with aspiring country singer Sondra Locke whom he spends a good deal of money on and who then takes a powder on him. She's heading east so Clint, Lewis, and Clyde are as well. Along the way they pick up sharp shooting Beverly D'Angelo who saves them on one occasion.The legendary bare knuckle champion is Denver Tank Murdoch and as that 20th century philosopher Ric Flair opined, to be the best you have to beat the best. So Clint is heading to Denver to find both Locke and Walter Barnes who plays Tank Murdoch with his three amigos.He also manages to arouse the anger of John McQuade and his Black Widow Biker gang. These people are the sorriest biker gang ever depicted on the big screen. Everyone and I mean EVERYONE manages to best this crowd of losers. But they never give up.Best in the film are Ruth Gordon and Clyde, not necessarily in that order. I've often thought that the Academy Awards should have a best animal performance in a given year. That year the Oscar gold would have been taken by the orangutan. I wish the film had elaborated a little more on when Eastwood and Lewis break into a zoo to get Clyde's male needs satisfied.For a lighter and brighter side of Clint Eastwood, don't miss Every Which Way But Loose. "},{"Title":"great family film","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" a truly classic film , which shows Clint in a different light and can truly act. very enjoyable family film, despite the fact that it is now 28 years old , the kids loved it. another generation now enjoying this funny film with the ape Clyde stealing most scenes. the fight scenes are very well choreographed, the film is fast moving and keeps you interested to see what happens.The film is highly recommended for family viewing , especially on a weekend. the music and songs will stick in your mind, especially the title song every which way but loose, which really goes hand in hand with the film and truly complements it. one definitely to watch. "},{"Title":"American Knuckle Sandwich","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" A street fighter. A love story. An ape.Disguised as a simplistic road story, *Every Which Way But Loose* is a paean to freedom; freedom from the strictures of routine, freedom to settle disputes like a man (If the problem can't be fixed with a fist or a monkey wrench, it ain't worth fixin'), freedom to fight for your ideals (even if those ideals hurt the other guy's chin repeatedly), freedom to choose love &#150; or lust &#150; as your Saturday Night Thing, and freedom to have interspecies BFF's.Written by first-timer, Jeremy Joe Kronsberg, and directed by James Fargo (assistant director on five previous Eastwood movies), *Every Which Way* became Clint Eastwood's biggest hit at the time of its release.Musta been that freedom thingy.Clint is Philo Beddoe, a San Fernando Valley good ole boy and hammer-fisted, bare-knuckle street fighter, whose best friend is a gregarious, lovable ape, Clyde (a quirky orang-utan named Manis, long since dead at the time of this writing). Providing a uniquely bizarre buddy presence, Clyde steals the show. Though totally replaceable as a plot element, he becomes irreplaceable as a star in his own right.*Every Which Way But Loose* finds Clint at a perfect fit 48 - not too old to appear frail and not too young to appear green - spending much of his time in Shirtless Kirk mode in illegal street fights that pad his trucker income. Falling hard for Lynn Halsey-Taylor (skeletal Sondra Locke, playing a country singer even though she can't sing worth a damn &#150; yes, unfortunately that's her voice on the soundtrack), Philo traverses the American heartland with his pal, Orville (Geoffrey Lewis), to woo her, whilst moronic cops and imbecilic bikers tail him tailing her, both groups on a vendetta against Philo (for their chins repeatedly impacting his fist).Populated with Eastwood regulars (John Quade, Dan Vadis, Bill McKinney, William O'Connell &#150; Thems black widdas! - and a very young, very sexy, Beverly D'Angelo), *Every Which Way* is that type of homespun movie where a character can step up to a bar and order a beer &#150; and get one!; where a barroom brawl breaks out and everyone starts fighting - for no reason and with the person they were sitting next to; this motley concoction of characters and contrivance could have slipped out of control very easily, instead exhibiting an easy grace that its star has become renowned for, and standing defiantly on its inspired silliness.There is a throwaway scene where Ma (rocket-fueled Ruth Gordon) chastises Philo for Clyde's misbehavior, whereupon Philo approaches Clyde and points an imaginary gun at him. Clyde puts his hands up, Philo exclaims, Bang! and Clyde suddenly falls back flat on the tires. Funny and cute on the surface, only Clint aficionados will see the satire, as Clint assumes the relaxed lean of one of his avenger characters and - in a film where he never wields a gun &#150; uses a pretend-gun to fire the punchline. (*Every Which Way* followed three movies where Clint's gunhand got a heavy workout - as Dirty Harry in *The Enforcer*, 1976, *The Outlaw Josey Wales*, 1976, and a film where more than a million rounds were expended trying to mow down his Ben Shockley in *The Gauntlet*, 1977.) Eternally unassuming about his living legend status, Clint is more inclined to crack a bemused, embarrassed smile over the effusiveness afforded him at awards ceremonies, rather than transform into Hollywood Ass. Willing to parody his own legendary characters, during a confrontation with the bike gang - the imperiously impotent Black Widows - we hear a snatch of the *Good, the Bad and the Ugly* theme.The country music soundtrack is surprisingly fitting and uncharacteristically enjoyable, especially the nostalgic, poignant title track, sung by Eddie Rabbitt. To make nominal sense of the grammatically incorrect title, simply preface three words of the song lyrics You turn me every which way but loose&#133; Though the movie is played for laughs aplenty, it is a Queen song disguised as a Hansen song, ending on a very dark note &#150; while the crooked cops and incompetent bike gang draw our attention as villains, it becomes apparent in the final scenes that the vilest villain is the woman who turned Philo every which way &#150; Lynn Halsey-Taylor. There is no formulaic reconciliation with Philo, as Lynn maintains her stance as an unrepentant philanderer and turns her back on him. Philo then loses the film's final fight, for mercenary reasons. We don't often see these types on screen; like the incestuous family in *Chinatown*, these characters are socially-shunned types that slap us awake to the possibility of conclusions besides Hollywood pap.I just hope that when I'm 48, I'll look as good as the shirtless Clint. "}{"Title":"Sounds like something Burt Reynolds would be in!!","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Clint Eastwood finally shows a funny, soft side to his macho persona in this humorous action/comedy about a good-hearted brawler who adopts a sneaky orangutan named Clyde and they embark in a funny journey for reasons God only knows why. With the gritty brawl scenes and the constant redneck humor, this would make the viewer wonder why did old Dirty Harry himself would be in a movie like this? It looks like something from the weird minds of Burt Reynolds and Hal Ne "},{"Title":"Hilarious Comedy","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is so damned funny! I don't know who is funnier Clyde, the orangutan, or Philo Beddoe (Clint Eastwood). Yes this movie is well worth watching if you want a completely different type of a romantic action comedy. You can see Clint Eastwood punch a few bad guys in the film and roll with laughter while watching him and his sidekick Clyde roll-on down the highway. Lynn Halsey-Taylor (Sondra Locke) is not a bad singer either - and you can see why Philo Beddoe (Clint Eastwood) falls for her in the movie.If you enjoyed this movie - then you really should watch the second film Any Which Way You Can - it is just a funny as this first film.9/10 "},{"Title":"Horribly Under-rated Eastwood comedy classic   <3","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Eaztwood's fist-fighting, bare-knuckled Philo Beddoe does not disappoint, in this 1978 comedy classic.Most of the supportive cast also does not disappoint. Once again, Eastwood casts former costars from his classic Westerns, in the supportive roles; most notably, the late-John Quade, as the biker-gang leader.Sondra Locke, who quickly became Clint's leading lady, out of respect to their former off-screen Relationship, is mediocre at best, here, as man-hustling, con-artist, country-singer wannabe, Lynne Halsey-Taylor. Most of her delivery falls flat; perhaps due her nervousness in working so closely and intimately with Clint; this being their second film together. The early critics slammed her as flaky and flat, when LHT is supposed to be a vixenish vamp. Perhaps it was because Clint allowed Sondra too much creative leeway. But alas.. one cannot turn back the clock and fix things. Thank goodness Locke's delivery in the sequel Any Which Way You Can redeemed her.At this film's original premiere, some critics grazed Clint for steering away from his classic Westerns personae to do a little comedy for a change. Well that direction paid off; thought admittedly I am dearly surprised this under-rated film's overall average is 6.5. Eastwood is as epic as Coca-Cola and Taco Bell. And he is one of those genuinely versatile stars who built a career on Perfection. To-date, he has seldom disappointed.The biker-gang; mostly composed of repeat co-stars, is deadpan hilarious. Headed by scruffy character-actor John Quade, traditionally, bikers are younger serious muscle-head guys with chicks riding piggyback. However, here, we get a bunch of middle-aged bungling doofus' who routinely get their butts kicked, in spite bearing Black Widow tattoos on their arms. Geoffrey Lewis; lifetime friend and co-star of Eastwood, is deliciously delightful, and goofball, as Philo's brother and fight-manager, Orville; comically turning his hat backwards before Philo enters a fist-fight. What fan and Fem cannot resist his signature blue eyes and sexy shoulders? The real stars and scene-stealers in this film, however - are frothy 'Ma' (Ruth Gordon) who can't seem to pass her senior's driver's test, then goes Annie Oakley on the biker gang. And Clyde; Philo's pet orangutan 12 ribs, with an Oreo cookie fetish, and a taste for action, and human beer. "},{"Title":"The most Under rated movie on here that I have seen","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" In the day when a movie had a lot to offer. I watched this movie today because it had been 25 years since I last saw it. What a wonderfully refreshing movie. Lots of action, tons of comedy, nice old vehicles, great fighting. Not Clints over all best but surely worth watching. Very light hearted story lines, but still very interesting all the way through. Clint has played a lot of westerns being tough with a pistol, but he has swapped his pistol out for fist fights, and oh boy is he tough. This movie blows away any movie on here with as low rating as it has. The most under rated one I have seen, and I know most are over rated. The whole movie concept was different in 1978, and ones like this were at the top of the list back then, because of people like me totally enjoying everything about this movie. A must see movie as far as I am concerned. "},{"Title":"Eastwoods desire to laugh it up","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Every Which Way But Loose seems like it had some history behind it. Eastwood jumped at the script despite the fact that they originally wanted his pal Burt Reynolds to do it, everyone tried to talk him out of it because at the time it was a far stretch from Eastwood's violent, dark, gloomy screen image and further more when all was said and done previewers said the film would tank but it didn't because it's fun. It was made to be fun, just a romp, a good time and heartfelt and all in all it's not that far of a stretch from Eastwood's image because he still kicks some major butt and shows a softer side for sure.Clint Eastwood plays Philo Beddoe, a fun loving, crazy guy who happens to have a knack and love for street brawling. Along with his best friend/manager Orville Boggs they take in a good amount on bets including Beddoe's win of a rather large, sarcastic, trouble making Oranguatang named Clyde. Despite popular assumption the film really isn't about Clyde and Beddoe but more just about Beddoe and his cross country trip to find the woman of his dreams while being chased down by some folks he made rather angry...two off duty policeman, and a squad of Motorcycle gang members. Eastwood is good in his role because not only is he his typical tough guy, big screen icon but he has a softness to him, he's having a good time and it just makes it fun. Although you're kind of waiting for him to lose it and pull out a magnum on everyone. Veteran character actor Geoffrey Lewis plays Orville Boggs. He's certainly not as tough as Eastwood and yet they make a great team. Hilariously funny, stealing the show is foul mouth Ma Boggs played by Ruth Gordon. She only has a few scenes but it's downright hilarious. And then of course there is Clyde played by Manis. Manis does what you would expect a decent ape to do to make everyone smile. He certainly has some of the laugh out loud moments but he never steals the show the way you might expect. He's just another part of the whole crew. Sondra Locke plays Eastwood's love interest who he travels cross country to find. She's self centered and seemingly determined to outrun Eastwood and I think he could have done better but he was hooked on her. Beverly D'Angelo plays a small role as Echo, Orville's girl who he picks up from a vegetable stand. They make a cute couple and she has some great scenes.The fight scenes are plenty, the country music is overwhelming and at the time probably a great soundtrack. It's a country film and the quint essential fist fight, street brawl movie. Eastwood is unstoppable and most of the comedy comes from watching him make fools of his rather foolish enemies along with his buddies. It's an adventure comedy that is worth seeing. It's not depthy, or important, or a real slam bang comedy...it's just fun...and that's why everyone loved it and why it's an Eastwood classic. 7/10 "},{"Title":"No Nonsense","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I love Clint in this. He doesn't pretend to moralise. He just likes punching guys as hard and as many times as he can. He knows he's good at it, and he knows the women love him for it.There are a few too many villains. We could have done without the stupid bikies. The real villain, of course, is the country music singer. Nice touch, that. "},{"Title":"A film that's still hilarious, never boring, and much better than its initial reputation...","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" When this film was made, it was reviled (and I mean REVILED) by the critics of the day. How dare Clint Eastwood make a comedy! Yet, it was Clint's biggest box office success up to that time (and still might be). I saw it when it was out at the theater, and years later, not only does it hold up, but it's light years better, more realistic (honestly), and intelligent than most modern comedies combined.This film was originally meant for Burt Reyonlds, but Clint liked it a lot and decided to do it, despite having his manager and just about everyone he was friends with tell him not to do it. Eastwood said he was drawn to the movie because it didn't have a conventionally happy ending. He doesn't get the girl, and ends up broke with the ape. I saw this when I was really young, and having watched too many sitcoms (like most Americans), I was sad when the film had an ending like this. I didn't expect it. There was a line in which Clint's character, Philo, says to Sondra Locke (who plays a hustling country singer) I was hoping to go beyond your bedroom. If this film were made today, it would have a Jerry Springer like condescension towards the working classes (with an incest subplot, a grandma with no teeth, and the obligatory Deliverance references). This film is still funny and entertaining, even though the ape, Clyde, really doesn't fit in all the time. If they lost the ape, the film would still be good. The film is also consistently funny. There are no real story lulls in it. And it was made in a time when people weren't so uptight and politiclaly correct. One of the early scenes has Clint in a bar and he talks to a girl, who gives a ton of lip and smug condescension. He asks her what are you mad at? with all sincerity. Clint was hitting on a PC chick years before political correctness came about. We have become much too uptight and rigidly humourless. Even the comedies nowadays aren't particularly funny. They're usually gross, smug, and childish, without any real trace of wit. A shame, but then, we have this film we can go back to. "},{"Title":"Every Which Way But Loose","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Eastwood steps back from his macho action star image as he has a little fun in this first of two films (Any Which Way You Can is the other)that team the star up with an orangutan named Clyde. It's not Hope and Crosby, but it is a fun pairing. The film doesn't take itself too seriously. It's having too much to do something silly like that.  "},{"Title":"This film was everything it was supposed to be!","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  People are writing things about this film like it was intended to win the academy award. Clint Eastwood has made several light hearted films about different things in his career that are supposed to make you laugh and they do. This film is both funny and entertaining. I just love when people act like they are the only ones whose opinion really counts when films like this make back 3-6 times their budget at the box office. They act like the entire world is not smart enough to decide what they like and don't like. They say things like `Inflated ticket prices' make the difference. Don't these people know that all things are relevant? If you look at dollar in and dollar out you can tell what is a success and what is not. One of the most successful films of all time is `Billy Jack' and if it sold the same amount of tickets today that is sold when it was released it would have made as much as `Titanic' or `Spiderman'. But dollar for dollar it still was a success. I have worked in the movie industry for 25 years now and don't like films being negatively criticized by people who don't know anything about film making and have obviously never made one. The trailer and poster does not in any way deceive the public as far as what the subject matter is and if you like what the film is about you will not be disappointed. `Bottom Line'! "},{"Title":"Loose, But Every Which Way?","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" *Possible Spoilers!* This quasi-cute, off-beat comedy would be Clint Eastwood's first departure from Spaghetti-Westerns and Dirty Harry roles.When it comes to the likes of Every Which Way But Loose (EWWBL), Eastwood's financial backers strongly advised him to steer away from this production for the sake of preserving his well-established movie-image. The squinty-eyed Eastwood, being the rebel that he was, naturally refused to take their unsound (?) advice and went ahead and produced this so-so modern-day cowboy movie, with mixed results.Eastwood plays rugged character Philo Beddoe, a trucker and a brawler (with a definite soft-spot), searching, like an utter fool, for (of all things) lost love.The ever-stubborn Philo drags along his pal, Orville, and Orville's pet orangutan, Clyde (for comedy relief), as he roams somewhat aimlessly around the American West, from California to Colorado.As is typical in a comedy flick such as this - Philo, a brazen, bare-knuckle fighter, never-ever fails to cross everyone, everywhere he goes. Naturally, Philo manages to p-i-s-s the police right off, to the extreme. And he even ends up being angrily pursued by a biker gang called The Black Widows, who chase him in a ridiculous fit of tire-screeching revenge.EWWBL's biggest disappointment is Philo's lost love - now found, who goes by the name of Lynn Halsey-Taylor. Philo spent so much time searching for this broad and all she ended up being was nothing but a little, trailer-trash, Country'n'Western singer who warbles away to all of the deaf-anyways drunks in sleazy, low-life Honky-Tonks.It's too bad that Clyde, the orangutan, didn't get more camera-time in EWWBL. He was really about the only interesting character in the entire flick that was at all worth watching.If you're a true Clint Eastwood fan, then you're sure to enjoy this mildly amusing flick from 1978. "}{"Title":"Clint's tribute to C&W music!","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Philo Beddoe, is not afraid to fight anyone. In fact, he makes his living out of taking money from anybody that wants to challenge him, or his abilities to knock down those daring to try him. Philo's best friend, and companion is Clyde, an ape of epic proportions that loves to drink beer. His other pal is Orville, a loyal friend that follows him everywhere and acts as his fight manager. Orville's mother, Zenobia, is a foul mouthed woman who fails all the driving tests she goes to.Philo takes an interest in a C&W vocalist, Lynn Halsey-Taylor, a not too talented singer traveling from place to place trying to make it in the business. Lynn, alas, is a calculating woman who does not plan to spend the rest of her life with Philo. Lynn is quick in accepting Philo's generosity, but she wants no romance with Philo, who goes after her, fighting himself with whoever wants to and making some money in the process.James Fargo, the director, had been around as assistant to many projects that Clint Eastwood got involved in, so it did not come as a surprise his friend would tap him for this film, as he was starting in the industry as a director. Written by Jeremy Joe Kronsberg, whose first screenplay this was, the film was not exactly what one would have expected by a star of Mr. Eastwood's magnitude. While the movie is not horrible, it is forgettable. Clint Eastwood, a man of impeccable taste in music, has always favored jazz music in most of his movies. Here, he plays tribute, perhaps, to all the places out West that feature music from the heartland. Mel Tillis, one of C&W's big stars, sings a couple of songs.It did not help that Sondra Locke was cast as Lynn. The actress and Mr. Eastwood had no chemistry whatsoever, in spite of being romantically involved. Based on the popularity of this film, the stars went to do a sequel, Any Which Way you Can. Geoffrey Lewis plays Orville, Philo's true friend. Beverly D'Angelo appears as Echo, and the great Ruth Gordon is seen as Ma. Boggs. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood Spoofing Himself?","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I know our favorite tough guy didn't direct this film, but you have to wonder if perhaps he was spoofing his tough guy rolls in this movie. After DIRTY HARRY, MAGNUM FORCE, and some others where he takes zero crap from anybody, he has this refreshing little thing about a bare-knuckle fighter that is really a fun little ride. He's still tough old Clint, but with a better sense of humor. It's been said before, Clyde (the ape) practically steals Clint's thunder, and they play off each other very well. (How many guys would have the gumption to ride around the highway with an ape?) That motorcycle gang is a real hoot. Sondra Locke is his love interest. She can't sing worth a tinker's damn in this movie, but she improves in the sequel. Another movie where you just sit back, enjoy the ride, and watch Clint kick ass and take names, as usual. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Innocuous, unpretentious and funny nonsense comedy","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Here it is, one of the most popular (and derided) films of Clint Eastwood's career, an innocuous, unpretentious and funny nonsense comedy which received scathing reviews upon its 1978 release but has remained incredibly popular for almost 25 years.  In fact, Every Which Way But Loose is the only Eastwood film ever to receive a BOMB review from Leonard Maltin's influential movie guide, putting it below such career lows as Firefox and The Rookie, but it's no where near that bad; in fact, it's actually fast-moving and entertaining.The plot, what there is of it, is pretty non-existent  Clint is Philo Beddoe, a lunkheaded truck driver and bare-knuckle brawler of some local fame who lives with his best friend Orville (Geoffrey Lewis) and Orville's mother Ma (Ruth Gordon, in full ornery, foul-mouthed, gun-toting old lady mode) outside Los Angeles.  Rounding out the family is Philo's beer-drinking pet orangatan Clyde, who acts like a human and was the obvious source of the film's runaway popularity.  One night at a nightclub, Philo spots untalented country singer Lynne Halsey-Taylor (Eastwood's then paramour Sondra Locke) and falls head-over-heels in love, buying her expensive presents and giving her money even though she admits to having a boyfriend.  (As I said, Philo is a lunkhead.)  In the meantime, Philo gets into trouble with a group of middle-aged bikers named the Black Widows (all male!) and a couple of off-duty cops (James McEachin and Gregory Walcott) he beats up in a bar fight.  When Lynne disappears, heading back home to Denver, Philo, Orville and Clyde take off in hot pursuit, in return being chased by the Widows and the two cops.  This leads to a series of sporatically funny and amusing misadventures, including a stop at the Albuquerque zoo to find a mate for Clyde.  Add Beverly D'Angelo to the mix as Echo, a produce worker who falls for Orville, and you have a top cast bringing this silliness to a full boil.Actually, I'm probably giving this film more credit than it deserves.  As I said, the plot is thin, the ending pretty unsatisfactory and the script, well, as in most of Eastwood's lesser films, is pretty weak.  (Eastwood, always the writer's best friend, would have been better served in many of his films if he had demanded rewrites.)  But Clyde is a riot and the film so good-natured undemanding viewers have been willing to go along with the goofiness for 24 years, so why overdo the criticism?  I'd rather watch an unpretentious piece of goofiness like Every Which Way But Loose than a pretentious, critically-praised slog-fest like Mulholland Drive anyday. And it has one of the best country-music soundtracks ever, including the title song (a number-one hit for the late Eddie Rabbitt), Charlie Rich's Behind Closed Doors and Mel Tillis' Send Me Down to Tucson.  (Okay, we also get Locke singing I Seek the Night,  but you take the bad with the good.)So, deride it if you wish, call it stupid, corny and insipid.  It's all of those.  It's also pretty damned fun.  **1/2 "},{"Title":"A true American art form","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Without this film, the entire genre of Orangutan films, as well as the film career of Tony Danza, would have been inconceivable. We, as Americans, have often felt it necessary to identify a True American Art Form.  Some have suggested jazz, others rap.  However, it is quite possible that even those fine examples could be traced to other, non-American, sources. The Orangutan film is, without question, ours and ours alone. For other fine entries in this genre, I recommend Going Bananas, Any Which Way You Can, and certain key portions of Cannonball Run II. When the history of this civilization is written by the super-intelligent species of rats that will no doubt conquer us,  the chapter heading will no doubt read Right Turn, Clyde.   "},{"Title":"Guy gets girl, guy loses girl, guy gets ape.  Happy ending.","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Fun flick.  Caught it for the first time on video.  Though it was obviously aimed for the redneck, teenage drive-in crowd, the stellar performance of Clyde raises this to the level of an art house flick.  Clint did what Clint does best  fights and wins. The one distraction was the startling unappeal of Sondra Locke. Her lack of talent in acting is only surpassed by her lack of talent in singing. Other cast members included a loyal buddy, Orville, a swearing granny, two blundering cops, and a gang of wimpy bikers.   "},{"Title":"A Fistful of Laughs","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Clint Eastwood usually plays a tough guy. As the Man with No Name, he puffed cigars through a bearded grimace and calmly dispatched scores of slimy outlaws with a swift six-gun. Updated and clean-shaven, he stalked the streets of San Francisco as Inspector Harry Callahan with the most powerful handgun in the world a .44 magnum Smith & Wesson revolver and singly subdued crime. Undoubtedly, the Man with No Name and Dirty Harry provided Eastwood with his popular roles. After all, he has made three films about each character.The most unusual role that Eastwood has ever attempted is in director James Fargo's Every Which Way But Loose, an immensely entertaining contemporary good ole boy farce about bare-knuckling. Ironically, Warner Brothers predicted Every Which Way But Loose would flop miserably, but this amazing, lowest common denominator comedy went on to become one of the most profitable films of 1979.As Philo Beddoe, a beer-guzzling trucker, Clint picks up pocket money in street brawls using fists that prove every bit as devastating as Dirty Harry's magnum revolver. Every time Philo smacks an opponent with his knuckles, the soundtrack registers the blows like small atomic explosions. When he isn't punching out his opponents, Philo is in fast, cross-country pursuit of a country singer Lynn Halsey-Taylor (Oscar nominated actress Sondra Locke of The Heart is a Lonely Hunter) who apparently wants nothing to do with him. They meet at The Palomino Club where Philo and his buddy Orville hang out and drink brews while she sings with the band on stage. This alone should warn die hard Eastwood fans that Every Which Way But Loose isn't just another routine Eastwood shoot'em up. In fact, Clint doesn't kill anyone; much less get a grip on a gun. Furthermore, he doesn't even get the girl here. Instead, Lynn Halsey is up to other things that you'd never think you'd find in an Eastwood epic.Dreary as it sounds, Every Which Way But Loose is terrific fun. A diverse bunch of characters parade across the screen. Philo is flanked throughout the action by a scene swiping orangutan named Clyde (Manis of Going Ape) who loves to swig booze. Ruth Gordon of Harold and Maude plays Ma Boggs, a feisty shotgun wielding crone determined to get her driver's license. No, she doesn't get along with Clyde, and her language is especially foul-mouthed when Clyde plants a kiss on her face. Ma lives with Philo and her son Orville Boggs (the incomparable Geoffrey Lewis of High Plains Drifter) and Orville drives a tow truck. Orville's scam is that he listens to the scanner and learns who is broken down and needs a wrecker.Philo and Orville enrage a gang of outlaw bikers called 'The Black Widows' that are as vicious as they are incompetent. They follow our heroes around and try to give them grief. John Quade of Papillon leads the Black Widows and former peplum muscle man Dan Vadis of Spartacus and the Ten Gladiators plays a member of the gang. It seems when Philo whipped the entire gang by himself, they decided to stalk him. Just as vindictive and just as incompetent are a pair of Los Angeles cops that are out to get him. When Philo isn't contending with the Black Widows and the LAPD cops, he is knocking down opponents and looking to drop the legendary bare knuckles brawler Tank Murdoch (Walter Barnes of The Big Gundown) in a fight.Several surprising plot twists occur in this unconventional Eastwood opus. The soundtrack teems with several country & western tunes warbled by top names like Eddie Rabbit, who croons the title tune. Mel Tillis and Charlie Rich perform walk on roles with an uncredited Phil Everly putting in an appearance. Slackly paced at times, Every Which Way But Loose is a pleasant change of pace for Eastwood fans that like to watch Clint do something different. The sequel Any Which Way You Can followed a couple of years later in 1980 with Orville, Clyde, Ma Boggs, and The Black Widows. "},{"Title":"Poorly executed, unfunny crash of a movie","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Beer, country, fighting, Eastwood and a monkey, or is that an orangutan? Sounds great, eh? Well no. I don't know what they were smoking back then when they came up with the idea Hey, Eastwood could do a movie where he's fist fighting truck driver and his best fried is an orangutan.Well, okay, let's give this movie a benefit of a doubt, I liked it when I was a wee tiny lad, under ten or so. That was enough for me back then. Thought I don't recall laughing very hard when I watched this flick, but I did like it. But then I saw it again. And I was amazed. And not in the good way.Okay, Philo (Eastwood in very poorly chosen role) is a truck driver, who makes money on the side by fist fighting. His two friends are an ape and Orville (Geoffrey Lewis). Philo fells head over heels for this purty little country singer named Lynn (Sondra Locke) who then disappears. Off to find the lost love. Then there's a mixed bunch of Nazi motorcyclist and some cops after Philo and co. The whole movie turns out as a headless run with no sense what so ever.Every Which Way But Loose actually does have some good elements in it, it has the potential of a entertaining movie, but now it's barely even funny. Sure, it does cause couple of loose smiles but it hardly makes you laugh. And even the action scenes are relatively badly made, so even they wont be enough to keep up the interest.Final judgment If you really want to see Clint Eastewood in a bad flick this might be the one to start with. Sure he has some worse films under his belt, but this one is pretty close. "},{"Title":"Rocky with an orangutan","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Well, not really, but EVERY WHICH WAY BUT LOOSE is one of those mainstream fight flicks that were all the rage back in the late '70s and early '80s. This one's a likable favourite in which a typically laconic Clint Eastwood plays a prize-winning bare-knuckle fighter who gets into various scrapes with the help of his buddy, a lovable orangutan called Clyde. Inevitably Clyde turns out to be something of a scene stealer and is the best thing in the movie.Elsewhere, the film has one of those nice late '70s vibes, grungy and realistic and filmed in the great outdoors for the most part. Geoffrey Lewis is excellent in a supporting comic relief role but this is Eastwood's film really. There's plenty of action here along with the laughs, and the fight scenes are really well staged and hard hitting. There's very little to dislike about it as a whole. "},{"Title":"The best good ol' boy flick","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The story goes that Burt Reynolds was friends with Clint Eastwood in the late 70s and Burt suggested that he would do a serious cop thriller if Clint did a comedy akin to Burt's numerous good ol' boy flicks (e.g 1977's Smokey and the Bandit). So Clint did 1978's Every Which Way But Loose and 1980's Any Which Way You Can while Burt eventually did Sharky's Machine in 1981, which he described as Dirty Harry in Atlanta. Burt lost the challenge because, not only are most of Eastwood's cop thrillers superior to Sharky's Machine, both of the Which films are superior to Burt's good ol' boy flicks, particularly the first one.THE PLOT Eastwood stars as easy-going truck driver Philo Beddoe who fist-fights on the side for extra money. His buddy Orville (Geoffrey Lewis) promotes unofficial prize-fights for him while his pet orangutan, Clyde, assists them. San Fernando Valley, CA, is their stomping grounds as they enjoy cold beer, country music, bars, women and the occasional fight. While Philo is an expert when it comes to fights he's not so expert when it comes to women, particularly a little country and western singer, Lynn (Sondra Locke) who strangely skips out on him; so he pursues her to Colorado. Meanwhile Philo, Orville and Clyde are pestered by a gang of witless bikers (John Quade, Bill McKinney, etc). Ruth Gordon is on hand as Ma while cutie Beverly D'Angelo plays Orville's girl.Like the title blurb says, this is the best of the good ol' boy movies of that era and the sequel is almost as good. It's consistently entertaining from beginning to end and, while it's too zany to take serious, the movie occasionally contains depth that's surprisingly effective. Lynn's breakdown and Philo's response in the final act is outstanding and the way they leave this subplot hanging for the sequel is genius. Despite being a zany comedy, the characters are decidedly human. Add Clyde's amusing & amazing antics (and, less so, Ma's) and you have the eminent good ol' boy movie.The film runs 114 minutes and was shot in San Fernando Valley, CA, New Mexico, Colorado and Wyoming.GRADE A "},{"Title":"Noting Outstanding,but a Fun Turn for Eastwood,","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Every Which Way But Loose is a good movie with a well written storyline and a great comedic cast.It is certainly nothing outstanding and there are several scenes that failed to be funny,but it does certainly bring a lot of laughs and though it is nowhere near any of Clint Eastwoods best work,it was nice to see him take on a different role,this character is nothing like anyone he ever has or ever will play.My favourite scenes were any part with Clyde the Orangutan,in a strange way,there seemed to be great chemistry between him and Eastwood,they just clearly enjoyed working together as they both seemed very happy in any scene they did.The movies soundtrack is terrific,it's mostly country music which of course really adds to the tone of the film,and the opening song,Every Which Way But Loose,begins this ride in a very sincere fashion.Nothing hilarious,but Every Which Way But Loose is a fun movie that I would recommend if you see it on television and are looking for something quick and easy to make you laugh. Phil Beddoe and his friends roam the San Fernando valley in search of s woman he had a one night stand with that he can't stop thinking about,while making money off fights along the way.Best Performance Clint Eastwood Worst Performance Sondra Locke "}{"Title":"Every Which Way But Loose","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" *Review May Contain Spoilers*PLOT Philo Beddoe, a trucker and brawler, is accompanied by his friend Orville, and his pet orangutan, Clyde to drive across the country in hopes of finding Philoe's love Lynn Halsey-Taylor. Along the way, Philo manages to get an entire biker gang known as the Black Widows and a couple of police officers after him.MY THOUGHTS This is a Clint Eastwood movie with a different tone and concept of the rest. Its kinda random and sticks out from the others he has done. However, I love this picture. Its so entertaining and funny. The fact that this character ticks off an entire biker gang and police officers and comes out on top at the end is hilarious. Te film pokes fun at the cops and the typical tough bikers that people think of and I enjoy it. Beddoe's no care and tough as nails attitude make it funny. He's your average guy.PROS/CONS I love the fighting and the humour. Its an entertaining picture. But, to some, the country music may become annoying and the love may slow it down. But, the hilarious bikers, Clyde, and the friendship between Orville and Philo make it stay afloat. OVERALL 8/10 "},{"Title":"Clint is the MAN!","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Every Which Way But Loose is the legendary box office hit with Clint Eastwood punching people in the face, Sondra Locke failing to impress and monkey drinking beer. I'm a huge Eastwood fan and this film worked for me pretty well. It was funny, had plenty of cool moments and showed why you don't mess the Man with no Name. But I would be lying if said that it's any good.Eastwood does a great job in a more comedic role. He manages to combine his tough guy persona with his newly found comedic persona flawlessly. Watching him punch people is like watching Jun Ji-Hyun acting. It's endless amounts of joy and entertainment. The rest of the cast are a mixed bag. Ruth Gordon brings some laughs here and there, the standout scene being when she shoots the biker gang with a shotgun. Geoffrey Lewis and Beverly D'Angelo are pretty good and share wonderful chemistry together and Sondra Locke is painfully mediocre. I don't have anything against her as an actress because I really liked her in Sudden Impact, but she really just feels overshadowed by other people constantly. The rest of the cast are fairly forgettable. The only cool moment was to see Hank Worden, legendary western character actor. He is presence is always welcome.Every Which Way But Loose was directed by James Fargo who did The Enforcer and Forced Vengeance with Chuck Norris. He does a fine job directing and keeps things going. The action is well choreographed and well shot. You can see what's going on just fine and the film itself has a nice look to it. The only real problem is the script. There isn't much of a plot to be had. It's more like a road movie but the first half wasn't a road movie. Basically, Every Which Way But Loose is a episodic mess without any real goals or resolutions to be had. While it's a fun ride, it feels 20 minutes too long and was bad need for some trimming. Or just add some plot and stakes to keep the audience engaged.If you like Eastwood punching people, country music, monkeys, Ruth Gordon shooting bikers and Eastwood punching people you will enjoy Every Which Way But Loose. It's entertaining to be sure, but not very good. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Film","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Please note that I am writing this review only minutes after seeing this movie.I saw this film without any previous knowledge of it, apart from the fact that it starred Clint Eastwood. I didn't know what I was in for, but seeing what ended up happening made it even more enjoyable.Let me say this the film's story is shallow and a bit odd - unusual for an Eastwood picture. However, the film is rather funny. It may be because I didn't know what was going to happen and that I was actually expecting a more serious film, but the film's humor made it so much more enjoyable.Sure, the film isn't a 10/10. No film is a 10/10. In fact, from a broad perspective, the film count rank down to a 4/10 or so. But I liked it. I enjoyed it. And I can't just give a picture that I really had fun watching a 4/10!-----------------------------------THE GOODThe characters and acting are brilliant - the best being Clyde the orangutan.The film is funny. It's no hilarious movie, but it's funny and will make you smile. Don't start it expecting to be rolling on the floor with laughter.At times, the actual craft is impressive. From cinematography, to small-scaled car chases throughout the local town, you can tell that effort was put into the making of this film.THE BADThe profanity. It doesn't help move the story forward, and mainly brings it down (just like any other movie with profanity).The weak story. However, for me at least, the humor moved in front of the story and was all I really paid attention to. The film is still enjoyable despite its story.The ending could be considered weak by some, but again, that's just the story.THE UGLYWait... what?Er... oh well, I guess I'll do this... Yes, there is an ape in the film who's teeth aren't the cleanest, but that's OK...And yes... there is a reference to a previous Eastwood movie here and there...-----------------------------------So, start watching this film with an open mind. Don't expect perfection - try not to really expect anything. Let the movie guide you. It's hard not to root for Eastwood's character.Overall, I found the film very entertaining. I don't really think that it's intended to be a comedy, but it sure was very amusing. Some movies from the 1970's can be rather slow and sleepy, but never once was I yawning here. I could easily (as well as wanted to) pay attention, which made it all worth while.Despite the film's lack of a crystal clear story or memorable quotes or stand-offs like some other Clint Eastwood movie, I found this movie to be very enjoyable. I wouldn't mind watching it again. I felt it was something a little different for Eastwood, which turned out to be a great thing. I would definitely recommend this film to a fan of Clint as well as someone looking for a charming film with a crazy and fun ride. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood Superstar.","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Every Which Way But Loose (1978) was another seventies star vehicle for Clint Eastwood. This film was the first of two films to feature tough man fighter Philo Beddoe. His main job is that of a mechanic who challenges other bare knuckle brawlers in his spare time. He works with a fellow grease monkey Orville Boggs (Geoffery Lewis) and an orangutan named Clyde. One day, the three friends hear about another tough man named Tank Murdock and he's taking on all challengers. So the boys decide to head off on a road trip to the Rocky Mountains and meet Tank in a brawl for it all. Whilst on the road, Orville finds love with a pretty hitch-hiker (Beverly D'Angelo). Not to be out done, Philo finds a love interest in a country singer named Lynn Halsey-Taylor (Sondra Locke).On the way to the Rockies, Philo fights a few brawls to earn some extra money. They also run into some trouble with a couple of off duty cops and a gang of incompetent bikers (The Black Widows). Some questions are raised, will Philo find his true love in Lynn Halsey-Taylor? Can Philo find some loving for Clyde? Will he be able to defeat the legendary Tank Murdock? How will they get their Ma (Ruth Gordon) off of their backs? Just how tough are the Black Widows? To find the answers to these questions and more, watch EVERY WHICH WAY BUT LOOSE!Followed by the superior ANY WHICH WAY YOU CAN.Slightly recommended. "},{"Title":"See you in the funny papers.","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is another film I caught on late-night TV, and that's probably where it belongs.  On the other hand, I enjoyed every minute of it.  That's not to say most people would, or even most Clint Eastwood fans--but this is my comment and I liked the movie!  I agree with a former commenter who said that the Orangutang film is a distinctly American art form.  I couldn't agree more, having seen Cannonball Run II, and also being an American.  Actually, being a Southern American, this film led me to wonder why a country/western culture comedy film was set out in California (mysteries of the universe).   So, about the film  Clint Eastwood can't go wrong, as far as I'm concerned (acting, that is).  He's just too cool to hate.  Clyde the ape is too lovable to hate, and as others have said, he's the main comedy star in the film for sure.  I didn't notice that the lead lady's voice was so bad, and I really liked the song she sang a couple of times in the film.  Aside from Clint himself, my favorite character in the movie is Echo (What? Echo).  She's the best-looking lady in the film, and she's inspired me to introduce myself to inquisitive strangers as Echo from this day forth.  And the rest of the characters...well, let's just say they fit into the rest of the movie pretty well. Who would I recommend this film to?  You, of course.  Seriously, I recommend this movie for Clint Eastwood fans who want to be astonished, Orangutang film fans who want a laugh, and adventurous people who are willing to try out a totally genre-less film.  See you in the funny papers. "},{"Title":"good film","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have just watched this film and i do like it. I like the music as well and as i have said about Any which way you can Clyde is funny in this film and so is Ruth Gordon and the fight scenes are very good in this film as well. So if you like Every which way but loose i recommend Any which way you can. "},{"Title":"A movie for the boys night out.","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is a movie for the guys. It is a visual movie with a basic plot but it is one  you will keep coming back to every few years. Has many memorable moments. Basically dump the girlfriend and ask your mates around for a night of beer and cinema! "},{"Title":"Definately worth a look","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has everything...great comedy, great action, and even a great soundtrack thanks to the late Eddie Rabbit who sings the movie's well known theme song. Ruth Gordon is absolutely hilarious playing Eastwood's shotgun toting mother.  The Black Widow biker gang offers up some great laughs as well. Please check it out. "},{"Title":"way better than it has any right to be not vintage Eastwood, but it's too much fun to care","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Want to watch something that sounds almost too inexplicable to be true and at the same time too good to not be? Clint Eastwood, who at the time of Every Which Way But Loose was a staple of the bad-ass-with-a-gun-in-city-streets-or-old-west flick, chose to attach himself to a movie that is, in essence, about very simple things done to an incredibly ridiculous length of space. What to make of Clint playing Philo Beddoe, a bare-knuckle fighter who beats up whomever for extra cash, has a crush so bad on a sultry country singer, has a mother who wont pass the driving test, has both Nazi bikers and two disgruntled cops chasing his tail... and all with a pet orangutan in toe? Really, at the end of this, what is there NOT to make of it? This is something of a comedy gold mine with Every Which Way But Loose, for both intentional and unintentional concerns. Everything with Clint and the ape is gold, that's a given; a montage of Philo and Clyde walking around without much direction, plenty of booze to drink and women to see strip and a slow country ballad crooning in the background, is so funny it beats the pants off of just about anything in Snakes on a Place for sheer oh wow, is this really... wow value. But there's also other good stuff, when not seeing that the target audience are rednecks who want some country tunes put to Clint beating up people every five seconds (a record Corman would be envious of). For one thing, we get Clint slapping someone with a fish (yes, Monty Python rip-off), a fight scene in a meat kitchen ala Rocky, a muddy brawl with the bikers and Clint that leads to something even more ridiculous. And, well... did I mention the ape? What makes it work is hard to explain except that the writing is a) genuinely clever, b) Clint gets the joke(s) and roll with the punches, some pun intended, and c) there's even some melancholy in the last fifteen minutes as the expected happy ending is curtailed for something more... I wont exactly say realistic, but not conventional. It's certainly not for those looking for a very serious message as with Unforgiven or Mystic River. It's more for those looking for Clint's own Smokey & the Bandit with touches of the Blues Brothers. If you must watch one movie with the man with no name and a lovable primate that drinks beer and gives the finger, it's this one. "},{"Title":"Dated, and one of Clints weeker ones","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I would not call this a bad film; it is dated for the 70's which creates lame humor for 00's.  The films weak points is a weak script, his girl friends lead role, and the annoying mom. (She is part of the dated comedy)  What saves this film, and makes it 6 instead of a 3, is the bar fight at the beginning, the monkey, I love watching the bikers get chased thourgh the driving range but the rest of the chase is too much, and the fight scenes.  (Except for the motor cycle gang one)  I do not know why this road movie script drags Clint taking his brother and girl friend around, but it is added in order to provide the plot twist with cop, and meeting Tank whatever his name.  In the end, you can see why Clint make a smart decision. "}{"Title":"May be the greatest bare fisted brawler.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is one movie you can just keep watching time and again it has tons of replay value. It's funny, especially Ma and her four letter words. The biker gang after Philo are very amusing also. This movie is action packed and makes you want to box. Clint is in tip top shape and looks mean. The ending is also cool. Sandra Locke is also a good singer and plays scenes good with Clint, especially toward the end. This is a great classic. "},{"Title":"Clint does comedy!","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  And he does it well, I might add. This is a very funny film and is one that I think all comedy fans might enjoy. Clint Eastwood is a bare knuckle fist fighter, and a good one. His fights always draw betting people from all over. His best buddy is an orangutan named Clyde, who has a propensity for hitting people pretty hard, too. Costar and then live in lover Sondra Locke does a creditable job as well. A good one! "},{"Title":"Over the top 70's stupidity","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  in the same vein as Smokey and the Bandit and Cannonball Run. Clint Eastwood in his prime is worth the watch. Occasional hilarity and great fight scenes are watered down by his interest in country singer played by Sondra Locke-easily one of the most boring and unlikable actresses of all time.Clint, what were you thinking??? 8/10 "},{"Title":"Clint attempts light hearted comedy","Date":"6 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Without a doubt Clint Eastwood is one Hollywood's greatest actors ever. As well as being a versatile actor he proved his capabilities in being behind the camera too. Though I am surprised as to why he never attempted to play a negative character in his entire career. In 'Every which way but loose' Clint gives the comedy genre a shot for the first time. He is convincing, however due to heavy criticism he did not pursue comedy in the long term. The director James Foley directed 'The Enforcer', which also starred Clint. But this in my opinion is his best movie to date. James was more recognized as a assistant director. Unfortunately he did not receive much recognition as a mainstream director.SPOILERS The writer has presented a very routine plot which limits ones expectations towards the end. Philo Beddon (Clint) plays a truck driver who for extra income on the side engages in regular bare fist fights. He lives with his friend Orville, his ma and a orangutan. At a country club he finds a loving acquaintance with a singer Lyn Taylor (Sondra Locke). After spending some time with Philo she takes a sudden leave to Denver which surprises him. In frustration he attacks a cop. This leads the cop and his buddy to search for for Philo to Denver. Simultaneously there also happens to be a gang of bikers that are searching for Philo too for trashing and selling a few of their bikes. Philo does in-coincidently meet Lyn again but faces some surprising revelations about her real identity. END OF SPOILERSIf you're a fan of comedy, this is a fun and enjoyable movie to watch. It is not of the rib tickling nature but Clint gives and honest and sincere attempt at comedy. However it is not entirely a one man show. Other supporting characters gives good support. On the script level I felt that more substance was needed to make the plot give a impact. Watching some dumb bikers does not really do justice to half of the story. But Sondra Locke's negative character was a highlight in the movie. She is a fantastic actress and displays a side to us that we had not seen very often. It is disappointing to see that her career didn't develop further. The movie has a moderate pace but the sub plot involving the cops could have had a better finale. The culture of country and western music is blended appropriately in the movie and serves as a good backdrop. Many famous singers were included in a few scenes.Any fan of Clint Eastwood will enjoy this movie. However true admirers of comedy may be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood attempts light hearted comedy.","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Without a doubt Clint Eastwood is one Hollywood's greatest actors ever. As well as being a versatile actor he proved his capabilities in being behind the camera too. Though I am surprised as to why he never attempted to play a negative character in his entire career. In 'Every which way but loose' Clint gives the comedy genre a shot for the first time. He is convincing, however due to heavy criticism he did not pursue comedy in the long term. The director James Foley directed 'The Enforcer', which also starred Clint. But this in my opinion is his best movie to date. James was more recognized as a assistant director. Unfortunately he did not receive much recognition as a mainstream director.SPOILERS The writer has presented a very routine plot which limits ones expectations towards the end. Philo Beddon (Clint) plays a truck driver who for extra income on the side engages in regular bare fist fights. He lives with his friend Orville, his ma and a orangutan. At a country club he finds a loving acquaintance with a singer Lyn Taylor (Sondra Locke). After spending some time with Philo she takes a sudden leave to Denver which surprises him. In frustration he attacks a cop. This leads the cop and his buddy to search for for Philo to Denver. Simultaneously there also happens to be a gang of bikers that are searching for Philo too for trashing and selling a few of their bikes. Philo does in-coincidently meet Lyn again but faces some surprising revelations about her real identity. END OF SPOILERSIf you're a fan of comedy, this is a fun and enjoyable movie to watch. It is not of the rib tickling nature but Clint gives and honest and sincere attempt at comedy. However it is not entirely a one man show. Other supporting characters gives good support. On the script level I felt that more substance was needed to make the plot give a impact. Watching some dumb bikers does not really do justice to half of the story. But Sondra Locke's negative character was a highlight in the movie. She is a fantastic actress and displays a side to us that we had not seen very often. It is disappointing to see that her career didn't develop further. The movie has a moderate pace but the sub plot involving the cops could have had a better finale. The culture of country and western music is blended appropriately in the movie and serves as a good backdrop. Many famous singers were included in a few scenes.Any fan of Clint Eastwood will enjoy this movie. However true admirers of comedy may be disappointed. "},{"Title":"One of Clints Weaker Ones","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I would not call this a bad film; it is dated for the 70's which creates lame humor for 00's. The films weak points is a weak script, his girl friends lead role, and the annoying mom. (She is part of the dated comedy) What saves this film, and makes it 6 instead of a 3, is the bar fight at the beginning, the monkey, I love watching the bikers get chased though the driving range but the rest of the chase is too much, and the fight scenes. (Except for the motor cycle gang one) I do not know why this road movie script drags Clint taking his brother and girl friend around, but it is added in order to provide the plot twist with cop, and meeting Tank whatever his name. In the end, you can see why Clint make a smart decision. "},{"Title":"Not bad.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  A good monkey movie with Clint Eastwood as well. "},{"Title":"The First Clyde","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The most popular of all Clint Eastwood films must be the two series of movies that featured an orang-utan called Clyde that steals the show as his co-star. The first being this one and Every Which Way You Can that appeared two years later. Despite its cult status and it might be comedy with usual cool Eastwood humour and dialogue, I don't really think its the most impressive of all Eastwood films mainly due to Eastwood sometimes losing his cool and there should be other films that are more superior than this one.Sometimes its a bit boring and its reel let-down must be the violence with the bare-knuckle punch contest in slight twirling dust, hence they should know better to Eastwood's discomfort and frenzied confrontation from his leading lady and regular co-star Sondra Locke whom would strangely enough re-appear in the next orang-utan film that doesn't really get better than the first and its a shame really. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood's career low-point...until the sequel","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Clint Eastwood's career low-point...until the sequel.Not necessarily the worst movie Clint Eastwood ever made, but it must be close to to it. No, a career low-point because he chose to be in it. The script alone, and the fact that his co-star is an orangutan, should have tipped him off that this movie was not going to be anything more than mediocre. He should have listened to WC Fields Never work with animals or children.The money must have been good.Quite silly, lowest common denominator stuff. Pointless, random, hole- filled plot. The whole aim seems to be to get to the next fight scene.And then, two years later, Eastwood appeared in the sequel, Any Which Way You Can... "},{"Title":"dirtier Harry","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Clint Eastwood took a break from action and westerns with the comedy Every Which Way But Loose, as a tough guy truck driver whose best friend is an orangutan. The plot has Eastwood traveling to Colorado to find a singer (Sondra Locke), while simultaneously eluding a biker gang and some cops. For the most part, EWWBL looks like the sort of movie that they made just to have fun, and it certainly is a load of fun. In my opinion, Ruth Gordon - as Eastwood's mother - is the funniest character the common grouchy old woman who gets REALLY nasty if you do anything that she doesn't like. Although without a doubt, the mishaps befalling the bikers are also a hoot.So anyway, this is definitely one that you're sure to enjoy. True, it may seem especially silly now that Eastwood has directed movies like Mystic River and Gran Torino, but how can you not like it? Really funny.Also starring Geoffrey Lewis and Beverly D'Angelo. "}{"Title":"Every Which Way But Loose","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I had no idea what this film was about, but the leading actor was enough appeal to try it. Basically Philo Beddoe (Clint Eastwood) as an easy-going trucker and great bare knuckle fist-fighter, and his two best friends are prize fight promoter Orville Boggs (Geoffrey Lewis, Juliette's father), and orangutan Clyde (Manis), who he won in a bet. Philo meets and becomes infatuated with country and western singer Lynn Halsey-Taylor (Sondra Locke), but she gives him the slip for getting too serious. So Philo, Orville and Clyde set out on a journey to find Lynn, get paid for one or two more fights, and they are pursued by a biker gang. Also starring Rosemary's Baby star Ruth Gordon as Ma Boggs, Beverly D'Angelo as Echo, Walter Barnes as Tank Murdock, George Chandler as Clerk at D.M.V., Roy Jenson as Woody, James McEachin as Herb, Bill McKinney as Dallas, William O'Connell as Elmo, John Quade as Cholla, Dan Vadis as Frank and Gregory Walcott as Putnam. There is almost no plot to the film, seeing how the romantic element is pretty boring, Eastwood does do okay, but he is the film is stolen by his hairy and lovable co-star. Any Which Way You Can followed two years later. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"No fartin', no belchin', no pickin' your ass!","Date":"17 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is an incredibly schlocky if strangely likable movie. Clint Eastwood plays Philo, a tough-as-nails prole with a heart who makes a living out of truck driving, bare-knuckle-fighting and hanging out in third-rate country-and-Western joints. And he has an Orang-Utan and is hounded by a bunch of cut-rate Hell's Angels, and there is also a quirky shotgun grannie thrown in for good measure.Philo falls in love with a country singer, lends her a wad of money and follows her around the country after her mysterious disappearance. There is a rather shocking denouement when he finds her that she's a prostitute who has played him for his dough.Overall, this movie really is so bad that it's good again. It's never really good, though. Even the scenes with Clyde the baboon are not that funny. Sondra Locke has a squeaky, mousish voice and basically can't sing for toffee, and yet she's supposed to be a singer. Large parts of the movie make no sense whatsoever and seem to be stapled on to fill the movie up a bit. It's really odd that it still managed to garner such a following; you might like it but, really, it isn't good movie by anyone's definition. "},{"Title":"Dreadful Inconsequential Bubblegum From Clint","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Philo Beddoe, a bare-knuckle fighter, pursues a girl country singer across the Rockies from LA, whilst being pursued in his turn by two cops and a gang of ineffectual hell's angels.The opening sequence has Clint Eastwood, playing Philo, change from a truck to a pickup, kissing an office girl or two en route.  That pretty neatly encapsulates the film.Eastwood wanted a change of air after the epic Josey Wales, not to mention a vehicle for himself and his new amour, Sondra Locke.  This weak comedy movie is saved from being utter trash by Clyde the orangutang, who provides the only humour worthy of the name.  The running 'joke' of Orville's mother constantly failing her driving test is a good indicator of the script's paucity.  The paper-thin story is padded with a little country music, and yes - Sondra sings.The 'black widows', the allegedly comical hell's angels, are embarrassingly bad.  Philo scores a victory over intellectuals and feminists when he puts a set of dentures in a sociologist's chowder.  It gets worse. Orville's ma shoots at the hell's angels, making two bikes explode.  Yeah. Right.On the road, following Lynn Halsey-Taylor (for such is the name of Locke's character) eastwards, Orville (Geoffrey Lewis) picks up a girl at a roadside melon stall.  Echo (the girl, played by Beverly D'Angelo) turns out to be a pistol-packing crack shot who rescues the guys from a tight spot. This may seem a trifle too convenient, but it pales next to the scrape Philo gets out of by happening to hook a big fish just as the cops draw a bead on him.The guest appearance by Charlie Rich doesn't ring remotely true and is poorly handled.  What would a struggling amateur like Halsey-Taylor be doing on the same bill as Rich?A lame final fight and a predictable ending round up the 'entertainment', which includes a customary reference to Clint's spaghetti western past (as for example in Kelly's Heroes).  Taken as a whole, this film is featureless and lacklustre.  Very poor fare. "},{"Title":"punch drunk","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" you know, i've watched this movie twice and i still don't have the slightest idea what it's about? i'm sure there's a plot somewhere in this movie, but what or where it is is completely lost to me. i do know that this reminds me of fight club but with Clint Eastwood and an orangutan instead of Pitt and Norton. there's also a number of scenes where bikers get beat up, and that's one thing you can never see enough of. i was disappointed the monkey didn't spend more time giving people the finger, that would have been epic. This is a great drinking movie, just so long as you don't let the country music bother you too much. Hey, it's time for another beer.8 out 0f 10 "},{"Title":"What was Clint thinking?","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Clint Eastwood stars in this incredibly dumb comedy that was successful enough to spawn the sequel, Any Which Way You Can. Clint plays a bareknuckle boxer who takes care of his pet orangutan, Clyde, played by Manis.  Clint falls for a country singer, Sondra Locke, who disappears after he has given her a large sum of money.  He goes on a cross-country search to find her.  It seems that wherever he goes, trouble is sure to follow, in the persons of a hick cop and his partner, and a wannabe gang of bikers.  That is about the extent of the plot offered in this fiasco.  The highlights come in the form of Clint's primate pal, and in the many bareknuckle boxing fights that our hero participates in.  Ruth Gordon peps things up a bit as Ma, but her schtick gets old as well.  The title tune became Eddie Rabbitt's first crossover Top 40 hit, peaking at number 30.   "},{"Title":"Eastwood in the biggest mistake of his career!","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If there had to be one way to go for Clint Eastwood, it's down. Way down! You wouldn't want to see an all-time action film legend star in a cornball comedy that delivers plenty of bad taste. John Wayne probably went through the same situation, too. No wonder why this one did some outstanding business at the time of its release. A hefty abundance of C&W music meant that the culture was into a growing popularity by the late 70s, which brought in more country cornpone to the theater screens. It appeared that we wanted to see Clint do a comedy, but he sure wasn't the right man for the job. So what happened to the script? Our man Clint is in love with the Palomino country singer Sondra Locke (he was with her in several more of his Malpaso productions). That's the whole story, and it all goes every which way but loose until there's a big knot where the entire movie itself becomes nothing more but senseless junk. The orangutan made the perfect pairing for the guy who carries a .44 Magnum.....what an embarrassment! And then there was a sequel! Clint, how can we ever forgive you? "},{"Title":"What Were They Thinking????????","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  My reaction to this movie is the same as it was when i first saw it at the drive-in when it was first released what in the name of all that's holy were they thinking when they made this thing???   I'm all for Clint Eastwood doing something different from his usual cowboy and cop movies... but why this?  Why a stupid and barely funny comedy about a bare-knuckle brawler and his orangutan pal?  And what's even more incredible is that this movie was a huge HIT when it came out... even spawning a SEQUEL!??  This is one of the most mind-stretching movie puzzles I have ever come across... how can so many people love a movie that is so freaking bad???  I mean, not only are the jokes lame and the dialogue ridiculous... the plot never seems to fully develop into anything... nothing is really resolved when it's over... the movie just *stops*.   Nope, I just don't get it.    "},{"Title":"Stupid Film with Few Laughs","Date":"5 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Every Which Way But Loose (1978) * 1/2 (out of 4)Clint Eastwood was great before EVERY WHICH WAY BUT LOOSE and he was great after the film so that leaves the movie in some sort of weird Twilight Zone-like state. Perhaps Eastwood just wanted to see what it was like making something really bad but something that crowds would eat up and turn into a hit. In the film he plays a redneck trucker who loves to fight and drink beer with his Orangutan named Clyde. The fighter ends up beating up some cops and a biker gang and as he takes off to find the girl of his dreams (Sondra Locke) he ends up with these morons following him. There are times when I don't like a crowd pleasing film but I can view that film and understand why people like it. That's not the case here because for the life of me I can't see what so many others saw in this picture. Not only is it painfully unfunny but it's also so drawn out that by the forty-minute mark I was ready to hit the eject button but we still had over a hour to go! It really does seem as if the writer was sitting around thinking what funny situations he could put Eastwood in. Lets team him with an ape. Okay, something could have been done with that. Have the two of them drink beer together. Again, perhaps something could be done. Oh yeah, get Eastwood to fight as many people as possible. These elements could have been the start to something but in this movie they're everything and they are just so poorly done that it never works. The entire film is just so long and nothing but the same thing happens over and over. Eastwood appears to be having a good time with it all. Geoffrey Lewis is good as his buddy. Both Locke and Beverly D'Angelo are good in their roles as the love interests. With that said, it's Clyde who gives the best performance. However, with all the fine performances it's still not enough to overcome a silly and bland story. "},{"Title":"who provided the motorcycles for the movie?","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" who was the person responsible for providing the motorcycles for the movie? a local man claims it was his uncle that was responsible. does anyone have this information? this is one of my favorite movies.i tried to place this inquiry elsewhere but didn't happen. now i need to write this long response to get a simple question answered. why? is there some compelling reason we need to leave such along response? how may more lines do i need to leave? this is silly. this takes the value out of using such sites.i may get blocked from here and never get the information i seek. so now i hope i haven't wasted my time.it sure seems like this is going nowhere as i've been sent back 3 times to add more useless filler to make it long enough to submit. "},{"Title":"why ???????????????????","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  First of all, Clint, I want my hour and a half back !I can't believe this film went to production, much less into post-production and completion...The script looks and sounds like a bad episode of The Dukes of Hazards sponsored by The CMA and Steve Erwin (the Alligator guy)...The stupid race between the 'Bad guys' and the 'good guys' is so utterly embarrassing I actually wished they both failed.  In many respects, they did.Clint, oh Clint...?!  What went wrong...???I respected this prolific actor since seeing Dirty Harry, but I find myself a bit confused as to his real talent as an actor.  It appears that he really needs to be writing and directing in order to provide brilliance.  It appears he is limited in this such way as an actor if he cannot deliver.It's truly frightening when you see that the best supporting performance in this film goes to the monkey.  He gives a natural, breath taking performance of how intense he is as a monkey...  "}{"Title":"Very boring movie with dumb plot","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Philo, a guy who makes a living picking fights, meets a sexy country singer and goes out with her... eventhough she has a boyfriend.  When he finds out one day that she has left, Philo, his brother, and Clyde, Philo's pet orangutan drive across the country to find her.  A biker gang and some cops pursue.  A very boring and dumb movie, with very few funny parts.  The acting is decent, but everything else just doesn't cut it.  Terrible camerawork and an awful script make this one to avoid. Followed by a sequel. * out of **** "},{"Title":"I could feel my brain cells dying as I watched this film!","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I was amazed as I sat and watched this film. Every Which Way But Loose was the second highest grossing (no pun intended) film of 1978...and yet it's practically plot-less and a completely brainless film. It's not 100% terrible, but it is pretty bad--especially as the film becomes tiresome the longer it goes. But, despite this, because it made so much money (people were apparently VERY easy to please in 1978), they soon made a sequel--which I can pretty much guarantee you I'll never be watching! Clint Eastwood plays a guy who loves to bare knuckle fight. Often he does it to win prize money, often he does it just because someone irritated him. Throughout the film, Eastwood gets in one fight after another--and this tended to disrupt the plot--what little there was of it. Eventually, a group of bikers and off-duty cops who he's beaten up go looking for him. But, since Eastwood has gone on a road trip to find a woman he's smitten with (Sondra Locke), they spend much of the movie looking for him--and they end up going on a road trip after him.The film is absolutely stupid in parts. Clyde the Orangutan was at times a bit funny, but talk about contrived!! Ma (Ruth Gordon) cursed like a sailor and was violent. This was supposed to be funny, but like the ape, it wore thin pretty quickly. In addition, there is the dopey biker gang (sort of like the Three Stooges times three) who just seem too stupid and ineffectual to be anything other than comic relief. There are also fart jokes, belching, punch sound effects that make bad martial arts films seem realistic and the like thrown in to boot. It's really the sort of stuff 13 year-olds love laughing at--but I just thought it was all pretty tiresome and well beneath the talents of Eastwood. Add lots of punching and country music and you pretty much get the point of the film. Fortunately, after wasting his time on this movie (and making a bazillion dollars) he went on to far better things. Geez...I feel stupider just for having watched the film!By the way, during the 'funny' sequence where the two guys are shooting at cans and spouting numbers, watch the can that is hit--you can see the strings pulling it! "},{"Title":"Loose is the only way to turn this stinker","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Having watched his buddy and competitor Burt Reynolds enjoy such terrific success with all those Deep South car crash movies, particularly Smokey and the Bandit (the Citizen Kane of the genre) jazz fan Clint Eastwood went country, too, in this wretched mess of a movie. When released at Christmas 1978, this turkey didn't appear to have any stuffing, but when it emerged as the second biggest hit of the season (after Superman) and Eastwood's biggest ever box-office hit (a status it continues to enjoy when inflation is taken into account), it was apparent that some folks don't require things like a plot, competent acting, or even a hint of professionalism in a movie and will line up at the multiplex, plop down their money and be entertained. It's amazing that Eastwood's reputation, not nearly as glowing in 78 as it is today, survived the onslaught of bad reviews that justifiably followed the release of this film and its 1980 sequel. Did Ruth Gorden's presence redeem it? Not in my eyes. Loose is the only way to turn this stinker. "}]