[{"Title":"Up there with Casablanca & Citizen Kane","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"134 out of 177 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can understand why Malick didn't make another movie after he made Days of Heaven. The film was panned by the majority of the critics who could only find the cinematography worthy of praise. However, Malick was hugely misunderstood by these dumb critics.They complain that the film is ponderously slow. This was the intention. Malick used pause to convey that the characters think. Too many actors rattle off their lines without letting their characters think of them. It also conveys the slow pace of their lives.Critics complain that the characters are too remote - one feels removed from them and can't get involved. Hello! It is narrated by a 13 yr old and is essentially her view of the events that transpired. Naturally she does not grasp most of the more adult moments between them and thus is herself removed from being fully involved in Bill and Abby's relationship and that is what has to come across.Then Malick, in a moment of genius, allied the four main characters to the four elements; Earth, Air, Fire & Water. Bill is Fire - he is seen at first in front of the furnaces of a foundry where he works. We can see his temper is volatile. Abby is water - in the very first shot she is scavenging(?) by a stream and she is seen against the backdrop of the river. Linda is Earth - In her narration she says that she is close to the Oith. The Farmer is Air - constantly tinkering with his weather vane, and his fields of wheat are often seen waving in the wind.All in all a severely mies-judged film and the critics owe Malick a huge apology. The work is pure genius! "},{"Title":"One of the most haunting and beautiful films ever made","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"98 out of 121 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If any movie could be called filmed poetry, this would be it. From its first opening shot to its last frame, there is such lyricism and emotion and beauty that it almost leaves you speechless. I have not seen this movie in years, but it still affects me and I want to write about it. There is a pervading sadness to the movie, like a memory of something wonderful that could have been, that should have been, that almost was, and is all the more tragic because it was in your hands but slipped through your fingers. This is not a movie for everyone, but if you believe that film can be one of the highest forms of art, this is the film to see. "},{"Title":"In A Class By Itself","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"96 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is truly a unique movie in a class by itself. I had that opinion the first time I saw it on VHS and still feel the same way years later. It's been at the top of my list of favorite movies since I began compiling a list over a decade ago.It's very dream-like, surreal, a film I never get tired of watching and I've watched this film more than any other in my large collection. If I had to pin it down to two reasons why, it would be the video and the audio.The cinematography alone makes this movie worth watching repeatedly. Now that we all have access to a widescreen DVD version of this, the scenes are even more breathtaking. (I never had the pleasure of seeing this in a movie theater.)The same superlatives can be used when discussing the soundtrack, a haunting music score that gets better and better each time one views this film. In fact, lately it's the music more than anything else I miss when I go periods without viewing this film.The story is a simple one and is explained by others here. No need to repeat it. I find the narration to be unique, an unusual insight into the characters of the film and the thoughts of the little girl (Linda Manz), who does the narrating. The characters that continually fascinate me are Brooke Adams, as the lead female, and Robert J. Wilke, as the farm foreman. I guess it's their faces that intrigue me. Adams' down-turned mouth and sad look and Wilke's wrinklies catch my attention every time.The story is interesting, generally low-key but with a few quick violent scenes that are quite memorable. More than that, one gets an incredible feel for the land and for the migrant workers of that time period. Another nice aspect of this film is the very small amount of profanity. Kids probably would be bored with this film but at least I wouldn't be afraid to show it to them.But as many pluses as the story boasts, that haunting music and those incredible visuals are what drive me back for more. Great, great stuff. "},{"Title":"Healing and Cathartic","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"102 out of 139 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh, I better come out and say it I love Terrence Malick. I think he's one of the few filmmakers who has completely and utterly captured filmic form. The Thin Red Line was, to me, an astonishing experience; beautiful, horrific and the best movie of the 90s. Badlands is the best lovers-on-the-lam movie I've ever seen (it certainly makes True Romance look like a gimmicky fraud of a movie). Malick somehow manages to make everything seem painfully beautiful his landscape, his actors, his dialogue. There's something always elegiac about his movies.There's a picture of James Dean I saw from his youth -- a baseball team photo -- and the caption said something about how it captured his face, and in it, wisdom and sadness far beyond his years. That's what Malick does in his films and particularly in this film.He must have been a fan of James Dean (probably one of the reasons he chose to make Badlands, as a sort of homage), but not in the sense that coolness comes from a perfectly combed coiffure, a red leather jacket (which it wasn't -- it was a windbreaker) and a dark brood. There's a similar story here to that of Giant, set on a farm with that remarkable house, two men and one girl. Only Giant didn't have a philosophizing and very strange little girl. It was also an overblown soap opera and while this film is, I guess, a melodrama, it certainly isn't melodramatic.If Malick is anyone in the film, he's Sam Shapard; watching his love through a lens. Malick uses Manz as a sort of channel. If this is indeed some fashion of his own story, Malick tells us through her, with he visualized by Shepard, which is a somewhat brilliant approach. Manz is strangely philosophical; at once blunt and abstract. The story is obviously centered around her -- I don't see why this wouldn't be obvious -- but she's pushed into the background, commenting on the characters and informing us like God from above.As always with Malick, his film is mesmerizing and hypnotic. I was surprised that the film was only a little over an hour-and-a-half. The great Ennio Morricone created a wonderful score for this film that seems to forebode impending doom. Unlike his more famous spaghetti western scores, it's never overly-flamboyant. And the cinematography, listed as belonging to Nestor Almendros, but well-known to be at least substantially contributed to by Haskell Wexler, is so much like an oil painting that it's just about liquid film. I'd be willing to pay a lot of money to see this one on the big screen.It might seem obvious to state that this film is a transition between Badlands and The Thin Red Line, after all it was the middle film. But this film has moments, especially in the finale, that are surprisingly close to that of Badlands and this is the film where Malick fully mastered his approach of lush, visual poetry told at a languid pace that never seems boring, since you're fully within the film;s grasp.Pauline Kael said in her review that the film is an empty Christmas tree you can hang all your dumb metaphors on it. And Charles Taylor, always following Kael's lead (even from beyond the grave), said of Malick's two 1970s films, Next to the work of Altman, Scorsese, Coppola, De Palma and Mazursky from that period, they're pallid jokes.What never fails to get me furious is when someone viciously attacks a director, like Malick, for being self-indulgent. Of course it's self-indulgent, he's telling a story that means something to him and trying to share what he feels with us. Malick certainly isn't trying to alienate people, and if you are alienated by his films, well, don't watch them. Malick is a filmmaker like Kubrick, but more fluid and much less abrasive. I mean, if you're going to aggressively attack a filmmaker, aggressively attack someone who is aggressive on his side. Directors like Malick use abstractions to engage their audiences more fully than most. By leaving things -- often feelings -- open to interpretation, the film becomes more intimate.Certainly one of the most enduring films from the 70s, this is a masterwork.**** "},{"Title":"Truly mesmerizing.","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"57 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In merely an hour and a half, Terrence Malick does more with Days of Heaven than most directors could do in a lifetime. In this wonderful film, we see all seven deadly sins play out against one of the most incredible backdrops ever put on camera. Virtually every shot could be framed and hung on your wall as a fine piece of art. Malick even shows us he knows how to film a pheasant hunt!The story, though at times swallowed up by the cinematography, is also pretty compelling. Richard Gere is the main focus. He plays a down-on-his-luck laborer from the dirty world of pre-WW1 industrialized Chicago. After a dispute with a foreman, which we see but don't really hear, Gere kills the man and is forced to flee the area. Along with him are his girlfriend (Brooke Adams) and his kid sister (Linda Manz). The three of them hop on a train, and before you know it, they all have a jobs harvesting wheat on a seemingly boundless Texas farm. The work is difficult to be sure, but once the owner of the farm (Sam Shephard) notices Adams, things take an unexpected turn. All along, Gere has told everyone that Adams is his sister rather than his girlfriend. Shephard likes Adams enough to let the three of them stay on after the harvest is done. Gere overhears the Farmer talking to a doctor in which it is apparently revealed that he has only a year to live. Gere urges Adams to marry the farmer so hopefully the three of them will get his money after he quickly passes. Adams agrees, setting the table for nothing but tragedy and betrayal.The story is narrated by Linda Manz who plays Gere's kid sister. In her words and in her voice we hear clear evidence of just what kind of difficult lives the three of them have lived, and what a wonderful opportunity their new situation seems at first to provide. Her character is one of the most authentic that this critic has seen in a film in many years. She even has an odd beauty about her, if the camera catches her in the proper light. Notice one scene in particular when she is watching a friend jump a train and the sun is setting behind her.Gere, Adams, and Shephard are also as good as ever. It would be so easy for their performances to get lost within the aesthetic beauty of this film, yet they stand out in well-defined characters. I don't recall us ever being told Shephard's name in the film. He's only referred to as the farmer. Is he really dying? We can never be quite sure. Does Adams really love Gere or Shephard? Maybe. Maybe not. There is much left to the imagination about each of these characters. Towards the end, all hell breaks loose, as you might expect. Secrets are found out, fortunes are lost, and lives are taken. The last fifteen minutes look like something out of the book of revelations, as they were most likely intended to. And for some of the characters, new lives are forged, but they are another story. And it's a story we can only imagine. Days of Heaven is a triumph on all levels. It is simply unforgettable. Certainly one of the best films this critic has seen in a long, long time.10 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Quiet passion, quiet beauty","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"52 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Days of Heaven is a beautiful film with fantastic panoramic cinematography.  It's hard to say what it is about this film that captivated me from the start.  I didn't expect to enjoy it when I read about the plot.  Farm workers?  How could that be interesting... But oh, the haunting, heavenly silence of the fields undulating in the wind, a silence not sundered by any garish music. Everything about this film is tangible, real, alive.  The dialogue is sparse, believable, the bond between Bill and Abby is one of quiet passion that needs no dramatic proclamations to fuel it.  And Sam Shepard's farmer is touching.  I don't use that word very often, but I'll venture it here. I have watched this film now several times, and it is a delight each time when the farmer first sees Abby.  This perhaps the strongest and most believable love triangle ever put to film, and in my opinion, the most compelling.  "},{"Title":"In the Magic Hour","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven (1978) **** Nobody's perfect. There was never a perfect person around. You just have half-angel and half-devil in you. This line delivered by Linda Manz in Terrence Malick's gorgeous masterpiece, 'Days of Heaven,' sums up everything you need to know about life on earth. Much of Malick's themes have been devoted to man versus nature, and the idea of perfection is not outside that realm - imperfection is the nature of mankind.Richard Gere, in his greatest performance, plays Bill, a hot headed, lower class worker, who in a moment of mistake accidentally kills his boss in a Chicago factory. We see that the boss is hassling Bill, but we never know why, we just see faces but no distinguishable voices over the roar of the factory. Bill, his sister (Manz) and his girlfriend Abby, played by Brooke Adams, take off for the panhandle, hitching a ride on a train. Bill and Abby tell everyone that they are all brothers and sisters, because as you know, people talk. They find work on a farm owned by the rich farmer, played by Sam Shepard. Many other films would make the farmer the bad guy, giving him trade mark heel characteristics, but Shepard's farmer, who we learn is dying, is soulful, and yearning for love. He see's Abby, and is interested, and eventually will ask her to stay - after Bill hears the doctor tell him he has about a year to live. They decide to stay, and after some persuasion from Bill, Abby will marry the dying farmer so that they can be heir to his fortune. Suspicions arise, and hearts and lives are broken, and the Days of Heaven will come to a halting end.The cinematography is some of the most breathtaking ever captured on film. 'Days of Heaven' could even considered a masterpiece for its aesthetic beauty alone, if the story were not so terrific. Everything about the film is magnificent. Ennio Morricone's score is haunting and beautiful. You will remember it forever, along with Linda Manz' unforgettable narration, likely one of the greatest voice overs in film history. Many have criticized Malick's distancing techniques and muted emotions. We are always kept at arms length away. But these people don't realize that the story is a memory, a memory from the real main character - Linda. Also, in a method that Robert Bresson used, by distancing us emotionally, it leaves us to add our own emotions and imaginations in the story, heightening the power of the film, as long as you are willing not to be spoon-fed what to think.Terrence Malick is a filmmaker who came out of nowhere with his talents already fulfilled, and he has not stopped since. His films are filled with such heartbreaking beauty and symbolism, and he is one of the few living filmmakers who truly are creating art, rather than just entertainment. He had one of the greatest debuts ever, in the mesmerizing and haunting 'Badlands,' the deepest and most philosophical 'The Thin Red Line,' which is likely the greatest contemporary war film (as suggested by the late Gene Siskel)and the stunningly beautiful 'The New World.' His films are deep and meaningful, and to get into the underlying symbolism and themes of them here would be pointless, and better saved for a long essay.Days of Heaven is one of the greatest, and most beautiful films ever made. Cinema is at a low point recently, but as long as Terrence Malick is still making films, we still have some heavenly art to look forward to.PS - Hopefully someone like Criterion will create a new DVD, as the current one has some soundtrack problems. Imagine seeing it restored, visually and audibly. "},{"Title":"I Must Be Missing Something Huge","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"45 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie twice, once a few years ago in college, and again this past weekend. Although I absolutely despised it the first time, I decided to give it another chance. Terrence Malick is clearly a well-respected director, and it seems that the IMDb viewers, at least, think very highly of the film. But, unfortunately, it seems my tastes haven't changed at all.Where to start? For one thing, Linda Manz's narration is horrific. Her voice is so irritating with that horrendous New York accent (please don't try and convince me that Chicagoans talk that way - they don't). She herself admitted to just sitting down and talking about random things, which does not make her a talented actress. She's not even acting! I came on IMDb expecting to see her ripped apart, since her performance is just so utterly laughable, but people actually seemed to like it! She's simply unappealing in every way - I kept hoping Malick would just kill her off.The other actors were fine, but certainly nothing special. Adams was probably the strongest in the cast, but she also had the only decent part. Except the old guy - he was pretty good.Speaking of acting, how could Shepard's character be so ridiculously stupid?? He bought the brother and sister act because...uh, why would he buy that? Bill and Abby took every single opportunity to be touchy-feely, as though they didn't realize that their lives depended on acting in a very platonic way. It was just completely unbelievable. And finally, after a considerable amount of time, the Farmer suddenly realizes that, Oh my god, they're together! Then he goes after Bill with a gun, but instead seems to trip into Bill's hand and ends up with a mortal stab wound.Speaking of which, the fate of the characters was similarly stupid (and, dare I say, lazy). Of course Bill has to die - could it be more boring than getting shot in a pond by a pack of cops? Abby goes on with her happy life, getting on a train and feeling really content about the way things worked out. And the irksome narrator randomly finds her deadbeat friend and they wander off into the sunset. But it's okay, because Malick never gave me any reason to care about the characters anyway.As for the plot, this film drags along endlessly with no real plot twists or development. I can't believe it's only 94 minutes long - I could have sworn I was sitting in my seat for a solid 3 hours. The sudden locust disaster was like throwing the Bible in my face; I'm totally fine with metaphors and allusions, but this was completely over the top. Clearly the message was, Don't marry for money or bad things will happen to you. Very original.I understand that Days of Heaven, like all of Terrence Malick's films, is meant to be a piece of art. And I will certainly agree that the cinematography is simply stunning, and the magic hour shots add a unique aura to the film. But I need more than nice pictures to enjoy a film, and this one just didn't do it for me. "},{"Title":"Remembrance of Things Past","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven is, in fact, what its highest praisers want you to believe awe-inspiring cinema, sometimes even mind-blowing in what can be filmed and brought forth in a beautiful, seamless mold of narrative and poetry, photographed with an eye for the prairie and fields like very few others and for the period detail. But it's also wonderful- and haunting- because it evokes what it is to look back on something and remember things vividly, clearly, with a subjectivity that is startling in its scarred interior. This is child-actor Linda Manz, her first role in what is a relatively small career, and she voices, in grungy but fine vocal, from afar at times even as she's one of the principle players.She's the kid sister of Bill (Richard Gere, a very good if not extraordinary performance compared to others), a factory worker who kills a man by accident and runs off with his girlfriend Abby (Brooke Adams), and the three of them end up working for a farmer (Sam Shephard), and soon there's a love triangle formed wrapped around an elaborate con of Bill and Abby being brother and sister. These are just the facts, but director Terence Malick isn't after just those, but after a sad look back from a perspective of wonderment and horror and a kind of fractured innocence. It goes without saying that since it is a Malick picture one will expect the painterly landscapes of the fields, those intimate close-ups with bugs and waving fields of grass. But Malick is able to put a unique vision into the perspective of that of a little girl, who is seeing and experiencing everything as it is, not as it may be really imagined or wanting to be.So there's a lot of interest already just in the nature of the farming on this panhandle in early 20th century. But there's just little things, little fantastic bits that stick in your mind, probably forever the workers in the field toiling away; the black man tap-dancing by the barn; the airplane circus people coming by and showing silent films. Most notably, as well, are near biblical visions like the plague (and extinguishing by lots of fire) of locusts. And through all of the many, many beautiful shots, there's a tender and perfectly tragic love story played out with great work by Adams and a young Shepherd. Manz too, I might add, is excellent in a role that could have been mucked up by anyone else (also trumping a later future first-time performance in Malick's own The New World with the woman playing Pocahontas).And as if the crisp eye of Malick and his DPs Nestor Almendros and Haskell Wexler weren't enough, there's Ennio Morricone on the soundtrack to boot. Here's a crucial part of Malick's success in translating the theme of remembrance and feeling both the moment and the mood of the whole period and characters in the film (sometimes combined) just listen to the theme of the movie, used later in movie trailers and commercials, as it reckons a nostalgic tinge for something that one can't firmly grasp but is felt deeply and without really fully knowing the whole scope. Overall, Days of Heaven is almost too good, too beautiful- it's the kind of picture that defines reputations, for better or worse. Like Malick's. A+ "},{"Title":"You're a peripheral character in someone else's dream","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of heaven is exactly what this is. The magic hour (when much of the film was shot), those moments before dawn and after dusk when everything is indirect, dreamlike, breathless, heartwaking. There's no real story, as such. Sure, there's a general plot line which should satisfy any casual viewer. This isn't, after all, a hard film to follow. It is simply that the environment is the main character as opposed to the human elements. Linda Manz's young character narrates the story sporadically, like a sleepy traveler beside the campfire telling you of half-forgotten memories, and wonderful, casual observations that will seem clearer in the morning light, but no longer worth mentioning. Her voice is halting and uncertain, belying a personality that is confident in all other respects. Other actors, good (Brooke Adams, Sam Shepard) and not-so-good (Richard Gere) blend in perfectly. Their performances are so understated that you forget they are actors playing characters. Even Richard Gere, who never learned subtlety and would never again employ it, is almost invisible here.This is not a long film. For all its leisurely pace, ninety-six minutes is all it needs to tell its tale. Terrence Malick is out for sight and sound. There is nothing lost to unneeded expression, nothing not shared in the space in front of you. That leaves cinematographer Néstor Almendros with the freedom to photograph, to observe without opinion whatever seems to be happening most openly before him.When I first finished watching Days of Heaven it felt like waking from a dream. I couldn't be sure how much time has passed. It seemed so long, but the silence was the same, and little had changed outside my window. Nothing but the heavy quiet was all around me, and I felt the desperate desire to move. Everything beneath my feet felt moving, quietly slipping past and all I had to do was put soles to earth and start walking. This is a film of photographs, images of the purest sort. Open your eyes. "}{"Title":"Full surprise within the American film universe.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"32 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a full and happy surprise for me. This man, Malick, stood twenty years out of business because he had to be, afterwards, after such a beautiful movie he couldn't and shouldn't return with any other thing shorter than this.Days Of Heaven is absolutely perfect cinema, the plot is not important, Malick simply wants to fill your senses and he achieves it.I haven't had the chance to watch it in a theatre, I was four years old at the time, I've watched it on television, and I understood immediately, this man is a hero for building up such a magnificent film in the United States, in Hollywood.A true director builds a universe of his own, with its own time flow and dreams and that is what Malick achieved with this film, magic, sacral art. Some sequences are almost (a big almost) Tarkovskyand this is a big commendation.  "},{"Title":"A seminar on cinematography","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A single amazing shot demonstrates what makes Days of Heaven so great for ten seconds the camera focuses on wheat rolling in the wind like the surface of the ocean before a storm. Trouble is coming, and no amount of narration or expository dialogue could sum the situation up better. Brooke Adams, Sam Sheppard and Richard Gere are all excellent, but the real stars of this movie are Director Terrence Malick and Cinematographer Nestor Almendros. After reading the plot summary on imdb, you could watch this movie with the sound off and enjoy it just as much. "},{"Title":"I don't get it...","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"26 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now don't get me wrong, i love a good film and after watching The Thin Red Line (and loving it) I was eager to track down Terrence Malicks two earlier films, and, having just watched Days of Heaven, my enthusiasm to see Badlands has virtually disappeared.I have noted much rave about the beautiful photography, but i saw this film on a terribly old vhs tape which made it look pretty awful. All i can say is i hope the photography was superb, because it would have been one of the only things of interest in this film. Not since the Replacement Killers have i fallen asleep during a film. This film felt so long (and it wasn't!), the editing was choppy and disjointed, the storyline non-existent, the voice over was an incoherent ramble, the characters weakly developed, and the whole thing was uninvolving. I know that Malick was uncertain of how to do the film. He consequently shot a heck of a lot of footage then spent around two years editing in an attempt to piece it all together. This is very apparent on screen. Everything looks chopped up, every time a scene seemed to gain some momentum (or some character development) it would obtrusively cut to boring scenes of people doing boring things. It was as if someone had tried to cut together a story out of stock footage of people farming. The few good points are the music and the chase scene near the end, but those things are no where near enough to maintain interest. I would normally let a bad film pass by without being too vocal but when it is so highly over-rated something must be said.Maybe a farmer would like it...? "},{"Title":"Beautiful Cinematography does not a movie make.","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"26 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE!I had to see why all the critics fawn over this movie. I have seen it and still don't get it. The Plot is thin, very thin. After the movie was over, I still did not know the female lead characters name and one of the two male characters did not even have a name in the credits, he is credited as the farmer. I did not care about the characters, so I did not care about the movie.The scenery and cinematography were brilliant, but so is the stuff on National Geographic or The Discovery Channel.I can not recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"I guess Terrence Malick just isn't for me.","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My first exposure that I had to Terrence Malick was Badlands. While apparently every critic (and the overwhelming majority of IMDb reviewers) would say that this was a good choice to introduce me to one of the greatest filmmakers, I found the dialog awkward and strange. The actual film, while very effective of capturing the beauty of nature (a staple of Malick movies as I later found out) was not all that great. Still, it had a plot and characters with discernible motives, so I was able to somewhat reason away what I personally thought was a bizarre and pretentious style of making films. Probably the biggest reason I can give a pass to Badlands is that it gave Martin Sheen, one of my favorite actors, a boost into big Hollywood films. I was then told by a friend that I should give Malick another chance, and either Days of Heaven or Thin Red Line would be a good idea for my second film. Needless to say, after sitting through this, I probably will not be getting around to another Malick movie any time soon.I should point out that there are several aspects of this movie that are excellent. As with Badlands, the cinematography, musical score, and setting are absolutely beautiful. If all of the dialog and scenes with actual people in the frame were removed, I might actually love this movie. What I'm trying to say is if Terrence Malick made a documentary for National Geographic, I would definitely watch it. The dialog, much like Badlands, is absolutely awful. I don't find entire conversations conveyed through facial expressions, staring, and minimalistic bombastic sentences to be good storytelling. The narration is no better, and managed to annoy me more than anything else. This leads to a fundamental problem of the movie, the dialog and narration is so bad, that I am not able to really understand or relate to the characters. Why do they do what they do? What are there personalities? I don't know. This causes me to not care about them, or what happens to them. Another problem is when a scene develops, occasionally the camera cuts to nature, or just moves on to another scene with the characters all together. This got so bad that my brother literally called a cutaway before it happened. As a scene was developing that implied sex was about to happen, my brother said, Huh. I bet its gonna cut to rain or something right before anything physical actually happens. Guess what? Right when something physical was about to happen, it cut to rain falling on leaves. The cuts in this movie are predictably bad.This movie being pretentious is just my opinion. I am of the belief that characters and character interactions are more important than setting or scenery, and it is obvious that Malick does not share this philosophy, and this means that I probably will never like a movie that he makes. Most will call this good film, and I simply cannot agree with that. This movie is barely 90 minutes but I would rather watch Gettysburg than watch this again. I wanted to like this movie, and that may be why my reaction is so strong. I do not want to try to take away the joy that some moviegoers get from watching this movie, and in the end can only hope that we can agree to disagree about Malick films. "},{"Title":"As beautiful as an oil painting-with about as much depth.","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having never seen a Terrence Malick movie before, and having read rave review after rave review about Days of Heaven, I had extremely high expectations, and I was sorely disappointed. The movie's first scene features Richard Gere working at a steel mill in Chicago. He has some form of argument with another man, which is totally incomprehensible due to the ear-crushing noise of the machinery, an annoying situation which will happen multiple times in the film. After about ten seconds, the argument ends when Gere abruptly decides to murder this guy for no apparent reason, since we can't hear what they were even saying. Cut to Gere and his family, who we've never seen before, riding on a train, while irritating narration is provided by a character we haven't met and have no context with. This is basically the summary of the movie. There is no denying the absolute beauty of the cinematography, but the movie was all icing and no cake. It seems like 95 percent of the film was made up of 30 second dialogue scenes, most of which were hard to understand, followed by 5-10 minutes of assorted shots of fields at dusk, workers at dusk, houses at dusk, workers at dawn, fields at dawn... and so on. This movie gave me golden hour fatigue. Additionally, I just didn't care about any of the characters. They were completely forgettable, and the only emotion I ever felt towards any of them was irritation. The plot, such as it is, moves so quickly that it's impossible to care or understand it. Between all of the mumbled or muted dialogue, countless shots of the fields at twilight, fade outs, and subplots that had little or nothing to do with anything, Days of Heaven's 93 minutes drags out to the point where it feels like at least 3 hours. As I said, I really wanted to like Days of Heaven, but I just couldn't. "},{"Title":"It almost works","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lovely music. Beautiful photography, some of scenes are breathtaking and affecting. But the dramatic tension is lost in a film that is so poorly edited it is hard to know what exactly is going on. At times, the dialogue is incomprehensible. Then there is Richard Gere. He's supposed to be a factory worker who gets into trouble and gets work on a farm. We see dozens of farmhands sweaty and dirty in the hot sun. Then we see Gere, looking like he just wandered away from a Calvin Klein ad. Sam Shepard, another glamour guy, is supposed to be terminally ill. But he looks great. Nice try, but it just doesn't work. Brook Adams try hard but she gets lost in the scenery.The real star is the girl. "},{"Title":"Over rated yet mesmerizing","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I find it interesting that such a stunning visual director can have such disdain and disinterest in plot and dialog. The cinema-photography is truly amazing and foreshadows similar efforts in the future, but the wooden direction/acting, stilted dialog, and uninteresting characters left me shrugging in disbelief. Even if Malick has little interest in such things, couldn't he have teamed up with a co-writer--even an amateur--to provide a semblance of story line? Surely even a mediocre effort in this area would drastically improve the overall film.The movie does showcase young Richard Gere, Sam Shephard, and Brooke Adams, but they might have well been Ken and Barbie dolls, strutted on stage for their physical beauty since Malick demanded so little of them. Any acting talent would not be visible to future directors based upon what was required of them.Certainly the film will be of interest to those who enjoy Malick's work, so there is an historical appreciation to be had. But as a movie seen for the first time, I'd suggest listening to the first 15 minutes with the sound on and then turning it off and luxuriate in the visuals. I don't think you'll miss much. "},{"Title":"You'd give him a flower, he'd keep it forever","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrence Malick is less a storyteller than a visual poet. At times, the images in 'Days of Heaven (1978)' seem too beautiful to be believed &#x96; could Mother Nature even construct such moments of magnificence at her own accord? Cinematographers Néstor Almendros and Haskell Wexler (credited only as additional photographer) consistently shot the film during the magic hour between darkness and sunrise/sunset, when the sun's radiance is missing from the sky, and so their colours have a muted presence, as though filtered through the stalks of wheat that saturate the landscape. Crucial alongside the film's photographers are composer Ennio Morricone &#x96; utilising a variation on the seventh movement (Aquarium) in Camille Saint-Saëns's Carnival of the Animals suite &#x96; and a succession of sound editors, whose work brings a dreamy, ethereal edge to the vast fields of the Texas Panhandle. The film's final act, away from the wheat-fields, recalls Arthur Penn's 'Bonnie and Clyde (1967),' but otherwise Malick's style, contemplative and elegiac, is in a class of its own, more comparable perhaps to Kurosawa's 'Dersu Uzala (1975).'Malick refuses to explore his characters' motivations. The viewer is deliberately kept at an arm's length, and Malick eschews cinema's traditional notions of narrative development. Instead, the story is told as a succession of fleeting moments, the sort that a young girl (the film's narrator, Linda Manz) might pick up through her day-to-day experiences and muted understanding of adult emotions. Note that the girl is always kept separate from the dramatic crux of the film &#x96; the love-triangle between Billy, Abby, and the Farmer &#x96; and her comprehension of events is tainted by her adolescent grasp on adult relationships and societal norms. I was reminded of Andrew Dominik's recent 'The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford (2007)' another sumptuously-photographed picture, which also refused to explore its title character, Jesse James, kept at a distance through the impartial objectivity of the historical narrator. In Malick's film, Linda's narration tells us one thing, and the viewer sees another. But one can never fully understand the complex emotions driving human behaviour, so perhaps the girl's perspective is as good as any other.'Days of Heaven' derives its title from a passage in the Bible (Deuteronomy 1121), and Malick's tale of jealousy and desire is suitably Biblical in nature. Essential to this allegory is an apocalyptic plague of locusts, which descend upon the wheat-fields like an army from the heavens. When the fields erupt into flame, quite literally from the broiling emotions of the film's conflicted characters, the viewer is confronted by the most intense manifestation of Hell-on- Earth since the burning village in Bondarchuk's 'War and Peace (1967).' But, interestingly, Malick here regresses on his own allegory Judgement Day isn't the end, but rather it comes and goes. Life is driven by the inexorable march of Fate The Farmer (Sam Shepard) is doomed to die within a year; Bill (Richard Gere) is doomed to repeat his mistakes twice over. In the film's final moments, Linda and her newfound friend embark purposelessly along the railway tracks, the tracks being a physical incarnation of Fate itself their paths are laid down already, but we mortals can never know precisely where they lead until we get there. "},{"Title":"Nothing going on","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The second movie of Terrence Malick's filmography, Days of Heaven depicts a dreadfully boring love triangle on a Texas farm. Once the base of the story is set, the plot could not unfold slower, there is almost nothing going on and the few things happening are not engaging at all. The scenario does not take the time to develop the characters who therefore seem completely superficial, cold or even creepy, the narrative structure is plain bad, the scenes follow each other without much coherence because of the mediocre editing with all those brutal cuts (often to the landscape) or puzzling ellipses (hard to situate the events on a timeline). The voice over weighs down even more this soulless, passionless, incomprehensibly highly regarded production. "}{"Title":"Stunningly Beautiful, Timeless, Lovingly-Crafted, Rural Love Triangle Drama","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A man, a woman and his kid sister are drifting around the US midwest in the early twentieth-century. In Texas, they find work at the harvest on a wheat ranch and when the rich but dying farmer expresses his love for the woman, the man encourages her to respond to him. When the two are married and the farmer invites them all to live with him, inevitable resentment and jealousy surface ...Although they've made a lot of westerns and costume-dramas, the Americans don't make many films about their own history which feel real and authentic - the style is often deliberately overdone (as in Jezebel or Gone With The Wind) and there are only a few movies where the filmmakers really try to capture the period (say, The Grapes Of Wrath or Matewan). Days Of Heaven is the best example I've seen of this latter style and an astonishingly unique and haunting film. The simple story is really just a framework with which Malick paints extraordinary landscapes and evocative themes - in every sense this is a timeless picture. If ever there was a showcase of how to photograph a film well, this is it; director of photography Nestor Almendros - with additional shooting by Haskell Wexler (the Chicago scenes) - creates astonishing images of the endless wheatfields and the lonely farmhouse, with incredible use of available light and colour and no diffusion filters or staged lighting. Uniquely, the filmmakers deliberately did not shoot during the normal day, but filmed mainly during the dusk magic-hour, which results in an amazing ghostly ambient feel to the visuals (for more on this, see the excellent American Film Institute documentary Visions Of Light). The long locust invasion / forest fire sequence is one of the most intense and incredible set-pieces ever put on film and my mind boggles as to how they pulled it off (nowadays of course it would all be done with computer opticals). This is one of very few movies where you can literally take any still at all and the lighting, framing and composition are just breathtaking. I'll admit I'm a photography junkie - to me, movies are about images - but if you've never really thought about how a movie is physically shot before, please watch this amazing picture. The other outstanding element of the film is the music; it is bookended by Camille Saint-Saens spine-tingling Aquarium theme from his Le Carnaval Des Animaux, but the rest is awash in a fabulous string/woodwind score by the great Ennio Morricone, one of his very best. As with many truly great pictures, the combination of the visuals and the music result in a sensory experience that lifts you into the stratosphere - it's incredible. I normally talk about actors and writers in my reviews, but here they kinda take backstage. The script is intentionally loose and archetypal (although they have names, the characters are really just Man, Woman, Farmer and Girl) and many plot points are vague; you're never sure if Gere and Adams are married, or whether Gere kills Shepard. The performances are iconic, and whilst I find Adams irresistible in all her films (particularly The Dead Zone), it's narrator Manz who actually comes off best for me; since she's not a star, she conveys the bucolic lost-in-time mood of the piece to terrific effect. Produced by Bert and Harold Schneider and featuring wonderful art direction by Jack Fisk (who has designed all Malick's films). After making this fabulous movie, writer-director Malick took a twenty-year break from cinema and moved to France to teach. This was a great shame, because he is one of the most original, creative and talented directors of all time - don't miss this breathtaking, powerful, incredibly beautiful picture. "},{"Title":"Trying to be a serious drama, but turns out as a cheap soup - opera. Or a comedy.","Date":"14 April 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a complete mess. I find it astonishing that it gained so much praise and so many high ratings. I think it should be regarded to a degree as a comedy, because there are so many things in the movie that lack coherence, integrity and, must of all, a plain sense of just about anything.For starters, the story isn't either original nor great. It's a classic love triangle, that could be solidified by a much better script. Because the script is...just lazy - the dialogue between the characters is short, empty and doesn't add anything to any kind of depth. The characters are dull, even the acting is, in my opinion, very forced (I mean, their expressions are always the same throughout the whole film, which is indeed a very comic element), there's no evident reason why anybody should care about them. Hell, most of them don't even have names, which adds to the numbness of their story-arc. Because there is hardly a story arc anywhere - beyond the soapy, almost pathetic role of the protagonists. So yeah, we are left with almost no story at all, because the most of it just flows around the classic love/hate relationships, but in such a yawny, a-hundred-times-seen manner that you know what's going to happen in the first half of the movie.Then we have the narrator, which is plain horrible. Or maybe the most comic part of the movie. Both actually. It seems like it's (it's a she, the fish - faced girl who portraits the main protagonist Bill's little sister) just rambling about and on and on about that or this nonsense. At moments it seems that she's trying really hard to get some point or other across, but then just returns to her non-coherent babbling about some ghost touching her neck or somethin'. Her vocabulary is really, um, limited, her accent isn't even Chicago oriented, like the movie states it to be (thank you Qatacyo) and her talent to tell is just...not a talent. Really. I don't know what Malick was thinking while choosing her as the narrator, but he really should be forever imbarrased by his choice.As the whole story progresses, we learn nothing new. After Bill gets himself finally killed, it looks like we wasted 3/4 of the film, because life really just goes on for his lover and his little sister like nothing ever happened. The ending is pure wtf to me. Like the whole film actually.Of course, with Malick you know that there's going to be some really beautiful photography and cinematic awesomeness ahead. About that, I can't complain - the shots of the nature, surroundings, pastoral fields, animals and insects are really stunning. But that's the only thing in the film that is really worth praising for. And I can't rate this movie higher than 3/10, because everything else pretty much sucks and just shows all the impatience and suffering the director had to go through in the two years of editing after the shoot. It really shows that he pretty much knew that it's going to end up in a mess. We see that in the way the scenes blend together with no elemental feeling of the story - there's a scene, it's short, we get three lines of dialog and then he pushes us in a new scene that just repeats the formula again and again, without even the slightest coherence. It's all so painfully random and shallow, even the scenes that are supposed to be important or somethin'. So even in this aspect we are left with a couple of nice, really beautiful shots that can't really follow the story around, because it's so weak and tells us absolutely nothing of a real value.I enjoyed for example The Thin Red Line greatly - although the story again isn't that much original, it's pieced together in a skillful way. Professional. The same goes for The Tree of Life. And I dig Tarkovski or Kubrick (and many others), who both did manage to blend together average stories with great cinematography with stunning results. So I guess it's not about either the story element vs. the cinematography element, but it's rather a clever and passionate unison of both that make great, exciting and everlasting masterpieces of cinema. Days of Heaven fails the exam on almost every basic field and remains one of my biggest film disappointments. Or maybe just a big laugh....and stuff. "},{"Title":"Can't expect more than this from a movie","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The general consensus is that this is one of the most beautiful movies ever filmed--perhaps the most beautiful. That alone is good for a positive rating in my book. Indeed this is pretty much a visual poem from beginning to end. Filming in natural light using a lot of low-light and back-lit images is very effective.In some ways the beauty of the filming works against the movie, since that is the primary feature of the film that most react to. But there is more here than innovative filming.The turn of the century photos under the opening credits set the tone of what is to come and they cleverly end with a photo of Linda Manz who plays Linda, the young teen who tells the tale. The story covers a little over a year in Linda's life spent with her brother Bill, his lover Abby, and a rich Texas farmer (Sam Shepard). In the opening scene Bill kills his boss in an angry scuffle in a steel mill in Chicago and he and Abby and Linda go on the lam to the Texas panhandle where they work as laborers harvesting wheat on a farmer's 20,000 acres. The relationship that develops between Abby, Bill, and the farmer is an interesting twist on the love triangle--a con that precipitates tragic unintended consequences.This is very much a period piece, taking place during 1916-1917. The entry of the United States into WWI comes into play only late in the film, affording Abby an opportunity to live up to her promise to lead a good life and make up for the wrongs she has done; on an impulse she drops her belongings and boards a troop train.Malick gives us a glimpse of the life of migrant workers of the time that seems realistic, complete with period tractors, combines, and threshers. Also on hand are period autos, wagons, and planes. Linda summarizes the status of the workers plight with the statements, You didn't work the'd ship you right outta' there. The don't need you. They can always get somebody else.Most of the dialog in the movie comes from voice-overs given by Linda in her raspy, flat voice. Manz's voice perfectly fits her personality, or maybe it establishes her personality. She speaks with a disarming directness and lack of guile. She has good lines like, I'm tellin' you, the rich got it figured out. Linda seems like a woman who can handle anything that life hands her, but she does say, You're only on this Earth once. And I, to my opinion, as long as you're around you should have it nice.I thought all the actors were in good form. Given the minimal dialog they were able to communicate underlying emotions through body language and facial expressions. I particularly liked Robert Wilke who played the farm foreman, I wish he could have had a larger role. The farmer remained a mystery. How did he come to be so rich, a handsome single man living in isolation on his large farm? I did have a few problems with this movie. Bill and Linda pretending to be siblings rather than lovers is crucial to the plot, but I found that ruse a bit hard to buy. Linda says it is supposedly because people start talking. But the pretend relationship does not stop people from talking, quite the contrary. And how did Bill escape from hiding behind that medical van without being seen? It makes for good scenery that southern Alberta, Canada, is substituted for Texas, but there are no mountains in the Texas panhandle as are seen in the distance in several scenes. A bison herd in Texas in 1916 is a bit problematic. I think this movie is not aimed at the literal minded.Nature plays an essential role; the scenes of birds, animals, landscapes, storms, man in nature, man on the landscape, are stunningly beautiful. The scenes of the wind blowing waves in the wheat fields are very sensual. These scenes provide a counterpoint to the chaotic and horrifying fiery climax. I have not felt so threatened by fire scenes since seeing Bambi. There are several Biblical references. On the train to Texas Linda talks of a story she heard from a guy on the train about the world going up in flames, supplying grisly details that fall only short of those in the Book of Revelation. Good people will go to heaven and avoid all of the burning stuff Linda says. Linda talks about every person being half angel and half devil, and it is hard not to think of the Bible when seeing a plague of locusts--never a good omen. The passage from Romans, The wages of sin is death, seems an appropriate final moral.The film is structured as a sequence of short takes, resulting in an effective gestalt.I found the story engaging, the acting top quality, and the cinematography superb. "},{"Title":"What I See","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I walk through my local video rental franchise and see the overwhelming wave of sanitized for your protection junk that floods the market, I can be at ease knowing there's a special place in my heart for this diamond.Malick's vision works like 'Catch-22' but with less irony.  He accomplishes in one shot what Oliver Stone would do in twenty and, more importantly, he examines everything.  The fact that what he examines is stunningly gorgeous is a wonderful bonus.More important, though, than the photography is Weber's editing.  As I said in my 'Beverly Hills' review, he's one of the top in the field.  He's handled all three of Malick's films, what other qualification do you need?  Granted there was the noisy Bruckheimer work, but every career has its sags.  Fortunately, he knows he isn't the most important person here, so he eases back and allows us to absorb what we see.Story?  What use is that?  You want story, watch Scorsese.  As with his other work, Malick uses perspective, not planning on paper.  I think Shepard caught on to that, making his role as Chuck Yeager even weightier.Final Analysis = = Learn from this... "},{"Title":"Stunning Scenic Vistas","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A precocious girl in her early teens, with a raspy voice, narrates this easy-to-follow and effective movie about the events that occur on a western Texas farm in 1916 and a little later. Actually the movie was filmed in Alberta, Canada. A con game is in play, and the terminally ill owner-farmer appears none too bright. He falls in love with Abby, an itinerant auburn-haired lass who is a farm hand assisting in working the wheat harvest along with Bill, her hot-tempered brother. There are complications, but there is no further reason to go into the plot. For it is the stunning visual beauty that carries this film. In fact there is not much dialog, and it is not really needed, for it is the mood that is paramount. The wheat harvest, the World War I-era Italian aerial circus, the plague of locusts, the great fire, and people's expressions all convey very well what is happening. Are there Biblical overtones? Most likely. This near-perfect period piece is best seen on a large screen. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a beautiful movie. The images of the landscapes of the American West are incredibly evocative. I loved the frequent cuts to fields of corn, flocks of birds, and sweeping vistas. It puts the human drama in perspective and also creates a simply wonderful sense of place that is too often missing from movies.The story itself isn't anything special. It's basically a love triangle with a beautiful woman at its centre, with themes of poverty, power and companionship ably interwoven. It inevitably ends in tragedy. To be honest it was too predictable a plot and too slow-moving to really get me excited.The performances were very good. Richard Gere, Brooke Adams and Sam Shepard are superb as the central trio, Here in particular. But Linda Manz rather steals the show as the child star narrator who seems to have a more healthy dose of pragmatism and fatalism than the rest of them put together.In summary a simply gorgeous film, well put together but with a plot that rather plods along. I'd watch it again, but for the visuals not the story. "},{"Title":"Visually-amazing","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven... another Malick film, another way to express himself. One thing is for sure, it wasn't as disappointing as The thin Red Line...This film grabbed me quick, just like Badlands and unlike The Thin Red Line. What first has to be said is the cinematography. Yeah, it's probably been said before, but it is amazing, perfect, heaven on it's own. It is probably one of the best photographed films I have ever seen, and reminds me of Deakins' work in The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford. All of Malick's films have been visually- amazing, but this is his most yet. Also, the score- spellbinding. I thought nothing would beat Badlands' score, but this did. It also took me back to the time I first heard it in the teaser for The Curious Case of Benjamin Button.Now, the content- the story is simple, if not a bit conventional, but here, it didn't matter. In that it is similar to Badlands, and unlike Thin Red Line which I thought the story got overwhelming. Here is what I first experienced in Badlands, the sense of longing and the beauty that is found in the world. Ultimately, I would say this is a great film, if not a bit too superficial at times. Neither of the three leads are on par with either Sheen or Spacek in Badlands, and the film never reaches the highs found in the first half of Badlands, but it also doesn't hit some of the bumps that the 2nd half of Badlands stumbles on. It is more consistent, and in that it ranks about the same for now. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrence Malick's American romantic drama film, Days of Heaven, tells the story of Bill (Richard Gere) and Abby (Brooke Adams), two poor lovers. They travel to the Texas Panhandle to harvest crops for a wealthy farmer. An unstable love triangle results when Bill convinces Abby to marry the wealthy farmer for his money. Even though the farmer and Abby get married, we see that Bill and Abby are still in love. As the film pans out, secrets come out and dramatic and surprising events occur. This film has been said to emphasize powerful symbolic imagery. I thought the narrating that was done by the little girl was interesting. I liked that I was able to get a feel for the life of a migrant worker. The story was interesting and had my attention throughout the film. I thought some of the thoughts that the narrator (the little girl) were sort of random and didn't quite fit in during some scenes. Terrence Malick's did a great job on the panoramic cinematography and captured the landscape beautifully. I thought the ending was interesting. I didn't expect it to be that dramatic. The fire scene at the end was unexpected and played out well by Richard Gere, Brooke Adams, and Sam Shepard. Bill and Abby had great chemistry throughout the film and did a wonderful job. Sam Shepard did a great job with his role. I would have to say that most of all I really enjoyed the way Terrence Malick shows the landscape throughout the film. Simply breathtaking. I recommend this movie to everyone. It's a great romantic drama that captures the lives of two people. Terrence Malick's makes you feel as if you were there. "},{"Title":"Agree with Socact-1 re Days of Heaven","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was shocked to read all these wonderful comments about this movie because I hated it. I stuck it out to the end, but it was painful-- especially having to listen to that voice of the child. As Socact-1 remarked, even though the girl claimed to be from Chicago, she didn't have a Chicago accent-- It sounded more like she was trying to imitate a NY accent--but failed at that as well. I was so confused that I was waiting for the punchline. Of all the wonderful actors who could have played that child, why did they select this one? And why force her to talk like that? It wasn't even just the accent, it was the script, the monologue created for her. The reason I even selected this movie was that the plot idea appealed to me-- this era in history, the type of characters that are poor and uneducated, the setting --and the love triangle. As far as I'm concerned it could have and should have been much better. I was just soooo relieved to read that at least one other person felt the same way that I did about this movie. "},{"Title":"Lack of Cohesiveness versus Visuals","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The title Days of Heaven gives the impression of an earthy paradise. This movie is far from such an idea. It is about farm life in 1916 and four individuals whose lives' intercede, connect, divide, and ultimately become devastated. The characters are a poor man (Gere), his little sister (Manz), his girlfriend (Adams), and the farm owner they work for (Sheperd). These personalities are not so much developed in the film, but rather are revealed through their actions and choices. The story is simple, the poor man uses his girlfriend to romance and marry the farmer (who is ill and dying) as an attempt to inherit his money and property. The love triangle takes a nasty turn as the woman falls in love with the farmer and horrible truths are unveiled. All the while, the little sister becomes the audience's observer and narrator. What makes this film considered special by critics is Terrence Malick's method of storytelling. He incorporates small scenes of dialog, many beautiful shots of the plot's setting, and a voice-over to fill in the gaps. Though this concept breaks the norm of traditional narrative, it can be a two-edged sword. Too many b-roll shots of nature can make a film dull and a lot of voice-over can grow daunting. It is that balance which makes a movie good. The strong advantage of this movie is its cinematography. Every single shot is truly a work of art, especially with the fact that most of this film was shot outdoors with natural lighting. The early morning and late evening scenes during the twilight hours are simply breathtaking. The long sequences of the farmers at work in the wheat fields are equally beautifully composed and collaged, showing us a time in America that has long been forgotten. My personal favorite scene takes place during a locust infestation. The farmers desperately trying to fight against the impossible foe is a true visual feast-particularly when they rise out of the ground like a flood. The music helps set a mood of loneliness and wonder in the open spaces of Texas. Ennio Morricone is definitely one of the world's greatest film composers. The disadvantage is how the movie was edited. Frequent scenes of dialog are interrupted by extra shots of the sky, fields, farm workers, and animals. The prevalent dissolves and fade to black transitions hint to the work of an amateur rather than a filmmaker who has a sense of direction. The ending particularly leaves me cold and uninspired-almost as if the screenwriter did not know how else to take the movie further, much less how to end it. This is hardly surprising since director Terrence Malick improvised most of the movie on-set rather than plan everything in advance. Improvisation can only go so far. Fortunately, the pacing is fine. Only people who have goldfish span attention would find this film boring and pretentious. This though does not make up for the initial issue. Aside from the poor editing, the sound mixing for the dialog was not well recorded. I could hear the tractors, the screeches of the birds and locusts fine, yet when actors spoke on scene, they were dwarfed by the surrounding SFX. Even the raspy narration by Linda Manz became incoherent on occasion. Days of Heaven certainly has that old epic feeling that rivals Gone With The Wind in terms of cinematography and scope, but it falls flat on a bad ending, poor editing, and sound. I understand why the critics love this movie. It is truly beautiful to watch and the story is not all that bad. But like all Malick films, it can't deliver solid cohesiveness. "}{"Title":"Visual poetry.","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrence Malick made one of my favorite movies ever, Badlands. So when I found a copy of this, naturally I was excited. I heard it was incredibly beautiful and a masterpiece in all senses. And, I couldn't disagree. While I like Badlands a bit more, this still is in my top 15. Days of Heaven is, IMO, the most beautiful movie ever made. IMO, even topping off Lawrence of Arabia. Badlands was very beautiful as well, but you can see how low the budget was in some scenes. In this, you can see that Malick had more money and more time, so this does feel more perfect. It's not only about the look, but even if you don't like the film, you can't really say anything negative about the cinematography. This was mostly shot during the magic hour, when evening is turning into the night and when the dawn is turning to a morning. So naturally that will lead to great cinematography. And there are no epic shots of the sun or anything like that, just the endless fields and that one haunting house. That house is one of the most haunting things about this film. I don't know why. Maybe it's how it was shot, it reminded me about Norman Bates's house (Psycho). A large house, lonely looking house, almost like an haunted house. Before the camera shows the house, we see it like an castle. Where the evil ruler lives. Like Badlands, this movie delves into philosophical questions about love, commitment, human nature, the alfa-male and like Badlands, your destiny. Or is there a destiny. Also I noticed religious theme and a sub-story about growing up. Mainly the little girl grows up during the film. How he sees the dark side of humans, and realizes that nobody's perfect. But Richard Gere's character doesn't grow up. He never takes any responsibility and manipulates people for his own benefit. He is a anti-hero, but charming though. This is a really interesting film on how it's written. If there would have been a different director, he would have put an villain in this film. But Malick doesn't. There was a great opportunity to show their boss as the bad guy, but no. We actually grow to like him, even more than Gere's character. At least I felt sympathy for him and he had more morals than Gere. And that's the kind of character who would be the bad guy in any other movie, but Malic shows him as an human being, not some stereotypical guy who took his girlfriend. The end of the film is brilliant. When the harvest burns down. That is one of the most haunting and emotional scenes ever filmed. There's some symbolism in there, mainly religious. How their lives burn down as well, how everything they worked on burned down, how everything was destroyed, physically and emotionally. But also the last 5-10 minutes are very haunting and kinda ambigiuos. We don't really know what will happen to the girl, we (kinda) know what happened to Brooke Adams and what happened to Gere, but she just wanders off with another girl, not having a plan or a future. In a strange way a beautiful ending. The music is perfect, haunting, emotional, beautiful and really goes well with the visual look. Malick's direction is subtle and intelligent, cinematography is the greatest ever, can't complain about the performances, all around a perfect movie.10/10 "},{"Title":"A very good film that lacks some substance","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Going into this film (my first Malick film) I expected 3 things little dialogue, underlying messages, and breathtaking cinematography. Days of Heaven delivers these in full.The plot is fairly simple. It involves a man named Bill (Richard Gere) and his girlfriend Abby (Brooke Adams) moving to Texas and working for an unnamed, sickly farmer (Sam Shepard) who owns a large plot of land in the panhandle. After learning that The Farmer admires Abby, Bill hatches a plan to take advantage of The Farmer's wealth by marrying Abby to said Farmer. Unfortunately, this decision doesn't take place until around 40 minutes into the film. And this is where the film faltersThis half of the film seems more like a moving art piece than a movie-which is good and bad. It offers us a chance to take in the absolutely breathtaking cinematography. However, nothing much happens during this time. We're treated to shots of people working in wheat fields and Bill and Abby running around. This made me contemplate the runtime if the film. It runs a fairly short 1hr 34 minutes (it feels longer), and I began to feel that these pointless moments were needed to increase the runtime and make it not too short. Fortunately, the film picks up in the second half with events that include something of a circus, locusts, and fire. The drama kicks up a notch too, but I won't go into that.There isn't much to say about the performances, given the fact that there is very little dialogue in the film. The real star here is the cinematography, which is absolutely stunning, and some of the best I've ever seen on film. There are also quite a few underlying messages and themes that are fun to pick at, but I won't delve into them here. Overall, Days of Heaven is a beautiful film, but it's held back by a troublesome first half, and very slow pacing, which will prevent me from revisiting it any time soon. "},{"Title":"Impressions and Memory","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A murder, a runaway journey, the Apocalypse, a love triangle, a scam, a death poem &#x96; all of this, really. Sam Shepard is the centre of this, his beautifully nuanced performance, abstract and real, sad yet hopeful. Gere's character is like a wallflower who loses his centrality just as he loses his love.There is a story, but as you know, Malick sees stories very differently. There is a story, but it's almost like an accidental by-product of the dance of the images, and of the passion woven out of longing, fear and love. Every scene is painterly and expands centrifugally to unexpected directions to reveal narrative possibilities that are closer to impressions and memory rather than things that do happen. This might be why his films resonate so deeply with me, and why he might be compared to Tarkovsky. His films approach themes like love, death and art as subjective, elliptical and evasive waves in the ocean of life.Malick's films are reason enough to watch films on Blu-ray &#x96; meticulous in their use of both image and sound, immersive in their beautiful atmosphere. His debut, Badlands (1973), will be released by Criterion a few weeks from now; Days of Heaven (1978) and The Thin Red Line (1998) have already been made available from them, and The New World (2005) and The Tree of Life (2011) are available by their respective distributors. The Criterion disk is Region A, but absolutely essential &#x96; the best extra it has is a commentary track by editor Billy Weber, production designer &#x85; and casting director. They speak about making of the film and the people involved quite openly, and give out nice tidbits like Malick's short appearance in the film (impossible to catch unless you're incredibly lucky to look at the wrong place at the right time). "},{"Title":"Days of Heaven","Date":"22 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From Golden Globe nominated director Terrence Malick (Badlands, The Thin Red Line), I would probably have never known about this film if I didn't find it listen in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, so I knew I had to watch it. Basically, set in 1916, Chicago manual labourer Bill (Richard Gere) flees the steel mill where he worked after knocking down and accidentally killing his boss. He joins his girlfriend Abby (Brooke Adams) and younger sister Linda (Linda Manz) in Texas Panhandle, where he and Abby pretend to be brother and sister so that there won't be suspicions and talk in the community. Bill, Abby and Linda are hired by the shy and rich Farmer (Sam Shepard) to be seasonal workers, in the wheat fields and other places near the farm. The Farmer is dying of an unspecified disease, and when he falls in love with Abby, Bill thinks it is a good idea that she accepts his marriage proposal so that she can inherit his money after he dies. The wedding does take place and Bill keeps up the pretence of being his Abby's brother, but The Farm Foreman (Robert J. Wilke) suspects something is going on, and worse is that the Farmer's health improves foiling any inheritance plan. The true relationship between Bill and Abby is discovered by the Farmer, but it is worse that she has fallen in love with the man she married. The Farmer plans to go after Bill with a gun, after the locust swarm and a fire destroy the crop fields, but Bill kills him in the conflict. The ending sees the police and the Foreman chasing after Bill for his crime, and they do manage to catch and kill him, while Abby leaves Linda in a boarding school and disappears. Also starring Timothy Scott as Harvest Hand and Doug Kershaw as Fiddler. Gere gives a good enough leading performance as the man running and in a troubled love, Adams is alright as his love interest falling for another man, and Wilke does get his moments as the love rival. The love triangle storyline is interesting enough, and the costumes and time references of poverty and desired freedom are good, but I will be honest that for me what made it a great film was the sweeping landscapes, the wheat fields in both sunlight and moonlight look really beautiful with the colours created, it is a most watchable period drama. It won the Oscar for Best Cinematography, and it was nominated for Best Costume Design, Best Music for Ennio Morricone and Best Sound, it won the BAFTA for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"Heaven indeed!","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie a half a dozen times when it first appeared because my brother worked at a movie theater in Manhattan where it played.It is one of those films that feels like a 600 page novel, although it's running time is only 93 minutes.I see it as almost biblical. A profound story of hope and greed, love, lust and criss-crossed human intentions that ends in abject tragedy.Terrence Malick is an artist of epic size, in my opinion. His films do not always resonate with the Average Joe. I even understand through the proverbial grapevine that some of the actors felt used and manipulated and had huge portions of their performances on the cutting room floor. Sometimes only a sliver of a scene remains but a scene that reverberates for a long time.On a personal note I met Brooke Adams at a party once and got to tell her how much I adored this film and I also met then 14 year old Linda Manz who also narrates the movie--sometimes hilariously.The photography is stunning. The scene where the locusts descend is one for the ages.I recommend this film without reservation for those that can appreciate cinema on the highest end of Art...yes...with a capital A. "},{"Title":"Days of Heaven","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed Days of Heaven, there was just this sort of mysterious feel to it. It is almost like you do not know what is going on half the time. You do not know much about the characters past, you just know their mannerisms by their previous actions that they show in the film. The movie relies heavily on its cinematography. The film truly makes a wheat field look beautiful and dreadful simultaneously. Which, in a way, says that the setting has a way of symbolizing the emotions that the characters have. The character played by Richard Gere, Bill, loves a woman which he refers to as his sister. But right away the viewer can infer that they are in no way related. I think Bill has the best of intentions, he has a couple of girls who follow him wherever, and Bill sees them as family and he wants to take care of them as best as he can. His fault is where he lets his emotions get the best of him. His emotions are definitely not his friend, they cause him to make catastrophic decisions in order to take care of his family. The next aspect I really loved abut this film was its lack of dialog. I think the film feeds so much off it's artistic cinematography that there is honestly not time for a whole lot of dialog. The film also feeds off of close ups. In other words there is no need for dialog because the viewer can infer the certain emotions of the characters just by their facial expressions. But the most ingenious thing about the film was the emotion emitted towards Bill at the end of the film. This is a man who has seriously injured and even killed people because of his issue with anger. But in the back of your mind you know he is just taking care of his love as best as he can and when he is gunned down it is sad to see the man kill just because he was doing what he felt was right at the time. Overall, it was an excellent film in more dimensions than one. "},{"Title":"Terrence Malick is a Genius","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven is a great example of the art cinema movement of the 1970's. Terrance Malik does a remarkable job capturing the action in a natural state while still advancing the plot in a way that keeps the viewer's attention. Every shot is well composed and captures the beauty of the Texas backdrop that fuels this film. I really enjoyed how Malik makes the viewer emotionally attached to each character in his or her own way. There is no villain in this film just as Linda says at the end of the film, we all have half devil half angel in us. I thought this really added to the film because it wasn't a typical good or bad strong or weak sad and happy movie. It was hard to watch at times, it was emotional and it was realistic. I know that there was criticism about the abundance of serene images of nature but I thought it was a giant metaphor. The images were also stunning so I think it would be hard to complain about the large amount of them. I'm glad that this film has lasted so well throughout the years as I was not born yet when this movie came out and only saw it this month, but I thought there were some great themes. The characters were timeless because Malik didn't try to make them anything but their time period. There was no elaborate interpretation of the time period, just the plain style and the natural surrounding. I liked that the pace was not so fast and yet I was very attentive when viewing it and it really did offer that escape that we all love when watching a great film. "},{"Title":"masterpiece?","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven. Wow. OMG. This may be the best movie I have ever seen. 10 out of 10. I'm trying to think. I've seen a lot of movies, but I can't think of a better one than this at the moment. What can I say about it? The cinematography is amazing. So is the soundtrack. It is subtle, but it is great. The story is great. But, the pace and aesthetics really bring it out and make it shine. From the very beginning to the very end, I was absolutely captivated. I must be in one of my manic romantic moods. I'm sure I'm manic, but I think the movie did it to me. That happens to me when my attention is held captive for extended periods of time. It began with the opening credits. I have heard the music somewhere before (probably because it was so beautiful). And, the photos shown go right along with it in an eery sort of way. I forget the director's name, but our teacher did mention he was hailed as a very brilliant filmmaker in the line of John Ford (whoever that is). Besides unadulterated praise, I can say one thing about the movie. The plot may have been stolen right out of the Bible. Not once, but twice, Abraham visits foreign lands and claims that his wife is his sister. The king then becomes infatuated with his wife and marries her. And, then God rains down hell on the king and his kingdom because he has taken Abraham's wife as his own (committing adultery). The jacked plot is completely excusable because the whole package makes up for it. "},{"Title":"Dominant Terrence Malick.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Typical Terrence Malick vehicle that is deeper than an ocean, filmed beautifully and acted brilliantly by three then-unknown actors (Richard Gere, Sam Shepard and Brooke Adams). Gere and Adams are struggling through the Great Depression in the early-1930s. They decide to go south and find the reclusive Shepard. Gere and Adams then hatch a plan to take advantage of Shepard by posing as brother and sister rather than lovers. This naturally will lead to sparks as the charade can only work for so long. Eclectic writer-director Terrence Malick once again creates an artful film that works on so many levels. He had come close to excellence with Badlands in 1973 and he nearly reaches it here. This film would of course be his last for 20 years and then he would craft the cinematically dominant The Thin Red Line in 1998. 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"A marvel of casting and setting; an editing miracle","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A simple story beautifully delivered.  A marvel of casting (particularly the supporting roles), a bleak and beautiful setting out of Andrew Wyeth, and for Malick and Billy Weber an editing miracle in shaping a dialogue-heavy shooting script into a landmark of spare moments and unspoken emotion.  Nestor Almendros and Haskell Wexler shoot the film with great beauty and restraint, and Linda Manz, in addition to a phenomenal on-screen presence, delivers one of the great voice-over performances in film history. "}{"Title":"Gorgeous, brilliant","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What an exquisite, masterful film. Pure visual storytelling, intensely poetic; though superficially romantic and tragic, the film in fact transcends either of those conventional descriptions. I've heard director Terrence Malick's most recent film (and his first since 'Days of Heaven'), 'The Thin Red Line,' described as a tone poem; that's no less true of this film, or Malick's only other feature, 'Badlands.' All involve people caught up in impersonal forces, playing out on a scale much larger than themselves. In 'Days of Heaven,' the forces of nature propel the four central characters through a love triangle and its aftermath. Malick's film falls into the rhythms of the day, the year, and the cycle of planting and harvest on a farm in the Texas panhandle in 1916. Nothing is rushed. In the hands of a lesser director, the spare dialog and the absence of action scenes might become boring. 'Days of Heaven,' however, is always intensely absorbing Malick's meticulously composed shots, Nestor Almendros's gorgeous magic-hour photography, Ennio Morricone's sumptuous score, and Billy Weber's editing all contribute to a hypnotic viewing experience. I've just seen this film in a theater for the first time in nearly 20 years (though I've watched it on video countless times in the interim). I found myself transported, as always, and more impressed than ever by Malick's vision and his command of his art. It was even more fascinating seeing it in a double feature with 'Badlands,' an experience I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"A Visual Masterpiece","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's not often that a movie with such a slight story ( another love triangle gone bad) and such minor characters (migratory field workers circa 1916) could be considered such a masterpiece, but this one is.  The reason is Nestor Almendros whose expansive and detailed cinematography is simply mesmerizing.  Whether it's a wide shot of a open wheat field or a close up of a live locust it never ceases to be vivid, enthralling, and beautiful. Using a young Linda Manz as narrator was a shrewd stroke as her raw accent and down to earth sensibilities help to accentuate the bleak, rough nature of the people and times. The same astute casting went into hiring character actor Robert Wilke whose unforgettably weather beaten face was very similar to the ones people of that environment had. Gere's method acting is top notch as usual while Brooke Adams continues to be one of filmdom's most unsung beauties. The only liability is Shepard who seems just to young and wooden as the rich farmer with a tragic love for Adams.  Yet nothing can take away from this sumptuous visual experience that will make you feel like you are almost there even if you watch it on the small screen.  "},{"Title":"Get the dvd!","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have read all of the other comments and i tend to go with the people who praise this movie,however i notice that many people have only seen the vhs copy. Do yourselves a favour and run out and buy this on dvd. In fact if you don't already own a dvd player this film  makes a fabulous reason to purchase one. The dvd sounds and looks even better than the pristine print i saw when this film was first shown at the London Film Festival many years ago. "},{"Title":"A quietly compelling movie","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Richard Gere stars as a drifter who, with his little sister (in whose eyes we see the film) and another woman he claims as a sister (Brooke Adams) enter the lives of a sharecropper in Texas. They try to not only find a life but find themselves as well.. The cinematography is breathtaking and rightfully won an oscar for it in 1978. On a scale of one to ten..8 and try to see it in a widescreen/letterbox to fully appreciate the camerawork "},{"Title":"Like a poetry in motion","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie can only be described as poetry in motion...it maybe slow and disjointed... but like poetry, the viewer/reader have to fill in the gaps to interpret and appreciate it's full beauty. The cinematography is more like a painting, in the style of the famous contemporary American painter Andrew Wyeth, (Christina's World 1948) bare, realistic, almost nihilistic. I love the pacing of this film, it is appropriate, and it builds up the emotion slowly and naturally. The acting from Richard Gere, Brooke Adams, Sam Shepards are natural and unpretentious. Go rent it if you are in the sober and poetic moon. "},{"Title":"Haunting poetry on film","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  And I don't even like poetry that much! But I have heard this film described as 'poetry' by others, and that is probably the best way way to describe it.I discovered this movie when I came home late one night in the late 80's and, channel-surfing, ran into a scene that took place on a porch of a house in the middle of a sweeping field of grain. This visual, combined with beautiful, haunting music, prevented me from clicking to the next channel.I recently figured out why I love this movie as a whole. I've always known what I loved about its 'parts' the majestic images of the American prairie, the Leo Kottke and Ennio Morricone music, the beautiful, haunting feeling the film delivers. But I could never quite put my finger on what I liked about it overall until recently.It's the simplicity. Many people fault this movie with being short on plot and dialog, but you should not judge this movie for what it is not, but what it is a masterful essay in simplicity. The simple plot and spartan dialogue was deliberate to convey the sense of simple living that was at conflict with the growing industrialization and changing values at the turn of the century. I think excess dialogue or heavier narrative would have ruined the movie.Maybe its just because I grew up in the country and am a sucker for visual/aural experiences that romanticize the American plains, but this is in my top 10 favorites. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest romantic tragedies ever captured on celluloid","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Terrence Malick had already made his stunning debut with Badlands in 1973 and followed it up with Days of Heaven five years later that is just as powerful and unforgettable. This film is simply poetry in motion. Richard Gere plays Bill, who leaves a factory after accidentally killing a man at the begining. Traveling to a wheat farm in rural Texas with his lover Abbey ( Brooke Adams) and younger sister Linda (Linda Manz who narrates the story)they are employed by a wealthy aristocratic farmer played by Sam Shepard who remains nameless. Bill decides to devise a scheme to swindle the Farmer out of his money by pretending that Abbey is his sister so that she can marry him. The Farmer becomes romantically involved with Abbey while at the same time she continues to see Bill in secret. Eventually the Farmer marries Abbey which caused tension in the relationship between Bill and Abbey. This becomes confrontational between The Farmer and Bill after  he finds out about Abbey and Bill which leads to tragic results. The romantic triangle is realistic and convincing with the actors performances very naturalistic. While the story seems diminished in comparison to the wider scope of the environment and Malicks visual sense, the initial plot is still  significant, and sustains the interest of the viewer if they are patient. The cinematography by Nestor Almendros and Haskell Wexler is nothing short of extraordinary. You have to see this film in all of it's widescreen glory because it is severely hampered on a small screen. The score by Ennio Morricone is unforgettable also, ranking among his best work. But it is Terrence Malicks ability to set a mood and tone which is the most remarkable aspect of the movie. The film is slow paced with the actors performances very low key, but for the patient viewer it is a rich and rewarding film if you hang on to the very end. "},{"Title":"Beautiful - captures a sense of the time period","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies I always meant to see, but never got around to, until today.  What a pleasure!  A feast for the senses!Days of Heaven is not for those who require fast action and a complicated plot.  It is more for those who want a movie to make them feel transported to another place and time.  The movie appears to be slow-paced with little dialogue, but its minimalism is part of what transports the viewer to the quiet, natural landscape and a time in which the stressful racket of today is nearly absent.  Yes, there are guns, trains and machinery, but they stand out against a background of heavenly peace and quiet.  The human beings in this landscape are only a part of the integral web of existence.  Each creature and each plant seem to have their importance in this world because the cinematographers took the time to focus on each, and the sound people carefully presented the aural effects.We see the wheat blowing in the breeze and hear the sound of the individual plants brushing up against each other.  We look birds, animals and insects in the eye.  We see the magnificence of thousands of acres of fields against the sunset.  The sound and visual effects are so clear and strong that we can almost smell and feel what we are seeing and hearing.The focus on the human beings in this film is so clear that we can feel their pain and suffering that comes with poverty and hard work.  We can almost feel what it must have been like to have lived in that time--or in similar circumstances in our own time.  We can also feel their love and joy.As I watch the natural world around me being destroyed and replaced by roads, buildings and parking lots at an unbelievably fast pace, I am filled with intense longing as I gaze at the wonders of the world presented by this movie--a time before the whole country became developed and technologically improved, when more things had to be done by hand and on foot--a much quieter and more natural world.Of course, actual days of heaven cannot exist without days of hell forming a contrast. The movie clearly portrays the destruction of the Eden-like beauty of the amber waves of grain by focusing very closely on the individual locusts as they munch on individual grains of wheat.  We are shown a few individuals, then groups, then swarms, as the destruction becomes more devastating.  It is all so poetic--the fall of nature accompanying the fall of humanity--days of hell (the furnaces of Chicago) followed by days of heaven followed by days of hell.The plot may appear simple, but in portraying the depth of the interconnectedness between humans and the rest of nature in the cycles of life, the simplicity becomes quite profound.  What makes this movie so great is the attention to the minute details that create the whole experience and the clarity with which they are portrayed. "},{"Title":"A Handsome Film","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrence Malick's, Days of Heaven is exquisite. An Andrew Wyeth painting brought to life. The film relies heavily on it's lighting composition filling our senses with honey. The golden hues suggests the heavenly presence of a paradise; a paradise lost.Richard Gere, Brooke Adams, and Sam Sheppard play the main leads and with great appeal. The film is most handsome as are the actors. Malick captures the beauty of the Texas Panhandle with comforting silence. Linda Manz plays Gere's sister and narrates the film with a heavy North Eastern dialect. She tells the prophecy of the coming events and it is beautifully and hauntingly captured.The film is set in the 1930's depression era where Two Lovers and a sibling jump a train to the Texas Panhandle wheat fields to escape their past in Chicago.One of the most lovely films of the Twentieth Century. "},{"Title":"One of the most beautifully photographed films every made.","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If there is a film more beautifully photographed than Days of Heaven, I don't know what it is. The vistas of the American plains in the early part of this century are breathtaking. Linda Manz's narration as a streetwise urchin with wisdom beyond her age completes the illusion that we have been swept back to a simpler but much harder time.The story is interesting but not particularly compelling. But the story not why you'll enjoy this film. As a great opera is a thrill for the ears, this film is a thrill for the eyes. And I have seen it only on television. If it it ever comes to a revival house where I can see it on the big screen, I'll dash over the bodies of the slower-footed to buy my ticket. "}{"Title":"Terrence Malick is the master of Showing and not Telling","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although I have not seen all of his films, this seemed to me the film by Terrence Malick that had the most clear and easily followable storyline. It is the story of a man and woman, Bill and Abby, trying to survive in an old and now unfamiliar world. And everything is fine until another man, simply named The Farmer, falls in love with Abby, and jealousy ensues amongst the two men. Although the story is simple, the director applies his own unique style and vision to the story.It takes place during the industrial revolution, but the setting of the majority of the film takes place on a wide open farmland, another way in which Malick takes the expected and turns it on its head. Days of Heaven, like all Terrence Malick films I've come to learn, feels like a film where not a single frame is wasted on useless information. Every single image that is placed in the film seems to have a purpose. Something that is refreshing to me in a world where most of the movies I see today seem extremely drawn out. Even something as simplistic as the name of the character of The Farmer, where we are not told his actual name because it is not important. He is the person that represents the jealousy that comes between Abby and Bill, and he is in a way the person who represents the farm itself. In a beautiful scene near the end of the film when the farm is attacked by locusts, The Farmer sets his farm on fire. In a way, symbolizing the way in which his mind and world is now falling apart, due to the fact that he discovers Abby's feelings for Bill.Another thing I love about Terrence Malick films is the vagueness that it sometimes contains. And by vagueness, I do not mean that in a negative way. For example, there is an image that stuck with me throughout viewing the film. A simple scene in which Abby or Bill (I can't remember now) drops a glass in the river, but they ignore it and decide not to pick it up. In a framed close up of the glass in the water, I felt extremely uneasy. I kept expecting someone in the film to step on that glass and cut their foot, something that made me uncomfortable to think about. However we never come back to the glass ever again. It is never mentioned or seen for the rest of the film. What conclusions can we come to from the inclusion of this image? Is the image of the glass in the water supposed to represents something specific? Does it represent the chaos that will happen soon to something that seems so perfect? Does the water represents constant uncertainty circling around our lives? Or might it simply be placed there for the same result of emotion that it caused me to feel, uneasiness? Not to foreshadow anything specific in a cliché way that some movies do, but to subconsciously prepare us for what is to come? It's difficult to say what the intention was, but the results are effective in creating an image that sticks in your head and causes the viewer to ponder the film.As a huge fan of film and an aspiring screenwriter, I found the movie extremely innovative. It represents for me, a movie showing us the many ways in which one can tell a narrative story. I think Terrence Malick pretty much is the master of showing and not telling in the world of modern filmmaker. But I think many others might find the film boring in the fact that not a whole lot of information is told to us. The audience sees only and is allowed to conclude from their own observations. In fact, although many would probably disagree with me, I think that Terrence Malick films are the most engaging. No other filmmaker lets the audience participate like he does. Most films these days, seem to want to stuff information down our throats with fast cutting and punchy dialog. Which I don't think is necessarily a bad thing. But Malick has a patience, rarely experienced in today's cinema. I don't know how many more times I would watch Days of Heaven. As a modern audience go-er, I am probably more likely to watch the drawn out, fast cut action films and thrillers of our generation that I love. But every once and a while, I may want to participate in a truly unique and engaging movie experience. And if anyone else wants to as well, I would definitely suggest this film or any film by Terrence Malick. "},{"Title":"Total Preference to the Emotion of Imagery","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This has, many, many times been called the most beautiful color film ever made. It's hard to disagree. A poetic biblical parable played out in the Texas Panhandle at the turn of the century, it gives total preference to the emotion of imagery over the emotion of the actors. It's an exorcise in feeling and seeing that's so successful it elevated Terrence Malick into the ranks of visual storytellers like Tarkovski and Kurosawa. Shot on a punishing schedule that included almost nothing but sunset and sunrise set-ups, the film radiates with an intimate light and a precise, unflagging eye to detail, all the more amazing since Cinematographer Néstor Almendros - who had worked with Truffaut - was going blind (Haskell Wexler shot half the film, but did not share in the Oscar for Best Cinematography). Here is Malick's reoccurring themes in all their glory, most notably the beauty and struggle of nature (very few scenes are shot indoors) as wheat and weather and animals and the human heart swirl into a whipping, but somehow always languid, storm. And here too is where Malick's famed refusal to compromise first reared bold. Shortly after shooting began Malick threw away his own script forcing the whole production - actors, cameramen and art departments - to improvise along with him; he refused to follow standard lighting schemes or structure his workdays according to traditional Hollywood protocol, causing crew to quit the production and accuse the filmmaker of not knowing how to make a movie; the budget flared out of control; he shot for a year, bringing actors back again and again for pick-ups, then edited for two more after that. The film reportedly exhausted Malick and shortly after finishing it he made his mythical disappearance from the world stage, fleeing to France. As we all know, Malick didn't make another movie for two decades, but had he left it all here on the table in this, his second feature film, way back in 1978, he would still be known as one of the most important American Directors. On another note, Linda Manz, with her extraordinary elvish face and easy adult nature, is amazing in this movie. She seems entirely legitimate. It's sad we have so few films with her in them. "},{"Title":"This understated but contemplative Malick effort remains to be arguably the most beautifully shot film in the history of cinema.","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrence Malick's Days Of Heaven is a remarkable film achievement though it is mostly for its stunning, Oscar-winning cinematography by Nestor Almendros. Malick is one of cinema's quietest filmmakers, directing only four films in the last four decades - Badlands (1973), Days Of Heaven (1978), The Thin Red Line (1998) and The New World (2005). Of all his films thus far (discounting his latest Tree of Life (2011)), Days Of Heaven is probably the best representation of Malick's unique filmmaking style &#x96; the use of nature as an important backdrop that serves the function of thematically or metaphorically parallelizing with the film's plot. Days Of Heaven is almost like a film reel of poetic images one after another, capturing the lives of immigrants as they travel to rural Texas by train to farm and harvest crops. The film is narrated by a young girl called Linda, who appears on screen only sporadically. She is an orphan, leading a nomadic life while observing human nature and interaction. At the heart of Days Of Heaven is a triangular love story involving two men played by Richard Gere and Sam Shepard, and a woman played by Brooke Adams.The performances given by the main cast are not as good as expected; the emotions are muted and somewhat lacking in intensity, though they somehow fit with Malick's unobtrusive, almost meditative style. Even though it is fictional, Days of Heaven could have been mistaken for a poetic period piece documentary about the struggles of farmers and peasants as they work long backbreaking hours with almost nonexistent pay. The slow and solemn music by Ennio Morricone gives the film a melancholic, nostalgic touch, describing an era that is lost forever to mankind, but aptly recaptured on film by the hands of a master filmmaker at the top of his game. This is the rare occasion when cinematography singularly overwhelms every aspect of a film. Everything else plays second fiddle, though on repeated viewings, Linda's narration becomes more meaningful and deep. There is a notable sequence two-thirds into the film &#x96; the locust attack &#x96; a natural phenomenon captured with admirable technique and is a mesmerizing blend of sight and sound. Days Of Heaven may be lacking in terms of storytelling and acting, but the quality of its visuals has been rarely surpassed. This understated but contemplative Malick effort remains to be arguably the most beautifully shot film in the history of cinema.GRADE B+ (8/10 or 3.5 stars)www.filmnomenon.blogspot.comAll rights reserved. "},{"Title":"Melancholy but memorable - another triumph for Terrence Malick","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Film maker Terrence Malick follows up the excellent Badlands with yet another unstated and subtle masterpiece. A five year break in no way hinders Malick, in fact this film is even more technically accomplished and polished that his previous film.Again, like his previous film, the focus is on drawing the audience into the film by creating a fantastic visual, albeit natural environment. Huge credit has to go to photographers Nestor Almendros and Haskell Wexler, who was brought in when the production was over-running and Almendros had to go and work on another project he was already contracted to. Rather controversially, only Almendros was given the Oscar for his work on the film. He would continue to work on a wide body of high profile films including Kramer vs Kramer and Sophie's Choice. Wexler is a true veteran and a seminal cameraman in Hollywood. Not only does he have a truly huge body of work, but he had already won two Academy Awards before coming onto this picture for Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf (with Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor) and the Hal Ashby directed Bound for Glory biopic. No doubt working closely with Terrence Malick these cameramen focused on capturing the environment in a staggeringly beautiful but real way, making excellent use of natural light, and with excellent production design by Jack Fisk (a regular Malick collaborator) and costume design by Patricia Norris is a really convincing rendition of early 20th Century Texas (though the rural scenes were shot in Canada). Malick also has a very non conventional editing style, disrupting shots with unexpected close ups and inserts (particularly of wildlife, landscapes or mundane scenes). However, this works very well and contributes to the feeling that the film is a reminiscence of the Manz character. Dialogue is sparse, with most occurring off camera. It is a classical example of visual storytelling, even in the few scenes where the natural environment is not in the forefront. Excellent sound work also helps contribute to visceral impact of the film.Into this painstakingly rendered environment 4 key characters are presented. Teenage actress Linda Manz, in her first film plays the key character Linda, who narrates the story as a retrospective. This narration is frank, straightforward if slightly immature, and works very well as conveying the story. Acting performances are solid, but are not really the focus of the film, as they are part of a small personal story placed into a big environmental canvas, which is effectively a love triangle consisting of hot headed Bill, who plays the sister of Linda Manz's character, and is solidly performed by a young Richard Gere, his secret girlfriend Abby, played by Brooke Adams, and The Farmer played by playwright Sam Shepard. These performances are minimalist and understated, but they work very well in the environment that Malick creates. The melancholy feel comes from the fact the Richard Gere character, who initially comes across as selfish, manipulative and unsympathetic, is victim of an unfortunate series of events. While making a key decision to redeem his character for the long term happiness of his girlfriend and his sister, he is unfairly blamed for a tragedy that was not his making, and his situation is compounded further when he finds himself accidentally in confrontation with the Sam Shepard character that makes his situation even worse, and forcing his character to revert back to being more selfish and hot headed, leading to an inevitable and downbeat climax, which also bears some further similarities to Badlands. It is interesting to note the Brooke Adams character goes through a similar journey, originally forming a relationship with the Farmer as part of a deception instigated by her Richard Gere's character, then genuinely falling for the Farmer, and then making a decision to turn her back on this man and to return to Gere possibly due to some feeling of guilt. During this climax there are a series of action set pieces, including a hugely spectacular one involving a huge fire that is amazingly realised without resorting to any visually effects, and was done live in camera. The sequence demonstrates the power of nature and is an amazing accomplishment, particularly as it fits into the tone of film so well.Ennio Morricone's music while subtle, works incredibly well with the staggering visual imagery, and certainly captures the environment and mood perfectly. It also helps create a visceral impact with the viewer that allows the film to stay in your mind long after it is over. The film ends with a deliberately oblique but real epilogue showing two of the key characters continuing on with the life their character's fate's not being clearly resolved. Intriguingly this seems to work very well and leave you pondering as the end credits role.For me the only negative point was that the challenging nature of the production so exhausted Malick, that it would be 20 years before he made another film. In all a gentle but amazingly powerful visual experience, that if you patient will reap rewards as an enormously satisfying and thoughtful hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Naturally, in a film like this, the what that happens is not as important as the how it happens. And this makes all the difference, as nothing I could describe to the viewer could resonate as deeply as what is seen. There are numerous camera shots that establish mood (most notably the famed 'magic hour' landscapes, and scenes wherein words are not spoken, but glances tell the tale). There are great scenes- such as when locusts swarm the fields, and when a fire breaks out at night as Bill and the Farmer fight. The audio commentary by editor Billy Weber, art director Jack Fisk, costume designer Patricia Norris, and casting director Dianne Crittenden, lends great insight into how these scenes were achieved without special effects, and with some danger. The locusts were really peanuts shells tossed from a helicopter, as the actors walked backward, to give the effect that the shells/locusts were rising upward and the fire scenes were not as well-controlled as thought. Also, there is quite a revelation as to the extent that Malick changed the film in two years of postproduction, cutting much filmed dialogue, and replacing it with the Manz narration. Another bit of trivia ia that John Travolta was the initial choice for the role of Bill, but the ABC television network would not let him out of his contract for the TV series Welcome Back, Kotter.But, there are a few other nice features on The Criterion Collection DVD. There are interviews with cinematographer Haskell Wexler and cameraman John Bailey, and an interview with Richard Gere, plus a booklet that has an essay on the film by film critic Adrian Martin, which is rather rote observations that many others have made before, and a piece from the autobiography of cinematographer Nestor Almendros that deals with the film. The 95 minute film is shown in a 1.781 aspect ratio, and is superb. There is one puzzling oddity in the Criterion release vis-à-vis an earlier 1999 Paramount Pictures DVD version of the film, and that is the lack of the original theatrical trailer that the Paramount release included.Of course, given the high and truly transcendent quality of the film, it is little wonder that few critics praised it upon its release, and even those who appreciated the film still did not fundamentally get it. As an example of the former claim, I give you the stolid Pauline Kael, of The New Yorker, who wrote that, 'the film is an empty Christmas tree you can hang all your dumb metaphors on it.' Of the latter claim I give you the Chicago Sun-Times' Roger Ebert, who in re-reviewing the film decades later, wrote, 'We do not feel the full passion of the adults because it is not her (Linda's) passion It is seen at a distance, as a phenomenon, like the weather, or the plague of grasshoppers that signals the beginning of the end.' This is an excellent observation that explains why much of the film's 'passion' seems to be missing, considering the center of the story seems to be a love triangle, that oldest of motivs. This is because the whole film is Linda's tale, and she was not directly involved. But, just as one feels that Ebert may have gotten a grasp of the film, he shows his readers that his insight was just another case of a hundred darts being tossed blindfoldedly, with one lucky sucker hitting the bull's-eye, for he later writes 'This is a movie made by a man who knew how something felt, and found a way to evoke it in us. That feeling is how a child feels when it lives precariously, and then is delivered into security and joy, and then has it all taken away again- and blinks away the tears and says it doesn't hurt.' Well, no. Period. The reason the film is constructed the way it is is not because it is emotion-based, as Ebert and a plethora of lesser critics claim (despite writing of the claim in a convincing way- the man did win a Pulitzer for his wordsmithing, after all), but because it has a fantastic screenplay, constructed in postproduction, which chooses a very unique narrative form- one based upon inferences and implications (they are different beasts) and told through emotional snippets. It is not because emotion has replaced narrative, but emotion has been tamed to a narrative tool, along with a purely visual anecdoture cribbed from the silent era.In this way, like 2001, Days Of Heaven does not prove that a great film can succeed without any story, but shows the essential need for a great story to make great cinema. Malick simply went beyond the scope of most critics' rudimentary understanding of what a narrative looks like and how it should be conveyed, in emotive threads or in silent fenestration of images. Add to that the revolutionary use of voice-over to act as both tangential relief and ironic commentary, and, even were the acting mediocre (it is not, for it is truly acting when dialogue is superfluous) or the camera-work pedestrian (it is not), the film would be great, anyway. But given the quality of all the other elements, Malick's daring makes this film one for the ages; one which be studied long after the species has left behind the planet earth, and only such images of it remain. Perhaps our descendants will feel for it (and the film that conveys it to them) the way Linda feels for an anomic friend she reacquaints with at film's end, when she opines, in a Huckleberry Finnian way, 'This girl, she didn't know where she was going' or what she was going' to do. She didn't have no money on her. Maybe she'd meet up with a character. I was hopin' things would work out for her. She was a good friend of mine.' Here's hopin'. "},{"Title":"Lush, troubling companion piece to Badlands","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A highly admirable film, but difficult to love. Malick's insistence on shooting outside but prior to sunrise (and after sunfall) is a sentiment-neutral premonitor of the tragedy of the film - and of the war, whose imminence clouds the edges of the Heavenly vista. This is important. Just as the prairie narrative of the film is always happening at a remove from this other, distant catastrophe, so the film is actually the story of the seemingly innocuous co-star Linda (Linda Manz), told in a time-and-trauma anaesthetised retrospect.Manz is as good as any other actor in the piece, beautiful and alert but semi-feral, like Spacek and Sheen in Badlands. Richard Gere and Brooke Adams, the figurative protagonists, are super too. Still headstrong with youth they have that moral gravity that their Badlands cousins do not and pin the superficial narrative down. Sam Shepard also does well, feverish when cuckolded.Music plays an important role in Malick's films and I enjoyed the score by Morricone, integrating Saint-Saens' semi-opaque Aquarium music from The Carnival of the Animals with his own to good effect. There are a great number of animals in this film, hunting, working, dying and ravaging and simply existing. Their naturalism reflects that of the cast whose moral tensions often go the way of the wheat chaff, casually dispersed on the breeze.That's the strength of this film and what sets it apart from Badlands. Whereas the morally illiterate teenagers of the latter pinball from situation to situation, in Days of Heaven have more purpose - but only just. Their's is not a essay in the pubescent groping through a desert (moral and visual). It's a story of trying to make good the American way and rising above its attendant pitfalls. Linda's recollection is part of this the shock is that Malick leaves us with an open-ended existential document which casts no judgement and provides no cadence. 8/10 "},{"Title":"thank you for this paintings mr. malick","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To make it short it's like Scorsese said, when he saw the movie by the first time MAKE EACH FRAME OF THIS MOVIE BIGGER AND THEN YOU COULD SEE IT LIKE A PAINTING IN A MUSEUM. He is right. Most of the picture was shot right in the morning or at the magic hour or at night, which means Mr. Malick shot in average only 1 hour a day. Result goose pimples by seeing it. POETIC PURE.When you like this movie then take another poetic trip with THE SPIRIT OF THE BEEHIVE from VICTOR ERICE which is a Spanish director. probably the 2 poetic masterpieces from the seventies. Apropos Spanish the cinematography is by a Spanish - NESTOR ALMENDROS - which worked together over decades with ROHMER and TRUFFAUT, so thank you too mr. almendros. I really have to think about similar results in other movies, but till now i have no idea.A MUST SEE IN A THEATER!!!!!! Now there is criterion release of this masterpiece and the digital transfer is outstanding.Because of the paintings 10 from 10.P.S. the voice from the off by the character LINDA was alone worth to got an Oscar. The Soundtrack......NO, he didn't got it for this movie (Morricone), but why?????. The story? seemingly simple, but it isn't!So i writing this, while i was buying 3 other copies today as a present for my best friends........i am still in this epic movie. "},{"Title":"Beautiful beyond belief","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film will not be for everyone. It could in fact be realising this that is the most important thing you need to know before seeing this film. Ask for the film to convince you and it will deliver in droves. From the simple but perfect use of The Aquarium (from The Carnival of the Animals) over sepia toned photographs in the opening credits to the last frame of 'magic hour' cinematography you will be astounded. The former high school football star and Harvard-Oxford educated philosopher recluse Terrence Malick maintains the dreamlike atmosphere which pervaded his 1973 debut Badlands. Telling a tale of early 20th Century workers in America, Days of Heaven focuses mainly on three characters. Richard Gere, who got the role after a long search and the likes of Pacino had turned it down, is miles from the rom-com robot he is now generally associated with. He plays the desperate Bill who struggles to keep a job in order to feed his girlfriend and little sister who tag along with him at all times. The beginning sees the trio head off to work the harvest in the fields of middle America and this is where the bulk of the story takes place. The thrust of the story being the love triangle which develops between Bill, his girlfriend and the farm's owner. The early harvest scenes are masterpieces in themselves. Determined to give the entire film an orange glow, Malick and his cinematographer, Nestor Almendros, would only film at the hours of dusk and dawn when the sun is lowest in the sky. The resulting footage of huge numbers of people working the fields and the insects which surround them has the majesty of a painting. Perhaps only Kubrick's Barry Lyndon (1975) betters Days of Heaven in this respect. The scenery is as much a character as the humans themselves if not more so. Days of Heaven maintains this epic feel without having to become epic in length with a mere 90 minute running time. Improvisation is rife and a large majority of the scenes feature little to no dialogue. It is this that will either entrance or frustrate modern audiences. Accompanied by another classic Ennio Morricone score, Days of Heaven is a unique mediation on man's relationship with his environment and one of the most beautiful films ever made. "},{"Title":"Cinematography Is This Movie's True Star","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrence Malick's evocative film has his signature all over it. Ruminative voice over narration, lingering images of the natural world, the sense of humanity being overwhelmed by an environment that is much bigger than it. It's not a long movie, but it requires patience, as do all of Malick's films.The characters and the actors playing them left little impression on me. What I remember from this movie are the visuals, especially the cinematography that captures both the beauty and savagery of rural farm life. An amazing sequence that makes a locust invasion look like something occurring on a different planet is one of the highlights.Grade A- "},{"Title":"The best film of the 1970s","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's man versus man, versus machine, versus nature in this captivating film by Terrence Malick. Filmed in Canada, DAYS is a visually stunning film it could easily have been a silent picture because there are long gaps between dialog and when the characters do speak, they use few words to convey feeling. Richard Gere, pre-American Gigolo, is quite good as a poor laborer. It is hard to buy Gere in period films because he seems to be a very contemporary leading man, but he works well here, mostly because he was still relatively unknown when the film was made; Brooke Adams is haunting as Abby and Linda Manz plays the role of narrator with the right amount of despair and hope. "}{"Title":"Malicks best","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven(1978) Director Terrence Malicks epic story of a love triangle that takes place at the turn of the century in the wheat fields of the Texas Panhandle.Richard Gere(in perhaps his best performance), his girlfriend and sister take labor jobs picking wheat and soon the rich land owner,(played by Sam Shepard )falls in love with Geres girlfriend (Brooke Adams). Gere convinces Adams to marry Shepard after learning that Shepard has only a year to live, figuring after he dies they will inherit his money and live happily ever after.What Gere doesn't take into account is that Adams falls in love with Shepard after they are married and that starts the beginning of the end.This is a visually stunning film and the musical score by Ennio Morricone is both haunting and beautiful as well. Linda Manz, who plays Geres little sister, forced to grow up too soon, narrates throughout and does a great job. Malicks directing is magnificent and the film was nominated for four Acadamy Awards.A must see. "},{"Title":"Breathtakingly Beautiful","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First off, I have to say that this film is like a painting in motion. The visuals are absolutely stunning.It's one thing to show a locust plague - the noise as a dark cloud of locusts swarms above its prey, the carefully-tended wheat crop - and it's another to have tight close-up shots of locusts eating the wheat. Locusts can actually be seen chewing on individual grains! It was positively brilliant.How I wish I'd seen this film on the big screen, but I have to make do with DVD. I think the lush cinematography would have been unbelievable when seen at the cinema.At the heart of the story is a trio of vagabonds, riding the rails in search of something better than what they've got (which is nothing). The story is set in 1916, at a time when American industry was really getting into gear.Young Linda is in the care of her older brother Bill (Richard Gere), a laborer in a steel mill. Bill is all that Linda has in the world.Bill's hot-headed impulsiveness sees him commit a violent act, which forces him to become a fugitive. He takes Linda and his girlfriend Abby with him. They begin hopping freight trains, heading south.Bill has to keep his love for Abby hidden, as they have been posing as brother and sister (It's easier that way).Bill and Abby find work, along with many other migrants like themselves, at a large wheat plantation owned by a man listed only as The Farmer (Sam Shepard). The three live on the farm with the other seasonal workers.Life on the farm was hard - nearly everything was done manually back then. The labor was backbreaking, enough to rub the hands of the workers raw. And while toiling in the fields, workers could look up to see The Farmer's home, a lovely, stately, 3-storey Victorian farmhouse. It stood out, alone, on the rise of the barren landscape. In the evening, its windows glowed with the warm amber light of the kerosene lamps, giving it an inviting, homey look. And to those in the fields, it was a constant reminder of what they'd never have. It was as unattainable, to them, as the glittering diamonds in the window of Tiffany's.Sick of trying to scratch out a hard living working on the land and having nothing, Bill comes up with a way to use Abby to score big-time, but it doesn't exactly go according to his plan.The film is narrated by the child, Linda, in a tone that is very world-weary/wise for someone so young, though at times it does contain touches of childhood naiveté. But that notwithstanding, this is a child who didn't really have the luxury of a childhood, as most would know it.This film takes place decades before the days of The New Deal - well before there were social programs in place to look after families and children, as there are today. Desperate families followed the harvest for work, with the children working alongside their parents in the fields. There were no food stamps in 1916, and there was especially nothing available to a child in the custody of a sole guardian who was on the run from the law.This film gives us a brief glimpse into what life was like for these people, but mostly, shows us the consequences of greed, especially when looking for the easy-way-out. It is also a lesson in taking for granted what you actually do have, even when you think you have nothing. "},{"Title":"Slightly boring","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a little confusing, a little slow, and a little boring.  Yes, I did get the story, but when all ends met, I was still a little lost.   The most reason why I continued to watch Days in Heaven was to watch the hunky Richard Gere (who is so mush more handsome the Sam Shepard), and to see the beautiful cinematography, which was breathtaking.  All in all, I thought the movie was ok. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Heaven in twilight","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Terrence Malick strides the world of cinema as a colossus in the company of Soviet directors Andrei Tarkovsky (www.nostalghia.com), Sergei Parajanov (www.parajanov.com), and Grigori Kozintsev. After viewing Days of Heaven for the third time in 20 years, the film touches me the same way as did the works of the three Soviet filmmakers mentioned above.Technically the movie can be appreciated by each of the three elements that build the final compound product. First, there is a pristine innocence in the images of this movie that few Hollywood movies have been able to record on celluloid. Nestor Almendros richly deserved the Oscar for filming Malick's requirement in the magic hours of twilight. But why is Haskell Wexler's contribution (additional photography) not credited on the IMDb page on the film? Wexler and Almendros are giants among cinematographers; this movie is a testament to both their creative abilities. One of my favourite takes is the final shot of Richard Gere falling in the water!!The second major contribution is the music of the brilliant Ennio Morricone. After every viewing, I am convinced Morricone contributed as much or more to the film than the cinematographers. It is easy to spot the visual artistry, but being able to pick the aural artistry of composer's four or five connected but distinct pieces of music is exhilarating. Compare this with Hans Zimmer's work in The Thin Red Line and we see the importance music plays in Malick's cinema (as is also the case with Tarkovsky, Parajanov, and Kozintsev).The third is the writing and the direction. A casual viewer would see the movie through events surrounding the adult characters and wonder where the 'Heaven' was in a story woven around deception, anger, jealousy, pestilence, murder, sickness, etc. A closer appraisal of the film will take you to the perspective of the young narrator (as in The Thin Red Line) which is at times all play and at other times a distant impersonal observer of events. What is 'Heaven'? Perhaps heaven is far away from industry, perhaps you glimpse it when you are playing with your friends. Malick's days of heaven seem to be limited to a short period sandwiched between long months of hell. The film invites us to look at a slice of life in each of us that prepares us for the rest of our existence. The amoral world is lovely to behold (young Gere and Adams) and tragic but the moral world is weather-beaten (Robert Wilke's face) or sick (Shepard) but true--a contradiction similar to the beautiful close-up of the locust, a pest. Malick is forever inviting the viewer to reassess and reflect on our accepted norms. The lack of dialogue and the abnegation of a conventional story lifts up the film far above the average Hollywood fare to a cinema where dialogue is muted by sounds and visual splendour. Malick's celluloid poetry enmeshes nature with human actions that seem to be out of synchrony (as it is in The Thin Red Line as well) not far removed from derelict spaceship of Tarkovsky's Solaris, the visual violence of Parajanov's Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors or the flowers in a otherwise barren landscape of Kozintsev's King Lear.Malick has won the top honors at Cannes, Berlin, Montreal, and San Sebastian for his cinema but denied an Oscar. A prophet is never acknowledged in his own village. "},{"Title":"Masterful","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't say much more than people have already said on this page. The visual and aural experience of this film is surely one of the most amazing things ever to be experienced. But I think that one thing almost everyone forgets is the actual story. It might not seem extraordinarily complex, but trust me, it is. The key to fully appreciating this film is to watch it with the realization that Linda is the narrator of the story, and is the main character. Malick very slyly shifts the focus away from her, so that she enters your mind from the back. Just watch the film with her character in mind, and you will have a whole new experience, no matter how many times you've seen it before. For more information on this topic, go to the imdb professional reviews section on the left and go to Roger Ebert's review. "},{"Title":"Unique, Beautiful, Memorable. It's like heaven on earth","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's so good to see Terence Malick becoming pop now with the amazing The Tree of Life (one of the most impactant and beautiful experiences I've seen in the past 10 years) and now people seem to be rediscovering his few yet outstanding works. This under-appreciated genius is now in the point where he wants to be now making his own movies, presenting something unique, different than anything people are used to see and most important, he has a public for such delightful and unusual experiences (and most important letting his work speaks for itself rather than appearing in interviews explaining them.) After the failure of Days of Heaven he disappeared from the radar for impressive 19 years until resurrect with power, sound and thunder in the epic war film The Thin Red Line, great success it was and now his career hiatus are getting shorter (his next film might be in Cannes this year, following year of his deserved Palm D'Or win there). OK, no more about the man and his works, time to talk about this film. In simple words Days of Heaven is about a farm laborer (Richard Gere) who convinces the love of his life (Brooke Adams) to pretend they're brother and sister, so she can marry their rich patron (Sam Shepard), who likes the girl, and so they can have a claim to his fortune. The movie is seen through the eyes of the laborer's younger sister (Linda Manz) who narrates - very briefly - the story. It's really the look of a child that sees things, don't always comprehend what she's seeing, or understands but doesn't express it. Malick creates his heaven through the spectacular cinematography by Nestor Almendros and Haskell Weskler (but only Nestor got the Oscar, go figure), impressive imagery, the chilling music of Ennio Morricone (Harvest is a fantastic piece) that perfectly reflects the environment of endless fields, the sound of the wind, the union between men and nature (a constant in Malick's work), the child whispers recounting her memories from those days. But with all that, there's sadness, misery, violence, frailty things that disturbs the peace of this heaven. We get true beauty from ordinary places and that's something really hard to get. It's about following the journey and not getting a destination with it, just enjoy the ride; it's like life. No answers, just a way through something (that's what upsets most viewers of this film and me at one time). I frankly admit not liking Days of Heaven on my first view, thought it was only beautiful to look at it but completely empty, it didn't said much to me at the time. But for unknown reasons that mind can't explain but the heart really knows deep down inside I decided to give it another ride and it worked with perfection. But it will only work for you with two conditions 1) watch the movie with your heart and not with your eternally critical brain and this is the most difficult 2) try see the story as if you were a child, innocent, seeing beauty in everything and finding joy in the simplest things even in troubled times. Like the girl, living miserably, working with the other adult workers but still admiring the place where she is and enjoying the company she has around her, it's just like paradise to her. It's almost like Jeux Interdits (Forbidden Games), it can only make some sense if you think and see things like a child, otherwise it doesn't cause any effect on you. The casting is strongly effective even in their often reduced words; Shepard in his calculated shyness or the savagery of Gere's character and the strange physical appeal Brooke Adams cause in those two men. They're all good but body and soul of this film is the child Linda Manz. She carries the film in a extraordinary way.If this won't be the best film you'll ever see, at least it will be the most beautifully shot you'll ever have the pleasure to admire in a long time. The artist and his art at their greatest moment. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Nearly perfect","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Gere and Adams are poor lovers that flee Chicago after Gere does something bad and doesn't want to get caught. They end up working on a large crew of farm laborers for a rich wheat farmer, Sam Shepard, who has less than a year to live. Sam falls in love with Brooke, and Gere convinces Brooke to return the favor so she can be his heiress after he's dead and gone. Thus begin the shenanigans.While slow and simple, this is a totally stunning movie. Through subtle yet powerful images of nature (and man interacting with nature), Malick sends the viewer into almost a cathartic swoon. Okay, maybe not _that_ hypnotic but I really can't say enough about the visuals in this movie and how they tell the story nearly as well as the dialogue does.I don't want to give too much away about the story, because it's a good one, but I'll just say that none of the characters is without fault (as in each of Malick's movies). In fact, the thrust of the film is centered around moral ambiguity; you have to really think through what's going on to decide what's right and wrong. You never really know who to root for, which, along with the carefully tempered dialogue and subtle atmospheric touches, gives the film a very realistic edge.I guess I shouldn't recommend this if you want something terribly entertaining (in conventional terms), but if you want something that will stick with you forever, go for it. I, personally, am entertained by this type of film. I loved it.It really sucks that Malick has only made 3 movies since 1973. I guess he's making one now called The New World about the settlement of James Town in the 1600s, the trailer for which is incredible. "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I like Terrence Malick, I appreciate his style, I love his films. I adore Days of Heaven, for me it is perhaps my second favourite of his films with Thin Red Line just beating it.The pace as is the case with Malick, I'd go as far to say it is a characteristic of his, is meditative, but deliberately so I think. I don't see it as a problem, in fact I think the pacing added to the film, it made us care for the characters and story more.The film succeeded with that. The characters are those we empathise with, and the story is probably the most beautiful in tone and in development of all Malick's movies. The score is also beautiful and of haunting quality, and again as is the case with Malick the visuals are breathtaking particularly in the cinematography and scenery.Also I don't think that Malick's direction has been as poetic as it has been here, that's not saying much though he is a very poetic and ambitious director, or that lead actor Richard Gere has been any better than he is in Days of Heaven. Overall, a wonderful film. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Age of innocence","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Texas Panhandle (a bloc of 26 counties in the north) at the time of the Wilson presidency is the location of Days Of Heaven, a film of grandeur which loosely follows an itinerant family who set to work on a rich man's estate.The film never felt to me like a traditional story, the name of one of the main characters is never even revealed. What I saw was a pageant, perhaps because the film was very linear, didn't try and mix two perspectives of the same moment in time, and had an elliptical fill-in-the-gaps storyline (whoever gets the whole view of a pageant?). It's also hard to get into the inner world of characters who aren't very self-conscious, living in general by intuition alone. What I think the filmmakers achieved here was a grander sense of era and place than is usually implied by a single story.I don't know if the world that Malick, Almendros, Wexler and cohorts created was one that existed or whether it's an idealised prelapsarian vision. The photo montage at the start suggests that they were trying to capture a pre-modern quality of innocence. In an era of self-referential art and comedy, where over-educated westerners feel cultural guilt, environmental guilt, status anxiety, Days of Heaven provides an entirely different spectacle.Claims of this being the most beautiful film ever were ignored by Cahiers du Cinema in it's 2007 inventory of cinema's top 100 lookers. Perhaps that's because it looks like Mr Malick had ears of corn that offended his eye removed or painted golden, or of had carriage wheels placed at a particular just-so angle. This mannered beauty seems more appropriate for paintings, which perhaps capture rare moments. A cinema composed of paintings can come off feeling too artificial. What Days of Heaven does, it does well, starting off with Joseph Wright of Derby, going through Wyeth and even Hockney. Not perhaps entirely original in conception, the film feels influenced by Visconti's The Leopard / Il Gattopardo (hunting with dogs sequence) and I am told recreates wholly footage from Murnau's City Girl and Powell & Pressburger's A Canterbury Tale.Richard the blink Gere seems well chosen as male lead, in that an edgy, at times bewildered, poseur (which may just be who he is), comes off as the right kind of character for the movie not imposing, but part of the stream of life that is the real protagonist. The story itself I would say, although moving, could have been substituted by many others, it felt more like a patch in a quilt, of a step in the inexorable march of progress.As with any pageant, there's a hint of the surreal, planes from the Great War in Europe somehow turn up on the other side of the world as if Malick wasn't content with the breadth of scope the film was already providing.I liked how matter-of-fact the love story in the movie was shown, the naturalistic treatment of elective affinities as opposed to any overblown melodrama or sense of fate.The movie is generally treated as philosophically profound, that's arguable, but it definitely is populist in its appeal, when Linda says, Nobody's perfect. There was never a perfect person around. You just have half-angel and half-devil in you. she's saying in spirit what you will hear from the mouth of many a drunken young reveller once they achieve a narcotic calm. My own philosophy is closer to the ideas of Bildung, though I respect the presentation in this movie. "},{"Title":"Poetic cinema","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Days Of Heaven was director Terence Mallick's second feature,and last for over 20 years,(the first being the highly acclaimed BADLANDS).It is perhaps the lesser of the two films and though it gained an academy award for cinematography,doesn't hold the attention with such dexterity as it's forerunner and the plot is thinner and less absorbing in it's development. However it does rate very highly as a piece of truly artistic film making and quite why ,with two exquiste movie's in the bag it has taken the director so long to make another is as mysterious as it is unfortunate. So much of the style and production of the two films is along similiar lines that to talk of one beggs frequent comparison to the other ; both share a broad theme of social outcasts adrift in a mid-American wilderness, ultimately on the run from the law.They also feature scores that are an inventive concotion of pieces,both haunting and original which suit the moods and images to perfection.In both cases the main themes is particularly mesmeric . There is the same breathtakingly beautiful immagery of rural America and beneath the child-like narration is the same ,weirdly authentic sounding dialogue,often minimalist,leaving much unsaid,but very true-to-life. It's as if the actors were improvising but without at any point sounding as if they are ACTING.The acting is very very natural and gives a documentory element to a film already full of original touches. Richard Gere's lead character is on the run in pre 20's America with his sisters one of whom is actually his lover,the other a child who may be his or her kin.The bogus relationship leads to the trio working in the wheatfields at harvest time for a lonely rich man who lives in a large remote house under apparent sentace of death from a mystery illness.He falls for the older sister and takes all three of them into his house. There follows a memorable disaster(in the plague of locusts)death, jealousy and greed - in fact all the fmiliar elements from Shakespeare.For the rest of the story,just watch it and see for yourself. Mallick's dreamlike direction is right up there with the best and conjours up a vivid sence of time and place .The cinematography is worthy of it's oscar and one can almost touch the dry dusty cornfields or feel the heat of the lanterns carried by workers as they franticly try to clear the locusts from the crop. Sadly the sound is less than perfect and the narration is sometimes close to being lost in the child's heavy accent and it's fuzzy recording.Bt this is a minor flaw. In the end result we have a poetic motion picture,flawed but very classy in almost every respect. "}{"Title":"Empty film with pretty shots...and lots of wheat.","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Would I like 'Days of Heaven'? Well, that depends...do ya like wheat? I now understand what people meant when they compared The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford to the output of Terrence Malick. I appear to have mistakenly based my comparison upon his gorgeous and engrossing meditative war drama The Thin Red Line. I passed off the solid but unremarkable 8/10-graded Badlands because supposedly Days of Heaven was the big masterpiece. Well, now the comparisons all make sense. Both films are solid but painfully familiar and ordinary stories relying completely and wholly on good outdoor photography for its reputation.The story here is hardly of note, a generic and overdone soap opera tale, the rich man-poor man love triangle. Richard Gere is the poor guy, who devises a plan to have his girl marry a rich dude (Sam Shepard) so they can get his money, and of course she falls in love with the rich dude, but is still in love with Gere. The cast is composed of complete ciphers, wholly unlikable, undeveloped ciphers that I failed for even one millisecond to give two craps about, and considering you can predict pretty much every scene in the entire film, that doesn't help any.Apparently the argument here is that he's allowed to be completely lazy storywise because the visuals are so amazing. Well, I REALLY need to take a class and/or attempt to DP on a film so I can be SHUT UP and PUT IN MY PLACE because people talk about how much of an art form it is, but very little visually seems to actually impresses me, and living in Colorado, you can drive for thirty minutes in any direction and find places here that look like this every day. Every sunset looks like that, all wheat in all wind all gets blown the same, and although there's some shots that involve lighting and other modulation (the scene with the lamps and the fire was quite pretty, if not difficult to see how it was done; the scene when Gere is shot, the below-water shot and its editing is excellent), for the most part, it seems like, if I had the same equipment, I could pretty much just go to my aunt's house, look out her window and get the exact same shots. I *know* it can't be that easy, but everything I see just looks so...point-and-shoot replicated.In the acting department, no one distinguishes themselves whatsoever. Richard Gere is jarringly miscast, looking awkward and uncomfortable in a character that doesn't suit him whatsoever (you know what suits Richard Gere? Suits.) Brooke Adams has a consistent pout and that's about it, and easily could have been replaced by other actresses mid-film with little difference. Sam Sheperd is given little to do besides remind me of Denis Leary, and the everpresent voice-over narration by the little girl is ridiculously grating and contributes absolutely nothing to the overall film.Overall, there's some lovely tracking shots (the one directorial conceit that always impresses me, it seems like) and some nice scenery (different from nice cinematography), but the story is such a secondary commodity, and when the visuals fail to impress, you're left with nothing. I was happy that the film was a mere 95 minutes, and I kept help but with Assassination was, not 95 minutes, but 110, and I really could have given it a good score, because James's story with Heaven's length? Now you've got a good film. But Heaven's story with Heaven's length? Not so much. Anytime anyone wants to have a Malick triple-feature, I'll just watch The Thin Red Line three times in a row, thanks.Grade 5/10 (C) / #17 (of 19) of 1978 "},{"Title":"a story about opportunism and greed under striking cinematography and music","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The emotions and motivations are not constantly made explicit, so a bit more than average attention needs to be paid to the characters they do not exactly jump into your living room like in most mainstream movies.  But then, we already knew that from 'Thin Red Line' (1998) and 'Badlands' (1973) both directed by Malick.  There is an intriguing story in here (scarcely using a one-person voice-over) set in the twenties (?) about opportunism and greed rather than love, but what makes me want to see this film over and over again is the surpassing cinematography by Nestor Almendros (Goin' South, Places in the heart) which was also extensively discussed in the elaborate and memorable documentary 'Visions of light' (1992) and was probably heavily influenced by Malick, who wanted to use only natural light (nothing extra) and films a lot of animals as usual.  The other most distinctive element of this film is obviously the score.  Ennio Morricone lets you never forget this fabulous (famous?) tune.  That are two legitimate arguments that this is one of the cinematic works you just need to see on dvd or at least once on a big screen.Probably the best performance by Richard Gere (Officer and a gentleman) who doesn't exhibit the devotion to his part like Martin Sheen did in Badlands, but surely keeps up with the rest of the cast.  See it.  Sam Shepard plays the coolest testpilot in the world in The Right Stuff (Kaufman, 1983) and a farmer again (entirely different one) in Country (Pearce, 1984).  Why oh why has Malick made only three films...?10 points out of 10 -) "},{"Title":"Just beautiful images don't make a movie","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Since I couldn't remember The Thin Red Line very well (I should watch it for the second time), I couldn't evaluate 'Terrence Malick cinema' generally, but other than The Thin Red Line, for me his best film so far is The New World, a great movie, but his debut, Badlands and his this film, Days of Heaven are problematic, in my opinion. I will refer Badlands later briefly. As everyone else thinks, I think that the cinematography in the movie is beautiful, too, the images are beautiful and may be, how do people call it?, it is poetic, but what the movie is lack of is a plot! first. The film has a story, yes, a couple pretends to be brother and sister and start to work in a farm, but the lord falls in love with the woman, but the movie mostly consists of images and images and more images, no real plot, no enough words, no action (literally), no story development and no character development. This is not an art house film absolutely, it is a drama, it is a crime drama, it has a story, it has a star, Richard Gere, but it is not a main stream movie either, that's the problem may be, I don't know. It is just over, I mean images are over the content, over the plot, over everything. And The climactic (but cliché) ending doesn't save the film. Now, briefly, I want to tell you something about lovers on the run movies. I always had problems with lovers on the run movies, despite I almost love this sub genre. Sugarland Express was mediocre in spite of a genius, Natural Born Killers heroizes the killers and it was overblown, Badlands was very dim in terms of story telling, also it was not intense as it should have been. And lastly, Bonnie and Clyde was too mild, I had expected a stunning crime/robbery movie. As for Days of Heaven, as said before, a lot of beautiful images, waving wheat, nothing more. "},{"Title":"**** out of ****","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite any criticisms that one may have for Days of Heaven, you have to admit that it is made by somebody who knows what cinema is about - utilizing visuals.  Every second of this movie is visually stunning, which is the strength of the movie.  The entire cast delivers excellent performances, despite the fact that there is little dialogue throughout the whole movie. The story itself is powerful and moving despite its simplicity. "},{"Title":"Liquid Abstraction","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.de Palma invests in the eye, using the narrative as an excuse. Kubrick works at trying to create a visual counternarrative. But Malick is the most interesting, a synthesis of these. He uses the story as a framework for images -- images which create their own parallel narrative. Always underscored by the voiceover.As a philosopher, Malick's intent comes from a specific theory of additive abstraction -- abstraction that purifies and focuses, but does not simplify, instead registers in a larger richer metaphoric context. Clarity made real by its distance from reality. Meaning through the eye. Abstraction up, not down. Same general notion Sam Shepard would get the Pulitzer for the next year.This changes everything. Everything.Picture a `New Yorker' cartoon where a shadowmaster casts a shadow puppet, but the light that casts the shadow is held by the puppet.Imagine Bill imagining Abby imagining Linda imagining a world, and our images are from the farmer in that world.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully shot movie, but with very mediocre storytelling","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven is one of those strange movies that could a masterpiece of cinema if only it knew what to do. Don't get me wrong, it is a good film, but there are a lot of problems with the storytelling.Let's talk about the pros firstThis movie is beautiful. It is hard to imagine this film was shot in the 70s, because it looks absolutely gorgeous. There were a lot of smart decisions on how to shoot this film, and almost all of the shots help drive the story and what is happening. This movie could be told quite easily without any dialogue or noise. This is all good, if it weren't for the voice-overs...The voice-overs in this movie are bad... not quite Thief and the Cobbler bad, but getting there. For a movie that is so obviously supposed to be told almost completely through visuals and without much dialogue, it is rather painful whenever there is a voice-over explaining to us what is happening. This movie forgets that the audience isn't dumb.However, then this brings up some issues with the cinematography and storytelling. There were a couple of noticeable scenes where the cinematography got bad and it was always during dialogue. In one scene, our two protagonists are walking down a river together, but the camera switches from long shots, to close-ups, to mid-shots, the 180 rule gets broken multiple times, the actors start looking directly into the camera, the lighting changes, and sometimes in one shot they will start an action but then in the next shot they will be doing something completely different.For a movie with such great cinematography, it also has some really bad moments as well. Then there is the storytelling This movie is... unique... to say the least, in how it is told. Most people find this to be the biggest flaw of this film, and I agree. The story isn't very interesting and we never really connect with the characters. In all honesty, by the end of the film I did not know the names of a single character in the film. This could have been intentional, but I thought it was most likely due to the poor audio quality whenever people are talking. Days of Heaven is strange in how it goes about because its pacing gets crazy at times and feels disjointed. Just when you think the film is about to end, you realize it has 30 more minutes left.All in all, Days of Heaven is beautiful to look at and I'm glad I watched it. For a movie released in 1978, it has aged very well (except for audio). The look of the film is the only real reason why you should be watching it. Is there a story here? Yes, but that is the film's weakest point.On a super nit-picky note, the movie frequently uses an excerpt from Saint Saens' Carnival of the animals Aquarium, and it never really fits. Maybe to people who don't know this piece, but the piece is describing fish swimming around in an aquarium; which never really matches the scenery of open plains with romantic drama P "},{"Title":"Me and my brother. It just used to be me and my brother.","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What Malick intended of Days of Heaven was something a bit more expository. After about a year of cutting and re-dubbing he came to this; most of the main actor's dialogues were removed, and Linda Manz's quiet, almost removed narration provides its own parallel running commentary to the bigger and more complex events that her child perspective does not afford her understanding. Her filter takes its cues from Malick's debut, Badlands, where Sissy Spacek's voice-over was as much naive as they come; wondering, reminiscing, dreaming of better things. And here Manz provides the same role; her butchered lower- class accent addresses the emotional upheavals of the adults of this world with a carefree irreverence. She interrupts a year long absence between lovers, silent in its unresolved tension, by running up and yelling and hugging. When the days of heaven are long gone, and Abby has resigned themselves to wealth and civilisation, she has a natural urge to return to that world once more. There is a specific pain to the events of the film, but there is also a universality in the way Abby approaches it; see the cut from Bill's death to the faraway shore where women and children are more or less unconcerned with this ending. The final shot of Abby wandering away from her school and into the wilderness undercuts all that has happened, as if it was just a chapter in her brief life, and suggesting there is a lot more left to come. Opposing this we have the speech of the adults which is clipped and minimal. It matters not what they say, because more can be gleamed in their pained and yearning faces. The opening argument which sets this whole 'adventure', as Abby would refer to it, is drowned out by the droning of the steel mills. We do not know what caused the argument, only that it results in the group having to flee to the Texas farm. Later, Malick replicates this method with the farmer; his reaction shot to Bill and Abby being a little too touchy feely is silent in its agony, but the whirring of the windspire in the backgrounds gradually builds to resemble his racing heart. And see how the editing reveals to us Bill's desire to kill the farmer and reclaim his woman; following Gere as he practically stalks the farmer like a hunter to a deer, swapping tense closeups of a trigger finger with the movement of the birds, and then with a composition that quickly paints him as guilty so that he has to swing his gun away. The film has been praised for its gorgeous cinematography, and deservedly so. Paradoxically, Malick films at golden hour so that the sun is hidden away yet the last remnants of sunlight fill the background with a romantic glow that seems at all odds with the affairs at the farm. Almendros and Wexler's compositions are remarkable, depicting the Edward Hopper style mansion with a lonesome, dreamlike presence on the horizon. Tiny dark figures will intersect carefully along the golden fields, silhouetted by the waning sun. While conventional landscape shots might have the sky and land evenly share the frame, they tend to use a lopsided ratio to emphasise the natural beauty; once while an immense stormcloud hovers over the diminished plains, threatening with rain, and to showcase the green hills that seem to go on and on and push the sky out of focus. A tiny slight involves the photography being a little too pretty at times where the mood might suggest something more chaotic - when the locus swarm descends upon the crops, everyone panics and tries to swat them out, but the camera points serenely at a single insect in shallow focus and in close up, as if it were a tourist capturing the perfect shot. Lone bushels of wheat, swaying ever so slightly in the wind are also given this treatment at times. The way Malick channels the power of nature foretells The Tree of Life. Here, he relies on it to empower the emotions felt in our characters. The serenity and peace of a sneaky night-time affair is characterised by the river rushing over pebbles. The wind whips up a frenzy within the farmer as he slowly realises that he has been conned. Instead of depicting the nervous wedding night consummation, he shoots a single trembling leaf, wet with dew. Some of these images resonant deeply, while others are less convincing. Combined with what is a common criticism of this film, the stilted characterisation and dialogue, it makes for an interesting if not slightly off-putting mix. Treat it as a sort of Terrence Malick litmus test. "},{"Title":"I just feel the need to add this one additional point!","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I want to set the record straight about this film score. But first I want to join my fellow detractors of the grossly overrated film in agreeing that the characters and story line are anemic and undeveloped; and the voice over atrocious. At first I couldn't understand a word of it. I'd rewind and listen again only to discover that not only was it annoying, but it was also uninteresting and meaningless.Now, for all the fellow detractors who cared as little for this tedious film as I did but acknowledged its breathtaking cinematography and beautiful score, you may want to reconsider your praise of the music. The music is beautiful, and one of the best things about this awful film, but it's not original. And it is not film music. It is, note for note, from a classical piece composed in 1886, by Camille Saint Seans, called Carnival of the Animals. What you're hearing over and over again throughout this whole three hour film (oh, that's right, it's only 94 minutes) is the 'Aquarium' movement. You will also be familiar with this same composition as the 'Swan' movement is used in the ballet solo, The Dying Swan; made famous by Anna Pavlova and every other great ballerina over the last 100 years who strapped on a pair of pointe shoes to croak under a spotlight. So, the music in this film truly beautiful. But no thanks to anyone living in 1978 or now. "},{"Title":"beautiful wonder but emotionally cold","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1916. Bill (Richard Gere) is a hothead. He accidentally kills his supervisor in a Chicago steel mill. He runs away with his girlfriend Abby (Brooke Adams) and her sister Linda who narrates the movie. They find work harvesting a vast land for a farmer (Sam Shepard). Bill and Abby pretends to be siblings to avoid scrutiny. The farmer falls for Abby. Bill convinces Abby to marry the terminally ill farmer for his money. However, his death doesn't come and Bill becomes concern.Terrence Malick knows how to make a beautiful looking film. His collaboration with cinematographer Nestor Almendros is absolutely brilliant. The scored by Ennio Morricone invokes an ethereal quality. It's a movie that should be shown in museums. I'm not as taken with a young Richard Gere in the role. He's way too pretty. His wavy hair is too lovely. He has that playboy swagger. He doesn't fit the steel mill worker and farm worker character. He looks more like a hustler. I do love Brooke Adams in the role. The little girl Linda is another matter. She is stiff and I hate the narration. It keeps the movie devoid of emotions. If Malick insists on making Linda the protagonist, he could at least make her interesting. "},{"Title":"The most beautiful movie ever made","Date":"5 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven came as surprise to me. A good surprise I should add. I knew of the films reputation as a beautiful movie with a good story, but to my great enjoyment I was still completely blown away by the near perfect cinematography.Set in the large opens plains of Texas in 1916, Days of Heaven is filmed with such attention to detail and grand scope that it almost numbs the mind. Every single shot of the movie is carefully considered tells its own story.As for the story, the film is about a young couple working for a rich landowner. The landowner, dying from an unspecified disease, falls in love with the women and her boyfriend convince her to marry the rich man in order to land his money.Offcause things don't go as planned but what happens next is something you will have to experience yourself in one the best movies from the golden 1970's. Enjoy! "}{"Title":"Mysterious, Beautiful and, Very Definitely, a Masterpiece","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot of this film could be taken from a Thomas Hardy story translated to America. After killing a man in a fight Bill, a Chicago steel mill worker, is forced to flee with his girlfriend Abby and his young sister Linda to Texas, where they find work on a farm. To prevent gossip, and possibly to throw the police off the scent should they ever come investigating that killing in Chicago, Bill and Abby pretend that they are brother and sister. Bill learns that their new employer, who is clearly a wealthy man, has been diagnosed with an unspecified terminal illness and has been given only a short time to live. (We never learn his name; he is simply referred to as the farmer). He is clearly also attracted to Abby. Bill therefore encourages Abby to marry him so that she can inherit his money when he dies. The plan, however, misfires. The diagnosis turns out to have been mistaken, the farmer's health improves, or at any rate does not deteriorate, and Abby starts to fall for the man she has married. When the farmer realises the truth about Bill and Abby's relationship, the inevitable result is tragedy. Days of Heaven was Terrence Malick's second feature film, following Badlands from 1973. (His third, The Thin Red Line, was not to appear for another twenty years). The title is enigmatic; given the tragic nature of the storyline it may simply be ironic, as life proves far from heavenly for Bill, Abby and the farmer. It may, however, be a hidden reference to the feature for which the film has become famous. The Texas Panhandle is a flat, featureless area, yet as photographed by Malick and his cinematographer Nestor Almendros it becomes a land of startling, almost heavenly, beauty. This is one of those films where virtually every shot looks like a carefully composed painting. (There are too many striking images to single any out). The farmer's house was based upon the building depicted in Edward Hopper's The House by the Railroad. (This painting also inspired Norman Bates' home in Hitchcock's Psycho, a film about as different in style from Days of Heaven as one could imagine). The views of the fields, with their muted palette of brown, grey, black and beige, are reminiscent of the work of Andrew Wyeth, and those scenes shot at dawn or dusk, as many were, have something of the look of a picture by Jean-Francois Millet. The action takes place in the years 1915-17, and traction engines and other farm machinery of the period are much in evidence. As in Badlands there are few bright colours other than the blue of the noonday sky and the reds and golds of morning and evening. The visual effects are complemented by a fine musical score; the use of Aquarium from Camille Saint-Saëns's Carnival of the Animals seems particularly appropriate to the mood of the film. When the film first came out in 1978 it was not a great success, although many critics praised its visual beauty and Almendros won the Academy Award for Best Cinematography. (Even this was controversial because Almendros had to leave to work on another project after shooting overran and Haskell Wexler, who took over from him, received no recognition. Wexler's work is visible in the Chicago scenes, which are different in style to the rest of the film). It was not, however, nominated for Best Picture and was not a great commercial success. A common criticism was that the storyline was too thin and the emotions too muted. Roger Ebert put forward an ingenious defence of the film, claiming that it is really about Linda rather than about Bill and Abby and that we do not feel the full passion of the adults because it is not her passion. This is certainly one possible reading, although probably not one that will command universal support. I think, however, that there are other possible explanations for this seeming lack of passion. Bill, as played by Richard Gere, is a cold, passionless man whose only thoughts are for himself. The farmer, as played by Sam Shepard, is a shy, reticent man who has difficulty expressing his feelings in an age when stress was placed on keeping a stiff upper lip. Abby, caught between two men, is afraid to reveal too much of herself to either. The muted emotions, therefore, struck me as entirely appropriate to the film's period and theme. Since it first appeared Days of Heaven has become regarded as one of the greatest films of the 1970s; in my view it was the greatest film of 1978. (It would certainly have deserved a Best Picture nomination more than something like Coming Home, which was essentially nominated as an expression of regret for the Vietnam War). It formed part of a movement in the 1970s towards greater lyricism and poeticism in the mainstream cinema, not just in specialist arthouse movies; other films within this movement would include Nicolas Roeg's Walkabout and Don't Look Now, Weir's Picnic at Hanging Rock and Cimino's The Deer Hunter, the film which actually won Best Picture in 1978. Allen's Manhattan was to show that this style could be adapted to black-and-white as well as colour films. My view of the film would best be summed up in the words of the critic Dave Kehr who called it a story of human lives touched and passed over by the divine and a film that hovers just beyond our grasp&#x97;mysterious, beautiful, and, very possibly, a masterpiece- except that I would substitute definitely for Kehr's very possibly. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A visual feast","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrence Malick is known and revered for his cinematography, and elements of nature within his movies, but this is where it all began. His second movie, Days of Heaven is a visual feast. Stunning landscapes, minute images of nature and incredible use of light. Even 35 years later it cannot be faulted, cinematographically. Story-wise, it's like something between Thomas Hardy and John Steinbeck. Slow-moving but deeply engaging, with a fair amount of social commentary. Not always coherent though. Some sub-plots go nowhere, and some characters seem surplus to the story. The movie also lasts one or two scenes too many. A more powerful movie could have been achieved by ending it at the climax, rather than trying to tie up some loose ends, none of which are really tied up that well in the end anyway.Good performances by Richard Gere and Brooke Adams in the lead roles. Good support from Sam Shepard and Linda Manz. "},{"Title":"A beautiful masterpiece","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While watching Terrence Malick's Days of Heaven (1978) it made me think of another romance movie that i had seen earlier in the year and that movie was Sydney Pollack's Out of Africa (1985) because they have so much in common such as the genre and the beautiful landscapes in both pictures. The movie tells the story of a hot- tempered farm laborer (played by Sam Shepard) who tries to convince the woman he loves to marry their rich but dying boss so they can have a claim for his profit. The movie itself was well dine but i do disagree with some of the critical responses at the time of it's release that the movie was praised for it's beauty but panned it because the movie had no story or meaning to it, to me this is truly one of the best romance movies ever made as well as one of the best movies of all time. Gere, Adams, and Shepard are just excellent in this movie, but one thing i find shocking is how good Gere looked while making this movie. I really do hope that when I see another Terrence Malick movie that it will be just as good as this movie was. "},{"Title":"A terrific work of camera that takes an ordinary story to extra-ordinary level of story telling.","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A terrific work of camera that takes an ordinary story to extra-ordinary level of story telling.This is a Terrence Malick film, that shows with the cinematography. The passion exudes in ever frame, in ever shot. In detailing of the backdrop, the period, the artifacts. Malick certainly can be called a visual poet. This is the second film I watched of his, the first one being The Thin Red Line. Both have exemplary camera work and are exquisitely detailed in composition of each frame. You can pause at any moment in these two films and you can say, hey wow, what a painting that is.Days of Heaven came early that is 1978. Yet, the work is contemporary and long standing. It has a story that is universal. It's about love, betrayal and murder. These things flow like poetry and all is said from the eyes of a child. The voice over adds a perspective that makes the film interesting. Apart from technical brilliance, the film has to be known as one of the earliest Richard Gere films. He showed in this film, what he was made of. He is a tough and long running horse and he proved it with time. Also, Linda Manz as Linda did a terrific job as a child.Most of the praise most surely go to the men who used camera very nicely. Nestor Almendros and Haskell Wexler did a stupendous job in creating paintings through camera. Thanks to them and a big thanks to Malick in knowing the perfect use of camera. The editing and sound, considering the period this film was set in, were pitch perfect. The editing gave fluidity to the story and the sound which I suppose was remastered by Criterion was great. From the starting scenes of huge burning down, to the horses in chase, to a gun shot. They were crystal clear and gave a thorough surround stereo feel.I loved the camera-work above all else. It shows the diligence and prudence of Malick and salutations to him. A 4/5 for this visual poetry. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Beautiful Films Ever Made.","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Unanimously hailed by cinema lovers around the world as one of the most beautiful films of all time, Days of Heaven is Terrence Malick's second feature after the fervently received Badlands and presents the director cementing his status as one of cinema's finest auteurs by experimenting with the visual outlook of the film in order to overwhelm the viewers' senses with its beauty, at which he magnificently succeeds.The plot concerns two lovers, Bill & Abby, disguised as siblings who travel to Texas Panhandle along with Bill's little sister (who's the narrator of the film) to harvest crops for a wealthy farmer. After finding out that the farmer is dying & is in love with Abby, Bill encourages her to marry him & inherit his fortunes but when the expected death fails to arrive, jealousy & impatience paves way for an inevitable outcome waiting to happen at any moment.Written & directed by Terrence Malick, his direction this time takes a very artistic approach as Days of Heaven isn't driven by its plot but the images it puts up on the screen. The script doesn't offer anything new in the story nor any of its characters show an interesting arc yet the pain- staking effort made in designing its visual outlook nonetheless makes it a cinema that will leave most viewers completely mesmerized by its beauty.The camera-work is nothing short of breathtaking for each frame looks like a remarkable work of art & the manner in which it captures its landscapes using natural light only adds more warmth & richness to the whole experience. Spending more than two years in the editing room, the final print is an immaculately edited cinema that seamlessly intercuts its narrative elements with nature's beauty while Ennio Morricone's score manages to further enrich our senses with its heartwarming tracks.Coming to the performances, there isn't anything largely impressive but everyone from Richard Gere, Brooke Adams, Sam Sheperd & Linda Manz have done a fair enough job in their given roles. Still, honestly, I don't know which side to take for this film. A part of me was absolutely bedazzled by its awe-inspiring beauty & precision craftsmanship in every single frame but the other part was also pretty bummed up & unsatisfied with what it lacks in story & characters.On an overall scale, Days of Heaven is an expertly crafted, gorgeously photographed, evocatively captured & splendidly scored cinema that's aesthetically & artistically significant to the art of filmmaking and remains one of the most influential works of its era. The fragmented story encapsulated by jaw-dropping photography do feel like a sort of manipulation but then it's also almost impossible to not be taken in by its alluring images, turn a blind eye to its drawbacks & enjoy the visually spellbinding ride. "},{"Title":"Days of Heaven A movie in its purest form","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven will forever remain one of my all time favorite films. Its director (Terrence Malick) took almost two years to get it edited. You can tell. However, please don't let that diminish your opinion of it. As a connoisseur of many types of films, I am confident when I say that Days of Heaven is one that touches greatness. It's a movie's movie and is filmmaking in its most purest, not to mention most exposed form. Almost every image on screen is indelible. Pretty much every character is realized. Every nuance of nature has its own still frame and to be honest, film as art has never been more important than it was when this masterpiece got released in the fall of 1978. It notably launched the acting careers of Richard Gere and Sam Shepard. And it pulls off something very special. Let's be honest, how many other movies do you know that have a short running time of 90 plus minutes, manage to be this massively epic in scope? Yup, I couldn't agree more.Part vagabond adventure, part love triangle, and part early 1900's parable, Days of Heaven tells the story of Bill (Gere), a laborer out of Chicago who commits an accidental murder (kills his boss) and then flees the state with his lover Abby (Brooke Adams) and his sister (narrator Linda Manz). The three of them end up somewhere in the plains of Texas (Alberta, Canada was the actual location), find jobs on a wheat farm and become involved with the rich landowner (Sam Sheppard in first true role) who owns it. The storytelling in this film, although choppy, eventually finds its focus and it releases itself like a sledgehammer in the final act. When it comes to the musical score, there is a sort of haunting eerie beauty to it. However, it also resonates a feeling of radiant hope. The story or plot along with the music however, sort of takes a back seat to the visual splendor. Make no mistake about it; this is probably one of the most beautiful films you will ever see. Its cinematography won a well deserved Academy Award and with this being Malick's second major release, he pretty much announced himself to the world as a prominent visual auteur. Every scene is filled to the brim with little nooks and crannies. You get beautiful waterfalls, close-ups of locusts in their natural habitat, sped up windmills (even wind is a star in this flick), and incredibly lush sky imagery. I read somewhere that a critic said you can take any image from Days of Heaven and frame it as a painting. Darn, that's what's I wanted to say! Anyway, if you are a budding filmmaker, an aspiring movie critic, or just a radical screen buff, this is the ultimate foray into one's film education. Days of Heaven is a sort of cinematic translator. It will make you understand the power of cinema and its never ending possibilities. Don't hesitate to check it out. Remember heaven can't wait. "},{"Title":"A Prairie story","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is gorgeous looking film very much filmed at dusk and dawn but a film misunderstood upon its time of release and only after Terrence Malick's subsequent films can you now understand what the writer- director was aiming at.The fact that Malick's next film emerged 20 years later and although he is now prolific we understand this is a person who wants to tell his story by visuals. Actors talking is secondary and those scenes end up on the cutting room floor.Days of Heaven which was shot in 70mm always had a reputation for its Cinematography which won an Oscar. Now we can marvel it in our homes on widescreen high definition television, for a start you can really have those close ups of those insects. It is also a surprisingly short film, coming in at just over 90 minutes.The tale is slight, Gere is a hothead with a girlfriend that is pretending to be his sister and his actual younger sister. They get a job whilst fleeing from Chicago in a farm in Texas where the Farmer played by Sam Shepard takes a shine to the girlfriend and marries her. Gere is aware that the Framer only has a year to live.Apparently the film took several years to be edited and the narration from the youngest sister had to be added to make the story flow. A similar device was used by Malick in 'The thin red line.'The film might be seen as slow and maybe hard to fathom because there is relative little dialogue but as mentioned you admire the visuals and at 90 minutes its not as slow moving as you think. A brave beautifully crafted film. "},{"Title":"Sad, pitiful and spiritless","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" That's a very sad film about young people in the USA of 1916-1918. A couple, probably not married, pretending to be brother and sister escape hard work in Chicago and go south to Texas and work on a farm. The young and isolated parentless farmer falls in love with the woman who accepts to stay provided her brother and the girl presented as her sister who is travelling with them can stay too. The ambiguous situation did not last long and when the next harvest comes the drama come to its natural end in a cloud of locusts, an accidental fire of the wheat field and the death of the young farmer duly married to the woman who had managed to fall in love in a way or another with him but could not choose.No escape possible in that case and the funny hunt against buffaloes or rabbits or coyotes becomes a hunt after a murderer. And justice will not cost one single penny, not even for the rope.The woman and the girl have to disappear in a way or another and they do.That's a time in America when being on the road, or railroad, being on the move was part of the life style but at the same time part of the poverty and the only way for many to escape poverty, overexploitation, and crowded misery. But then obscurity and lies do not lead to a clear future and all human relations get exploded in a jiffy. Survival is then the only objective left and the means are not supposed to matter very much.Don't think this has disappeared. In our societies there is still 20 to 25% of the population that is under the level of self-sufficiency, be it in education, in financial means, in hygiene or health, and they run around trying to survive in cardboard boxes or dealing and peddling anything they can put their hands on. It is sad indeed but there is no village to look after these lost souls. Sooner or later it turns catastrophic for them, or they turn catastrophic for the others with a gun and a few rounds of bullets. They say it is nothing but insanity. Is it really only that?Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Days of Heaven is a very beautiful and original film that I would watch several times!","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The romantic drama flick, Days of Heaven was Terrence Malick's second and last film that he directed, before he took a big break from filmmaking for 20 years (1978-1998). The film's title is a reference to Deuteronomy 1121 That your days may be multiplied, and the days of your children, in which the LORD swore to your fathers to give them as the days of heaven upon the earth. The film starts with a 29-year old then-newcomer Richard Gere (it was his second major picture as a lead role), Brooke Adams, Sam Shepard, and Linda Manz. Mr.Malick also wrote the original dramatic love story of this film.This story is set in the year 1916. Bill (Richard Gere) is a poor Chicago laborer, who moves to the Texas Panhandle with his lover Abby (Brooke Adams) and teenage sister Linda (Linda Manz) because he'd knocked out and killed his boss at a steel mill. Then, they get hired to work with the large group of seasonal workers, which is run by a rich farmer (Sam Shepard). When Abby finds out that the farmer is in love with her, despite being his girlfriend, Bill convinces her to marry him (it's obviously a false marriage),knowing that he is suffering from a serious illness and has only a year to live. So, Bill and Abby pretend that they are brothers and sisters. Linda narrates the film, just like the characters from Mr.Malick's other films like Badlands, The Thin Red Line, and The Tree of Life. She mostly narrates the beginning and the ending. Linda Manz does a really striking narration and very well explains the moments that happened in this film. The cinematography is phenomenal and the entire 92 minutes of this film was very well recorded. One of the beautiful camera shots is a close up of a locust standing on top of the wheat. It was the first film to use the Panaglide, an early form of Steadicam. It was recorded by the very talented cinematographer named Nestor Almendros, who won an Oscar for his work on this film. Here's a fact he was going blind during production. Before each shot, he would have his assistant take a picture with a Polaroid camera and then would view it under a high-powered magnifying glass. He also recorded other dramatic flicks like Kramer vs Kramer and Sophie's Choice. At the time Richard Gere starred in Days of Heaven, he was still relatively unknown, although he began gaining fame during the early 1980s, after playing the lead role in the crime-drama called American Gigolo (1980). Here's a cool fact both actors, Dustin Hoffman and Al Pacino actually auditioned for the role as Bill. Mr.Gere gave a brilliant performance along with the rest of the cast. Their confident and acting along with the dialogue was the reason why their performances came out as brilliance. The film score is dazzling & emotional and it gets stuck in my head every time I watch this movie. It was composed by Ennio Morricone, who also composed the music for Sergio Leone's films like The Man with No Name Trilogy, Once Upon a Time in the West and Once Upon a Time in America . Days of Heaven is a very beautiful and original film that I would watch several times! The screenplay written by Mr.Malick for this film was impressively original and extraordinary because of the dialogue he created. His film directing is always excellent and he really has amazing trademarks. His films are mostly filmed entirely outside, heavy use of Stedicam, always includes narration by one or more characters, visual dialectics through images, and rarely uses artificial light. Days of Heaven is currently out on the Criterion Collection edition on Blu-ray, and it's really worth buying. I highly recommend this picture for people in general. I give it a truly 4 out of 4 stars!Original release date September 13, 1978.Released by Paramount Pictures.Cast and crew infoCrewWritten and directed by Terrence Malick, director of photography, Nester Almendros, edited by Billy Weber, music by Ennio Morricone; art designer, Jack Fisk, produced by Bert and Harold Brackman.CastRichard Gere (Bill), Brooke Adams (Abby), Sam Shepard (The Farmer), Linda Manz (Linda), Robert Wilke (The Farm Foreman), Jackie Shultis (Linda's Friend), Stuart Margolin (Mill Foreman), and Tim Scott (Harvest Hand). "},{"Title":"I wish there had been more films like this one !","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is a sad story of imperfect people and the tragedy of their life. The unfortunate situation of a triangular love affair has been portrayed very sensitively. The greatness of this work lies in the fact that it has remained faithful to the cruel reality of life through all its length. Never ever has the director tried to adorn it with any fake idealism. Life is imperfect, nobody is ideal, perfection is not the nature of creation. That is why the days of Heaven do not last long, it comes to an end, a sad end which fills your mind with melancholy. People are flawed, there is the devil inside them and they are irresistibly drawn towards their own peril. But you cannot just hate any of them totally in a straightforward manner. All the time you would wish that this evil should not have befallen these people. But as it happens, you search for a ray of hope in all this darkness just as the narrator of the film, the little girl does. There is no affirmation that she finds that redeeming hope, there is only an urge for it. Whether the viewer finds any light of redemption depends on his own perception of this artistic masterpiece, that is a subjective matter. "}{"Title":"Film Review Days of Heaven","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Set in the early nineteen hundreds, Terrance Malick's cinematic gem Days of Heaven is regarded as one of the greatest cinematic achievements in regard to it's beautiful visuals. Days of Heaven is Malick's second feature film and much like 1973′s Badlands it faced an enormous amount of difficulties during it's production. Not to mention the three years it spent in a post production stage whilst Malick was editing it. The main problem with the film was that it didn't flow very well, the scenes seemed very alienated from each other and would make it difficult for the viewer to be immersed in the film's story. After Malick decided to make Linda Manz (who plays a supporting role in the film) the narrator, everything seemed to be tied together well. The story follows a hot tempered laborer named Bill (Richard Gere) who works in a Chicago steel mill to provide for his younger sister (Linda Manz) and his girlfriend Abby (Brooke Adams). After a heated argument with his boss, Bill looses his temper and strikes him down with a shovel, killing him instantly. To escape the law, Bill takes his sister and girlfriend and heads for Texas by train to work for a rich landowner referred to in the film as The Farmer (Sam Shepard). From then on we get to see The Farmer's point of view as well as Bill's, Linda's and Abby's. The Farmer slowly falls in love with Abby and wishes to marry her. Unfortunately, he is dying from a terminal illness. Bill encourages Abby to marry hims so that after his death, they can exploit his wealth.Days of Heaven is one of those rare films in which small dramatic, maybe even melodramatic moments become incredibly meaningful. Gere, Adams and Shepard deliver exceptional performances and carry the film alongside Malick's smooth direction. What can I say about the cinematography that hasn't been said hundreds of times before, it's amazing. The vast wheat fields and the dusty American terrain are a treat for the eyes. Malick sets up his impressive visual style with his first two films and has continued to impress with the visuals of his more recent work. Ennio Morricone's soundtrack creates a dreamlike atmosphere and, as with many of his soundtrack's brings an indelible beauty and charm to the screen. Ultimately, Days of Heaven is a story of poverty, desperation and greed. Bill is forced to sink so low that he sacrifices that which is truly important to him for wealth. It is also a retrospect on the hardships that the working class population went through during the industrial era. Though it is presented in a way that showcases the story's beauty, it is a harsh and hard hitting tale.Great story, great acting, great cinematography and great music. This is all part of Terrence Maclick's fantastic vision and are just some of the reasons this film has stood the test of time. Days of Heaven is a showcase for Malick's cinematic mastery and is one of cinema's greatest achievements "},{"Title":"Stunning, Beautiful And Original","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days Of Heaven (1978) by Terrence Malick.Let me make this review short and sweet. I liked the movie, it was stunningly beautiful and quite emotional, but i think it was flawed in some ways... For an example i think that the movie was a bit boring, it was easily watchable but a few parts of the movie was in my honest opinion a bit stretched.And also i didn't like Malick's editing style, it was somehow flawed. But lets not focus on the negative sides of the movie!I liked the movie because it beautiful and emotional, also the acting was good and believable. Its weird but i somehow pictured Martin Sheen in the role of Bill.I loved the narrator, narrated by a little girl who creates and interesting atmosphere.Days Of Heaven is like an beautiful dream, Your eyes... Your ears... Your senses... will be overwhelmed. Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Malick Film Through and Through","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A hot-tempered farm laborer convinces the woman he loves to marry their rich but dying boss so that they can have a claim to his fortune.All I can really say about this movie is that it is a Malick film and shows his commitment to excellence. Allegedly, Malick spent two years editing the picture after shooting was complete (which must be fun for actors who are waiting to start promoting).The camera colors and light are very much in the same style as Badlands, another Malick film (that is probably better known). Here he wanted only the use of the white sky at dawn and dusk. I do not believe Badlands used that technique, but his overall appreciation for how drab colors can be beautiful comes across, and both films are very much focused on the outdoors of the Midwest, far from the city. "},{"Title":"Striking Beauty From the First Shot to the Last","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven (1978) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Set in Texas 1916, this Terrance Malick drama centers on poor immigrant Bill (Richard Gere) who talks the woman he loves (Brooke Adams) into marrying a dying farm owner (Sam Shepard) so that they can enjoy his money once he dies. Being a Malick film you know the story is actually going to be a very small part of the overall picture and like most of the director's films people are going to be put off by the slow pace and the lack of a clear story. The lack of a story might be the wrong word to use because there's certainly a love triangle thing going on here but Malick really doesn't center everything on this because the true beauty of the picture comes from the terrific cinematography and the beautiful images captured. I think you could take just about any Malick movie and say it's one of the greatest looking ever made and that's certainly true of this one. The Texas scenery is just so remarkable that you really do feel as if you're seeing something from the past because it's hard to believe that there was this type of beauty still around in 1978. The film offers up so many incredibly scenes starting off in the steel factory early on to the wheat fields and then there's a downright haunting sequence dealing with a fire. Malick also manages to get very strong performances from the three leads. This is especially true of Gere and Shepard as they really capture the mood and spirit of the film with their performances. There were countless great directors from this period and throughout the history of film but I think it's safe to say that very few have an eye like Malick. The visual beauty of this film is what makes it a classic and a must see. "},{"Title":"Photographic Poetry","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Why is Terrence Malick so highly regarded by film buffs? Why is he considered by so many to be one of the best directors alive? On most days I would say that the sole reason is his mysteriousness. That his many years of inactivity throughout the 80's and 90's, his long intervals between films even after that, and his fondness for seclusion, served to build up his reputation as a cult figure and made the legend that much bigger than the man. It's only during and immediately after watching Days of Heaven that I see the magic Malick has, the one that made him a unique and legendary director even when he only had two films under his belt - a magic that, try as I might, I could never find in any of the films he made afterwords.Days of Heaven was fascinating for me because it's a rare case of a film that I loved but couldn't explain to myself why. In addition to breathtakingly beautiful (Oscar winning) cinematography and superb music (Ennio Morricone's beautiful score skillfully juxtaposed with segments from Saint-Saëns), Days of Heaven has a kind of human warmth that makes it very easy to be absorbed into; paradoxically, it feels very global and very personal at the same time. The fact that it deals with very general emotions and issues of human morality, emphasized by the pretty transparent use of biblical analogies, doesn't detract from the impression that it features real people that the viewer cares about deeply. This despite a sparse script that's pretty weak even when taking its minimalism into account, and an awful performance from Richard Gere (balanced by the much more believable work of Sam Shepard).Days of Heaven is an experience rather than a film, and the experience is so powerful and absorbing that the above mentioned flaws are hardly even noticeable. It's not perfect in every way, but it probably couldn't have been better than it is - it's a film where all the pieces fall into place, including all the seemingly meaningless and random shots of nature - unlike the ones in The New World and Tree of Life, that seemed like they were pasted in just to make it feel like a Malick film. I don't know if it's the fact that he didn't yet feel like he has something to prove, or if the short runtime is a factor, but Days of Heaven feels more personal than most films, and Malick seems to have invested his soul in it, which may explain why he didn't dare release another film for two decades. He probably knew that he'll never make one that matched it. "},{"Title":"Movie of Pure Heaven","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrence Malick is perhaps the most inspiring and ambitious director of all time. Before his 20 year absence from making movies, Terrence Malick created his version of a love triangle set in the prairies of Texas. The main character bill , played by Richard Gere, murders his boss in a coal mine and runs away with his lover (Abby played by Brooke Adams) and kid sister. they arrive in Texas and work for a rich farmer who is dying of a disease. Bill convinces Abby to marry the farmer so when he dies they can take his fortune This is film is perhaps the most beautiful film before CGI. The cinematography is so outstanding. I can't rave about it enough. The acting was also done very well by the three leads, and the narration helps connect the story together. The music, mostly Camille Saint-Saens Carnival of the Animals, bring a sense of mysticism and almost child-like wonder to this film which fits perfectly with the narration. My only problem with the film is it feels subdued. It lacks the epiness and sheer human emotion of Terrence Malicks other films, most notably The Thin Red Line and Tree of Life. If He had developed he story more with extra footage/scenes, this would be close to a perfect film. Still despite this, This is still a rich and beautiful film to see. This film is 20 years enough of Terrence Malick to sustain us forever. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Days of Heaven","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In Days of Heaven, this film takes place with a young couple Bill and Abby who are living with almost no money to their name, later on Bill, Abby and the girl they travel with named Linda will get on a train to travel to find work, because Bill started a fight causing himself to get fired from his current job. As they arrive to this new land looking for worked to harvest mass amounts of land for money, they are checked out to make sure they will work and wagon back to a house with acres of land. They live on the land being fed every day, but work many hours a day harvesting crops for the landowner. However, the landowner catches a glimpse of Abby one day while she was working and he was overseeing his land being harvested and wants to find out who she is, because he thinks she's a very attractive women. The landowner runs into Abby a few days later and talks to her and tells her how he feels, when she goes back to tell Bill of what happen, he decides to tell her she should marry him, because the landowner is already ill and once he passes they could inherit what is his. When Abby marries the boss, Bill tries to accept it but over time the landowner starts doing better, and as more and more times goes by Bill tries to not show him that he was already with Abby, but the boss finally catches him so Bill leaves the land. When Bill comes back to the land he sees that Abby is actually in love with the landowner, as he tries to get her and Linda to go away with him, he is caught yet again messing around with (he really isn't that smooth). The landowner comes and finds Bill working on his bike and pulls out a gun, Bill then stabs the owner and runs for his life, where he is chased down by the cops and killed in the river. Now the end of this film is Linda leaving with some girl from a orphanage, talks about her friend she is leaving with has no idea what she's doing then it end. So besides the ending a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Cinematography","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven is a film about the social class structure and effects of love in the 1920's in the United States. The film is centered three characters and voiced over by the innocent little sister, Linda, of Richard Gere's character. The plot was quite simple. A man and woman are searching for prosperity as common labors early 20th century. They flee the Chicago after Richard Gere's character loses his temper and hits boss with a shovel. The climax of the film is the repetition of this action, he murders his lovers husband and flees farm. The entire plot is a cycle of hurt, shame, and loss of innocence. The gorgeous the cinema photography tied in the concept of isolation and shame felt by the characters. The endless wheat fields and the isolated structure of the house shield the oblivious farmer from his wife's love affair with her brother and the shame of the wife for cheating on him in their material fake world. The chemistry between the characters is believable, except for the brother/sister relationship between Richard Gere and Linda Manz. It may have been the time period, but he did not seem to care if she was safe. He left her behind after he and his lover relationship ended without saying goodbye. The woman and her wife are the only characters that seem to care for the child. The ending of the film was bitter sweet. The man dies, which of course, is poetic justice for killing a man. The woman is left alone forever guilty of betraying both of the men she loved. The little girl is left at a female orphanage. The ending is open ended. The film started with the train tracks and ended the same way. Both female characters wonder down the train tracks into unknown futures. "},{"Title":"love triangle drama","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven is a movie filled with drama and follows the lies and love of a young couple and their search for a happy life. I felt that the overall theme of the film was the generic do anything for love that is portrayed by the actions of the main female character, Abby, because of the strong love (or attachment) she has with Bill. Even though Bill might have good intentions when making decisions looking at the life he wants for the both of them, it is hard to sympathize with his character when he consistently shows qualities that are&#x85;not so great. He has a bad temper, jealous, and overall selfish. And yet, Abby continues to stay by his side and proves to be loyal to him even in the worst of circumstances perhaps in the name of love. It's hard to judge her character when it comes to the love triangle involving the wealthy farmer who owns the land they work on especially because Bill convinces her to make those actions. However, as the ending proves, the couple will do anything for love. The film had its moments and kept me entertained but one thing that is worth pointing out is the frequent landscape shots used. The setting of the movie took place in the central Panhandle of Texas and the film has a lot of beautiful imagery in the many times it shows the audience the landscapes on the farm. I feel that the average movie goers would find themselves enjoying what the film has to offer. It is a drama that has love, jealousy, murder, suspense and passion. Who wouldn't be interested in the love triangle that sparks all of these elements? Days of Heaven is a film that can be enjoyed by anyone who takes interest in watching dramas unfold. "},{"Title":"Who did Abby truly love?","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot of Days of Heaven is divided into three parts, each separated by Bill killing someone, and then fleeing along with his younger sister Linda and his girlfriend Abby. The first killing takes place in Chicago were Bill in a fit of rage accidentally kills his factory foremen. Racing home, Bill, Abby, and Linda, all leave the city on a train headed for Texas. They eventually get a job on a farm, owned by a deathly ill farmer. Bill convinces Abby to marry the farmer, expecting him to die soon, and Abby to inherit everything. Of course nothing goes as planned, the farmer remains stable, and Abby begins to fall in love with him. Though Abby, Bill, and Linda all pretended to be siblings as they traveled to Texas, the obvious more than familial bond between Bill and Abby, have some questioning the exact nature of their bond. As Abby falls deeper and deeper and love with her husband, the gossip of some farm workers has him questioning the strong bond between his wife and her supposed brother, it seems ironic to me that the only time the farmer/husband sees any damning evidence, with his own eyes, is the night that Abby goes to Bill and tells him she can no longer see him because she is in love with her new husband/farmer. As the husband goes after Bill with a gun, Bill once again kills a man, whether accident or not is hard to tell. He uproots his sister and former girlfriend as they once more go on the run, for something they cannot control. Though Abby claims to love her new husband, the very fact that she left with Bill before he ever even told Abby why they need to leave, proves that Abby still had feelings for Bill. Abby didn't know when she left that her husband was dead, so if part, she had to choose between her husband and her former lover, and she choose her former lover. "}{"Title":"Days of Heaven","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrence Malick's own Days of Heaven was a great film, and winner of 10 awards as well as 8 nominations including winning Best Cinematography and Best Director. This movie is a story of a farm laborer, his girl friend, as well as his little sister and their life. The movie starts with Bill, the farm laborer, at a coal mill and his supervisor gets on his last nerve and once the supervisor put a finger on him Bill kills him with one hit of his shovel. The narration for most of the movie is by Linda, the little sister, which honestly bothers me so much because she is almost absolutely worthless in this film. She hardly ever talks, other than her narration, and she barely does anything to support her role in the film. But after a bit the three go on a train that leads them to a farm, and after a couple of days of working there the farmer gets a look at Abby, Bill's girl friend, and it was love at first sight. But because the two weren't married, they told everyone that they were really close siblings, so the farmer never knew they were together. But Bill overhears that the Farmer was dying and so he convinces Abby to get married to the Farmer so when he died they inherit everything. And as time goes on the Farmer isn't dying or getting worse, he's actually just staying normal. The farm foreman played suspects Bill's scheming plan and warns Bill of payback if something were to the wealthy Farmer. This backfires on Bill when Abby develops feelings for the Farmer resulting in an unstable love triangle and a series of unfortunate events. At the end of the film Bill and the Farmer die and it ends with Linda walking with a friend out of a orphanage to somewhere unknown. This is a story that shows that desire for wealth can sometimes comeback to destroy you. "},{"Title":"Summary and Review","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven is a film that makes the audience ponder about the simple ways of life. The movie begins in the 20th century and in the busy and crowded Chicago. The main characters are a poor couple named Bill and Abby who pretend to be brother and sister. This romantic drama has a powerful way of using symbolic imagery over a simplistic shots and dialogue. The couple goes down to the Texas panhandle to find a job and end up working for a farmer in the middle of the country. The dramatic switch from the busy city to the calm and serene farmland, which causes the audience to think about life and enjoying the simple things. Once the couple begins to work, the farmer falls in love with Abby. Since they pretend to be brother and sister, they can not tell him that she is actually married to Bill. The farmer proposes to Abby, and she decides to accept. She accepts because the farmer is ill and it predicted to die within a short amount of time. If he died while she was still married to him, Bill and Abby would inherit all of the farmer's wealth and property, leaving them in a good position. Their plan seems flawless until the farmer does not pass away. This creates a lot of tension, awkward moments, and frustration between the secret love triangle and other unfortunate events. The fact that this extreme situation is set in such a tranquil setting is ironic. The symbolic imagery is a powerful tool in this movie; there is a reflection of the plot in the symbols. Overall, this was a great movie with a powerful and moving story line. "},{"Title":"Stunning to watch and listen to","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of my favorite films of all time. I've seen it several times. Since the best parts are the cinematography, narration (by Linda Manz, in a New Yorker-like accent) and music, it's enjoyable to watch again and again, even though you know what will happen.The movie was clearly made by people who saw the artistic possibilities of film. The camera lingers over scenes, such as a wild turkey walking around after a fire, that most movie makers would have omitted or shown for a second or two at most before moving on to an action scene.The music, whether combined with old time photos (at the start), Manz's narration and nighttime scenes of people along the river (towards the end), and the music that is played as the closing credits roll, is simply beautiful, topped only by the Oscar-winning cinematography. "},{"Title":"Beautiful to look at","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrence Malick's Days of Heaven is a simply beautiful and majestic film to look at. It also has a fantastic story, strong performances, and wonderful, mysterious music. However, despite these positives, there is one glaring flaw, for me, that prevents the film from becoming something greater the pacing. No, it wasn't too slow, quite the opposite. The story felt rushed, and the film ultimately felt episodic, as if it was some kind of abridged version of a longer film.In under an hour, Bill kills the man, he, Abby and Linda go to work in the fields, work ends, she marries the farmer, and suspicions are raised. I would have much rather had seen the film run at least two hours, preferably two and a half or even three, rather than a brief 93 minutes. It lacked the slow, lingering pace of Malick's future films, and, therefore, I was unable to really connect to any of the characters. Fortunately, the story itself is so strong that I was never bored, just rushed. The characters and the audience never had time to breathe and absorb the story or savor the magnificent imagery. So, in this regard, I was a little disappointed.Nonetheless, it is, once again, a great story with good performances and awesome cinematography; it definitely deserved its Oscar win. I just would have liked for it to have taken its time more. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking Visually","Date":"1 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have heard this movie referred to so many times in film books and essays. The cinematography is utterly amazing. It captures the essence of the heartland of America in the early century. The story is simple. It reminds me of a recreation in incredibly advanced terms of those Russian films made at the dawn of film-making. The one I think of first is Earth. The plot of this is pretty basic. I was intrigued by the itinerant field workers and the life style, coming in on top of railroad cars, dropped off deliberately (I did wonder how they would have passed under overpasses, but that's a silly sidetrack. We have a young narrator who gives us her slant on the events transpiring, an insightful teenager. We then have the Richard Gere character, looking mighty fine, who is really hiding out. I'm not sure why the ruse with the almost incestuous slant, but that's the way it is. Ultimately, everyone is lost in the wheat fields and what happens is so isolated that the rest of world doesn't care. The visuals, though, are amazing, especially the night the grasshoppers invade and the kingdom falls into ruin because of a fire that destroys the crop. I'm glad I got a chance to finally see this. "},{"Title":"One of my top ten favourite films.","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I tend to think Days of Heaven doesn't get enough credit compared to the rest of the output during the New Hollywood age of cinema but I see it as certainly more than being just a beautiful looking film. I mean, it does work as a film you could just watch on a lazy afternoon to take in the incredible cinematography but it is also, to me, a unique merger between the romantic style of the epic John Ford or Howard Hawke Westerns and the dark themes and realistic enhancements of New Hollywood (Similar to what Chinatown was achieving). I think it is of no coincidence that Ennio Morricone was selected to work on the film's memorable score. There's also Biblical underpinnings, which are kept subtle and are there if you're interested in that sort of thing, or you can focus on the love triangle that makes it a good date movie &#x96; it works on many levels. Days of Heaven is great and it also has one of my favourite movie trailers. "},{"Title":"A meditative drama with gorgeous pictures plotting the drama.","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrence Malick's second film is possibly his best from his small, but so very impressive, filmography. 'Days of Heaven' plays out like a beautiful poem, the aural beauty makes for a meditative drama with four brilliant performances that doesn't get too much to do with dialogs, but with lingering shots and Malick using silent film techniques to underscore the emotional drama and powerful heart of the film. The underbelly of the film has got spiritual essence, and the many down-toned elements shows Malick's masterful notion of narrative - the film runs for one and a half hour, but it naturally feels like an epic, and the fabulous editing are careful dissolves, reverse shots and graphic matches that never hastens the film's thoughtfulness. 'Days of Heaven' is one of those rare films that captures powerful elements of the mysterious life within human beings, nature and spirit. "},{"Title":"Days of Heaven (1978)","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven (1978) &#150; This film blew hot and cold for me, some parts of it were captivating with good emotion showed by the characters and a fairly original storyline whilst other areas I found lacking. The premise of Richard Gere and Brooke Adams pretending to be siblings was never properly explained from the outset other than 'to stop people asking questions' now it might be different in rural America but where I come from people are far more suspicious of implied incest than they are of a monogamous heterosexual relationship, I realise it was a necessary plot device to enable the main crux of the con to play out but I feel it could have been more effectively explained. I also found it difficult to sympathise with Gere's character who came across as opportunistic and vindictive with very few redeeming features.On the plus side the cinematography was first rate with the endless cornfields beautifully shot and the arid landscape really brought to life. The choice to have the young child narrate was very interesting and worked well with the innocent outlook contrasting well with the cruel nature of the main character's plan. Overall the story was well-told and the acting was good throughout. ******* 7/10. "},{"Title":"Spectacular Beauty","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In Malick's followup to Badlands, a laborer, his girlfriend, and his sister find work on the farm of a dying man. There is virtually no plot and the characters are not very well developed. Malick more than makes up for any shortcomings in the script with his spectacularly beautiful images, making this arguably the most gorgeous looking film ever. Gere is OK as the hot-headed laborer. As his girlfriend, Adams is a sensuous presence; it is no mystery why Shepard is enchanted by her. Shepard gives a thoughtful performance as the dying farmer. The most remarkable performance is given by Manz as Gere's little sister and the film's narrator. There is a haunting score by Morricone. "},{"Title":"Life is Like a Shaft of Wheat Blowing in the Wind","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven is a sparse and picturesque tale of migrant workers conning a rich farmer in Texas around the start of WW1. Director Malick creates the same poetic and listless tone he used in Badlands (one of the more understated and quiet young lovers/killers on the run films) and later applied after a twenty year absence to the over-long WWII epic The Thin Red Line (a film that for all its poignant and artistic moments was muddled and confusing and overstated its war is hell and nature is heaven theme). This is probably Malick's best film. Notable for its beautiful cinematography (which rightfully won an Oscar), Ennio Morricone score, a rare decent performance from a young Richard Gere, and one of the oddest and most naturalistic voice-over narrations courtesy of a young girl with a funny accent (that I assume is supposed to be a Chicago accent). Malick, always the consummate motion picture director, is more interested in the settings and the beauty of nature than in creating compelling characters and creates a truly engaging tableau of moving images here mostly involving wheat fields, wind and clouds, streams, dirty farmers, animals and insects, and various antiquated modes of transportation. It would be interesting to see what would happen if Malick every joined forces with a true storyteller. I imagine that would be a rare film to behold. In the end, this is one of those films that you never really get drawn into or emotionally invested in (despite the melodrama) but find strangely interesting and watchable all the same. It probably all has some deep metaphorical meaning, but Malick is once again too artistic for his own good. "}{"Title":"The second of Terrence Malick's rare treats.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I ain't gonna go into any deep pretensions bout describing this movie. The cinematography was tidy, the directing was focused and intelligent, and the story (of a tangled three way love affair) was handled well and played accurately by all. The best thing that can be said bout Malick, is that he makes human films, they are not constructed, they merely happen, yet sustain interest. They are neither documentary or gloss, a rare acheivement in film. In conclusion, I gotta say I enjoyed it, but from someone who only displays his talent too rarely, there is little devlopment in terms of narrative from his earlier masterpiece, Badlands. "},{"Title":"Love as Nature","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps my Midwest background and love of nature makes Days of Heaven one of my favorite films.  Why?  Because it mirrors life, full of ebbs and flows, lightness and dark, spiritually and emotionally.  Bill, Abby and Linda are migrant workers on the run -- until they find themselves finishing the harvest season on fields owned by The Farmer, played by Sam Shepherd.  Relationships form and questions of truth and faithfullness abound -- as nature almost answers us.  Richard Gere, Brooke Adams and Linda Manz give heartfelt performances that sometimes speak emotional volumes with a single glance.  Two other elements play equal parts in this poetic tale -- the late Nestor Alemendros' amazing cinematography and Ennio Morricone's haunting score.  Relax, feel and absorb director Terence Malick's style of storytelling -- you'll never take another film journey quite like this one. "},{"Title":"Poetic, astonishing, a revelation!","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before The Thin Red Line, Terrence Malick was considered a genius with only two movies Badlands and this one. Days of Heaven is a very beautiful movie, full of poetry, like any other work by Malick. The theme of misery, who pulls men to do anything, even to sell love, is well told with this terrible but wonderful story. The scenes to remember are a lot on this movie, but the highest point is the ceremony in the fields, lyric and with a soul. And in his tragedy is very beautiful also the fire in the corn. Gere, in one of his first movie, makes a very good work, but the best are the sick farmer by Shepard and the good work by Linda Manz, a very great narrator. Great score by Ennio Morricone and great photography (Oscar winner) by Nestor Almendros. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films!","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I have a collection of over 250 videos, there are only a handful that I can turn to reliably to remind me of what moviemaking is all about, and why I love movies so much.  Days of Heaven is one of that handful.  It is beautifully photographed and scored.  It is as if you are paging through an old family album, and the photos come alive.  There are some who do not think it has a good enough plot, but it is obvious from the outset that the plot is not what the film is about.  You are swamped with unforgettable images, even the small scenes, such as the black man and the little girl taking turns dancing to a fiddler's jig, wolves and other wildlife tucked between the pages of the story only to be there briefly, the boarding of the train by Lisa's best friend, and so on.  Unforgettable scenes and images. Haunting.  I have a widescreen version of this, and I would love to see it on the big screen.  This is a masterpiece of filmmaking.  "},{"Title":"My favorite movie ever for combining visuals and sound.","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Only Nicholas Roeg has made visuals that affected me as much (Walkabout). I've always felt there's something wonderfully primitive in Sam Shephard's (first film) acting here.  Lonely man feeling near death; beautiful woman nearby -- lots of things can turn from a point like that.  And do.Just seeing the old farm equipment operating is wonderful in itself. One of those movies, like Chinatown, for which i SO MUCH wanted a different plot ending.  So much wanted these people to be happy. Alas. So if you like gorgeous filming, beautiful music, and historical period verisimilitude -- you will very likely love this movie. "},{"Title":"Malick has a genius for a unique path somewhere between evocation and abstraction","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The locust sequence sums up all Malick's strengths as a filmmaker - through relatively few images he moves from the annoyance of a bug in the kitchen to mass catastrophe; showing the locusts in detail to demystify them, yet with several shots (like the silhouetted figures motionless in the dark as an insect cloud rises around them) that have a darkly poetic imagery; and given its placement in the film the entire sequence also has a distinct undercurrent of psychological trauma. It's a logistically challenging spectacle handled with a wayward and idiosyncratic yet utterly rigorous hand. Malick's presumably innate feel for the medium is equally clear in such touches as his use of the voice-over; traditionally a medium of narrative advancement but here fractured and discursive, sometimes delivering only banalities, sometimes barely understandable. The movie surely offers no great insights into emotion or character and wouldn't rate as a work of analysis - Malick's genius is for a path somewhere between evocation and abstraction - his painterly imagery could overwhelm, but then his editing and narrative strategies emphasize mystery (not gratuitous mystery, but one found in a deep if perhaps uncertain sense of the world and our place in it) and make mindless surrender impossible. "},{"Title":"a true moving picture","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If ever a film could be classified as a work of art, Days of Heaven is it. This film looks like a glorious portrait.  Nearly every scene is breathtaking and naturally surreal.  Unfortunately, the story crawls and Richard Gere still annoys the heck out of me.  However, watch this film for its sensory achievements rather than its (lack of) storytelling prowess. "},{"Title":"More than just the most beautiful movie of all time","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terence Malick may not have won any Oscars for The Thin Red Line, but anyone who has seen this movie will understand why Malick's return to movie-making was so eagerly anticipated, and why actors were lined up hoping to work with him. TIME magazine's critic Richard Corliss described this as more than just the most beautiful movie ever made, but it would be hard to object if it were remembered only as the most beautiful movie ever made. Still, that would not do justice to this loving pastiche of swirling wheat fields, cerulean skies, roseate sunsets, and the story of a love triangle that grows more curious as the picture progresses-all set to what is, unquestionably, the most beautiful score ever written for a movie. Richard Gere, Brooke Adams and Linda Manz, who come to work for sickly rancher Sam Shepard, circa 1916, are not only characters who populate the story, but also allegorical figures for a nation and a time-period whose long era of peace and innocence is about to come to an abrupt end. "},{"Title":"Keen perception of childhood","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You can smell this movie. As I watched the movie I re-lived some of the better memories of my own childhood. Sharp yet almost forgotten memories. Thanks Terrence. 10/10. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Beautiful Films Ever Made!","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven is a gorgeous, hauntingly beautiful portrait of the Western landscape and tells the story about loss and how people take loss in stride. Terrence Malick is the most elusive director on this planet today, but he knows how to make films and how to turn them into iconic pieces of art. This film happens to be one of the best films of the 1970's thanks to the haunting story on love and loss, stunning cinematography, a beautiful score by Ennio Morricone (of course), and the wonderful direction of Malick.Malick's film is essentially a love triangle between three people. After Bill accidentally murdered his boss at a steel factory in Chicago, he along with his girlfriend, Abby and younger sister, Linda flee and they head west under the guise that Abby is Bill's sister. They get a job working for a wealthy, but ailing farmer. Thinking that he will soon succumb, Bill advises Abby to marry the Farmer in order to collect his inheritance. But as the farmer gets better, there is certainly going to be some problems....The acting is excellent. Richard Gere, who apparently replaced John Travolta does an excellent job as Bill. Brooke Adams does great as Abby. I liked Sam Shepard as the Farmer. But, I think the best actress here was Linda Manz, who was the younger sister and provided the haunting narration of a girl who seems indifferent and is wary to the world. She has been through so much and it clearly shows as she is telling the story.Overall, Days of Heaven is an excellent feature and is one of the greatest films of the 1970's. It is a short, simple story but it's beautifully shot and even the shots of the wheat blowing in the wind will leave you awestruck. I have never seen much an expert of making poignant films such as Terrence Malick. A beautiful, simple, and concise film, this is. It's a story about how big(as in big corporations) may not be good after all. Such a great piece of art. I rate this film 9/10. "}{"Title":"1 and a half hours of Heaven","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrence Malick's majestic and elegant visual sonnet; hauntingly beautiful in image and sound; brimming with transcendent reverential awe for all the earth's contours and the dance of light. As a pseudo-prequel to The Tree of Life, Days of Heaven tells a simple, timeless story with the enormous scope and resonance of myth, making it's short runtime inconsequential; viewers feel like they're seeing the world, with all its grace and uncertain peril, for the first time. Ennio Morricone does the score for the film (so somehow you have always heard it before elsewhere), which itself is as sweeping and graceful as the cinematography. The film's first act is a meditative view of childhood, poverty and relation; the second act is a temperate human romance and drama; the third is an equally thrilling and terrifying exodus - all of them are beautiful and evocative with their visuals and sound. "},{"Title":"A great emotional film","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't claim to know diddly-squat about movies, but, quite frankly, I do - at least more than the average Iron Man 3 loving bloke, not that it isn't a lovely film, but let's be realistic, it really isn't all that great. Anyway, Days of Heaven is that amazing movie that should be regarded as highly as Forrest Gump or The Shawshank Redemption, one of those movies that anyone who's anyone has seen, but sadly it isn't.In fact, I've never met another person who's seen Days of Heaven, which is a huge shame. In fact, no one I've ever met has even heard of it! Of course, I could be wrong, but the amount of people I've talked to who have never heard of this film is enough to put me off to talking about movies to these people forever. I don't want to sound like a snob here. If you haven't seen the film, it isn't a sin or disgrace, or whatever. But you should certainly give the film a shot. It's truly incredible.The score is absolutely haunting in its simplistic beauty. Days of Heaven is a film that will stay with you long after you have seen it - that is, if you're watching it the right way, not on your phone or while doing something else or whatever. It's really not one to miss or take advantage of. This is one of the greatest films ever made and, in my opinion, Malick's greatest cinematic achievement. "},{"Title":"Unique little movie","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Malick is one of those directors who tend to make films in their own unique way. We recognize his style when we see it and U just gotta love the cinematography in his movies. Especially in this one which I found much more compelling than Tree of Life for example. Both films were exceptional visually, but I wasn't a huge fan of TOL's depressing storytelling. Yes it was supposed to be what it was but it just didn't work for me as good as other Malicks films. In Days of Heaven I liked the slow and meaningful storytelling with solid acting. It has to be said that I'm not a fan of Gere but this was one his better jobs. Well done Mr. Malick. "},{"Title":"Yin-Yanging On The Lonesome Plains","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Few films soar as much on the basis of cinematography alone as Days Of Heaven, which gives it cachet with the art-house crowd, but watching it is to feel something more elemental at work.Bill (Richard Gere) and Abby (Brooke Adams) are lovers on the run from the city, who with Bill's little sister Linda (Linda Manz) find escape, and a kind of unsteady shelter, on a farm in the Texas panhandle. The rich farmer (Sam Shepard) falls for Abby, which Bill encourages because he has learned the farmer doesn't have long to live. Bill tells Abby to marry him, let him die, and we'll be rich. Abby reluctantly plays along, but the scam ends up costing Bill and Abby more than they bargained for.The film works as a yin-yang balancing act of remarkable contrasts. It's grand and epic in scope, yet clocks in at under 94 minutes. It's very expressive in dealing with emotions of yearning and jealousy, yet the dialogue is always sparse and clipped. You seem lost in shots of endless horizons, yet the characters' destinies seem as locked and finite as those of mice in a maze.Terrence Malick seems to have pulled this one out of the editing room, taking a hatchet to his own script. In one of the extras to the fine Criterion DVD, Gere speaks of his frustration at how much of his character's dialogue didn't make the final cut. My sense is Malick realized in editing that the story didn't need much explanation, that less would indeed be more, with the only extended talk coming from Manz's eerie, excellent voice-over narration.The miracle of this movie is that indeed turns out to be enough. Malick seemed to pioneer a style of filmmaking here, of ends of conversations and single-look shots doing all the exposition work. For example, we know Shepard's farmer is having doubts about Abby and Bill with just a shot of him standing alone and still on the roof of his great house, a windmill spinning behind him.This doesn't always work. The opening, while hypnotic and graceful, errs too much on the side of economy. We don't know what happens with Bill's job at the mill, except that he strikes the foreman in anger. It's only reading synopses here that you learn the foreman was killed, which is why Bill is on the run. The ending strangely meanders to the point the entire last five minutes seem like a shrug and a mistake.Also, I don't think Gere or Adams are the best actors for their roles. They are good, but they seem almost like locusts pulled in the slipstream of Manz's powerhouse performance as the little girl, who is alive to every moment she's on screen.As long as you're around, you should have it nice, she tells us, putting everything in perspective while revealing the limited visions of the main characters.I don't which of the two cinematographers, the credited Nestor Almendros or Haskell Wexler, got which shot, but the painterly canvases they produce give Days Of Heaven both a majesty and an accessibility. You can jump into any scene, and just lose five minutes marveling at that and how they keep topping themselves thereafter.Does the film suffer for this? Not really, because it presents us with a good, tight story told not only with economy but an irony that is almost comic in its ersatz divinity. People want what they can't have, and suffer for it. It's Biblical, and kind of existential at the same time. Like I say, it's a yin-yang kind of film. "},{"Title":"Visual feast","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrance Malick's follow up to Badlands is truly a spectacle. This is a film where you could pause it at any stage, and the paused image would be suitable to frame as a picture. Thus is the aesthetic mastery of Malick and his resident cinematographer, Nestor Almendros.It is set in 1916 and it concerns a young labourer from Chicago(Richard Gere), his lover (Brooke Adams) and her sister(Linda Manz) as they travel to the country in search of farm work. The lovers are posing as brother and sister, and Richard Gere's character encourages his lover to reciprocate the amorous feelings of wealthy farm owner Sam Shepard. The plot is pretty oblique and it seems as if the script was thrown out in favour of improvisation and suggestion. The rambling, barely audible voice-over may infuriate some, but if you're happy to watch a film purely for visuals, then this is a film for you. "},{"Title":"Beyond the Visuals","Date":"19 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hard to know what to make of this picture postcard to rural America , circa 1916. No need to underscore the obvious, namely the stunning pictorialism of Malick's earth, sky, and crop abundance. What really grabs me are the hordes of darkly clad pickers let loose from cattle cars, and descending like human locusts upon the land. How hard they toil, yet how playfully they gambol, all amid the wide open spaces&#x97;an America not yet sliced and diced by roadways and sprawl. I doubt any Technicolor snapshot has caught this bygone era so well.Still, I have difficulty detecting a unifying theme beyond the period postcards. In short, what do these magnificent visuals add up to-- is there perhaps some underlying moral or meaning to the story itself. Then again, maybe the sum total is nothing beyond the visuals themselves, that stunning experience being more than enough. After all, the one plot line, the love triangle, seems pretty trite as far as movie fare goes. In fact, many an idyllic screen life has been lost by trying to turn three into two. Rather, I take the last scene of little Linda (the fabulous Linda Manz) as all the commentary necessary, as she skips away to a new adventure, her days of heaven already only a distant memory. America has long been a big restless land. "},{"Title":"Days Of Heaven confirmed Malick's reputation as a visual poet and narrative iconoclast.","Date":"12 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the early 20th century, three young people - two lovers (Richard Gere and Brooke Adams) and the man's younger sister - work in the wheat fields of a terminally ill farmer (Sam Shepard), whose money they aim to take on his death.Days Of Heaven is visually a superb slice of period life that turns into a complicated, tragic love triangle. But director Terrence Malick seems uninterested in the plot; the look's the thing. Unfortunately, it's not quite enough, no matter how gorgeous the images concocted by cinematographer Nestor Almendros. In narrative terms, the film finally leaves viewers high and dry. In 2007, Days Of Heaven was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant. "},{"Title":"Tour Jetes In The Woods.","Date":"1 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is quite a movie. Anybody expecting a taut thriller had better look somewhere else.Three people wander from job to job and place to place in the American Midwest of 1916 -- the extremely handsome Richard Gere, the beautiful but also goofy Brooke Adams, and the very idiosyncratic gnome, Linda Manz. Gere and Adams are lovers but they pretend to be brother and sister because Gere believes it will be easier to find a job. They hire out as part of a harvesting gang at a huge wheat farm near Amarillo, Texas.It's strenuous, laboring from dawn to dusk, but honest work and not entirely unpleasant. They're a happy-go-lucky lot. The dozens of workers have occasional bonfires and dances. The sole owner of the farm is the fresh-faced, innocent Sam Shepard, who takes a deep shine to Brooke Adams.When Gere gets word that Shepard, despite his youth, has a lethal disease, he urges Adams to permit him some advances. You know, just enough to get him interested, maybe enough to ask her to marry him because, who knows, there are no other relatives and after all that ranch has to go to SOMEbody when Shepard shuffles off this mortal coil. Shepard and Adams do get married, but she begins to fall for her adoring husband, while Gere remains outside the big house as horny as ever. Well, it all leads to complications, which I won't spell out.There's a scene in Michelangelo Antonioni's L'Avventura. A dozen or so people wander around a small rocky island in the Mediterranean looking for a young woman who seems to have disappeared. In the midst of this search, the director gives us a scene in which everyone stops and stares at a waterspout that has formed just off shore. The waterspout is completely irrelevant. Antonioni couldn't possibly have PLANNED it, so it was just something that happened, he filmed it, and stuck it into the movie.Days of Heaven is a lot like that waterspout scene -- from beginning to end. I doubt that there are more than two hundred words of dialog devoted to the main story. At least half the footage we see seems to illustrate adventitious events or incidents that are in no way related to the triangle of Gere/Adams/Shepard. Brooke Adams doing clunky ballet steps in a forest of cottonwoods. The narration by the Brooklyn-voiced Linda Manz doesn't help much. At times it seems to reach for an ungrammatical folk lyricism but winds up sounding more Poe-ish than poetic. Sometimes there's snakes. They come and eat out your eyes. Then they crawl down yer troat and eat yer systems. (Makes you wonder what the hell is in that wheat germ.) Manz gets to make an observation that really hurt personally. If you don't like the work, you can go away. They don't need you. They can always get somebody else easy. A perfect description of the position of an Adjunct Professor.Terrence Malick is nothing if not an ambitious director. He's interested in a lot more than two conniving lovers, as he's shown us in his two or three later movies. Nature, and the place of human beings in it, for one thing. Startling close ups of one or two wheat beards with a grasshopper perched atop. It could be a less idealized version of Georgia O'Keefe except that, this being a movie, we're reminded more of David Lean during the shots of the vast emptiness of the plains. In any case, Malick performs miracles with the camera. I understand two cinematographers were involved. They should both get medals or at least a lifetime supply of whole wheat bread.But the director's imagination isn't strictly limited to natural phenomena or majestic vistas. There are some really curious examples of camera placement and other elements of movie making. Here is Sam Shepard at almost the beginning, before we know anything about him except that he's a rich farmer. He's in a low angle shot, staring at something, with an expression that suggests he's having a duel of wits with a gumball machine, and he asks, Who's that woman? The one with the dark hair. He must get an answer, although we don't hear it, because he continues his query, Doesn't anybody know anything about her? We don't hear the reply to that either, just an indecipherable voice off screen.Anyway, it comes out as a bit of a slow haul, not just because the director's interest appears to wander but because there are long pauses in the conversations and interactional exchanges. But, then, if Malick hasn't made a philosophical breakthrough, which he may or may not have intended, so what? A man's reach should exceed his grasp. It's certainly not an ego trip. What he's delivered is far more than a dull story of love and intrigue, and more than just a picture postcard.A pat on the back is due. "},{"Title":"Defines the term visual masterpiece","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" So much has been said about the visual mastery of Days of Heaven that I'm not really sure what I can add. I guess I'll just reiterate a lot of the praise. Possibly no other film is better at creating a specific mood. As far as an absolutely gorgeous and purely film experience, Terrence Malick's film is possibly as captivating as 2001 A Space Odyssey. As the tagline for the film stated, your senses will truly be overwhelmed. This is one of the few films were I can say I wish every shot was hung up on my wall - it really resembles a painting at times. The cinematography by Néstor Almendros and Haskell Wexler and another classic and dreamlike score from Ennio Morrecone are just as much deserving of credit as Mallick.The people who don't like this film (or at least disappointed by it) complain about Mallick sacrificing plot for mood. I can definitely see where they're coming from - the characters aren't always developed or the story itself entirely engrossing. Still, this film was made not as a character drama but a mood piece. How well the film is at imposing a specific atmosphere (which is its main intention) completely makes the storyline irrelevant. I'm not always a fan of style over substance, but I find it more than excusable here. Days of Heaven is a film masterpiece, plain and simple than needs to be seen by anyone with an interest in the medium as an art form. (10/10) "},{"Title":"Stunning piece of film-making, many, including myself, consider it to be one of the top films of all time","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bill (Richard Gere) and Abby (Brooke Adams) leave turn-of-the-century Chicago when Bill's hot temper causes the death of a co-worker. Having no money, they join a group of farm workers in Texas, eeking out a meager living by helping to harvest wheat. Accompanying the unmarried lovers is Bill's younger sister (Linda Manz). One day, they reach the fields of a very rich farmer (Sam Shepard) who takes a shine to beautiful Abby. Since everyone has been told that Abby is Bill's sister, too, the farmer proposes marriage. Subsequently, Bill and Abby also learn that the rich man is terribly ill, so they decide to go ahead with the marriage, in hopes of inheriting an immense fortune. Yet, there are inadvertent consequences. Abby finds herself falling in love with her new husband and Bill experiences tremendous jealousy over the arrangement. How will this deception play out? This is a stunning film that has it all, that is, a powerful story, unequalled cinematography, great performances, superior artwork, wonderful direction and a mesmerizing narration by Manz. Its recreation of the long ago world of immense poverty in America is eye-opening and amazing. Then, too, Gere, Adams, Shepard, Manz, and other lesser players are pitch perfect in their complex and haunting roles. But, it is the cinematography that is most wonderful of all. Never has the vast, sweeping, desolate plains of Texas been captured more beautifully than in this film, especially the scenes of a fire roaring through the fields. If you have never taken the time to watch this one, make it an ultra-firm resolution to do so. It is a colossally magnificent movie, towering over almost every film in the history of cinema. "}{"Title":"A work of art","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The best movie ever made, IMO. The cinematography, art direction, and scoring are a third of why it so moves me. A deserved Oscar for the much missed Néstor Almendros, who paints such a lyrical picture of factories and wheat fields and wildfires, it ennobles the hard labor of the workers.I'm also drawn by the tragic plot, with its social conscience (the point of view is with the poor people, but the rich man, played by Sam Shepard, is at least as sympathetically drawn). The four main actors all do a wonderful job of expressing their impossible longings and dilemmas, much of this portrayed without their speaking.One of the few times a voice over works--I love the accent, the world-weariness, and the line Rich people--they got it figured out. "},{"Title":"Somber, well-cast, epic-scaled human drama","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Beautiful, pensive and quiet drama from revered filmmaker Terrence Malick has a complicated story involving a young man and his girlfriend during the Depression, traveling on a migrant farm workers' train along with his little sister, eventually getting jobs on a farm owned by a wealthy, dying man who has eyes for the girlfriend. Deliberately slow in pacing, though never less than lovely and evocative. A must for widescreen-viewing (or rather on the big screen, where the empty vastness--practically a character in the proceedings--can properly work its magic), the picture is well-acted by Richard Gere, Brooke Adams, and Sam Shepherd and seems deeply felt and considered. As a result, it is extremely moving. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Visually Arresting Film From A Great Director","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven is one of the most visually magnificent films you will ever see. On widescreen DVD it is simply beautiful, but if you ever have the opportunity to see it in a real theatre(not one of those little multiplex cubes), run as fast as you can to get a ticket. Most of this film was shot(by Nestor Almendros) during the breaking of dawn or the glow of dusk, and the vistas and settings are simply breathtaking. What's even more amazing is that Almendros was reportedly going blind while filming this movie.Terrence Malick tells the story of a pre-WWI time in America, when life was simple, people were just as poor in some places as they were during the depression. But they always had hope that tomorrow would turn things around for them. Richard Gere is Bill, an angry young man for whom nothing works out. He travels from Chicago to Amarillo with his sister Linda, and his girlfriend Abby (beautiful Brooke Adams), who must pose as another sister. They work for a wealthy farmer (Sam Shepard), who they think is dying. Bill entices Abby to marry the farmer so that they could have a good life for themselves when he dies.The rest of the story is pretty predictable, but the story and dialog don't really matter here. Malick is telling a different type of story. About people, and life in America during this time. He does this by drowning you in the faces of the people that make up America. So many beautiful, interesting faces. You can learn more about the country and it's people by just looking at how they are weathered and drawn and beaten.All of the performances are very good, and the score by Ennio Morricone is one of the best I've ever heard.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Somewhere in America","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The year is 1916.Richard Gere and Brooke Adams play lovers named Bill and Abby who pretend to be siblings.Sam Shepard plays the farmer in love with her.Linda Manz is Bill's young sister Linda.In the beginning the two lovers flee from Chicago and go to work on a farm in Texas.He has killed a man.Terrence Malick's Days of Heaven (1978) is beautiful and somewhat hypnotic movie.The cast is terrific.Gere and Adams make a beautiful couple in the lead.Shepard is the right man to play the farmer.Manz is brilliant as the young Linda.Then there's the score by the masterly Ennio Morricone.Days of Heaven offers some fine drama.Just watch how it ends. "},{"Title":"This movie was like a dream.","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Days of Heaven' is a slow and dream-like look at the lives of working-class people at the first quarter of the 20th century in the United States. The story is being told through the eyes of a little girl, but Richard Gere, Brooke Adams, and Sam Shepard are the stars of the film. It was directed by Terrence Malick, who has made only a handful of films, but each one is unique and is a gem. This movie is no exception either. It is more or less a love story between two men in love with the same woman. The movie uses this story as a backdrop for its stunning and memorable images. Many scenes are likely to stay in the viewers' minds for a long time.What is lacking in the movie, though, is a strong screenplay and complete character development. Many scenes leave left me empty simply because there was not enough dialog, and the characters seemed passive. Maybe the movie was supposed to be that way, but those two aspects are its main flaws. If it had better dialog and characters, it probably would have been one of the best films I've ever seen. Nonetheless, 'Days of Heaven' is often a beautiful journey to another place and another time. The movie is depressing, but that time period and place was one of great struggle and misery. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is, as it has been for more then 20 years, my favorite film. It's not the best; I reserve that honor to A.I.. I saw it again as a revised print at an Art house, a few nights ago. The photography is easily the best I've ever seen and has made me a Mallick freak. Badlands, Thin Red Line and The New World only give you a glimpse of his greatness. The man's a genius of Kubrick quality. The music was superbly appropriate and moving. The story was great. The acting was terrific. Brooke Adams, Linda Manz and Robert Wilke have never achieved to this level before or since. I have my letterbox copy and it's among my most valued. "},{"Title":"Nothing has ever been better than this","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the most perfect cinematic experience I have ever had. The score is haunting and brilliant. There are moments which took my breath away, more of them than in any other 100 motion pictures combined. The acting is completely naturalistic, never interfering with the storytelling. I have enjoyed this experience perhaps ten times and never once, not for one instant, have I been bored. Linda Manz' narration was tone perfect, especially her pronunciation of Chicaga. This is the apex of storytelling before this motion picture, I cared nothing for the Texas Panhandle, nothing for farming, nothing for the early 20th century. This film picked my fat butt up, transported me to that era, and made me care for the region, the farmers, the sweat of the workers, the music of the times, everything. In short, this movie hooked me on movies, and I keep going back to them although I have never come close to replicating the complete sensory fulfillment I enjoyed with this film. God bless Terrance Malick. "},{"Title":"The 30 Greatest Films Ever Made, Continued","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" (part of 30 essays I am writing on what I consider the 30 greatest films ever made. They are written in no specific order.)Recently I saw a screening of this at the Brattle Theatre in Cambridge, MA. The 70 mm print quality wasn't very good (in fact, it was plain crappy - some of the frames were so messy it was hard to see what was going on) but it was worth seeing the film a second time, this time in theater. Cinematographer Nestor Almendros' stunning visuals deserve to be witnessed on the big screen. This is one of the best photographed films of all time. It should be noted that Haskell Wexler, who is credited in the end credits with Additional photography claims he did much of the film, and, as told by Roger Ebert, has pointed out to him at least 50 shots which he claims were his. The Oscar went solely to Almendros.The film is like a dream. After leaving it, you stumble around sleepily not sure what to think. You can't remember much of it unless you really concentrate. I'm not sure how this is done. The actors voices drift in and out and don't always align with their mouths. It could be a flaw but it could be deliberate. Almost the entire film was shot at magic hour which is just after a sunset or before a sunrise. The choice to have Ennio Morricone score the film was a stroke of genius - the wheat fields theme is one of the most haunting ever composed. This was Morricone's stage in transition from his spaghetti westerns, now moving on to his more traditional (yet still exceptional) scores for films like The Untouchables The Red Tent The Sicilian Clan Excorsist II The Mission and Cinema Paradiso. In showing his remarkable flexibility Morricone has revealed himself to be one of the greatest composers of film or otherwise in the New Age.It's the earlier 20th century, sometime between 1915 and 1930. In Chicago, a landscape is covered in soot, trash, and coal. Hundreds of people out of work continually pull in and out of trains, always looking for new jobs that will only last them a couple months. One train goes to the Texas panhandle, where wheat blows in ocean like waves and silhouettes of workers shuffle past the skyline of sunrise, pulling locusts out of the wheat. This is how we are introduced into Terrence Malick's incredible Days of Heaven, which is really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really good. To say the least. When I occasionally am asked to make a ten best list I find myself quite often listing Days of Heaven as the best film of all time. It could be.Its not likely you'll find it in most video stores, if I were you I'd do what I did and just buy it off Amazon.com. Unless you're idea of a great time at the cinema is Star Wars Episode 2 or Pirates of the Caribbean (not to dis Pirates, Depp is a great comedic actor and its entertaining enough) then I doubt you'll regret it. Even the meanest of critics eventually warm to its stunning tapestry of visual and poetic beauty. And yes, if you've seen a Malick film before (like The Thin Red Line and The New World) then its much the same style, slow, elegant, much of the dialog in voice over. This time, however, A) its considerably shorter and B) all the narrating is done by a girl named Linda (Linda Hunt), whose brother and his lover are the center of the film. They are played by Richard Gere and Brooke Adams, who were shockingly enough both neglected by the Oscars that year (the only Oscar that film would pick up was for Cinematography - it remains the only Oscar a Malick film has ever won). In the first scene of the film we catch a glimpse of Bill (Gere) getting into a fight and running away with Abby (Adams) and his little sister Linda (Linda Manz). They board a train for the country and work in the wheat fields. There, a rich, shy, dying farmer (Sam Shepard) who lives nearby sees and falls in love with Abby. Bill, who is posing as Abby's brother, suggests they get married so when the farmer dies they will be able to live on the plantation. I don't like to reveal synopsis's, so I will continue no further.Instead I shall describe one of the best scenes in the film, one where a plague of locusts floods the farm. The Farmer sends all his workers out to try and kill as many as possible in a bonfire, which eventually catches to the fields. The fire spreads out in a circle and the field, which, once beautiful, has turned into hell. The frame is filled with fire and smoke and we see the silhouettes of the workers trying to find a way out of the fire, looking for a place they might be able to jump through. Finally the camera cuts back and we see the entire field, a large portion of the middle blazing furiously. And a horse carried cart wagon runs around in circles, the back ablaze, spreading the fire wherever it runs. Malick's Christian socialist themes are noticeably at work here, especially in a horrifying shot of a machine that has lost control and caught fire, plowing forward over terrified workers. Once a symbol of agricultural produce and technological advancement, it has betrayed the species that created it and is bent in destroying them.You could die in a freak accident tomorrow, so please make sure you see this film as soon as possible. "},{"Title":"My eye beheld something extraordinary","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Beauty is always in the eye of the beholder, and films, being stories and images, are subjectively created and therefore subjectively received. I saw DAYS OF HEAVEN in college, shortly after it first came out. I went to the early show and just stayed in my seat for the second show. It's been my favorite film since. It reminds me of the box in John Steinbeck's dedication to EAST OF EDEN it has everything in it. Brooke Adams is hauntingly beautiful; I can see why men fall in love with her. Linda Manz turns in an astounding performance, especially from an actress so young. Both Richard Gere and Sam Shepard are beautiful, laconic, reticent and ultimately mysterious. Robert Wilke, as the farm foreman, was rock solid. I had never seen his work before, but he had had a very long career (mostly in Westerns on television). Finally, the cinematography by Nestor Almendros, rightly honored with an Oscar, and the music, much of it by Ennio Morricone and some gathered (the piece by Leo Kottke is perfect for the sequence it supports). Obviously I like this movie. It moves forward in a spacious way; it's not a thriller, but I nevertheless found it thrilling. One of film's treasures. "},{"Title":"One the most beautifully made films of all time","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It took me 28 years to see this film and it was well worth the wait. Days of Heaven is one of the most beautifully made films of all time, a tragic story of a get rich quick scheme gone wrong. One of the greatest filmmakers ever and one of the few truly talented visualizers, Terrence Malick creates a world that seems to exist in a dream like state. Audiences used to long pointless dialog may find this film disconcerting. Whole sequences are conveyed without words or with sparse narration (I would go so far as to say it has the best voice-over of all time). While the film is justly famous for it's magic hour hour scenes I would like to point out that it also has the best shots of winter I've ever seen. You can feel the cold.As others have stated this is a film that needs the Criterion treatment. One day it's importance as an American film will be given the attention it so rightly deserves. I wish I was a better writer so that I could truly convey the power of this film. I guess if I had to take two movies with me on a desert island this would be one of them (the other would be Blade Runner). "}{"Title":"One of the best ever made, all told through beautiful imagery","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven is a remarkable film, set all in the fields of Texas in 1916. The film overall tells a beautiful and perfect story through imagery and cinematography. The acting tells the story too, but I feel that the images and camera tell it the best. Richard Gere (Bill) displays a fantastic performance as a man who has nothing and goes to the fields to work with his younger sister and girlfriend which they pose as brother and sister. There is a rich farmer that lives in the fields. While taking some medicine out of a doctor's cart, Bill overhears that the farmer is very ill and has about a year to live. The farmer later asks Abby to live with him, and she does taking Linda and Bill with her. They do it so they can inherit his fortune once he dies. When he does not die, soon enough he finds out that they are not brother and sister and he sets out to shoot Bill who is fixing an automobile near the fields. Bill takes a screw driver he was using and jabs it into his heart killing him. Through this story, there are shots of the empty fields and dark skies that tell the emotion or characters mood.That part of the film is the strongest and most beautiful point. In the opening scene, Malick uses silence as in his other works. I feel that the silence refers to a mood as well, possibly the mood of disturbance. For example, the first scene shows Richard Gere in a factory arguing with someone who the audience can assume is his boss. He then kills him and runs. There is no dialogue throughout this scene, just the factory and machinery sounds. Then he, Abby, and Linda (his younger sister) go out to Texas to get jobs in the fields. Shortly after they arrive, there is a scene with Bill looking around the fields. Like Malick's main editing style, there are quick cuts to buffalo, plants, bugs, or anything nature related. This is also acknowledging silence.The biggest example of this though, is the scene where the farmer is killed. It starts out showing the farmer riding on a horse out to find Bill. The sky is filled with smoke and there are some fires in the background from a fire that occurred on the fields the previous night. It then cuts to Bill fixing an automobile and he comes riding in the background. He looks over and sees that he has a gun, so he stops and gets up. While he gets up, there is smoke and dust blowing around again which to me represents an uncomfortable or bad feeling. There are reaction shots of them staring at each other which is totally silent. Again this silence is representing the same thing as the smoke and dust. He then cocks the gun back and Bill stabs him in the heart with a screwdriver. There is not a reaction shot, but he tries to pull it out, so he does have some conscience left in him. He throws him off, and runs off into the dusty fields the same way he did with his boss. After that there is a shot of horses with black smoke behind them which blocks the sun. Next, the Wheat pasture, who has explained to Bill earlier that that farmer was like a son to him, goes to his dead body and cries. Then it cuts to Bill explaining to Abby that they have to go. That whole scene is not only one of my favorite scenes in film, but means many different things. The following scene, Bill, Abby, and Linda, trade in a diamond necklace for a boat and are boating across a river is like Badlands. After Bill has killed a man, the audience would want to be hearing about if they were chased by police or what they would do, but instead Linda narrates about how the sun looks on the river and how they saw people on the shore but couldn't tell what they were doing. In that scene, there are quick cuts of birds or rocks as well like any Terrence Malick scene.Another one of my favorite things in this film are the reaction shots. For example at the end when Bill is shot at the wheat pasteurs commands, Abby is standing over his dead body crying and there is a shot of the wheat pasteur that tells a lot of different expressions. The ones I caught were satisfaction and regreting. I believe he regretted doing it because he did get to know him before the killing of the farmer. There is also a shot of Linda looking at his body, but she doesn't cry, she is just upset looking. This could be because her character has a childlike view of the world still, like Holly in Badlands.The script is not a lot like that, either, but the film is mainly images like The New World and has the story told through imagery. Days of Heaven is possibly the best film ever made. Personally one of my favorites ever. "},{"Title":"Art house film extraordinaire","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Every frame of Days of Heaven looks like a page torn from a beautiful picture book. I read that in a review somewhere and I have to agree with statement. It also stated that the story is purely secondary, the visual aspect is the number one priority. I kinda' agree with that but I must say I found the story to be very compelling as well.The year is 1916 and America is going through changes. Richard Gere and girlfriend Brooke Adams, along with Gere's sister Manz, go to work in the wheat fields for farmer Sam Shephard. They pose as brother and sister and go about their work along with everyone else. Shepard is a lonely man who lives in a big house in the middle of nowhere and has little to no company at all. He takes a liking to Adams. Gere finds out that Shephard hasn't long to live so he convinces his girlfriend to marry the farmer, hoping to be on the receiving end of his wealth one day. While married, these people enjoy the days of heaven, completely without worry, not a care in the world. But Gere soon grows jealous of the farmer, who doesn't seem to be sick at all. Eventually this heavenly existence disintegrates and tragedy strikes.This beautiful, haunting film was Terence Malick's second feature and he didn't make another film for 20 years. This film, along with 1973's Badlands, captures an era in American history beautifully and ranks as one of America's top art house films.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Time period","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Some people have stated that this movie takes place during the Depression (1930s), while elsewhere it's been described as the 1920s. Both are much too far into the future. I guessed that it was about 1905, but at the end of the movie, Abby is shown at a train station surrounded by soldiers in WWI uniforms. WWI was 1914-1919, so perhaps it is a bit later. There is a newspaper shown in the film, but I could not make out the date. It looked like maybe 1906, but that would be too many years before the war. And since the headline is about Richard Gere's character being on the run from the law--and Abby is at the station shortly thereafter--it is impossible for 8 years to have passed. The entire movie only seems to encompass about a year to a year and a half (snow and the end of the harvest indicate the passage of time). "},{"Title":"Another Great One","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You can only begin to really appreciate Terence Malick's ''Days of Heaven'' narrative when you realize that Linda Manz has stolen the film, and when you realize that this was Malick's intention. I imagine that he spent more time directing her than all the other cast members combined. Manz's Linda, like Scout in To Kill a Mockingbird, is both narrator and character in the story. But Malick takes this even further as she also serves the same off-screen narrator function that Orsen Welles did in The Magnificent Ambersons; providing more of a parallel commentary than just a narration. And like Ambersons, the authority of her commentary is sometimes challenged by the images on the screen. This makes the tone and content of her narration an element of the film's message and significance, not just the definitions of them found in TKM.Basically the entire story is told by her, speaking sometime after the events have taken place and commenting about them as they were seen from her naïve perspective at the time. Manz was 16 when the film was made, convincingly playing a character of about 12. Her face and voice combine to present a child who has already experienced and survived at lot. She has seen the worst and it has made her resigned and emotionless; seemingly beyond surprise. But her face has a subtle expressiveness that visually communicates a hidden depth of feeling, and the attentive viewer understands that rather than being mired in despair she was full of wonder at the things she was then experiencing.As someone commented earlier, watch for how the four principal characters represent the four elements; earth (Linda), water (Abby), fire (Bill), and wind (the farmer), with Earth the least transitory and the one that remains at the end. And watch how Linda follows or chases after everyone to whom she becomes close-even in the closing scene with her new friend.Just understand, as you watch Days of Heaven, that it is the story of Linda and that the actions of the three adult characters (who are actually on-screen more than Linda) are significant only for the impact on her; and are presented from her subjective, somewhat distanced and detached perspective.The film inspired amazing comments by Roger EbertChildren know that adults can be seized with sudden passions for one another, but children are concerned primarily with how these passions affect themselves Am I more or less secure, more or less loved, because there has been this emotional realignment among the adults who form my world? This is a movie made by a man who knew how something felt, and found a way to evoke it in us. That feeling is how a child feels when it lives precariously, and then is delivered into security and joy, and then has it all taken away again--and blinks away the tears and says it doesn't hurt.  "},{"Title":"The title says it...","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" All of Terrence Malick's films to date have been narrated by an 'innocent'. In 'Badlands' it was Holly. Here it is Linda and in 'The Thin Red Line' it is Witt. All of these characters are, in the films, searching for some 'other'. For me, Malick is also searching for this 'other' and the 'other' is another way of making cinema.Here, Bill and Abby have escaped the furnaces of Chicago and seem to have found their 'heaven' in the cornfields. And we see this heaven through Malick's sensationally wonderful visual expression. And don't be fooled into thinking that the visual qualities of Malick's films go down to his cinematographer. I was at Cannes when this film showed and Nestor Almendros paid public homage to Malick for turning the visual side of the film into poetry (you just need to look at other Almendros films - however good they look, they are not 'Days of Heaven').Yes, this is a masterpiece and one that I would gladly watch till eternity, but it is not flawless. I think Malick does have a minor weakness in relation to direction of actors. In particular, the climactic scene between Bill and The Farmer which leads up to the latter's death is clumsily done. It looks for all the world as if Malick thought it should be wordless, but couldn't get enough expression into the two actors' gestures to make a sufficiently convincing scene.But this is minor in its effect on a film that will surely go down in film history as the most visually expressive of its era.Malick is the king of modern cinema! "},{"Title":"Very professional making of a movie","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" T.M is influenced by many directors that did movies before him. This movie reminds Bonnie and Clyde.Here again young couple in an escapade, and death at the end after being fugitives from the law. Many commentators for this movie mentioned various influences from all sort of directions, but perhaps one may add that some motives in this film are influenced by Georg Stevens's Giant. Take the big ranch house with the front entrance and its ghotic style, the shots of the sky, the close ups that show half faces in the shade(remember Dean watching Luz die, standing in the shade), the outdoors gathering of folks, the harvest which reminds the Reata's round-up, the shot of the old pick-up(like the one Dean was driving), and finally at the end, the car driving away from the ranch under the big gate.The later is almost like playing back the scene in Giant where Hudson and Taylor drive under the main gate into Reata. T.M does not even try to hide his admiration to George Stevens's directing talent. "},{"Title":"Days in badlands","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Then a much better director than in his questionable triumph of the thin red line ,Terence Malick had a personal approach in his two seventies movies badlands and days of heaven .Both featured future big stars then almost unknown Sissy Spacek and Martin Sheen in the former,Richard Gere in the latter.These works were anti-hollywoodian works ,in a sense the thin red line was star system to the core,using a dozen of superstars in an absurd way (John Travolta was a curious choice).Both are told by a voice overSpacek's diary extracts echo to Linda's frames of mind here.The girl of badlands  and Linda share the same innocence ,they do not really realize what happens,they experiment tragedy before beginning to live .SPOILERIn the two movies,the boys die,and the female characters survive and they seem to overcome the loss,which is neither romantic nor conventional ;the stories become a prelude to their lives.Spacek,a real life character even marries her own lawyer.END OF SPOILERThe two movies take place in wonderful landscapessavage lands in badlands  ,where almost nothing grows whereas days of heaven 's earth seems fertile,but its harvest is a do or die for the farm workers.SPOILERagainst all expectations,everything will go wrong the locusts ,filmed in close-up,and the fire in front of which the men seem to do a danse macabre,à la seventh seal are impressive sequences.So is Richard Gere's death in the river.END OF SPOILERUnlike the thin red line, days of heaven and  badlands are short movies (less than 90 minutes ),slow-moving ,and even their violent scenes -more numerous in the 1973 work- are almost intimate .The minor flaw here is Brooke Adams ,an unconvincing actress. "},{"Title":"Ageless - Timeless - Priceless Film Veiwing Experience","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Terrence Malick gives us a visceral experience in film with this quiet, intense masterpiece. He uses every aspect of the film, dialogue and character moments, visuals and music in the most effective manner I have ever seen, to tell this story, much to the delight of all the senses. He uses narration and dialogue less to convey information than to flesh out moments. The dialogue is minimal compared to many other films, especially today's releases. Perhaps being a period piece lends to its timelessness, because this film, made 26 years ago is in no way dated or outdated. Last Year this film was re-released in a local art-house cinema and was held over for 15 weeks! It's that good. One might wonder if Mr Malick did not make another movie for over 20 years after this because he felt incapable of matching this accomplishment or because of disdain for filmgoers who did not embrace this incredible work.If you have a taste for well made, intelligent, mature films, own this film. Show this film! When I found it by accident, I fell madly in love and couldn't tear myself away.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie in french (Les moissons du ciel) 2 or 3 times, always on television. Although I never saw it on the big screen or in its original version (and thus can not appreciate it fully), I must say it is one of my all time favorites. Days of Heaven truly is a masterpiece. It's a delight for the eye, as well as for the spirit. It has a kind of sensibility which is rarely found in American cinematography. It is not surprising though that some people may not like it. This film is not intended for viewers seeking suspense or an intricate plot it is just a simple story, beautifully told, with magnificent images an a kind of philosophical point of view. Malik is a great, great director.  "},{"Title":"I figured it out","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  WARNING CONTAINS SPOILERSThis is the third time that I've seen this movie, once when it came out, once in college, and again now in September, 2003. I think I finally understand it. Besides the Jamesian problem of no clear moral choice for the three main characters in a plot that obviously draws from The Wings of the Dove, I think the movie is the imagination of the little girl. This explains the weird dialogue. However, I think that the little girl doesn't exist, or rather, that she is the figure of lost innocence in the character played by Brooke Adams before she sleeps with her brother, played by Richard Gere. That's the innocence she desperately wants to preserve, which she cannot, which she chases symbolically on the train of U.S. soldiers going off to slaughter at the end. The girl no longer exists. That's why it's like a dream. It's the heaven of lost innocence before a tragedy. "}{"Title":"Visually stunning!","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At the opening of the film, Mallick's visual style is quite imminent. A bunch of factory workers working their asses off and then two of them got into an argument, one of whom is Richard Gere. The two of them exchange words but you don't hear what they're talking about because of the din of the bustle of the factory. The said argument terminated into Richard Gere's character got the other guy killed. No words but the images were so succint that you don't need it. And such style goes on until the end of the film. This is a kind of film that presents a visual imagery with minimum of words thus it does not insult the audience by explaining it so much just like most films today are made of. Cinematography was great, the Americana landscape seemed painted with Leonardo's fine brushes.Ennio Morricone's score is also worth mentioning. "},{"Title":"Transcendent","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My favourite film of all time. Hyper-real and almost hallucinatory in its sensory content and magnificent in its placing of human beings as just another component of the physical world. The little girl's voice-over could have sentimental but comes across as just as detached as the other elements of the film. Overall, one of the creations that makes life worth living. A comment on but also an addition to the richness of the world.  "},{"Title":"Each frame is like an oil painting....","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie 3 times and still marvel at its beauty. Has any film ever had so much to offer visually?  There is very little dialogue but a wonderful commentary by a young girl which is haunting in itself, as her voice hynotizes the viewer. The story is simple, these are three very uncomplicated people, subsisting on the streets of Chicago and then taking on jobs as itinerant workers for a wealthy young farmer who is alone and lonely. The girlfriend of the young girl's brother pretends to be his sister also to keep life simple. The farmer falls in love with her. Her boyfriend encourages her to play the farmer along and she marries him and then the passions and emotions start to erupt. The young girl has her own take on all that is happening and just rolls with the punches.  Tragedy ensues. If you want action or mystery or easy resolutions, this is not your movie. If you want cinematography that will take your breath away, a haunting score and commentary this will more than satisfy.  9 out of 10.  Bravo to all. "},{"Title":"not for fans of Michael Bay movies","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first thing I can think of when trying to describe this movie is that it's like an impressionist painting, especially as it begins. We're shown a series of vignettes, and the story seems to emerge from the images. This technique can make it look like it will be difficult to become engrossed in the movie, but soon that is exactly what happens, and those seemingly inconsequential scenes end up enriching the experience.The story is a very simple one, but told with a great deal of visual and emotional texture, and at the same time without sentimentality (as evidenced by the performance of child actress Linda Manz), and it is this combination which lends the movie its realism and depth. It soon becomes apparent that the real story here is the one of the characters' feelings, and as such it progressively becomes more compelling and affecting. "},{"Title":"Positive Characters","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I tried so hard to feel anything for the 4 main characters in this film. The story is pure passion between the 3 leads in a triangle relationship. Still, the story moves throughout the year without any character development or motive in why they continue to live their lives in this manner. Malick films Days of Heaven like he filmed Badlands, with pure beauty. The lens of the camera catches every moment of the real world. I feel the characters did an excellent job playing very dull characters. Overall, its worth a watch or two. "},{"Title":"A haunting unforgettable tragedy of Biblical proportions","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    This is the story of an ambitious murderer, his harlot, and an innocent young farmer who has the audicity to question God's love and mercy; an ancient story of sin, many sins - murder, greed, sloth, lust, adultery, pride and avarice - and Divine retribution told through the eyes and voice overview of a child who hasn't a clue as to what is going on.   The cinematography is stunning, perhaps the most sumptuous of any film ever made and the complimentary musical score will stay in your mind for days after.  This is a film to see again and again, preferably on the big screen in a theater with a state-of-the-art sound system.  It definitely loses something when viewed on today's postage-stamp sized mall screens and still more on VHS, but the sheer power of the narrative make this an unforgettable experience.   It helps if you are familiar with the Book of Genesis, as this is a tale of Eden, complete with images of Adam, Eve, the Snake, the apple, and a just and generous, but inflexible Jehovah who rains down bounty and punishment with equal fervor.  These are the Days of Heaven (and of Hell) indeed.   Terrence Malick's second film, a counterpoint to his first, Badlands.  Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Uneven Malick","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps it is just my distaste for Richard Gere, yet Days of Heaven is uneven when viewed along side of Badlands and Thin Red Line.  The movie possesses Malick's signature juxtaposition of the majesty of the land and the personal dramas taking place within it. Yet, the relationship between Sam Shepard and Brooke Adams doesn't live up to the cinematography.  While it is surely the weakest in the trilogy, Days of Heaven still stands as a credible installment in Malick's great morality play. "},{"Title":"A photographic miracle","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In some ways, I think this film is overrated. The plot isn't that sophisticated, and the fire/locust scene goes on way too long.But I forgive any flaws it may have for the perfect recapturing of the life of the worker in that era, and for the constantly interesting paintings that are strung together to form the images in the film.Why didn't this director continue to create, instead of withdrawing into his hermit's cave? How much more he could have given us. Sigh. "},{"Title":"Take It Into Perspective","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven is not a great film in my eyes. I found that I didn't care about any given single character. I found myself languishing through most of the film's story, which is not a bad one, but just such a thin one. However, when you think about it in a certain light, you can see that Terrence Malick wasn't looking for a story to tell. He was looking for an ambiance to portray through his moody, extravagant cinematography. Every shot is a painting because every single shot in the film, literally, has its own impression and its own feeling. Days of Heaven is very calm and very quiet, the dialogue almost something to question when it occurs, the score a very compatible mood setter to the visual and dramatic style. There is a scene near the end with a devastating burning, and the extremely sharp juxtaposition of the fire to pitch black darkness and the gradually quieter chaos is brilliant.I guess the verdict is that I like Days of Heaven a lot, because it's very well directed by a director with a very individual voice and a demandingly new and different take on film. However, I didn't necessarily enjoy it. There were parts I found interesting and parts that I admired, yet I was hardly interested in the subject matter. "},{"Title":"One problem","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Unfortunately, I never quite stopped thinking about how this narrator, this girl from Chicago, had what sounded like a strong Puerto Rican accent. Gere and Adams also sounded New Yorkish... or something, but definitely not Chicagoan. It kept me from enjoying the film a little, because there were several mentions of it...it wasn't once. How could no one on the film notice this? Maybe Malick was trying to indicate that they were all even tumblinger tumbleweeds than we thought, actually starting their journey in New York, with an extended stay in the windy city. Any theories?At least Sam Shepard (looking better than EVER I must say! Not that I noticed *ahem*) sounded like the panhandle farmer he portrayed.I loved the rest, even though I did not find the superb cinematography quite as mind- blowing as expected - but I owe that to the heightened expectations anyone seeing this must have.Also, Linda was such a very rare name for a child born at that time, it's funny they'd give such a central character that name. See? http// babynamewizard.com/namevoyager/lnv0105.html Sorry for all the pet peeves, but the merits of this film are so well known that can't have anything new to add. "}{"Title":"Hallmark card come to life...","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven (1978) A grand, epic, delirious journey alongside migrant wheat farms a hundred years ago, and the fate of one couple who get embroiled with the eccentric farmer who owns all the land. Sounds good? It could have been. But the writing is so routine it's painful, and the story only a thin, obvious soap opera out on the great plains and after. You might wish for more, unless you want to just get absorbed in the atmosphere.Which is not a bad idea. I went in expecting a great movie, because it has a bursting reputation, at least for its production standards. But as a story, it lacks the rich and sympathetic characters it needs. There are times when I found myself watching hopefully, but in the end, it was the sky and the light that won the day. There are many moments of sweeping sunset photography (by Oscar winner Nestor Almendros and his successor, Haskell Wexler). It's beautiful stuff in the way sunsets really are beautiful. In my mind it wasn't the photography so much as the production and set design that make the scenes, and if you read about how the movie was made and the extremes that were taken to get certain effects, it's fascinating.So the movie looks good, yes, and it often recreates the mood of these apparently simple times, uneducated people working hard in the fields, lots of folksy celebrating and huddling in the fields in their dignified poverty, appealing clichés, well imagined.Yes, Days of Heaven is a Hallmark card come to life. The actors are pretty but thin, and the words they are made to say are forgettable. Even the narrator with her exaggerated child's wisdom, a weary cliché, doesn't have anything actually new to say. Yes, the movie is an exercise in familiarity, and it succeeds, if it succeeds at all, by its mise-en-scene, its ability to envision those times out in the Texas Panhandle. The skies are airbrushed gold and crimson, and the prairie fires are fierce and devouring.That might not be enough for many of you. And I saw it on a fairly big screen, so if you have a television, and are depending for a convincing and moving plot with good acting, beware. "},{"Title":"Beautiful CINEMATOGRAPHY, but a boring movie.","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The most (perhaps the only) noteworthy thing about this film is its cinematography.  This film is beautiful to look at.  After watching this film, I realized that I could've had the mute button on throughout the length of the film and it wouldn't have made a difference.  There is very little dialogue in this film.  You just see Richard Gere (at a young age) and everyone else in the film going about their day-to-day lives, surrounded by spectacular scenery.  I'm not sure what kind of a poetic statement Terrence Malick was trying to make with this film, but I found it rather boring.  I would recommend this film to people who like to admire cinematography in films--this film looks like a scenic photography book come to life.  Ironically, although it's not a long movie, you have to have a lot of patience to watch this one in one sitting. "},{"Title":"Picture of Heaven","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am so proud. I have just seen Terrence Malick's entire output as a film director. Unfortunately his output is only three movies spanned over 25 years.Badlands and The Thin Red Line were fantastic movies in their own special way. Days of Heaven seemed to combine a lot of Malick's traits from these two to form another great movie... or was it so great?Richard Gere, Sam Shepard and Brooke Adams form a love triangle in Days of Heaven that isn't very interesting or very original. In fact the whole story is rather lifeless and the dialogue is snooze-worthy. The only thing that kept this movie alive was the score ( I know I heard it before somewhere) and the fabulous oscar winning cinematography.A bunch of locusts do deliver some excitement and some scares - did the camera have to go so close to them? But by then it's too late. The whole movie would've been terrible if every single frame wasn't worthy of a place in the Loueve. Some of the visuals are fabulous. The snow covered cornfields, the train on the bridge, the attempts to destroy the locusts. This movie is a lesson in beauty, not much else. "},{"Title":"Avoidable movie.","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven, is a far reach from an excellent movie. I found this movie long, overdrawn and an eyesore in film. The actors did their jobs well with the characters they were given, however I would have preferred a story that was easy to understand. The characters played by Gere and Adams are mysterious since they are lovers, but tell people they are siblings. In a way it is sickening to watch them together knowing that they want people to believe they are something false. Involved in this lie is Gere's younger sister, the worst part of her character is the voice she uses to narrate the story. At times it feels like listening to nails on a chalkboard but after a while you become familiar with it and move on. The movie takes an unfortunate twist when Adams marries the farmer they are working for while still continuing her love with Gere. The director does capture the beautiful scenery of the farms, the house and machinery. I found this movie was worth watching just to see the beautiful landscapes along with the life of living on a farm. The imagery made the film very real and easy to get lost in. Although the movie scenery is beautiful this film is still full of evil as the main characters commit murder, adultery, and robbery. After Adams realizes that she fancies the farmer's character more than Gere's she attempts to end it with Gere, but he continues with persistence. Eventually, the farmer discovers his wife is cheating on him with her 'brother' and insanity begins. A fire breaks out and nearly traps the works as they are attempting to extinguish it. A tractor continues to work while entirely engulfed in flames. The scene with the fire is just awesome. It is beautiful and one of the most beautiful scenes out of the film. I would not recommend this movie unless one wanted to get a quick glimpse of the scenery and fire. "},{"Title":"Too subtle?","Date":"20 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Before watching a Terrence Malick film you know what to expect, and that expectation is not knowing what exactly to expect. Yes this is a confusing paradox but if you're familiar with Malick's work you'll know what I mean. You can read the synopsis of a Malick film and get an idea what the film will be about, but you will still have no clue as to how it is going to be presented. This is something that gets truer and truer with each film Malick makes. Days of Heaven is his second film and, while it seems like there isn't much going on, in reality a lot is going on... I think.Days of Heaven stars Richard Gere as a steel mill worker in Chicago in the 1900's who kills a man, so he, his girlfriend, and his sister flee the city and move to a farm where they work in the wheat fields. Gere has his girlfriend marry the farmer, whose nameless throughout the film and is only credited as The Farmer, in order to reap the benefits like living in the farmer's house. Now, that may seem fairly simplistic, but Malick turns this basic plot into a silver screen spectacle that you can't quite wrap your head around on the first viewing.The biggest thing to commend Malick on in this film is just the way it looks and the way it comes together visually. It is a beautiful period piece with a tantalizing setting shot in Malick's own illustrious fashion. There's plenty of subtly crafty camera-work in this film, and it makes it quite the visual treat. Yet, the visual quality is almost too subtle. It is the kind of film that you know you should appreciate, but it is difficult at times because the beauty is so minuscule and so meticulously perceived that the montages of the farms and the collection of long shots that seem almost as if they are just to fill time get a little tedious.The film's plot is the same way. In Days of Heaven Malick again shows his interest in focusing his story on a protagonist that we cannot sympathize with as he really should be the villain. Gere's character is conniving and sly, yet we are supposed to be on his side. The antagonist is the farmer, who is victimized in a film where he does nothing wrong. He is the unfortunate target of Gere's schemes, and this imbalance of good and evil adds a very subtle level of complexity to the film. As the narrator, Gere's character's little sister, puts it; we all have a little angel and a devil inside of us. This complex nature of the story and characters is very quiet and is hardly even the main focus of the film. It is, again, a clever aspect of the film that is almost too subtle.When it comes to a film like this it is hard to say it isn't great just because it's genius is too subtle. In my opinion more could have been done with this film, but Malick has his own unique way of filmmaking and I'm sure Days of Heaven turned out exactly how he wanted it to. For this you can't criticize him too far and you really just have to take this film for what it is. "},{"Title":"Very slow and very deliberate.","Date":"18 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven is a film that you need to have a lot of patience in order to watch. That's because this Terrence Malick film is very slow to unfold and made with a very deliberate pace. Many who NEED a film to move at a more 'Hollywoodized' pace will clearly give up on the movie--as the first half hour or so is very slow. Now I am NOT saying it's bad--just very slow. However, the film also is quite beautiful and is well worth your time if you are patient.The film is set around 1916-1917. A trio of migrant farm workers (Richard Gere, Brooke Adams and Linda Manz) travel as brother and sisters--though they actually are not related. Their existence is very tough and very drab and Gere especially wants a better life. So, when the rich owner of one of the farms on which they are working (Sam Shepard) begins to show interest in Adams, Gere encourages her to marry him--even though Gere and Adams are actually lovers. Why? Because Gere overheard the owner and a doctor talking--and the man only has about a year to live. Gere figures that after a year, the three of them will own the place--and the marriage is a small price to pay. However, something goes wrong--Shepard does NOT die and a lot of tension develops on this lonely farm. And, the viewer knows it all must end in tragedy. The story is apparently based on a story by Alexander Dumas, though the original story might have been inspired by the story in Genesis of Abram and Sarai his wife in Egypt--where they pretended to be siblings and tragedy ensued.I enjoyed this story mostly because it was well-crafted. The music was great and used Carnival of the Animals - The Aquarium by Camille Saint-Saëns (which was also used in Babe). The cinematography was also great--and conveyed a great sense of loneliness and the wide-open spaces. My only complaints are minor. Despite Malick taking years to finish this movie, there were some odd mistakes. For example, the planes in the film could NOT have been in Texas during 1916-1917 (see more in the Goofs section)--one was made much later and the other was busy blowing up Allied planes in Europe during this time (including American planes starting in 1917). I also thought the little sister character was a big mistake. Her character was not particularly needed and her narration was, at times, bizarre and distracting. And, the ending was a bit too protracted. Still, despite these minor quibbles, it was an interesting and finely made film...but also one that many people would find very slow. "},{"Title":"tea for three","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After a fight with the boss in a steel mill, Bill (Richard Gere), his lover Abby (Brooke Adams) and his little sister Linda (Linda Manz) leave the big city (they live in the slums anyway, they've got nothing to lose) and try to find work as harvest workers. They find work in a wheat farm. These are hard times. There are many drifters roaming the country looking for a job.The owner of the wheat farm (Sam Shepard) falls for Abby. Bill feels that this is their chance to get a stable life. So Abby marries the farmer. A love triangle.A big secret, love, betrayal... the tensions mount. Days of Heaven.It's clear from the beginning that Days of Heaven is not a social film like Riso Amaro (Bitter Rice). The film doesn't show the hardships of working from dawn till dusk. Unlike Riso Amaro where one can almost feel the sweat pouring from the workers, in Days of Heaven the colors are mellow and the acting is toned down - it is almost like a french impressionist painting with its dream-like atmosphere.Days of Heaven couldn't be really successful as a fantasy piece - it is too much anchored in actual history (harvest workers, poverty, the early years of president Wilson) for this, but it could probe deeper into the psychological side (in the same way The Go-Between and The Servant did) but it hasn't the rich and nuanced tone shown by these films.If the acting had been more intense, Days of Heaven would have reached the heights of East of Eden by Kazan. But the film is always gentle and the conflicts arising from a love triangle are portrayed in an almost distanced way.Days of Heaven is a beautiful film, but I think that its very gentleness makes the film fall short - poverty, hunger and cold are seen as something romantic and akin to freedom. The hopelessness, loneliness and despair in their lives (Bill, Abby and Linda) are barely touched on by this film (only Linda's voice in off mentions offhandedly these issues).In short, Days of Heaven is a delicate postcard - the beauty of the wheat fields and nature around provide the decor that adorns the emotions of a love triangle seen through modern lenses. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this film to be quite interesting but I didn't find it a life changing experience that many people here though it was. It was a simple little film, with some melodrama and unrealistic characterization. The cinematography was gorgeous and the best part of the film was to look at the images shown at the screen.But, overall, this film wasn't anything out of this world. It was a solid simple drama film made with very good cinematography. I found the depiction of the steam tractors very interesting, as it shows how the Early 20th century US agriculture was still in phase of transition to modern mechanization but still used a large workforce to perform agricultural labor. "},{"Title":"Locust in the field, flowers in the attic","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A very interesting film, Days of Heaven will make you realize how hard life was back then. But more importantly What do we make of Richard Gere in this film? Is he an impulsive schemer that threatens loved ones with outbursts of passion? Is he a pragmatic man that simply uses whatever means he has to secure prosperity for his sister and pretend sister? No doubt, Gere is mysterious. However, it must be noted that for a large part of the film I was unsure whether or not Gere and his lover were actually brother and sister. Even after the scene where Gere’s volcanic passion erupts into fisticuffs with a fellow farm laborer who asked him “if his sister kept him warm at night,” I was still unsure whether or not the two were actually brother and sister. Even after the scene where the two kiss in the gazebo and have a romp in the creekbed, I was still unsure whether or not the two were actually brother and sister. Nonetheless, it is hard for me to judge Gere in this film. What is more troubling is Gere's association with constant violence.A shovel to the head, a fist to the face, a jump on the gun and a subsequent screwdriver to the chest all mark Gere as a man with constant brushes with violence and death. These crimes of passion indeed make Gere a passionate man in this film. That’s why he’s got Brooke Adams in check the whole time. Should we feel sorry for Adams though? I think so. She could have had a happy, guilt free life. Should we feel sorry for the landowner? I think so. He just wanted love, not a love triangle with incestuous overtones. This film indeed shows the fickle nature of love, where everyday is like survival and everyone wants a lover, not a rival. Go watch this film, but don’t watch it with your lover or your sibling. "},{"Title":"A True Hollywood Classic","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven is truly a groundbreaking motion picture which actually engages all the senses (except smell and taste of course). It is a feast for the eyes as well as the ears. Terrence Malick perfectly captured a bygone era in which a new world was emerging. The camera work on the film is just truly spectacular and one of the huge reasons to see the film. The stunning visuals are complemented with a haunting musical score by Ennio Morricone which only enhances the feeling of the film. Also, the performances of Richard Gere, Brooke Adams, and Sam Shepard were definitely Oscar deserving. In my opinion, it is probably one the best films to never win an Oscar for Best Picture. Most definitely a film you should see before you die. "}{"Title":"Good Movie Without Detail to Sound","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Excellent acting and photography but in all honesty....is there anyone in the world that was able to understand more than a few words of Linda Manz' voice overs ??? Why is it that In the movies of the 40's every word of dialogue is clear and distinct and from the 70's on it's often a guessing game ?? Whose fault is it ? Modern speech coaches or incompetent sound editors coming from a rock listening background ?? A subject for discussion..Maybe the producers wanted to make sure nobody could understand what she was saying and that people would come to see the film 20 times to finally figure it out....or then again, maybe it wasn't all that important and you were just supposed to watch it like a silent film and get what was happening from the actors movements. "},{"Title":"Could Have Been Much Better","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cinematography is gorgeous and the acting is good, but the story needed work.  The first hour of the film is pretty good, but the rest is disappointing.  I wish if the ending were changed a bit and if more questions were answered, because I really wanted to like this film. ***Spoilers*** Why did the film make Sam Shephard the bad guy at the end?  I hated that.  I don't think his character would have done that.  His death is really stupid.  Abby was in love with him so the original plan no longer had the same meaning.What happens to Abby and Linda at the end?  Did Abby get The Farmer's money?  Nothing is explained! "},{"Title":"pretty... nothing more","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In Brian Holcomb's review of Days of Heaven, he notes, For Malick, Man is just a small part of a world which just keeps going round with or without his petty squabbles, crimes, loves, or melodramatic plots. It's an interesting place for me to receive the movie, which I generally don't value too highly. It's certainly true that narratives about individuals are only the most popular focus for a movie. There are others, and Malick touches on that here.As others have noted, the film is a visual achievement, but like most Malick movies he values an evocative shot more than I do. For him, it's all there is to a movie. I disagree; great photography has been the death of thought and ideas in movies, which for me means the death of movies, as anything other than chewing gum for the eyes. Malick sacrifices dramatic structure which would have made it more valuable (and more seen). He does it to an even more annoying degree in The Thin Red Line.There are bad film-makers who don't know how to construct a legible composition which could speed their film along and air it out. Malick is the opposite type he doesn't seem to know that conventional verbal methods could assist him in composing his movie, which would add depth and enrich the experience. A mix of the two is very satisfying. The visuals here become extremely numbing and unnourishing after half an hour. Heaven emphasizes visuals so much that over the course of the movie a viewer becomes a connoisseur, who can then readily pick out lower quality, bum moments. i.e. Every time the weather vane is shown spinning like a jet engine, I just rolled my eyes. Your motorized vane isn't persuading me of anything Terry, except that you know more about visuals than wind velocity. A gazebo with curtains blowing in the winter landscape. Ugh. These are details from a low-quality romance novel. One reviewer wrote that the image of the farmhouse sticks with him. Well yeah, that's because Malick stole it from an Edward Hopper painting.Malick's priorities are odd. He's unwilling to build drama over the course of the movie, but he's OK with dropping a flying a circus into the middle as a device to remove Richard Gere!!??. That's pretty low-grade writing. Part of the problem is Malick's method. He reserves the right to restructure, reauthor and reconceive the movie in the editing room; which means he requires miles of dramatically and structurally neutral footage to combine into something. The result is a movie which is a collection of scenes whose order has no impact. A Malick movie never 'builds.'This movie had all the impact of a meringue pie, for me. "},{"Title":"Houston, we have a slight problem","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Agree with other comments about the photography, it was beautiful. However, seeing this movie in the year 2003 is a bit of a letdown as the scenery is still impressive - but there are a lot of similar nice scenery movies. Based on the story, characters and suspense, etc. this movie is not worth your time.  No story line and SLOW. "},{"Title":"Why has been Malick two decades without making movies? Because of this movie","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Some guy said something like to make a good movie you need a good script, I am agree with that quote generally, and in this film totally.First, Richard Gere is not Cassavetes, so his ability of improvisation is mainly awful. The story goes anywhere and comes from anywhere. Actors don't know what to say and act, they are out of place. And of course, Girl off voice quotes don't have any sense. So this cons make this movie boring and boring.However I have to say that Terrence Malick has an unique ability to film nature as other comments mention, and some scenes of animals, country, sunsets, sunrises, lakes, rivers, people ... make this movie interesting.Sum up, if this movie hadn't have got dialogs, could be much better.Well, I don't want anymore make suffering of reading my awful English.thanks and bye, Rodrigo "},{"Title":"An overrated mediocrity with plenty of wheat.","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Before I begin, a little correction IMDb states that Richard Gere is 180 cm tall. Wrong! I passed by him 10 years ago, and he can't be an ant's a** bigger than 165. I'm 183, and he looked like a child next to me.Should have been called Wheatlands; an appropriate title to complement Malick's previous (and much better) movie Badlands. This movie shows that not all directors have as their prime objective to entertain. In fact, some of them have as their main objective to show wheat in all its splendour.The movie is depressing and relatively uninvolving, with the obligatory tragic ending. Nothing more than an average and predictable love triangle drama, with the male two-thirds of the triangle not surviving the movie. Praised for its visual quality; while it does have that realistic 70s feel to it, there are limits to how spellbinding wheat fields can be. You can shoot them with 1500 mm cameras, for all I care, but they are still wheat fields.Gere, who at first seems miscast as some kind of lower-class factory-worker-turned-Wheatfield-worker, is quite solid, while Brooke Adams appears distant and cool for most of the movie, making one wonder just how much she loved either of the two hunks. But for those looking for a movie that displays all the glorious colours of a field of wheat, look no further you've found your dream!If you're interested in reading my biographies of Richard Gere and other Hollywood intellectual heavyweights, contact me by e-mail. "},{"Title":"Days of Heaven American Pastoral Film Poetry","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Days of Heaven is a beautiful art film made in America during a period in Hollywood in which a new breed of directors began making films that competed with their European art-film counter parts. The film has a simple narrative that is quite easy to follow, and executed well, but, overall, the films biggest flaw is that, quite frankly, it is very boring. I have seen many films that use classical pastoral imagery to tell a story, but the execution here seems to have been botched slightly.The cinematography is the film's strong point, with beautiful shots of wheat fields and an overall feeling of careless summer draped over the whole feature. In setting this atmosphere, there were many times where I said to myself, that scene was absolutely, and completely too long/unnecessarily. It seems that in trying to convey this imagery, the film showed many disjointed shots that did little to aid in the overall imagery, but, instead, distracted me from actually enjoying the film. I know many people disagree with me, but similar films have executed this style with much better results, and for this reason, the film is mediocre at best in my mind.Overall, a fun, beautiful film, but take a caffeine pill beforehand if you're not planning on falling asleep. "},{"Title":"look at the pretty field!","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Even though this film is undeniably well done, in the end it simply wasn't my cup of tea. While I can appreciate what I like to call the painting film, a movie that relies on its pretty locations and cinematography, I can't help but think that it would be so much quicker and easier to go see an actual painting. Why stare at a screen, soaking up its images and sparse narrative when I can just pause it anywhere and still have absorbed all that it has to offer? This is an extremely simplistic tale of jealousy and love, and could have been very good if the audience were more invested in the characters. But the director doesn't care about how the actors work, they are obviously given very little direction while he was busy filming wheat blowing in the wind. As an audience member I cared very little about the four characters. I liked the husband, but he had no personality. Richard Gere was just mean and annoying and both of the girls were flat. They had no expression and constantly betrayed their characters. Even in the end, I had no real pity for any of their situations. The ending was extremely abrupt, and I simply felt gipped that the story had never really gone anywhere. For me, the movie was about twenty minutes long. Because as a general rule, I get bored and will fast forward in a movie when there's no dialogue or action going on. Little did I know that I would keep fast forwarding for an hour. It was rather cool to see Mr. Gere so young in a film I suppose, but he obviously was not yet ready to take on a dramatic role, because all of the lines were delivered with a nice, solid, blank stare. In any case, like I said, it had pretty shots of a field&#x85; "},{"Title":"Pretty But Empty","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely a great-looking film, as all of Malick's films are, but not much in the way of plot or character development. I can't join the chorus of praise for Morricone's score as most of it is just a riff on the swan piece of Saint Saens' Carnival of the Animals, which is acknowledged in the opening credits. Worth seeing for the cinematography and Brooke Adams, but it falls far short of the masterpiece label many give it. "},{"Title":"Days of Puke My Guts Out","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"20 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Days of Heaven is one of the most painfully boring and pointless films I have ever seen. In no way, shape, or form would I recommend it to anyone...unless you're trying to put your kids to sleep or, God forbid, give someone an aneurysm. If I could go back in time and do one thing, I would set fire to the reels before they were sent to theaters. Why? Days of Heaven's plot is simple, but extremely vague.  Long sequences devoid of dialogue compose much of the film. The characters are too shallow and ridiculously stupid to relate with.  The climax of the story does not touch you by this time your brain has worked so hard to figure out the plot and the array of hidden metaphors that your ability to think is gone.  The only things working are your eyes, and unfortunately, your ears, who must listen to the sound of Linda, the little girl in the story, who talks like a man. I am now dumber for seeing this movie.  Don't let it happen to you.  "}]