[{"Title":"one memorable Walt Disney western,,,,","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Action","Review":" I seen this movie at the movie theater when I was a little girl....it is one of my first memories of being at the movies.....and I loved it....very funny with little life lessons along the way..after all these years I never forgot hot lead and cold feet...I even remember the theme song...hot lead and cold feet..may the best man win...hot lead and cold feet..may the best man win.. dadadada....What stands out in this movie is the performance of the lead character playing both parts of the gunfighter twin and the mild mannered twin...I think that kids today need to rediscover this movie....it should be remembered as a family classic...I cannot wait to purchase this on DVD and you should to especially if you have young children.... "},{"Title":"Fun clean comedy wish they made a series like this, a Disney classic, 10 stars","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Action","Review":"  This is the funniest comedy western movie.  Walt was a visionary.  I hope one day another generation can appreciate this movie.  Good versus evil,  it will always be great to watch. Don is comedic magician. And one man plays 3 roles and does an excellent job. A must see A+ "},{"Title":"Yee-haw!!!!!","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Action","Review":" Howdy! It's time to talk about that rootin-tootin crazy old classic funny family Disney western live action film from 1978 (whew!), Hot Lead and Cold Feet! It has many stars; Don Knotts being one of them, and it's a funny film that took place in the old west! There's a funny locomotive race included as well! And the best part is the theme song it combines the pride of a western movie theme with the retroness of the 70s; in this case, for a second, it sounds like that da-da-da-da part from Stevie Wonder's Living For The City! LOLI've seen this first on DVD because I was learning French and I needed a fresh start (as always), and I thought this movie was awesome, considering that Disney was about to go down to meltdown mode major in a few years after the film was released. My family thought the same as well.Hot Lead and Cold Feet is awesome!!!!!10 stars "},{"Title":"Wholesome Family entertainment","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Action","Review":"  A family film to be sure, Hot Lead and Cold Feet provides antics to please the children and bemuse the adults.  It makes attempts at being a western but is overridden by its slapstick comedy and wholesome family values.The film focuses on a contest rigged by Jasper Bloodsky (Jim Dale), founder of the small western town of Bloodsky, to his twin sons Wild Billy and Eli (both also played by Jim Dale).  The problem?  Eli is a Bible-thumping preacher from the East and Wild Billy is the region's most feared outlaw.Possible spoiler belowDespite Billy's best attempts to rig the race in his favor, Eli always manages to overcome the obstacles (such as a canoe with holes drilled in it) to be only one step behind Billy.  As the race continues, the two orphans that Eli brought with him, discover that Mayor Ragsdale (Darren McGavin) plans on killing both brothers and keeping the money for himself.So the kids - along with their pretty school teacher - go on the rescue. After many humorous mishaps they find the brothers and tell them what's going to happen to them.  Several hours later, Wild Billy rides into town the victor, just as the mayor is taking off with the money.  They catch the mayor, and Billy agrees to share the money with Eli; and they set forth to change the wild town into a respectable community.end of spoilerAnd - as in all good Disney films - they lived happily ever after.It should be noted that the truly outstanding performance of Don Knotts as the sheriff made the movie.  His nervous mannerisms and cocky style bring back memories of him as Barney on The Andy Griffith Show.  Perhaps the best scenes in this film are the shoot-outs between the sheriff and his one-eyed nemesis Rattlesnake (Jack Elam).  Something always happens on the count of three to prevent them from shooting each other.If you are worried about the violence of today's films, pick up a copy of Hot Lead and Cold Feet, sit down with the kids and rest assured knowing the harshest language you'll hear will be `gosh darnit.'  This is truly the wholesome family entertainment Disney is known for. "},{"Title":"The divine hand of Providence","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Western, Action","Review":" British comedian Jim Dale was starring in a lot of Walt Disney films that Dean Jones was apparently unavailable for in the Seventies. One of them was this western comedy Hot Lead And Cold Feet where Dale got to play three different roles where he tread on Alec Guinness territory.Dale plays a father with two twin sons, one of them taken by their mother when she split from Dale. The one who stayed with Dale became a notorious gunfighter, the other was raised in Philadelphia and served in the army that General Booth started. I imagine that there were legal technicalities that prevented Disney Studios from outrightly saying it was the Salvation Army.In any event the father fakes his own death and there is a will that leaves the holdings of an entire town to the winner of a race that the two sons have to participate in. So the missionary Dale finds out when he goes west with two young orphans Debbie Lytton and Michael Sharrett. It's a kind old west marathon with a pentathlon of sorts involved as well. Gunfighter Dale of course is ready to do in his missionary brother. But a certain divine hand of Providence seems to be watching over the missionary. Definitely has to be because he's also getting new school teacher Karen Valentine in the bargain.Don Knotts as the sheriff and Jack Elam a notorious former outlaw whose best days are behind him provide a few laughs. Ever since Knotts was Barney Fife he was always being cast as comic authority figures. And there's Darren McGavin who has his own ideas about the Dale fortune should be used for.With so many familiar and talented faces in the cast of Hot Lead And Cold Feet you know it's going to be good. Dale does a wonderful job investing the father and three sons he plays with a certain individuality in each role. This film is still good family entertainment. "},{"Title":"Wacky but fun","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Western, Action","Review":" Much of the movie is not very realistic, some of it's rather crazy, especially the constant shooting, fighting and destruction. They are constantly shooting, but not hitting each other. They're also constantly getting knocked out or injured, but are completely normal again shortly after wards. But it's entertaining and a lot of fun, they must have gone through a lot of work and money to achieve all this. The acting is pretty good, and rather funny. It's impressive that Jim Dale played 3 separate roles, you can't tell that it's him when he plays the old man.It's great comedy, and while it's not very realistic, there are some good lessons with it. I like the unity and fearlessness of the children, and that helping Eli is all that matters to them. It kind of gives a sense that helping others is much more important than money. "}]