[{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"61 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  In a lot of ways, The Big Sleep must have seemed tailor-made for a remake in 1978. The first movie version, while justly famed for the chemistry between Bogie and Bacall, really didn't come close to doing justice to Raymond Chandler's original novel. A lot of that had to do with the fact that Hollywood in 1946 just couldn't show a lot of the things that Chandler did in his 1939 novel. The nudity, the drugs, the pornography, the homosexuality were all a little too strong for a mainstream movie of that time.In addition, Chandler's convoluted plot (originally derived from two or three separate short stories) didn't offer an easy screen translation, even before all the juicy parts were excised.So this must have seemed like a great idea. Robert Mitchum had successfully played Philip Marlowe a few years earlier in Farewell, My Lovely, and the MPAA ratings system meant that they could be as explicit as they wanted; the filmmakers could be more faithful to Chandler's novel *and* show us Candy Clark nude! How could we go wrong?In lots of ways, unfortunately. First up, Mitchum didn't seem to fit the role of Marlowe nearly as well in this movie as he did in Farewell, My Lovely. This makes me suspect that the earlier story was more deftly tailored to Mitchum's age and acting style, with lots of references to how old and tired Marlowe feels. In this case, the script sticks very closely -- basically scene-by-scene, almost line-by-line -- to the original novel, but Mitchum doesn't fit the part as well, somehow. In the book, Marlowe was very much in your face, giving a hard time to everyone from the cops to Eddie Mars to the Sternwood girls. That means that in this movie, Mitchum's nonchalant style doesn't fit with many of the scenes he has to play. Bogart was nonchalant too, I guess, but in a different way. Bogie's tough guys would feign casualness, but they always seemed like they were waiting for the other guy to start something, and when Bogart dug in and got to work, he took it seriously. Mitchum just seems like he couldn't care less one way or the other. It doesn't work for this story, where the second half is driven by Marlowe's desire to find out the truth even when he isn't being paid to do so.The move from L.A. to London didn't bother me at all. It made an interesting, coincidental bridge between the classic films noir and more recent movies about London gangs like Snatch.But the deepest problem with this film is that while it follows the externals of Chandler's novel much more closely in terms of the plot and (most of) the dialogue, it fails utterly to capture the real heart and soul of the novel. Of course, the earlier movie version did, too -- this novel may well be unfilmable -- but at least it had Bogie and Bacall. This one has Mitchum and Miles. And Candy Clark nude. And not much else.Take a look at the beginning of the movie. The second scene, where Marlowe visits General Sternwood in the greenhouse, is probably one of the classics of 20th century popular literature. Few other novels begin with a scene which so completely evoke their characters, and atmosphere, as Marlowe sweats, gags on the scent of orchids, and converses with a tired, bitter, old, rich man clinging to his miserable life. Chandler is hitting you hard with every trick in his bag, and his timing, dialogue and characterization are flawless. Howard Hawks' screenwriters were smart enough to leave much of his original dialogue in this scene. By contrast, in the Mitchum film, scene after scene features lines taken verbatim from the novel, but for some reason, they chose to leave out some of the best How do you like your brandy, sir? Any way at all. or the all-time classic, A nice state of affairs when a man has to indulge his vices by proxy. If the screenwriters chose to leave in lines about Pekineses and loogans, how could they possibly leave these ones out?Maybe they thought that such lines wouldn't sound right coming out of James Stewart -- they were probably right -- but that just shows what an inept choice he was for this part. General Sternwood is supposed to be incredibly bitter, yet we're given a typical Stewart performance; he almost looks perky, certainly not broken by life. He looks physically weak but hardly seems cynical or jaded enough to have produced two such screwed-up daughters. It wasn't even made clear why he was sitting out in the greenhouse, and Marlowe doesn't seem particularly uncomfortable while he's out there (although a later reference to Rusty Regan sweating like a pig is left in). It's just a mess, and does nothing at all to set us up for what follows.To cite one further example, another key scene manages to miss the point completely while still following Chandler's plot closely. The scene where Harry Jones finally approaches Marlowe in Marlowe's office is the turning point of the entire novel. The case is closed, Marlowe is literally signing the check to deposit it, and Jones walks in with the exact piece of information Marlowe's been missing the entire time. Like so many scenes in the novel, this one is simply brilliant, overflowing with great dialogue (She's too big for you), and in some ways tying together the entire story. Yet after following most of the scene very closely, the script inexplicably stops short of some of Chandler's best writing'This Regan was a cockeyed sort of buzzard. He had long-range eyes. He was looking over into the next valley all the time. He wasn't scarcely around where he was. I don't think he gave a damn about dough. And coming from me, brother, that's a compliment.'The little man wasn't so dumb after all. A three for a quarter grifter wouldn't even think such thoughts, much less know how to express them.The filmmakers may have closely followed the plot of the original novel in this version, but the fact that they could leave out writing like this, while clinging almost religiously to most of the rest of the book, shows that they couldn't have been more clueless about the real core of Chandler's writing. Alas, it appears that we are still waiting for the definitive movie version; this one manages to reduce The Big Sleep to a barely-above-average TV movie-of-the-week with Candy Clark, nude. "},{"Title":"No Substitute for the Original","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"37 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  In recent years we have seen a number of Hollywood remakes of classic British crime films, such as 'Get Carter', 'The Italian Job' and, most recently, 'The Ladykillers', a phenomenon that has aroused some critical comment, especially in Britain. This film shows that, nearly thirty years ago, this same phenomenon was happening in reverse, and the British were remaking classic American crime movies. The plot broadly follows that of the 1946 film, with the striking exception that the action takes place in London rather than Los Angeles. This does not, however, mean that the original has been completely anglicised. Both Philip Marlowe and General Sternwood are American expatriates living in London rather than Englishmen, and they are played by two of Hollywood's biggest stars, Robert Mitchum and James Stewart. With the exception of Richard Boone as Canino and Candy Clark as Sternwood's younger daughter, the other main parts are all played by British actors. The film was clearly made as homage to the famous Humphrey Bogart classic, and it is inevitable that comparisons will be made between the two. In some respects, in fact, the later film is superior to, or at least as good as, the earlier one. (I have not read Raymond Chandler's novel, so I cannot say which film is closer to the original source material). The 1946 film is a fine one, but it is not perfect and has a number of weaknesses, not least its insanely complicated plot containing threads that are never developed and events that are never explained. The plot of the 1978 film, while complex enough, is somewhat easier to follow than that of its predecessor. To the purist Bogart fan there can be no substitute for the original, but to anyone else Robert Mitchum, himself a fine exponent of the film noir style during the early part of his career in the forties and fifties, seems like the best possible replacement. He is, of course, older than Bogart was when he played the role, and his portrayal of the character is perhaps less cynical and more thoughtful, but it is a perfectly acceptable interpretation. There are also good performances from Stewart in the cameo role of Sternwood, from Oliver Reed and from Joan Collins.As a whole, however, the film does not live up to the standard of the original. Certainly, not all the actors are as good as their 1946 counterparts (Sarah Miles, for example, is no Lauren Bacall), but the main reason for its comparative failure goes deeper. The Bogart movie is perhaps the quintessential film noir, a film that one watches less for its plot, or even for its acting, than for its unique atmosphere of cynicism, menace and dubious glamour. An important factor in creating that atmosphere is its dark, brooding black-and-white photography. Unfortunately, in the late seventies the use of black-and-white was generally regarded as the equivalent of hanging a sign on the cinema door saying 'Warning! Art-house Movie! Intellectuals Only!' A few established auteur directors such as Woody Allen ('Manhattan') and Martin Scorsese ('Raging Bull') could get away with using monochrome, but there was no way that the studio would allow such latitude to Michael Winner, a director generally associated with violent commercial thrillers. So colour it had to be. In fact, the photography of London and the English countryside is quite attractive, but it is no substitute for the authentic film noir look. I mentioned that the atmosphere of the earlier film was also one of dubious glamour; besides Bacall it has a large number of other strikingly beautiful but sinister women (some of them only in minor roles). The later film cannot compete in this respect. With the exception of Joan Collins (who could do sultry but sinister glamour in spades, even in her mid-forties), none of the female characters has the required touch of the femme fatale about her.As a London-based crime thriller, Winner's 'The Big Sleep' is not a bad film; it is better than most of its director's other thrillers and better than a lot of other British films from the seventies. As homage to its namesake, however, it falls some way short of its aims. 6/10  "},{"Title":"As a literary adaptation, it is superior to the Bogart version","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"35 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" You may regard the 1946 version as a classic because of the Bogart-Bacall pairing. As a literary adaptation, this version, however, is much better.First of all, the plot stays true to the novel, whereas the older version had a plot ruined by the restrictions of the Hayes code, so that it contains numerous loose ends and unexplained developments.Secondly, Robert Mitchum impersonates Marlowe much better that Humphrey Bogart. Bogart essentially recycles his role of Sam Spade in The Maltese Falcon. Yet, Spade and Marlowe are very different characters. While Spade is a cynic who just barely remembers the remnants of morality (and Bogart is brilliant in that role), Marlowe is way beyond that point. He walks around people in a distanced, almost detached way. Only when he spots a glimpse of humanity in his fellow men, he is willing to engage himself (as with General Sternwood in The Big Sleep). Mitchum plays this character with great understatement, as it should be done, while Bogart makes Marlowe just another hard-boiled detective, which could be replaced by any other one.Finally, both Sarah Miles and Candy Clark (while not being necessarily great actresses) bring over the lunacy of the Sternwood daughters beautifully. While the scenes between Bacall and Bogart a great, they are out of place in this plot, in which there is no place left for romance. It might have been appropriate for the characters of Marlowe and Linda Loring in The Long Goodbye, but hardly in a movie adaption of a novel, in which Marlowe remarks both Sternwood women were giving him hell.So, while this movie transfers the plot to another time and another place, it is a much better adaption of the novel than the version often regarded as a classic. "},{"Title":"Big Mistake, The (1978)","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Chandler's novel is pushed ahead by about 40 years. His Philip Marlowe is aged about 30 years. The location is changed by the combined breadth of the United States and the Atlantic Ocean. It should come as no surprise that this doesn't work at all. The scandal from which Marlowe shields the old man was so much more significant in the period in which the book was set. (Who, for example, really would be heart-broken or even especially shocked to learn in 1978 that his daughter had been photographed in the nude? Granted, that the secrets get darker, but the point is that so much is diluted.) Mitchum is a very, very fine actor, and when he was, say, 30 to 40 years old he would have been a good choice to play Marlowe; but an important aspect of Marlowe is exactly that he is so weary of spirit while still a relatively young man; we expect the old to feel old. And...a film noir in the English country-side? I don't think so! "},{"Title":"More like a doze.","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Raymond Chandler's plots can drive you crazy. The most admirable thing about Chandler's stories is his language (hard boiled) and the way he uses it to evoke a Los Angeles of the 30s and 40s that is so infected with corruption that, like a ripe pustule, we expect it to pop momentarily.And that's what makes it so difficult to transfer his works to the screen. You almost have to have a voice-over from Philip Marlowe otherwise you not only get lost in the various plot twists but you miss the adamantly low-brow tropes -- her hair was the color of gold in old paintings, or, she threw me a glance I could feel in my hip pocket. Chinatown, set in 1937 LA, was released to great critical and public acclaim in 1974. The very next year, Robert Mitchum tackled Philip Marlowe in Farewell, My Lovely and he was great, and so was the production, even if it was not the masterpiece that Chinatown was. Nobody will ever make a masterpiece out of a Chandler story because, after all, a masterpiece usually starts out with a coherent plot.So the trick is to capture on screen what Chandler's prose evokes on the written page. Style is everything. Farewell My Lovely had it. The Big Sleep, alas, doesn't. The director hasn't really done much to help things. In the 1946 version of The Big Sleep, Howard Hawks at least had some fun with the characters. (Bogart and the horn-rimmed glasses in the book shop.) Hawks also allowed some humor in the dialog. (She tried to sit in my lap while I was standing up.) Philip Marlowe with his resolutely seedy presence belongs in the marginal zone of Los Angeles, not in the uptrodden neighborhoods of London. He belongs in a trench coat, wearing an older fedora, not in the powder blue suits of Saville Row. (I own a hat and a coat and a gun, he tells Nulty in Farewell My Lovely, and everything I touch turns to s***.) In this film we have to put up with a confident and compassionate Marlowe, striding through the fancy decor instead of slouching, never touching a drop of alcohol. And Mitchum doesn't add much to the story besides his usual heft. As James Agee once said of him, his casual languor suggests Bing Crosby supersaturated on barbiturates. That reminds me. I couldn't help wondering, while I watched this, how much booze had gone into the production. I forget whether Chandler had quit drinking by the time he wrote this, but Mitchum himself was hardly an amateur. Olivier had kicked Cyril Cusack out of the Old Vic for showing up drunk for a performance of Doctor's Dilemma and reciting lines from another of Shaw's plays. Richard Boone was evidently immobilized during his last few years and Oliver Reed died of drink.Still, look at the actors in this thing. In support are Edward Fox, Harry Andrews, James Donald, Colin Blakely, James Stewart, and Richard Todd. And all of them are up to the task, true professionals, with not a hollow note struck. I'm tempted to call the cast peerless but I don't know if it's permitted if there's a theatrical knight among them. Richard Boone is outstanding as Canino -- a villainous wreck, hobbling about on a broken foot, cackling over his own sliminess, howling with unrestrained glee as he watches a harmless little man whom he has just poisoned crash through a glass door and die.Also notable are the locations and the art direction. It may not be sleazy Los Angeles in 1941 but London and its interiors look just fine. London has never looked less grimy. There is no rain or fog, the streets are clean, narrow and lined with classy book shops, and people tend to drive new and expensive cars.Well, the movie is done with dash and style, no doubt about that. But it's the wrong style. Marlowe belongs in the 1940s. In the 1940s pornography and dope could get you serious jail time -- just ask Mitchum.I didn't much care for it the first time I saw this. The second time was easier going because I'd lowered the bar of my expectation. "},{"Title":"Not so golden slumbers","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A dream project with a dream cast and the result is a nightmare. Well, definitely not a pleasant dream. While Michael Winner was busy updating The Big Sleep why didn't he add a disco score to reflect the cultural environment of 1978? It would have made just as much sense as plopping a too well-tailored and inappropriately affluent Philip Marlowe down in modern day London. Chandler's novels were very much about the city of angels as much as they were about Marlowe and his code of honor. Winner either didn't know that or didn't care. What he gives us is a standard yet below par mystery film that has little connection with the character Robert Mitchum so memorably played three years earlier in Farewell, My Lovely. Unlike Robert Altman's The Long Goodbye, wherein Marlowe was portrayed as an anachronism in contemporary society, Winner's updates reflect nothing but his ignorance of and/or boredom with the material. But Richard Amsel's poster is great! "},{"Title":"No classic like the superior original but still worth a look.","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Warning This review may contain spoilers.When Michael Winner decided to remake Howard Hawks's 1946 classic version of Raymond Chandler's mystery novel The Big Sleep, he must have known that comparisons to the original film would materialize and that the majority of them would not be in favor of his 1978 screen retelling. The majority was correct. This 1978 version can't compare to the Hawks original(**** out of ****) in terms of style or entertainment value.That stated, this Big Sleep does make for worthwhile viewing after one has seen the original. While I haven't yet read the book I believe Chandler fans who say this version is more faithful to the original novel despite its updating from 1940s Los Angeles to 1970s London. This version benefits from writer/director Winner's tight screenplay that makes more sense than the earlier one penned by William Faulkner, Leigh Brackett and Jules Furthman. After screening it, so many things that baffled me after even multiple viewings of Hawks' version became clearer resulting in a more coherent and intellectually satisfying viewing experience. Therefore, I recommend this one after seeing the stylish original to help better understand Chandler's complex story.Other benefits include  relatively handsome production values and a good cast Robert Mitchum(in his 2nd performance as detective Philip Marlowe), James Stewart, Sarah Miles(who unfortunately sports a very unflattering Donna Summer-style hairdo but hey it was the late '70s), Richard Boone, Joan Collins, Oliver Reed, John Mills and  Richard Todd. Contrary to the advertising on the current video release, Miss Collins doesn't play the female lead. That honor goes to Miss Miles who co-starred with Mr. Mitchum previously in David Lean's Ryan's Daughter(1970). Don't expect the same playful chemistry that Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall shared in the original as the Marlowe/Vivian (or rather Charlotte as the elder Sternwood daughter character is named this time around) relationship is decidedly different.Warning parents, pay attention to the R rating. Certain subject matter only hinted at in the 1946 version is portrayed much more graphically  this time around. Definitely a film for adults only.Final rating **1/2 out of ****.   "},{"Title":"I know you'll say it's a blasphemy, but...","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"26 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" ...I've enjoyed this movie better than the 1946 Howard Hawks version.Before starting to bash me let me explain why1) The 1978 movie is much more entertaining than the 1946 one, where you couldn't realize wha'the hell was happening there, and finally you got bored (At least I did). But now you have got a plot that you can follow.2) The characters. In the 1946 version everything was so cold that you never managed to care about any of the characters. If we were supposed to connect with Marlowe-Bogart, I didn't. Why? Because in that version he's more a proto-James Bond (that makes girls instantly fall for him -you only have to remember the Acme Book Shop scene or the Girl Taxi Driver one- while the spectators don't know really why, as he isn't the most handsome man in the world, and he doesn't even say anything to the chicks that make them like him so much, but he only mumbles cynical phrases all the time) than a film noir private dick (he played perfectly a different kind of private eye in the far superior THE MALTESE FALCON). Marlowe-Mitchum, however, is a cent-per-cent detective who only makes his job the best he can, and when we see a girl falling for him, we'll finally know the reason (the younger Sternwood girl falls for him because of the same reason she did in the earlier version, and the older Sternwood sister,... well, we'll know at the ending). I could more easily feel identified with Mitchum than with Bogart. And about the other characters General Sternwood was almost uninsensitive in the 1946 movie while James Stewart as Sternwood now is a warm character that feels lonely. You feel more sorry for poor Harry Jones in this version than in Hawks'. The bad guys are scarier, specially Richard Boone as Canino. And the older daughter of Sternwood has a reason for her behavior.3) The whole concept. If you're a Raymond Chandler fan, this one is the version to see. Here you'll find the real Philip Marlowe the way Chandler wanted him to be (althought a little too aged, but that's not problem for me). And you'll have a detective plot here. The 1946 movie, however, took Chandler's great novel, modified it and turned it to a love-innuendo-between-the-two-main-characters story, as a mere excuse to show on screen the chemistry that Bogey and Lauren Bacall had. And that's the most important thing see Bogart and Bacall saying brilliantly cynical quotes that had nothing to do with the novel (as the famous dialogue about horses), or modifying the ones in the novel (which are equally brilliant and we can find them in this 1978 version). But nobody cared about the plot. And I don't mind that old Who killed the driver problem, it isn't even explained in the novel, but the whole intrigue. About Bogey and Bacall, they were a wonderful couple, and I recommend seeing them in DARK PASSAGE, a great film-noir movie who will never bore you. But The Big Sleep wasn't their best day, at least for me.4) The ending. It makes much more sense than the one in the 1946 version (Obviously, I won't spoil it here).But there aren't only good points I would have enjoyed this movie more if it took part in LA in the 1940s instead of in London in 1978. But I don't really care, as did the other person who posted a comment here. Every place or country is good to be the scene of a good film noir plot. And, of course, after all, Michael Winner is not Howard Hawks, and some scenes in this version aren't so well filmed as in the earlier movie (i.e. Harry Jones' death), but even that way I prefer this one.Just my opinion. What I will never do is saying that something is good just because lots of people say it. "},{"Title":"Mitchum is excellent in this!","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I haven't seen the Humphrey Bogart version of this Chandler remake but I enjoyed this one very much. Robert Mitchum brought great class to the role of Marlowe as few else could have done. His shady look, cool persona, and hilarious one-liners help to explain why Chandler is one of the greatest crime writers of all time. I haven't read any of the books but after seeing this film I am certainly much more interested in them.It came as a surprise to me that Michael Winner was the director for the film. A man I associate with expensive dinners at expensive restaurants. But after watching this, and Death Wish, I have a new-found respect for eating in style.  This film is not a Peckinpah, but it still manages to be incredibly effective in it's delivery. I like the car Mitchum drives too, a Mercedes soft-top.The video is in widescreen by the way, requiring a screen re-adjustment or it'll look silly. Great performances from all of the actors and a superbly enjoyable plot in a film that has aged very well.Some people criticised this film for being in the English countryside and that it doesn't bear up with the film noir style. I disagree, film noir is not limited to shady city streets, as this film goes to show. "},{"Title":"It's not the 1946 original but a lot of fun nonetheless","Date":"6 March 2011","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" While I haven't read the novel upon which 'The Big Sleep' is based, I have seen the Bogart version. I really love the original. Bogie-Bacall - what's not to love? However, that version does suffer from Hays Code puritanism that robbed the edge from much of human desires and sexual foibles that obviously suppressed some of the underlying desires and sexual motives.That's where the 1978 version excels - and fails. Let's start with the fails. In the original, the scenes in the bookshops near the beginning rule with Bogie's use of humour and the electric suggested tryst with Dorothy Malone's character. Sometimes the suggestion can be erotic enough. Perhaps that's why this version skips the fun and the implied sex for another more mundane approach.The other fail is the atmosphere. This version lacks any. The original's shadows and textures evoked each scene and created moods. This version lacks any specific mood to instead tell a story in almost a heightened reality. The direction does the same, relying on straight-ahead narrative more like a TV movie than a theatrical film.There's so much more here that succeeds. Despite his age, Mitchum is a fine Marlow, more cynical and world-weary than Bogart's version. The script is sharp, full of humour and wry observations. The biggest improvement is the depiction of sex. Freed of the tyranny of the forties' censorship, scenes like Carmen naked and stoned are much more realistic and make a more satisfying treatment, even if the innuendo is not as predominant.OK, it's not the classic it could've been. It's still a decent flick to rent or watch on cable. Marlowe is solid, Candy Clark is wonderfully loony, Joan Collins is pure kitsch, Richard Boone plays the essence of evil. It's good to see James Stewart, even if his gentle disposition doesn't quite match the demeanour of a General. The supporting cast are almost uniformly intriguing and fun to watch. And what a cast!The Big Sleep may be no masterpiece but it is great fun. Relax your expectations and enjoy it for what is - fine entertainment. "}{"Title":"I have never read the book, or seen the Bogart version.","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have never read the book, nor seen the Bogart version, so I came to this film with no preconceptions, and I found it well scripted, well acted all round, and most entertaining. Probably I will be disappointed by the Bogart version when I get to see it. Well worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Moving It To the UK","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This version of The Big Sleep is the classic reason why you don't remake a classic. Funny thing is that Robert Mitchum got deserved plaudits for what he did in remaking Farewell My Lovely a few years earlier.As Monk would say, here's the thing. A masterful job was done in keeping the story within it's 1940s milieu. Except for some things that couldn't be in the film because of the Code and the color photography, Farewell My Lovely could have been shot side by side with the Dick Powell Murder My Sweet. Raymond Chandler's noir world of the forties was recreated brilliantly.So who was the genius who thought to age Marlowe thirty years and bring him into the swinging seventies of London? Sherlock Holmes was brought to Washington, DC for a war time propaganda piece to the dismay of all Holmes purists. Chandler purists were similarly affronted here.Sad because a really great cast was wasted in this. One thing I'm sure the audience must have felt is how the American expatriate general played by James Stewart could have one English accented daughter in Sarah Miles and an American accented one in Candy Clark? I'm still scratching my head over that one. English gangster/gambler Oliver Reed employs an American hit man on retainer in Richard Boone. Another puzzle.It was nice however to see Robert Mitchum and James Stewart in the one and only film they made together. Stewart's only scenes in the film are with Mitchum and when the two Hollywood icons died in successive days in 1997 clips from The Big Sleep were running for a week. I don't need to give any plot details for those who've seen the fabulous Humphrey Bogart-Lauren Bacall version. If you want to stargaze, watch this film, if you want to see some classic performances don't miss the Bogart one. "},{"Title":"Who greenlit this and how drunk were they at the time?","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The Big Sleep has to be the most bizarre pitch of the 70s giving Michael Winner carte blanche to transfer Philip Marlowe from LA's mean streets to the Green Streets of suburban England. With so many of the stellar supporting cast just so terribly wrong for their parts &#150; a drunken Richard Boone with his leg in a cast as an unintentionally comical Lash Canino, Sarah Miles with the worst wardrobe and the biggest Afro you've ever seen on a white woman displaying all the sex appeal of a decomposing antelope in the Lauren Bacall role, Edward Fox as a bookie, John The Thief of Bagdad Justin as a glass-eyed gay blackmailer and Richard Todd as the police commissioner &#150; it's only Robert Mitchum who keeps the thing afloat, even managing to keep a straight face when confronted with such dangerous characters as Dudley Sutton and Derek Deadman. On one level it is perversely watchable without ever being gleefully bad, but like almost all of Winner's films it shows his amazing ability to flatten any material he gets his hands on. Still, at least Mitchum amused himself on the set telling any passing Arabs he saw that Michael Winner was forcing the cast to give 25% of their salary to Mossad and then giving them the director's home address &#150; You can't miss it, it's the one with the effigy of Yasser Arafat hanging from the chimney. "},{"Title":"An oddly enjoyable adaptation for the wrong reasons.","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The patrician bearing of Mitchum, the venerable Jimmy Stewart, the late Sir John Mills, and the intense magnetism of Oliver Reed provide the star quality to this breathless, over-paced adaptation of The Big Sleep. It is backed by (some of) Chandler's masterful writing, yet not enough. For balance, Joan Collins provides gormless mediocrity. The British setting does add a peculiar air that sits oddly with the novel. Director Michael Winner does not let the pace -and audience- relax and breathe to develop tension and to enjoy the performances from the good actors - you may notice it feels like like a collection of first or second takes made quickly.Winner wrote the screenplay. Perhaps they were on a tight budget and couldn't afford Elmore Leonard, Ed McBain or some such, but it shows in the great liberties and clumsy re-writing of parts of the novel. Marlowe's office is too modern, whereas his apartment is too fusty and British. In his apartment he has a television - he does not seem like the kind of character who would bother with television.Good to see so much talent in this feature, though they're phoning in their performances at times, with the exception of the ever-enjoyable Reed, delivering his clipped lines like a baleful pressure cooker. Stewart is under-used, feeling like an extended cameo, Mitchum looks bored or impatient. The film lacks the grit or weariness to make it more than it could have been. The character of Carmen (Camilla) Sternwood is silly and bratty rather than nubile and tantalising, even as the curiously neuter portrayal of her sister will inevitably be compared to Bacall's sizzle.The key opening first chapter with a voice-over by Mitchum feels perfunctory - the initial -and vital- first scene fails to evoke the dusty, Gothic atmosphere of the Sternwood house as successfully as in the Bogart/Bacall version.Something of a Curio for Chandler or Mitchum complete-ists then, perhaps? "},{"Title":"Box of Roses","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Michael Winner doesn't have the best reputations as a director. It does seem like a crass act to switch Marlowe to London. I think Robert Mitchum has enough presence, humour and dignity to carry the film and it is a deliciously complicated plot. However my interest is in the many minor treats on the journey to the conclusion. Who wouldn't want to see Oliver Reed in his prime, a traditional British actor who was in his prime the day he died. Then there's Joan Collins working on her nails. There are many agreeable old cars, quaint Chelsea aspects and snaps of the Thames. I was reminded of the subversive humour of the Avengers especially with all that background jazz percussion. Some of the camera angles will indicate when the director was interested. I suppose this film is a lot more fun now than it was when it was released. "},{"Title":"Chandler's King Lear with Robert Mitchum as The Fool.............","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" One of Michael Winner's best movies.To many,that may seem to be damning The Big Sleep with faint praise,but in fact the much - maligned Mr Winner made two of the most interesting British movies of the 1960s,The Jokers and West 11 and the highly individualistic I'll never forget whats'isname before setting out on a career path aimed perhaps at pleasing his accountants rather than the critics few of whom would forgive him for being so successful so young. He clearly divides opinion very strongly,fortunately for some of his detractors he does not appear particularly litiginous by nature. As a man who courts controversy he must have realised that re-making an iconic movie was going to be a risky enterprise.Nothing if not headstrong,he re-cast Mr R. Mitchum - the man actually preferred by Chandler - as Marlowe,albeit a Marlowe for the late 70s,smart,cool, confident and smooth.With power suits and an excellent set of wheels,Mitchum's Marlowe was designed to bear absolutely no resemblance to his predecessor's.In a further act of rashness Winner discarded the Smart - mouth dialogue that was in fact far from Chandler's slightly puritan style but which over the years had become associated with the movie to the extent that many of the audience assumed he himself had written it. Instead he settled for an honest - to - goodness straightforward rendering of the subject featuring an almost Lear - like General Sternwood and his two strange daughters. Some of Mr Winner's favourite actors appear and,continuing with the perhaps rather tenuous Shakespeare analogy,Mr R.Boone is as gleefully evil and limping as Olivier's King Richard. A good story is a good story,and to my mind The Big Sleep does not suffer from being set in England,indeed it could equally as well be set in Paris or Dublin. If Mr Winner was a shy,retiring, hermit - like creature no one would ever go and see his movies - a fact that would not please his accountants at all. "},{"Title":"Winner's take on The Big Sleep","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Most people would probably run a mile at the thought of Michael Winner getting his hands on the rights to film Raymond Chandler's masterpiece novel 'The Big Sleep'; but personally, I was rather excited at the prospect. Michael Winner may not be a great director; but his films generally turn out to be entertaining in spite of not being brilliant, and with a story as strong as this one; I felt confident that The Big Sleep would be a good film. However, as it turns out; this film is not as good as it could have been. The story focuses on private investigator Philip Marlowe. He is hired by an old man who goes by the name of General Sternwood to investigate a case of blackmail against one of his daughters. After meeting the daughters and some of the other main players involved, our hero soon comes to the conclusion that the blackmail doesn't really constitute a threat and becomes suspicious; leading to him thinking that everything seems to be more connected with the disappearance of the man's son in law, and decides to investigate that instead.For one reason or another, Michael Winner has decided to move things over to England; although the lead man remains American. This change in location has not really had an effect on the story; but it did leave Winner free to recruit an excellent roster of British stars. Among the names in the cast list are Oliver Reed, John Mills, Joan Collins, Richard Boone and Edward Fox. The film is lead by Robert Mitchum, who while not as great as Humphrey Bogart, still makes an excellent leading man and there's also enough room in the cast for an aging James Stewart. The film is a lot shorter than the earlier version of this story and Winner has really trimmed things down a lot, which means that the story is much more straight forward than it was in the 1946 film. This is not really a bad thing as it does mean that the film is easier to follow; although it also seems less expansive. The characters take something of a backseat too, with only the lead character getting any real development. Still, this is at least an entertaining thriller and I don't feel like I wasted my time watching it; although Howard Hawks' version is better. "},{"Title":"Do you sell books? What does this look like! A Banana?","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Re-made Raymond Chandler film-noir classic that just doesn't have the drama and suspense of the original Bogart/Bacall 1946 film that in some ways was even more confusing then the less effective 1978 remake. We have in this version of The Big Sleep Robert Mitchum as the not so usual down on his luck, barley keeping up with paying the rent for his shabby office, private detective Philip Marlow. Marlow drives around in a $50,000.00 car checking the time on his $5,000.00 Rollex watch and wearing clothes personally tailored and cut to size never getting dirty torn or even creased no matter how many beatings he take throughout the movie!This time around Philip Marlow is working his trade, as a PI, in the green rolling countryside of the 1970's jolly old England not the dark dirty and gritty streets of 1940's L.A. Coming to see his latest client sick and disabled millionaire General Sternwood, James Stewart, Marlow is told that he's being blackmailed by this local bookstore owner Arthur Geiger, John Justin. Geiger has a number of nude photos of General Sternwood's wacky's younger daughter Camilla, Candy Clark, and is threatening to make them public if the General doesn't pay him 10,000 Pound Sterling.We, and Philip Marlow, see right away that Camilla is a bit off her rocker but what we don't realize is that General Sternwood is really interested in finding her missing husband Rusty Regan, David Seville, whom he seems to have become very found of in his stories about himself and his exploits as an Irish patriot. Besides Camilla there's also the Generals slightly nymphomaniac older daughter Charlotte, Sara Miles, who like the younger Carmilla is always making a play for the much older, and not at all interested, Philip Marlow that's keeping him from doing his job.Marlow tries to track down Geiger and finds him in his house, with a naked and goofy Carmilla, shot dead between the eyes. It's later found out that the Sternwood family chauffeur Owen Taylor, Martin Potter, killed Geiger in a fit of anger when he found out that he was photographing his secret lover Carmilla in the nude. It's later that Taylor is himself killed and, together with his car, thrown into the nearby river by an associate of Geiger Joe Brody, Edward Fox. Fox murdered Taylor in order to steal Geiger's film that Taylor had on him but at the same time not knowing that Geiger was already dead.The story leads into a number of different directions that has to do with a local British mobster Eddie Mars, Oliver Reed, and his club-footed and sadistic hit-man known as the Brown Man Lush Canino, Richard Boone, and members of London's sleazy and dangerous Red Light district that includes some of the late Arthur Geiger's gay lovers. All this shenanigans leaves some half dozen corpses behind in it's wake but the real crux of the story goes right back to the missing son-in-law of General Sternwood Rusty Regan.Philip Marlow sensed right from the beginning that General Sternwood was only interested in Rusty's disappearance not his daughter, and Rusty's wife, Carmilla being blackmailed. Wanting to know for himself as well as his client, General Sternwood, if Rusty is either alive or dead Marlow begins to realizes that only Carmilla can provide that answer. Being mentally unbalanced may very well be the result of what Carmilla knows about Rusty.Taking a chance Marlow sets Carmilla up, in a scheme that he secretly devised, in order to find out just what she not only knows about her missing husbands whereabouts but also if she had something to do with his disappearance in the first place. Marlow's scheme entrapping Carmilla and finding out about what happened to Rusty Regan sadly pays off and shocking proves what Philip Marlow suspected about Carmilla all along. Now Marlow has to somehow keep her father General Sternwood from finding it out in order not just to keep from breaking his heart but also from causing him to suffer a fatal heart-attack.Having solved the case of the missing son-in-law for General Sternwood and not even asking or accepting a tip or bonus for doing it, from a grateful Charlotte, Philip Marlow hops in his expensive car and drives as fast as he can out of Sternwood Manor. Marlow in his speedy exit breaks a number of speed limits on the way out as he tries to get his head back together after what he had to go through in solving the case. "},{"Title":"Robert Mitchum figures out who killed James Stewart's pal","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I try not to compare remakes with originals and movies with books. There are too many variables involved. But I'll do a wee bit of comparing anyway. Looking at this version of The Big Sleep on its own merits, it is fairly good, and perhaps even somewhat above average for movies in the detective genre. Where it compares well with its class, Mitchum is the reason. Mitchum is laid back without losing the edge that makes a movie sparkle.Robert Mitchum is simply a huge treat, whether narrating or acting, which for him quite often is reacting. From the opening lines of sarcasm and self-deprecation to the final lines of the fate that awaits all human beings, the noir ambiance hangs over the story, but especially when Mitchum's there and speaks. He alone creates that atmosphere. When John Mills, James Donald, Richard Todd and Oliver Reed appear, the noir vanishes. Much the same for Sarah Miles. This is a function not of them personally or as actors, but of the scripting of their characters. Their lines and conflicts come across too often as mundane.Harry Andrews as the butler of the very rich and frail Jimmy Stewart carries the sarcasm forward. Edward Fox scores as a man looking for an angle to blackmail. Candy Clark makes an impression as the dippy but not to be refused or scorned younger daughter of Stewart, who is into drugs and likes posing nude. Sarah Miles plays the older sister as wild, spoiled, domineering but not too bright. She cannot figure out Mitchum for one thing and she's tied herself up with Oliver Reed. Richard Boone is an excellent Lash Canino, in a far different way than was Bob Steele. Colin Blakely does not, however, bring out the pathos as did Elisha Cook, Jr. Joan Collins is a notable bitchy associate of Fox in the dirty book business. Maybe she should have been cast as the elder daughter of Stewart.The movie follows the story faithfully. For first-timers who do not know the story, the movie doesn't spoon feed too much. You are more or less seeing things through Mitchum's (Marlowe's) eyes. The opening shots are from Marlowe's point of view driving to see Strernwood. Some scenes are handled perfuntorily, others with some subtlety and good tension. Inside the richly-appointed book store is a good scene, as Joan Collins taps her enameled fingernails on the table and Mitchum, wearing glasses, sits across the room inspecting her. Her clothing color matches her nails. The night scenes near Geiger's house and its interiors come across with an air of mystery. Generally, the daytime scenes lack a sense of atmosphere while the night scenes are lit much better to achieve that. The scenes between Reed and Mitchum are not bad, but don't generate the spark they should. The actors are doing what they can with dialog that seems off center.For the first time, I watched this in a widescreen version (1.851). This added some to the experience. I think that this movie needed more boldness and creativity from its director, more nice touches, to have realized its potential. He needed to bring more out of his cast than he did and to complement that with better images. I think Michael Winner did better work in his earlier movies in the seventies.This is a movie I like but not one that I'd rate as much more than average. "},{"Title":"A good, but not great, remake of a classic film","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Admittedly, this remake can't compare to the original 1946 film starring Humphrey Bogart... but it has a value of it's own.The 1946 version of the film was very artfully scripted. It had to be, because two underlying themes of the plot (relating to homosexuality and pornography) couldn't be made explicit, in the original, owing to the sensibilities of the era. This led to the original film's only flaw the plot's incomprehensibility, masked only by the brilliance of the direction and acting.By 1975, such social restrictions were gone, and the remake, set in England, instead of California, was able to be fully explicit, making the plot understandable for the first time. Robert Mitchum's subdued and smooth interpretation of Chandler's Phillip Marlowe was well suited to the script. I think this film is well worth watching, if for little other reason than a clear plot line and Mitchum's delightful under-acting of the lead role. "}{"Title":"Philip Marlowe, updated and relocated. Some moments of interest emerge, but generally it's a misfire.","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" At first glance, it's easy to shriek in horror at the idea of Michael Winner trying his hand at a Philip Marlowe film. The whole concept becomes even harder to swallow when one realises that the action has been updated/relocated to 1970s England. But if you give this remake of the famous Raymond Chandler novel (most famously filmed in 1946 with Humphrey Bogart) a chance, it has its moments. Not many, admittedly, but enough to deserve a viewing at any rate. And any film with a cast that includes the likes of Robert Mitchum, James Stewart, Oliver Reed, Richard Boone, Sarah Miles, Edward Fox, Joan Collins, John Mills, Richard Todd and Harry Andrews carries the inevitable curiosity value associated with seeing so many stellar names in one flick.American private eye living in England, Philip Marlowe (Robert Mitchum), is hired by a wheelchair bound old man, General Sternwood (James Stewart), to solve a blackmail problem. It seems that the general has a couple of wild and irresponsible daughters, the youngest of whom, Camilla (Candy Clark), has got herself into pornographic photography that could prove embarrassing to her father's reputation. Another thread is added to the mystery when the general mentions that the older daughter, Charlotte (Sarah Miles), was married to a guy named Rusty Regan who has recently disappeared without trace. Marlowe is officially being paid to sort out the blackmailing problem, but he senses that the general is much more interested ultimately in learning what happened to his much-appreciated son-in-law Rusty. The long and tortuous trail leads Marlowe to a photographer (John Justin) and a crooked book-keeper (Edward Fox), both of whom are murdered for their troubles, and finally to a casino owner called Eddie Mars (Oliver Reed) who seems to hold some sort of dirty secret linked to the Sternwood daughters. After much violence and death, Marlowe finally gets to the bottom of the mystery&#133; but fears the truth might be too harmful for the ailing general to take.Mitchum is good as Marlowe, though perhaps not quite as good as he was a few years earlier in the excellent Farewell My Lovely. Some of the stars in the cast play it rather indifferently, while others are given preposterously little screen time to do anything with their parts. Reed does pretty well as Eddie Mars, Stewart has two well-acted scenes as the general, and that ubiquitous character-actor Harry Andrews adds another solid role to his oeuvre as the Sternwood family butler. Easily the worst of the key players is Sarah Miles, hopelessly wrong as the nymphomaniac Charlotte. The '70s English setting results in a lack of noirish atmosphere and is a further element of the film that doesn't really work. Winner directs adequately, but rather overdoes the flashy camera angles and zoom-ins. On a more positive note, Jerry Fielding's score is quite good and adds tension to scenes that might otherwise have been lacking. On the whole, The Big Sleep is a remake that never threatens to rival its predecessor, nor its source novel, but it does have occasional redeeming features for those in an undemanding mood. "},{"Title":"From Smog To Fog.","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" WHENEVER A CLASSIC film is remade, a true classic that is, the producers are aware from the start that they will have opened that proverbial can of nails. Compatison, criticism and all sorts of charges of bloody murder are sure to follow.SO IT WAS with today's subject matter title in THE BIG SLEEP (ITC/Winkist/United Artists. 1978); but, in this case, it's not for reasons usually cited. This is our considered 'professional' opinion because the original version of THE BIG SLEEP (Warner Brothers, 1946), which featured Humphrey Bogart and young paramour/trophy wife, Miss Lauren Bacall, is very good, but never crosses that threshold into the very elite productions.WHILE IT TRULY had a lot of the potential that is required to be considered, those certain intangibles just weren't there. In short it is no CITIZEN KANE, CASABLANCA nor not even KING KONG. The Good News that it is still better than the remake.WHEN ONE EXAMINES its entirety, we discover that some of the more obvious reasons are unusually led into the witness chair in an attempt to affix blame. Hence we have the following, 'usual suspects' awaiting en queue; those being star & featured roles, supporting cast and general fidelity to the original story and characters.CERTAINLY ONE MUST come to the reasonable conclusion that none of these factors are 'the murderer'; although there could be made a strong case against some of their being complacent and knowing accomplices.ANY PRODUCTION WHICH boasts of having two such iconic stars as this picture does is surely said to be out of the old 'starting blocks' with ease. The combination of James Stewart and Robert Mitchum (considered by many to be the best of the screen Matlowes)was a concession to both critical approval, as well as to Box Office $ucce$$!* WHAT WE FAULT as being the weak link in this movie is its setting. Had it not been transported to contemporary London, instead of to 1940's Los Angeles of Raymond Chandler's pen; it would have been a much better,interesting and more entertaining a movie.AS EVIDENCE OF what we are driving at, just take a gander at the previous Phillip Marlowe outing in FAREWELL, MY LOVELY (ITC/????/Avco Embassy, 1975) as proof.AND JUST WHY was such a change of venue or setting implemented as cornerstone of this filming of THE BIG SLEEP? We believe it was the fault of 'the Suits' in the Board Rooms of the Companies who were footing the bill.AS OFFERING THE best comparison that we can to strengthen and perhaps prove our case, we must refer to the old SHERLOCK HOLMES Series, with Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce.** Those stories were filmed in a contemporary (1940's) setting for one simple reason; that being, the bottom line. It was much more economical, ergo, more profitable to do it this way; rather than having incurred the extra expense of Victorian costuming, Olde London Towne sets, horse drawn carriages, etc.SO IT IS true to this Marlowe romp that present day London would be far less costly than recreating the Los Angeles of a bygone era; as was done for FAREWELL, MY LOVELY.THE PROSECUTION RESTS. your witness! NOTE * The popularity of Raymond Chandler's cynical, world weary sleuth is evidenced by the number of major movies made in the '40's on' all done by various studios and not as a run of B or Series movies.NOTE** These don't include THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES and THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES (both 20th Century-Fox, 1939)which both starred and originated the Rathbone-Bruce team and were set as they should Be, in Victorian/Edwardian England, Scotland, Wakes and Ireland. "},{"Title":"A light sleeper","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This movie starts out pretty slow. The only thing holding it together is Robert Mitchum. And he would have been much better if made 10 years earlier. Not that Mitchum wasn't any good. It just seems to me that Mitchum lost a step in his later years.Oliver Reed plays the part of Eddie Mars many betters in this version than his counter part in the old one. Sarah Miles and the rest of the crew were so -so. One thing for sure this version is much more visual. I would have much rather had Joan Collins playing the part of Camilla. Candy Clark played it much too goofy and she looked nasty not sexy.But over all I would say the movie came out OK. After all Mitchum had more style and charisma than ninety percent of any of our so-called big name male leads we have today. I just hope leftywood doesn't try to make another re-make of this movie. It would be hard to cast this movie with what we have now. "},{"Title":"Mitchum the bright spot in a confusing detective story","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The only possible way of enjoying this version of Raymond Chandler's famed detective story is to avoid seeing the 1946 Howard Hawks production with Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall or, if you have already seen it, to ignore that predecessor as much as possible. Set in London and completely outside the film noir atmosphere that made Bogart's version famous, the 1978 edition by Michael Winner is perhaps too far removed for a comparison to be made.Filmed thirty years after censorship limited the freedom of Howard Hawks, Winner's version adheres to the novel more closely and does its best to hold together a convoluted plot. But despite an interesting approach by the director and a fine performance from Robert Mitchum, the 1978 'Sleep' proves no better at avoiding the confusion of Chandler's novel. While 'The Big Sleep' is no doubt a great crime story, it simply does not translate to the screen well and becomes a taxing experience. I do have to admit a soft spot for the newer film, because it was premiered in New York City two days after I was born there. While watching this film on DVD, however, I can imagine its theater audiences (without the help of a rewind button) becoming lost in the final 40 minutes, when Philip Marlowe makes his way through an overlapping and bewildering series of events.Robert Mitchum, who reprises his Marlowe role from 1975's 'Farewell, My Lovely,' is here an American investigator who opened shop in London after the Second World War. He is contacted by retired General Sternwood (James Stewart) of the U.S. Army, who has settled on an English manor with his two wild daughters, heavy gambler Charlotte (Sarah Miles) and nymphomaniac Camilla (Candy Clark). The dying general has been receiving letters of blackmail from a London bookmaker, Joe Brody (Edward Fox), with threats of revealing family secrets to the police. In the meantime, Charlotte's husband Rusty - a good friend of General Sternwood - has been missing for several days and could be the actual reason why Marlowe was called. Investigating at a bargain rate of 50 pounds per day, Marlowe saunters through a child pornography operation, a gambling racket, and payback murder before unveiling the truth.This version of 'The Big Sleep' contains plot elements that would have been unacceptable in Bogart and Bacall's time pornography, drug use, and homosexuality, amongst others. Michael Winner, who wrote, directed, and co-produced this film, tries to keep things simple with the hope of Chandler's plot being easier to follow. Unfortunately, the plot develops gradually over the first hour before a tidal wave of information hauls us to the conclusion. 'The Big Sleep' is in typical detective style, where all loose ends are tied up after a sudden change in fortune. The film does have a very logical and satisfying ending, but racks the viewer's brain to get there. At least in my opinion, 'The Big Sleep' reaches such complexity and tries so severely to jam this information into 102 minutes that its entertainment value is greatly reduced.Robert Mitchum is completely at ease in his role as Marlowe and gives a charismatic performance, but there is limited material for the supporting cast to work with. James Stewart offers little emotion in his role as General Sternwood; Sarah Miles gives a strong effort as the femme fatale who uses looks to (sometimes) get her way, but Candy Clark is made to look like a complete ditz rather than an emotionally unstable woman. Oliver Reed is decent as the sinister nightclub owner Eddie Mars and Joan Collins gets done what she has to as Agnes Lozelle, a bookshop clerk. Richard Boone (as Lash Canino), Sir John Mills (Inspector Carson), and Harry Andrews (Norris, the Sternwoods' butler) also star.Winner gives mostly straight-up direction here, although he can't resist toying with drastic zooms and provocative angles. One thing he cannot be knocked for is his use of genuine English locations and convincing viewers that the action is really taking place there. Production values are fairly good, especially in the manor and city scenes, where sharp clothing and expensive cars abound. The cinematography by Robert Paynter ('Scorpio,' 'An American Werewolf in London') has a dark sheen that fits the story's mood. Three-time Oscar nominee Jerry Fielding supplies a jazzy orchestral score that has fallen behind the times, but certainly hasn't lost its charm.As a film that has slipped into obscurity, not much can be expected of its DVD; it has been horrendously treated by Artisan Home Entertainment, a licensed U.S. distributor for Carlton/ITC. This 2002 DVD release is presented in full screen only, which spoils Winner's intended scenery. There is no widescreen option or subtitles, nor are there extras. The film has not been cleaned up - grain and age streaks are visible throughout, while light/dark contrasting is mediocre and pixilations are visible on a computer screen. The Big Sleep's audio is in Dolby 2.0 stereo surround which gives Jerry Fielding's music a renewed sharpness, but drop-offs can be detected in places. Everything works against 'The Big Sleep' on this disc, but I guess it is better than nothing.And if anyone knows where the Mercedes roadster used by Marlowe can be found, please call me so I can drive it for an hour.**  out of 4 "},{"Title":"An unfortunate retelling","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I had mild hopes for this film from the start. Robert Mitchum, a great actor in his day, was a little long in the tooth to be playing the detective. And it was set, oddly, in London and not in LA. Soon into the picture, not only did it barely live up to my low expectations, but it made me groan on several occasions.The ham-fisted acting, especially on the part of Candy Clark (was she directed to act that retarded or was it her idea?) and sterile scenery were especially hard to take. Some of the actors seemed like set dressings rather than characters. Richard Boone, looking as drunk as ever, plods through this movie for no apparent reason. The only thing memorable about Sarah Miles was her enormous triangle-cut hair, which did nothing more than annoy me.And what was Marlowe doing in expensive clothes and wearing a Rolex watch? Apparently being honest pays far more than he lets on.There are so many better Marlowes out there, so unless you're a real Chandler fan, avoid this one (same goes for Altman's The Long Goodbye and Robert Montgomery's Lady in the Lake). "},{"Title":"Just enjoy Mitchum","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Michael Winner is one of the most talentless film directors to grease (not grace) the silver screen in the last forty years and, except for Death Wish, he has never done much good with a camera. Yet, he has had the good fortune to work with some charismatic actors--Charles Bronson and Robert Mitchum come to mind.Mitchum is the only thing worth watching in Winner's hackneyed remake of The Big Sleep, a way too mod updating of the classic Bogart/Marlowe flick from the forties. I just liked Mitchum's voice and his bored smoothness as he tries on one nice suit and tie after another while dodging murderers and blackmailers and Candy Clark flashing him again and again. The whole thing is, if you're feeling really forgiving, a fun little diversion (if you don't mind feeling embarrassed afterward). The film is blurry and the sound is muddy (Winner trademarks), but Mitchum trundles along, trying to make sense out of an incomprehensible plot and mouthing bored, philosophical twaddle. It won't take long for you to realize you don't care whodunnit.You'll just wonder if anyone saw you doing it to yourself by watching this sloppy mess of a movie. "},{"Title":"Without Bogie and Bacall, why bother at all?","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Fascinating as a perverse version of the Raymond Chandler classic crime novel which is one of the quintessential film noir, this is equally as disturbingly bad as the unnecessary remake of The Postman Always Rings Twice. Saved in small part by a fascinating cast of veterans and now practically forgotten not quite stars of the late 1970's, lead by film noir veteran Robert Mitchum. Dying elderly James Stewart is being blackmailed in regards to his loony daughter Candy Clark, and hires Mitchum to help him avoid having to pay out. Clark leads Mitchum to murder, and more intrigue befalls Mitchum thanks to the older daughter, Sarah Miles, who has plenty of secrets of her own. More weird characters come in and out of the convoluted tale which features Joan Colin's as a book store clerk who responds to Mitchum's inquiry of Do you sell books? with the lame retort, What does this look like, a banana?. Richard Boone, Harry Andrews and Oliver Reed are among the other strange characters in the tale that just continuously just gets more and more perverted.Hints of pornography, homosexuality and drug abuse add to the modern twists of the plot that really don't move it forward. It lacks the romance and intrigue mixed together in the original. It seems to have been rushed together to capitalize on the success of the modern film noir,  Chinatown, which also focused on a powerful man and his strange off-spring. Candy Clark's performance is laughably over the top, and the pre-Dynasty Joan Collins seems a bit desperate. Like other Sir Lew Grade produced all-star films, it has a rushed sense to it, more about the quantity of names rather than the quality of the script. "},{"Title":"Could be liked by Mitchum fans only","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The only thing to watch in this movie is Robert Mitchum. James Stewart was OK as the worried father. The rest of the cast were not the right fit. The color filming took away from the atmosphere of this movie. England was the wrong setting and modern times did not work for the storyline. The Bogart version was more believable set in the forties, a family was more worried about some nude photographs than they would be in the seventies.The whole story line was more believable set in the forties. The actresses in the forties version had a more realistic feel to them.Robert Mitchum makes a fine Phillip Marlowe. Mitchum would have played the part in the forties as well as Bogart, and I am a huge Bogart fan. "},{"Title":"Misguided sequel to cool, vintage noir","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" After years of slowly perverting the hard-boiled 40s purity of Chandler's creation with movies like Marlowe and The Long Goodbye that put Marlowe increasingly at odds with the modern times, the series went back to its 1940s roots in 1974 with Farewell My Lovely and introduced Mitchum as Marlowe, perfectly cast in all of his lantern-jawed, world weariness. So why did the makers of this, its sequel, decide to come back to the present and move the setting from Cal. to England? Chandler's plot, which features such items as drug use and underground pornography, shocked its 1940s readership. Re-located to anything goes, swinging-70s London, none of this stuff seems at all adequate motivation for a murder spree - heck, it would make a tame weekend for David Bowie - and this severely blunts the plot's impact. And if no compelling motivation exists for murder, who cares whodunnit? This is the problem with updating the setting of an older story without proper regard for changing historical context it can weaken essential story elements that drive the plot. That is what happened here. The script still crackles with remnants of Chandler's tough guy talk and Mitchum is still good as Marlowe, world-weary as all get out, yet willing to pitch in to help a dame, but the rest of it works less well and the lack of a noir visual aesthetic makes it all less interesting to watch, too. London doesn't look gritty, just sooty, and the unsavory thugs floating at the edges of the movie seem less scary than what you would have encountered in a mid- 70s punk rock dive. It's not bad, just lame. "},{"Title":"Film noir that isn't","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" What a disappointment! Sweeping overacting and a death scene by Richard Boone out of the silent film era. It felt like the director was holding Mitchum back from a true tough guy persona. Perky 70's music just added to the trash this movie is. Read the book! These characters were not real in any sense. Unfortunately, I expected each plot twist and waited for cameos by 'stars', all distracting from the story. Everything was much too bright. This is Film Noir that isn't. Marlowe's digs were much too nice... and so were the bad guys. The bad girls were not much better. They were not flirty enough to be sexy and not half bad enough to be the evil girls they should have been. I expected Diana Rigg and Patrick McNee to pop up and announce, Welcome to an Avengers episode. "}{"Title":"The Big Disaster","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I watched this piece of crap last night - it was given away with a newspaper a couple of days ago - and turned to this page expecting to find, if anything, widespread disdain but incredibly some viewers actually found SOMETHING to praise. Okay, you can see the thinking behind it, Mitchum had enjoyed some success playing Chandler's Phillip Marlowe a couple of years earlier in Farewell, My Lovely but although shot in color and tampering with Chandler's novel at least it was set in Marlowe's home turf, LA. To transplant Chandler's milieu to England is like transplanting Chekhov's dachas to New York, it's both ludicrous and unforgivable. I can't believe Michael Winner actually had the chuzpah to give himself a Screenplay credit when all he has done is to dilute and/or omit Chandler's inimitable style covering both narrative and dialogue. From the very first speech (played in Voice-Over) Winner blows it. Chandler concluded this first speech in the novel with the words 'I was well-dressed, clean-shaven and sober and I didn't care who knew it'. Those last six words are crucial to establishing the character of Marlowe - the Big Sleep was the first novel in which Marlowe appeared - so what does Winner do? Add some description of his own and OMIT those last six words. From then on it's downhill all the way. There's absolutely no chemistry between ANY of the characters in whatever combination. Equally ludicrous is the notion that in 1978 a bookstore like Geiger's would flourish in an English town. Consider this is the kind of bookstore that purports to specialise in First Editions but is really supplying Pornography via a 'back room' accessible only to known customers who leave clutching plain brown packages. A couple of scenes later Sarah Miles shows Marlowe the nude pictures of her sister and tells him that unless she pays the blackmailers what they demand the pictures will wind up in porno magazines. Have I made my point? In 1978 'porn' was readily available, albeit on the 'top shelf' of every newsagents in the land so how could a shop like Gieger's hope to make a dirty buck. There are also pathetic attempts to explain why Marlowe, an American, is working as a private detective in England - he came over in the war and forgot to go back. Virtually everyone is miscast. John Mills as the character based on Marlowe's Bernie Ohls (Regis Toomey in the Bogie version)? I think not. Ohls was as cynical as Marlowe himself not a 'gentleman policeman' as Mills plays him. Candy Clark as the psychotic younger sister has all the sex appeal of a stale courgette and only a bigger psychotic would be interested in seeing her naked. Equally laughable is Edward Fox as Joe Brodie. Brodie was a cheap grifter not the kind of Englishman who drives around the shires in flat cap, blazer, flannels and silk kerchief and can be found any Suday lunchtime in the Dog and Duck, Berkshire nursing a half of bitter. More? Sorry, it was bad enough watching this drek so don't ask me to write about it as well. Minus ten stars. "},{"Title":"Michael Winner !","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Who can make tasteless, dull, silly movies? Who can bother you by the stupidest cuts in one scene? Who can light dumbly everything and everyone like the worst TV work yet in cinematic movies? Who can move the whole cast as robots without so much meaning ? Who can bring the wooden performance out of all the actors, even the big names ? Who can direct the highest spiritless scenes ever ? Who can manage to write the most mechanical scripts, with the unfunniest lines? Who got the passion for harsh sex and violence on the screen ? Who got no sense of humor or maybe no sense? Who can annoy you with a style has no style at all ? Who can make movies to be learned at Film schools as the prototype of don't do that again ? And finally, who got the talent of deforming an American classic movie? So can bore you to death with what's supposed to be a thriller ? Ladies and Gentleman, I give to you the Winner himself  Mr. Michael Winner, who with him you'll always lose ! P.S  I think that's more merciful than other comment I wanted to write, about such a movie, which I intended to entitle How To Explode a Movie By Dynamite ?! "},{"Title":"Frustrating, but in many ways preferable to the original","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Watching a film version of this Chandler novel is a genuinely frustrating experience. The plot is incredibly convoluted and sometimes you feel that you are not able to simply enjoy the film because you are too busy listening to the constant dialogue and the endless explanations. But the plot - and the dialogue - is easier to follow in this 1978 version than it was in the 1946 one. The movie even has a theory about the death of the chauffer. As for Mitchum, he is a wiser, more likable hero than Bogart and it isn't too hard to accept him in the role. The supporting roles are mostly good (especially Edward Fox) and the movie is pleasing to the eye. One major disappointment in this version is the seriously miscast Sarah Miles who has Bacall's role and brings absolutely no charm to it. And lines like She was trying to sit on my lap while I was standing up feel a little awkward when you've already heard them from Bogart. But I still recommend this slick and watchable movie. "},{"Title":"Great Cast Makes Up for Weak Direction","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Big Sleep, The (1978) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Philip Marlowe (Robert Mitchum) is asked by General Sternwood (James Stewart) to track down a blackmailer who is using his daughters (Sarah Miles, Candy Clark) but after the blackmailer is found murdered the private detective finds a whole string of people who seem to be keeping one secret after another. THE BIG SLEEP certainly doesn't come close to the Humphrey Bogart/Lauren Bacall film but at the same time it's somewhat unfair to judge the two especially when you consider that this version was a lot closer to the original novel and features stuff that couldn't even be hinted at in the 1947 version. The basic plot how a lot of perversion as we're dealing with one sister (Clark) who is certainly a sexual pervert and someone who is taken nude photos, which sets off the entire blackmailing. Teenage pornography is one of the many subplots as a wide range of characters come in and out of the story. For the most part I enjoyed this version but I think what really kept it from being a good movie is the rather lackluster direction by Winner who just doesn't seem to know what to do with the material. There are far too many scenes that contain no suspense, no tension and even worse is that some of the action scenes come across as some sort of bored after thought. There are a couple different scenes where Marlowe finds himself in some sort of struggle yet they're all filmed rather poorly and end up going no where. I'm not expecting some sort of masterpiece but the director should have at least worked the mystery a tad bit more but sadly there's very little energy or emotion to be found. I will admit that the story here is much better than the original movie as Marlowe and Mitchum seem perfectly well suited for the material. There are several scenes where the sisters come onto Mitchum and that laid back approach of his is perfectly done and there never was a better acting at playing this type of detective. Mitchum is clearly having fun with the role and he certainly helps keep the film moving. Stewart only has a couple small scenes but it's always nice to see him and the stuff with Mitchum was a lot of fun because the two legends are clearly having fun working together. Both Miles and Clark are good in their roles and we get nice supporting work from Richard Boone, Richard Todd, Joan Collins and Oliver Reed. This film certainly earns its R-rating as Clark is nude in pretty much each of her scenes here and the dirty nature of the pornography certainly sets the film apart from the original. The film had its setting changed to London, which is somewhat of a letdown as L.A. would have been much better but overall THE BIG SLEEP is a fairly rewarding picture but one only wishes the director had done a better job. "},{"Title":"see it or the Bogart version--but not both","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Having first seen the Humphrey Bogart version first, I think I was quite spoiled. Yes, I've heard that this remake is closer to the book, but I can't shake the fact that I just prefer Bogart over Mitchum. And, being made in glorious black and white (which is perfect for Film Noir), I just couldn't get used to color for the film. Plus, at times, the two stories are nearly word-for-word identical--so watching this film became a real bore. It's a shame but I just couldn't accept this film because of these reasons. Instead, it's a shame the producers didn't just pick an entirely new Raymond Chandler story or that of some other mystery writer. Then, perhaps, I could have enjoyed it more. "},{"Title":"Mitchum is good, but not good enough to save this misguided remake.","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I like Robert Mitchum's previous appearance as Raymond Chandler's legendary private detective Philip Marlowe in 'Farewell, My Lovely' despite him being at least twenty years too late to do the role justice. He looks even older in 'The Big Sleep', but that is the least of its problems. Transplanting the plot to England is one thing but setting it in the present day (the 1970s, obviously) is a major blunder that kills the movie from the get go. On top of that the Sternwood sisters are badly miscast. I like Candy Clark but she gives an irritating infantile performance, and Sarah Miles?! Gimme a break! She is in no way imaginable an acceptable substitute for Lauren Bacall! Miles is just totally wrong for the part, and her scenes with Mitchum just don't work for me. Bogart and Bacall's scenes together in Howard Hawks' original version really made that movie something special, and this 'The Big Sleep' doesn't even come CLOSE to recapturing that. Joan Collins is among the impressive supporting cast (Oliver Reed, Jimmy Stewart, John Mills, Richard Boone, Edward Fox, Richard Todd,etc.etc.), and she would have made a much more believable Charlotte. It's really hard to recommend this movie to anyone unless they are a total Robert Mitchum freak. Watching him, especially his few scenes with the late Oliver Reed are a real treat, but just about the only thing worth watching this misguided remake for. An incredibly disappointing movie considering the talented actors involved. The blame must rest squarely on Michael Winner (of 'Death Wish' infamy) who wrote as well as directed. "},{"Title":"The Big Joke","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This remake of the Raymond Chandler novel is an object lesson in bad film-making. It should have been a contender - Robert Mitchum had been ideally cast as Philip Marlowe in 1975's Farewell, My Lovely and he is surrounded here by some high calibre talent. But British director Michael Winner so messes up the script, the direction and the mis-en-scene that the film is the very definition of poor. At times it looks as though someone has conned a load of old actors into performing in their home movie shoot. Perhaps this film is a joke on the cast, many of whom were old enough to be heading for the big sleep themselves and so were the butt of Winner's sick joke.Mitchum walks through the film without shaming himself too much (although he shouldn't run or fight at this age); some of the other actors give the worst performances of their career James Stewart is beyond self-parody as the dying General; Sarah Miles lolls her tongue whilst sporting an afro perm (!), Richard Boon grimaces and growls to entirely comic effect and Candy Clark does the kind of acting one expects to see in an early John Waters film - a kind of mickey-take of acting - which is funny when Waters' cast does it deliberately but embarrassing when Clark (a promising actress previously) does it for supposedly serious effect here. A couple of the English actors, such as Richard Todd and John Mills, acquit themselves with dignity, although Edward Fox is hilariously bad in his scenes, plummy accent chewing words to pulp. Any film where Joan Collins gives one of the most convincing performances has got to be going wrong somewhere...Winner's script is a dog's dinner. He sets up the expectation that he's going to follow the convention whereby we only see and find out what Marlowe sees and finds out (a staple of detective films) and then adds random cutaways to events which Marlowe was not present at - e.g. the car going into the Thames - as well as plonking a lot of mismanaged flashbacks into the action every time anyone begins to talk about what has happened in the backstory. As usual with Winner, the film is cut with the finnesse of a village butcher, and setting the grimy noir in the posher areas of London and the English countryside does nothing to conjure the seamy world of the book.All in all, a pretty dismal addition to the list of Chandler adaptations, but worth seeing for the unintentional laughs (there are plenty) and as a lesson in how not to make a film, or what parts not to choose when you're an ageing actor. "},{"Title":"An incredible film - incredibly bad, that is...","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Michael Winner, who claims as many of the credits (I use the word loosely) as he can for this celluloid abomination, is an intriguing phenomenon. He makes dreadful films, but presumably they earn enough at the box office to persuade yet another philistine, bean-counting producer to sign him up for another assault on sensitive eyes.As a sideline, the horrendously smug and obese Winner is a restaurant critic. Some of the less respectful publications in the UK hint that Winner is so loathed by chefs that every dish he is served contains a not so secret ingredient. How can I explain? The special stuff that is added in the kitchen to Winner's sauces and soups could otherwise have been deposited at the local branch of the Sperm Bank.Does Winner think he makes good films? How did he persuade Mitchum, Stewart, Reed et al to take part in this dire production? Do superannuated movie legends have no self-respect? Surely they don't need the money. Shame on them all for signing up with him.As a standalone film, this might earn 3 stars out of ten. As an unbelievably misconceived remake of a 1940s classic (despite all the loose ends of one of the most complicated and creakiest plots ever), I'm being too generous in awarding the IMDb minimum of one star. "},{"Title":"The Big Stink","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This stinkbomb is currently getting a lot of airplay on the digital cable stations. Don't waste your time with it.This movie spares ALL expense. It has the look and feel of early 70s-TV crime drama, but with cheaper production values. The clumsy editing is a constant distraction, and removes any possibility of the fast-pace repartee normally expected from Chandler characters. If you're a fan of Mitchum, Stewart, or Reed, I urge you to pass on this. All three phone it in on the rotary-dial phones of that era. Unfortunately, Clark does not phone it in. Her nude scene is sub-par -even by 1978 standards- and cannot redeem the worst acting ever recorded. Film adaptations rarely, if ever, do a book justice. In no instance is this more true than in the case of The Big Sleep. The book is fantastic and a relatively short read. In fact, you could get through most of it in the time it would take you to watch either film version. "},{"Title":"Carmen hasn't sung yet","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Winner's version is more faithful to the story than the mess served up in 1946 by Hawkes, Bogart and Bacall. The switch to England is okay - maybe could have done more interesting things with it. Not sure about the switch of era. But both movies fail to use the two major characters in the story Rusty Regan (who never appears) and Carmen Sternwood, who is pure evil. This version really tries to stick with the structure of Chandler's story, instead of whoring it out to the star names, but nobody has captured the evil and the sense of futility that Chandler wrote about. Marlowe's character dominates the drama, along with whichever actress is chosen for Bacall's original part - but he's just the wise-cracking narrator, an observer, and she's a bit-player! Cast Carmen properly, and then we'll see. "}{"Title":"disappointing...","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out and again quite recently. The movie was pretty much as I remembered. It could have been a great movie but the actors were a generation or two too old for the characters they were playing. Camilla was played by a thirty-something actress trying to pass as a teenager. Robert Mitchum's performance would have been fine in 1948 but looked awkward for a movie made 30 years later. Joan Collins was pushing 50 and was trying to pass as a bookstore receptionist.There were also a couple of annoying technical goofs which, although not unique to this movie, really irritate me when I see them. For the record, a Mac-10 or M11 machine-pistol only holds 32 rounds and will empty its clip in less time than it takes to say 32 rounds (Alias fans take note). Also, cars that explode reliably and on cue are an insult to the fourth wall. Finally, actors who walk through a scene with guns pointed at them, or bullets flying, as if they're bullet proof are insulting to the audience as well. "},{"Title":"I have my own ideas about THE BIG SLEEP","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I've seen the Bogart movie, I've read the book, but this movie bored me out of my skull. Mitchum is a good actor and does the role justice, and the English setting, although not good for puritan Raymond Chandler fans, isn't bad either.But, despite star-studded cast (James Stewart was a nice addition) this movie is boring. It seems the director tried to be true to old-style Film Noir than Chandler, as so loses much of it's tongue-in-cheeck innuendos and pace.This movie was a big mistake. "},{"Title":"A tacky tour de force!","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A strange creature is Michael Winner...Has he been secretly mocking the 'industry' he works in for the past fifty years? Or is he just a pompous old fool who couldn't make a public information film? Perhaps no one will ever know!The big sleep however, is one of Winner's better films. Largely due to a great script (he adheres closely to the book despite the film being set in England) and the superb acting of Robert Mitchum. The best bit in the film is watching Mitchum and a comely Joan Collins rolling around on the carpet; After taking her pistol, a dishevelled Mitchum looks on whilst Collins lets out an orgasmic sign and then lights a ciggy, great stuff! "},{"Title":"Just Didn't Work!","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  As much as I love Robert Mitchum's acting, this remake of The BigSleep just didn't work for me. Nothing can top the Bogart/Bacallversion, for two reasons. One, the first version was perfect filmnoir, and second, the spark between Bogart and Bacall reallyadded fire to their version. (Of course, being a married couplehelped a bit, here.) One final comment - for which I know I'll getcalled a prude , but the earlier one was one you could watch withyour children (they probably wouldn't understand the one scene inthe restaurant with the double entendre between Bogart andBacall). The 1978 version had frontal nudity in it (and yes, I know itwas to illustrate how the daughter was being blackmailed),  Themain reason I like the classic era of Hollywood so much is thatthey were capable of telling a good, taut tale without assaultingsensibilities too much. Their talent in that age was illustrated byleaving things to the imagination instead of throwing it in your face.I was perfectly content to see Rhett carry Scarlett up the stairs inGone With The Wind, and I didn't need it spelled out for me whathe had in mind. Too bad we can't see more of that restraint today.As the old adage goes, you don't have to take the cap off a sewerto know that it stinks. Just to show I'm not a complete prude, thenudity in Schindler's List worked for me because it was realisticallyshowing the horror of the holocaust. The nudity there wasillustrating the humiliation and degradation the Nazis put fellowhuman beings through, and helping us understand why todayJews say Never  again. But nudity just for the sake of titillationjust leaves me with very strong dislike.  "},{"Title":"What a waste!","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  QuestionHow can you do a remake of a classic? AnswerYou can't!!!!!Imagine Jimmy Stewart as a wealthy, jaded old man doting on his spoiled rotten daughters. Think he can pull it off? Never! Jimmy Stewart can play one character - Jimmy Stewart! Robert Mitchum as a PI in England????? Give me a break. This is one of those big name, nothing, rip-off movies and nothing more.A waste of time. "}]