[{"Title":"One of De Palma's most underrated movies!","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  'The Fury' is a very interesting mixture of science fiction, horror, action, and espionage thriller. One of Brian De Palma's most underrated movies, it isn't without some flaws, but overall I enjoyed it much more than some of his most recent disappointing efforts like 'Snake Eyes' and 'Mission To Mars'. They might be much better known than 'The Fury' but they are not better movies. The plot is a bit convoluted at times, and maybe a little TOO ambitious, but there are several classic sequences that make this a must see for any De Palma fan. The whole thing comes across like a cross between 'Carrie' (De Palma's previous movie), and Cronenberg's 'Scanners', a movie it predated by three years, interestingly enough. Amy Irving, who also appeared in 'Carrie', is beautiful and believable as Gillian, a troubled teen attempting to understand and control her frightening paranormal powers. Veteran Kirk Douglas ('Spartacus', 'Saturn 3') and cult director/actor John Cassavetes ('Rosemary's Baby', 'The Killers') are both solid as friends-turned-enemies who once worked for the same nameless Government agency. Douglas' psychic son Robin (Andrew Stevens) is kidnapped by Cassavetes and his cronies and experimented on until he reaches the brink of madness. Douglas desperately searches for him by any means necessary, a quest which inevitably means he encounters the traumatized Gillian, who has an increasing psychic link with Robin. Irving and Douglas are both excellent in this movie, Cassavetes plays a fantastic villain, and the supporting cast includes Carrie Snodgress ('Diary Of A Mad Housewife'), Charles Durning ('O Brother, Where Art Thou?'), Fiona Lewis ('Drum'), and cameos from Daryl Hannah ('Bladerunner'), De Palma semi-regular William Finley ('The Phantom Of The Paradise') and a noticeably younger and thinner Dennis Franz (NYPD Blue'). While I couldn't argue that 'The Fury' is De Palma's best work it has aged very well indeed and is recommended viewing. This is one movie that deserves to be re-evaluated! "},{"Title":"It's enjoyable enough, even with its faults.","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Peter Sandza (Kirk Douglas) a government agent is betrayed by a fellow friend/agent Ben Childress (John Cassavetes), who kidnapped his son for his psychokinetic powers. Where we learn that a secret US agency is holding him and that he's being used in dangerous mind experiments. So Peter gets help from a girl with similar abilities to locate his son's whereabouts.I wasn't expecting too much from it after borrowing it off a friend that recommended it to me. After seeing it, it's probably De Palma's most underrated film in my books. It might not have dated that well and the premise of the film might be considered ludicrous now, but it doesn't stop it from being an exciting adventure.This is a flashy and mostly fast-paced thriller by director Brian De Palma. It does have a couple of slow moments and maybe it was a tad too long, but it's well compensated by superbly tense situations and blistering action sequences, especially in the first opening hour involving Douglas's character when his son is kidnapped and when his hiding out from government agents. There are also some scenes that are not recommended for the squeamish. As some scenes are filled with a lot of blood and more blood. It's rather graphic violence. Not to forgot the whooping and hearting-pounding conclusion. The make-up and special effects throughout the film are truly stunning. The plot basis is on psychokinetic powers and at times it's rather absurd and incoherent. With some incredibly cheesy moments within the dialogue. Though, the direction is what covers the story's inconsistencies, with great and simply memorable set-ups and some well-shot scenes. The music score is fairly effective in building up the tension and thrills, but also it has an impact in the quieter moments.There are great performances from the experienced Kirk Douglas (who's incredibly fit for his age and has some physical roles) and Cassavetes, who really boost and add some class to the film. There is such a great chemistry between them and Cassavetes is simply riveting as a conniving agent. Amy Irving was good in her role as Gillian Bellaver, the girl who is having trouble coming to grips with her strong psychokinetic powers. Though, the same can't be said about the rest. As Andrew Steven's as Robin Sandza is incredibly hammy and Carrie Snodgress as Hester is fairly irritating. I wouldn't class it as one of De Palma's best, but still it's far away from his worst. Overall, it's a fascinating set-up that has its fair share of flaws, but that doesn't disrupt entertainment factor. "},{"Title":"DePalmas followup to Carrie","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"28 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Story involves two teenagers--Gillian (Amy Irving) and Robin (Andrew Stevens). They both have the power to make people bleed and see past events. Robin is kidnapped by a secret government agency and Gillian is going to the Paragon Institute to learn more about her power. There's a LOT more going on but it's too confusing to get into.When I saw this on video back in the 1980s I loved it. Seeing it now I hate it. The story is very confusing with way too many characters and plot holes galore. The dialogue is terrible (I kept playing back scenes on the DVD because I couldn't believe what I had just heard) and this moves VERY slowly (it runs two solid hours).The acting doesn't help. Irving is too weepy and whiny (but she IS great in the final scene). Stevens has never been a good actor. Douglas walks through his role and John Cassavates (playing the bad guy) gives a one-note performance. The only good acting comes from Carrie Snodgrass, Charles Durning, Carol Eve Rossen and (especially) Fiona Lewis.It has some good things--the direction from Brian DePalma is excellent (especially Irving's slow motion run from the Institute) and there's a good score by John Williams. Also it does have a few incredibly bloody deaths. These were considered extreme back in 1978 but they aren't anymore (and look incredibly fake). There's also a great final scene and I got a good laugh over the incredibly dated video games Snodgrass and Irving play at one point. Also Daryl Hannah's first film.So it DOES have some good things but the slow pace, confusing story and lousy dialogue sinks it. I can only give it a 5. "},{"Title":"Explosive thriller is perhaps De Palma's most underrated work!","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After the success of Carrie (1976), Brian De Palma followed up with another outstanding film about youths with incredible telepathic powers.Government agent's telepathic son is kidnapped and along with a similarly-gifted teenage girl he seeks to save him.Based upon the novel by John Farris, The Fury is a film that could have easily became a mundane action film if not for the splendid direction of De Palma and an outstanding cast. De Palma once again shows his excellent directorial style and his technique for grand suspense. The Fury has some great action sequences, a tremendous climax, and one outrageous conclusion! Makeup FX artist Rick Baker lends his talents to create some good blood-letting, especially for that knock-out closing image. John Williams also deserves special mention for his wonderfully powerful music score.Star Kirk Douglas is great as the government agent searching for his son. John Cassavetes is good as the films cold villain. Amy Irving and Andrew Stevens are both sympathetic as youths attempting to live with their amazing mental powers. Supporting cast Snodgress, Durning, and Lewis are also good.All around The Fury is a pretty under appreciated thriller that firmly ranks among the best of De Palma's films.*** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Messing With His Mind As Well As His Libido","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Does anyone remember the famous Star Trek episode, one of the earliest ones where an encounter with an anomaly in space leaves Enterprise crewman, Gary Lockwood with powers and abilities far beyond those of mortal men? If you'll remember he was abandoned on deserted asteroid. The Fury deals with a young man on the way to being another Gary Lockwood.Young Andrew Stevens has those abilities already, they just need to be focused and developed. Stevens is being raised by his widowed father Kirk Douglas who's a government agent. A raid while they're on vacation in the Mediterranean by some Arab terrorist types allows a ruthless bureaucrat played by John Cassavetes to separate father from son. Stevens believes Dad has died, but Kirk doesn't swallow that so easy.Kirk's on the hunt for his son and the quest takes him to Chicago where people like Stevens with paranormal abilities are being studied and tested so the USA can have them as a weapon. Carrie Snodgrass and Charles Durning are working there as well. And so is Fiona Lewis who's been given personal charge of Stevens and develops the kid's libido as well as his telekinesis.Brian DePalma directed this film and it's a good one with outstanding performances by all the cast. Look for a good performance from Amy Irving as another young person with such abilities who literally makes Cassavetes fall apart at the end. And there's a memorable bit from a younger and thinner Dennis Franz before the gain of weight and loss of hair that we all know as Detective Andrew Sipowicz. Franz plays a Chicago police officer who's something of a doofus. Fans of Brian DePalma in particular and horror films in general will very much like The Fury. "},{"Title":"A terrific exercise in the supernatural, delivered with guts and gore from Brian De Palma!","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Before Scanners there was this wonderful little gore fest from Brian De Palma, who all-ready had done such great Hitchcock-like thrillers as Sisters and Obsession and of course Carrie, which in many ways is related to this one, another tale of telekinesis with deadly results. It is also worth noting that David Cronenberg's above-mentioned Scanners seem to owe a great deal to this movie.The Fury balances brilliantly between weird and unexpected comedy (like the whole scene where Douglas carjacks two off-duty cops, one played by Dennis Franz!) and imaginative horror that will turn off anyone who hates blood. Great acting from everyone; worth noting the star-making performances of Amy Irving and Andrew Stevens, Douglas who has a field-day, Cassavetes who looks great as the sinister bad-guy and Carrie Snodgress who will touch your heart with her performance as the caring nurse Hester.The last scene is quite a kick, truly one of the most memorable finales ever shown on screen, and it could very well leave you cheering well into the end credits! "},{"Title":"Violent  , exciting and bloody film , including sensationalistic scenes , but pretty well directed by Brian De Palma","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Suspense, thrills and grisly killings by imitative director Brian De Palma . This scary triller is plenty of mystery , intrigue , suspenseful and creepy scenes . It is a potentially brilliant and ingenious chiller that concerns about a government agent , Peter Sandza , (Kirk Douglas , he was aged around sixty-one years of age , Kirk was cast as the lead because director had felt that his previous picture had suffered at the box-office without a name draw-card) determined to come to his son's (first major cinema movie role of actor Andrew Stevens) rescue , when a sinister official (John Cassavetes) kidnaps him to harbor his extremely powerful psychic abilities . As he is forced to take on a super-powerful government agency called MORG (it stands for the Multiphasic Operations Research Group) which has kidnapped his son with psychokinetic skills . The intrepid father is helped by a good friend called Hester (Carrie Snodgress) . And then things really get worse . Meanwhile , a young girl (Amy Irving who married Spielberg , she attended a biofeedback clinic to learn about different levels of consciousness, as she had a better sense to play) who personally experiencing psychic changes is taken in a strange Institute of supernatural forces . Peter uses desperate attempts to save hid gifted son from being used or destryed . At the end takes place the ultimate revenge story . This stylish chiller contains long-drawn-out tension , flash violent scenes and shock effects with the accent on gas-provoking , but on most occasion without finesse . Adding special characteristics techniques as ominous camera movements and wide screen . This flick was made and released about two years after its source novel of the same name by John Farris was first published in 1976 ; Farris also wrote the screenplay for the film . It is is a contemporary thrilling tale that utilizes the average man against the unknown approach that made Hitchcock 's suspense films so effective . All this said , the mechanics of suspense are worked quite well and may frighten the easily scared quite badly , but De Palma has made a habit of dwelling on their more sordid shoots . Director 'Brian de Palma''s second movie featuring Telekinesis, his first had been Carrie (1976) , as actress Amy Irving appears in both films . In fact , this picture has often been described as a cross between The Omen (1976) and a peculiar follow-up to Carrie (1976) . Very good cast plenty of familiar faces such as John Cassavetes , Charles Durning , Rutanya Alda , Fiona Lewis , Carrie Snodgres and William Finley who played for De Palma , Phantom of paradise . Being the first film for both Daryl Hannah, Laura Innes and look fast James Belushi as an extra , as you can see him in a pair of dark trunks a few steps behind Irving . The film displays a great and haunting musical score by John Williams , previous his fruitful collaboration to Steven Spielberg ; he composed in the style of a Bernard Herrmann score from an Alfred Hitchcock movie . Furthermore , appropriate and colorful cinematography by excellent cameraman Richard H Kline .The picture was brilliantly directed by Brian De Palma , adding special characteristics techniques and special camera movements . The movie was realized during his period when Brian made outwardly odes to Hitchcock , such as ¨Obsession¨ , ¨Sisters¨, ¨Dresssed to Kill¨ and ¨Blow out¨ . Rating  Above average , as it gets some riveting basic ideas and fascinating images. Essential and indispensable watching for Brian De Palma buffs and Kirk Douglas fans . "},{"Title":"Powerful, bloody tale of telekinetic rivalry with a stunning John Williams score","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The author of the excellent 'All Heads Turn As The Hunt Goes By', John Farris, wrote his version of 'Carrie' after that novel's success as book and film; it was called 'The Fury'. It also explored the subject of telekinesis (moving objects with the mind), but he stretched it over a broader, international canvas and threw a terrorism subplot, a fractured love story, an Argento-inspired school for cute, gifted girls, telekinetic rivalry, and John Cassavetes as an evil puppetmaster of troubled psychic warriors into the brew. Assisted immeasurably by John William's devastating, baroque score, Brian De Palma's film of Farris's screenplay is another example of stunning visual storytelling. Losing the direct Hitchcockian references, De Palma applies a harder, leaner style to the storytelling and creates a powerful work that is less fun than his later films, but no less compelling. As always, there are a number of stand-out sequences, and the stand-out sequence in this is Amy Irving's escape from the institute where she is being groomed for evil by the charming but twisted Cassavetes. Irving's flight into the street, shot in slow motion, is cinema at its purest, most transporting and erotic (Irving is wearing a nightie). William's scoring of this sequence is stunning. A carousel accident, orchestrated by evil psychic Andrew Stevens (in a chilling performance), has great entertainment value, and the liberal use of blood and bulging prosthetic facial veins goes a long way towards elevating this film to cult status. The finale, which features an exploding head (a pre-Scanners exploding head, mind you) is simply bloody great. "},{"Title":"Telekinesis","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brian DePalma's follow up to his popular Carrie, was in many aspects a continuation of the mood he had already established in his former work. Thus, The Fury suffered because it was not an inspired choice for a man who knew better, but for whatever circumstances decided to go ahead with this project. The film is based on a novel by John Farris, which we never read, so there is no point of reference. Mr. Farris also wrote the screen treatment.This ambitious film travels from the Middle East to Chicago in a tale of intrigue and super natural forces that is incomprehensible, at times. The idea of having a gifted young man working for the bad guys and capitalizing on all that can be extracted from his prodigious mind, is a disturbing idea. That there could be another brilliant mind, a young woman, presents a challenge for the evil people that are trying to use them for evil purposes.The director was not as lucky with The Fury as with some of his best known, and more accomplished films. Amy Irving plays the young Gillian, who is terrified once she understands why she is so much wanted. In a way, she is an extension of Carrie, the heroine of the previous film. Kirk Douglas has some good moments. Carrie Snodgress was one of the best things in the movie. Charles Durning, Carol Rossen, and Fiona Lewis, do outstanding work. On the other hand, the great actor/director John Cassavetes seems to sleep walk through his role as the man behind the conspiracy. Darryl Hannah is seen briefly in the scene at Gillian's school.The film has an effective musical score from John Williams. Although the director didn't succeed in making this a better movie, he still shows an affinity for the genre and cannot be dismissed for trying to create a good entertainment. "},{"Title":"Grand Guignol shocker with explosive climax!","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" THE FURY Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format MonoAn ex-government agent (Kirk Douglas) enlists the help of a gifted psychic (Amy Irving) in the search for his equally gifted son (Andrew Stevens), who has been kidnapped by a sinister cartel for nefarious purposes.Dismissed at the time of its release as a mishmash of themes and genres, Brian De Palma's dazzling thriller encompasses Middle Eastern terrorism, government conspiracies, psychic horror, and a series of Grand Guignol set-pieces, orchestrated with pulp grandeur by a director flexing his creative muscles. Highlighted by John Williams' magnificent score (a genuinely eerie composition, one of the best of his career), the film builds slowly and surely to an explosive climax which closes proceedings on a note of absolute screaming hysteria (celebrated and vilified in equal measure by fans and critics alike!). The supporting cast includes John Cassavetes, Charles Durning and Carrie Snodgress, all of whom add gravitas to the material. Look fast for Daryl Hannah in an early pre-stardom role. "}{"Title":"A violent thriller in Hitchcock's style!!","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The boss of an institute for psychic researches of the American government discovers that his own son and a girl are being sought by terrorists who want to use their mind's powers.Narrative conducted in an agile and suffocating way by the veteran De Palma, responsible for equally violent and full of action classic such as The Untouchables. In this thriller marked by a great dramatic charge, the excellent supporting cast's work ( beginning with Carrie Snodgress,who has the most shocking, unpleasant and courageous scene , and with Charles Durning, who shows talent in a serious part, different from the characters that made his famehe became well-known for doing partner's roles in some Burt Reynolds' movies, but here he offers a discreet, silent interpretation) sustains the interest for this confused but well developed and touching story. As already demonstrated in his previous works, the violence in De Palma's films is never gratuitous, however it is always true and raw. "},{"Title":"Classy thriller; Kirk Douglas seemed ageless","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was never a particular fan of Kirk Douglas, but I would sometimes enjoy his films; just took them one by one. This one, which I remember seeing when I was 19, always stood out in my mind as being impressive. Now, over 30 years later, I still find it a riveting film.At the time of filming, Douglas was 62. While I know he didn't do all his own stunts, what he did do was quite remarkable at that age. And, Douglas has all the intensity here that we grew used to in his career. He rarely let us down, and certainly didn't here.John Cassavetes as the bad guy who is trying to harness the psychic powers of the young man and young woman is sufficiently evil here...you'll love what happens to his character at the close of the film. Carrie Snodgress is a sort-of girlfriend of Douglas', and although I'm not a particular fan, she does nicely here. Charles Durning, always one of my favorite supporting actors, does very nicely as the head of the institute that is studying the psychic powers of the young people; and he treads a fine line here as a professional with a sense of morals who has, unfortunately, gotten into bed with Cassavetes; he does it nicely! Amy Irving is terrific as the psychic young lady. Fiona Lewis is the friend and later victim of the whole plot, and one of the professionals studying the psychic phenomenon. Andrew Stevens is excellent as the young male with psychic powers; it reminded me to look up where he disappeared to...and that's behind the cameras in recent years.I must give Brian DePalma (director) credit here. He used the story and its drama to heighten suspense, not over-relying on special effects. However, the special effects are done very well here...used as needed, but not overwhelming. Some people have compared a couple of scenes to scenes in Carrie, but since DePalma directed that film, also, I guess we can't criticize him for a few similarities.This film is just as good in 2013 as it was in 1978. Yes, a few things look dated (like typing), but the story is great and handled well by DePalma and the actors. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A man discovers that his telekinatic son has been kidnapped and is being exploited for his powers. He seeks the help of a young woman who has similar powers to help him locate his son, but it might be too late, because with each growing day he becomes more violent and out of control.Ambitious horror/suspense film is perhaps one of the scariest, most disturbing and violent films ever released into mainstream America. It reaches tremondous heights for a film in this genre, because of the terrific performances from everybody in the entire cast, top notch direction, superb score, and sensational editing that keeps things tight and never lets the suspense to ever lag. A masterpiece for the horror genre and one of De Palma's best.Rated R; Extreme Graphic Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Great, visually-stunning, hypnotic thriller/comedy","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is classic De Palma--either you get it or you don't (and your ability to get it is likely in linear proportion to your imagination and intelligence). I love the guy on here who said he loved it as a kid but hates it today (today being 2005, when he wrote his review), because it's too SLOW. Can you imagine how ADHD MTV editing has totaled his sensibilities now, 10 years later? I watched a tribute to Pauline Kael which had an expert panel that included James Toback, Brian Kellow, Camille Paglia, et al, and was stupefied when several of these distinguished gasbags trashed her review of this film, which I maintain is spot on. This film is visually stunning, with some hilarious setups (involving hysterical mishaps and human carnage), and I couldn't care LESS about the occasional bum dialogue and the hypnotic pace (slow only if you have no patience to appreciate beauty on film). This picture looks like no other. The screen literally glows, as it were plugged in to the wall. The shots and camera work are brilliant and witty. The performances are great. The ending has no peer. If you appreciate De Palma's work and are capable of seeing a film that utilizes more of your imagination and senses than a Michael Bay film, check it out. "},{"Title":"Well Played, De Palma","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A government agent (Kirk Douglas) is determined to come to his son's rescue, when a sinister official kidnaps him to harbor his extremely powerful psychic abilities.I find it interesting that Brian De Palma chose this as the follow-up to Carrie. I mean, really, another film about young people with psychic powers? But it is actually quite different in spirit and acts as more of a pre-cursor of The Dead Zone and Scanners.We not only get the screen debut of Daryl Hannah, but an excellent score from John Williams that was highly praised by critic Pauline Kael, who called it as elegant and delicately varied a score as any horror film has ever had. "},{"Title":"...and what a culture can't assimilate, it destroys.","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Leave it to director Brian De Palma to De Palma's to really show us the bizarre and the paranormal, and the special effects necessary to create them. In Carrie, he had Sissy Spacek tear apart houses and burned down the high school. Look for the same excitement and fun here. From nosebleeds to explosion, he mines the kids in the film for all they are worth.Kirk Douglas, who plays a former government agent, is on the trail of his son, who has these psychic abilities, and who was kidnapped by the government.Amy Irving, who was Carrie;s friend gets her own opportunity to shine.Yes, it does have one of the goriest scenes in the movies. "},{"Title":"very well made Brian De Palma thriller","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" i enjoyed this Brian De Palma paranormal thriller/horror.it.may seem tame by today's standards,but back then,i'm sure it was probably pretty terrifying to some people.i thought it was also revolutionary.there are some pretty graphic images that i found a bit disturbing,even though i've seen a lot of horror/thrillers.but this is not just some slice'n dicer.there's a story in here,and the gory parts are part of the story.John Farris wrote the screenplay adapted from his novel.and he has quite a few excellent novels that in the right hands would make good films.***possible minor spoiler ahead***like many people i thought Scanners(which came out 3 years later) was revolutionary.but the Fury paved the way for that film.(and yes,The Fury borrows form Carrie,another DePalma film.in fact some of the sequences in Scanners were nearly identical to those in the Fury,but were actually not as graphic.i think The Fury is actually a superior film.Amy Irving is terrific,and steals the show.the supporting cast is also good,with Kirk Douglas,Carrie Snodgress,John Cassavetes,Andrew Stevens,and Fiona Lewis.Charles Durning also has a small role.an unrecognizable Melody Thomas Scott(Nikki Newman from the long running soap The Young and the Restless)also has what amounts to a cameo.but it's Dennis Franz in his very brief appearance that is hysterical in a bit of comic relief performance.as for the movie itself,if you have a weak stomach or don't like horror films,i suggest you avoids this.but if you like being scared,pop this in late at night for maximum effect.my vote for The Fury is a 9/10 P.S. some people may find this movie slow by today's standards,but that merely builds up the suspense and is well worth sitting through. "},{"Title":"The Fury... worth watching","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Fury was a decent movie. It started off rather fast paced and I was somewhat clueless as to what was going on, but as the movie went on I got into it. Peter Sandza (Kirk Douglas) was going through great lengths to find his kidnapped son, all the while his son, Robin (Andrew Stevens) was under the watchful eye of a government official interested in Robin's psychic abilities. A collision course is set between Robin and another young lady with psychic abilities as well. The movie has a bit of suspense and a bit of spookiness to it as well. The ending was a total surprise and very um... bloody. I liked the movie, I thought the story was unique enough and the suspense and action wasn't half bad. "},{"Title":"FUN MOVIE FULL OF CHILLS","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  THE FURY is yet another example of De Palma's mastery. He does not fail those who are truly devoted to thrillers. Kirk Douglas plays a man who is searching for his son (Andrew Stevens) who possesses a special talent. Cassavetes shines in his role. Overall, a truly chilling film that keeps you watching the whole way through. Keep an eye out for Melody Thomas Scott from The Young and the Restless and Dennis Franz. Also, try not to lose your head over the finale. "},{"Title":"Amy Irving was spectacular.","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well,  I initially saw this movie because I am a major Carrie fan and I wanted to see another movie with Amy Irving when she was still young.  The movie was good,    but John Cassevetes and the Kirk Douglas characters were kind of boring. I always thought that john Cassevetes is a little overrated because I've never seen him display a personality that is incredibly enjoyable(even with Rosemary's baby) and in this movie he was his usual negotiating boring self.   There was some cool action scenes with  Kirk Douglas but my main love of the movie was the majority of the scenes with Amy Irving--who really(despite the billing) is the main stand out character of the film.  We watch some really cool scenes with amy involving her watching Andrew Stevens psychically as Andrew watches video tapes of his father being attacked,     blood running down other people as Amy's emotions are racing with energy.,       a sleepwalking scene,   a show where she is escaping from the hospital,   a scene where she gives a girl a bloody nose, and blue glowing eyes.   Amy and Andrew were the two telekinetic teens and they were young,  fresh,   emotional,  and attractive.  I really enjoyed their presence and their performance really made the film work. The other characters are really just there for support except Kirk Douglas who gives his usual masculine role.  Overall I thought the film was pretty good,  2 1/2 mainly because of the acting,   special effects, and the way some scenes just looked so cool!  I'd recommend this.   "}{"Title":"Young and Restless","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" What a culture can't assimilate, it destroys! &#x96; Dr McKeever (The Fury)Brian De Palma's early films tend to deal with a very clear, but oft overlooked, set of themes homosocialized male power, gender warfare, voyeurism and sex, whereby all gender is a performance and white male heterosexuality needs to be rigorously, determinedly, infinitely reenacted to be maintained with any coherence, often by repeatedly destroying that which it defines itself against (homosexuality, femininity, the Other etc). Meanwhile, personal and social voyeurism (pornography, fantasies, government surveillance, national spying) overlap, and his characters, when they're not appearing on television, can often be found making their own movies, doing their own prying, or displaying themselves as spectacle.Along these lines we had sororicide in Sisters, in which feminized and masculinized twins jostle for control, and incest and matricide in Obsession, in which a father usurps his wife to be with his daughter. Next came Carrie, in which telekinesis becomes a metaphor for a girl's blossoming into womanhood, little Carrie White fighting off various groups of monogamists, nymphomaniacs, romantics and repressed fundamentalists. Then we had Dressed to Kill, where a trans-gender's anima (Feminine Personality) kills women to prevent her animus (Masculine Personality) from being aroused, and Scarface, which links castration to the ennui of late capitalism, Tony Montana's phallic M16 swelling only as the law of the jungle encroaches on his empire. Scarface's theme - money, machismo and powah! as impotency - is revisited in Body Double. But here it is cinema which simultnaeously assuages and encourages impotency, man essentially acting out fantasies by entering films via body doubles. From here on, De Palma's films would increasingly be about cinema as redemption, of film &#x96; against any and all narrative logic &#x96; having the power to redeem. So we have the redemptions of Carlito's Way, Femme Fatale's wholly illogical divine interventions, and the DNA strands, spirals and linked hands of Mission to Mars, a film/hologram teaching us of a kind of hokey cosmic brotherhood. Regardless, The Fury, like Carrie, traces a girl's maturity into womanhood, though here her growth is parallelled to that of a young man. Her name is Gillian and his name is Robin, both introduced with highly sexualised scenes (he wrestles his naked father to the floor, she struts about in a skimpy bikini).On the cusp of adulthood, both Robin and Gillian are captured by a secret organisation which hopes to turn them into Alphas, harnessing their burgeoning sexual energy so that they may become military weapons. As both Robin and Gillian are taught how to redirect their libidinal drives, De Palma treats us to a series of kitschy training sequences. His body is getting stronger, a government nurse says, Robin eventually turning into a kind of carnal, hyper-sexed muscle man who seeks to metaphorically hump everyone to death with his telekinetic prowess. Gillian, in contrast, is repelled by human contact. For Gillian, telekinesis is invasive, a form of mind rape, disgusting and repellent (she essentially sees menstrual blood after each psychic experience). While Robin embodies sex as a violent, masculinized act (male as dominant), Gillian is repression incarnate (woman as victim).Unsurprisingly, Gillian is played by Amy Irving, the very actress who had a nightmare at the end of Carrie. In Carrie, Carrie White is horrified by her body and her entry into womanhood. To survive she eventually harnesses her femininity to great destructive effect, the Repressed returning in an orgy of destruction.The monstrosity in both films is that of adolescence, of potentiality, and those who paid most dearly for it are the conservators of a repressive adult order. What becomes clear in Carrie's final scene, though, is that Irving is the guilty narrator of that film, and was in her own devoutly monogamous way equally guilty of twisting Carrie. The final nightmare of Carrie's bloody hand trying to drag Amy below brings to the surface this pervasive guilt embedded into our culture.With The Fury, Irving thus gets a chance to revoke all guilt. De Palma shoots the film with a kind of ridiculous vitality, everything super-fast and super-charged, a style suggestive of permanently sexed, ultra horny adolescence. The film is one big boner and Amy Irving's climax &#x96; literally the orgasmic climax of the film &#x96; is nothing less than a cinematic ejaculation in which she finally steps up to the plate and (her symbolic father and brother are now dead) asserts her raging femininity, literally causing John Cassavetes &#x96; who plays an evil government agent who hopes to become Amy's symbolic father/dominator/lover &#x96; to explode. She, in all her glorious womanness, causes him to get the most massive of erections and the most massive of self-destructive orgasms, his head quite literally exploding in a geyser of blood, flesh and semen. Silly? Yup. But the whole film is so deliciously over-the-top (Kirk Douglas plays a hilarious grey haired, muscular super-man ); a feverish sex-comedy dressed up as a thriller. Indeed, Godard was so impressed by The Fury that he cited its giddy dynamism as the reason he returned to popular film-making. Beyond this, De Palma's usual obsessions are here extended set pieces, government conspiracies and themes of what he calls image validity abound. So we have an early battle sequence staged and passed off as truth by movie cameras. We have American kids manipulated into hating Palestinians by having fake Palestinians attacking an Israeli outpost (still timely). We also have an interesting shot in which Gillian uses her powers to flash back to a past event. This event is projected on a screen behind her, De Palma's camera orbiting around her body in the present. The scene manages to play out like an allegory for the cinema experience, in which something from the past enfolds us in the present whilst we remain situated in our own space.8/10 - Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"For your eyes only.","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fortunately, De Palma's hyperbolic, visually compelling, science fiction occult espionage thriller moves so fast that the ludicrous dialog, indifferent performances, and Swiss cheese plot don't spoil the fun. The Fury starts from an interesting premise, but De Palma is clearly more interested in the spectacular set pieces than logic or characterization. The potentially most interesting character Robin is off screen for too long and instead we get low comedy relief with Mother Knuckles and the off duty cops in the Caddilac. Also, Gillian's mother and the students at the Paragon Institute seem to disappear. And where Sissy Spacek was touching as Carrie, Amy Irving and Andrew Stevens as psychic teens who unleash the fury are whiny and callow, and you don't really care about their fates. Though Douglas, Snodgress, Cassavetes and De Palma regular William Finley ( Raymond Dunwoodie) are always interesting, the rest of the cast is pretty bad. And a scene between Irving and Douglas on a bus is embarrassingly bad. Still, The Fury with its telepathic visions, its pulse pounding score by John Willams and Richard H. Kline's elegant deep focus cinematography is superior to junk like The Eyes of Laura Mars. De Palma pulls out all the stops and creates some spectacularly over-the-top scenes. Faults and all, The Fury is more entertaining, and less pretentious and derivative than most of De Palma's more recent efforts to say nothing of Dressed to Kill, Body Double, Obsession, Wise Guys, Carlito's Way, Raising Cain, and The Bonfire of the Vanities. "},{"Title":"A blast from the past","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In 'Carrie', Amy Irving played a well-meaning friend of the iconic title character and the only survivor of the famous prom-night massacre that closed that film. Here in The Fury, she gets to play The Girl With the Power herself, as a another teenager coming to grips with frightening telekinetic and psychic powers that she never wanted. I might have rated this movie higher if I'd seen it closer to its original date, but a few decades later it certainly looks dated. And it can't quite seem to decide what it wants to be either (a) a suspense/action tale (in which case the plot ought to be tighter and flow better) or (b) a supernatural/horror thriller (in which case the special effects fall short, at least by modern standards). So overall it ends up being a bit of an incomplete mix. But the odd thing is that even for the time (late 70's) it has a dated feel to the style and pace of the scenes and dialog. As other reviewers have indicated, the only way this film worked for me was to imagine that I was watching a Hitchcock production from the 1960's or even 50's.The actors too all seem to be a bit out of sorts, even the star veteran Kirk Douglas. None of them seem to mesh well together. The main interest for me was to see Amy Irving at an early career stage. Though she was billed 5th in the cast after the more well known veterans, she's actually on screen more than any of the others and in some sense it's her character's journey that can be seen as the central part of the plot. Rather than the claustrophobic high-school setting of Carrie, however, here the girl with psychic powers is plunged unprotected into a bewildering outside world of political intrigue and secret institutes where she does not know who to trust. Irving does all right here with the rather uneven script, but in 'The Fury' she is clearly still learning the acting business. Even in her very next movies after this one ('Voices', 'The Competition'), she is visibly more mature and has distinctly more command of her acting skill. Frankly I think it took a while for her just to grow into her voice her smooth, low-pitched alto seems a bit out of place for the 17-year-old that she's supposed to be playing here. But she's got great screen presence and is a treat to look at.Overall, this movie felt like a good effort for the time, but harder to watch now. "},{"Title":"Great mix of different genres and some ingenious directorial flourishes .....","Date":"25 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Dear Brian De Palma,you mixed up a lot of genres in The Fury. The film starts off as an action movie involving secret agencies and Arab terrorists. But then it slowly turns into a sci-fi horror movie. The plot was preposterous. But who cares? Some of the directorial flourishes were amazing. When Amy Irving's psychic character enters the past after touching her coach's hand, you played the past on a screen in the background and had Amy standing in front of it, thereby creating this virtual reality effect. It was simply ingenious, Brian. Never seen this used before for flashbacks. The editing during Amy Irving's first psychic meltdown and the slow motion sequences were excellent. The ending with multiple camera angles of John Cassavetes villain exploding into many pieces was over the top and entertaining.Kirk Douglas looked like he could fight a bear. He was 62 when he made this film. John Cassavetes was a great sinister and sleazy villain. Amy Irving perfectly conveyed the mental fragility of the psychic girl. Dennis Franz played one of those morally repugnant characters which he would repeat in Blow Up and Dressed to Kill. There was some micro-aggression against Arabs. The film could have been 20 minutes shorter. But I cannot really complain. This is what all big budget sci-fi thrillers ought to be like.Best Regards, Pimpin.(8/10) "},{"Title":"Longish but frequently amazing paranormal thriller","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" 1978 was a good year for thrillers about people who have the power to do anything with their minds alone The Medusa Touch was one, The Fury was another. Personally I prefer The Medusa Touch, but I like The Fury as well. The script, which is almost experimental in the way it encompasses a large number of central characters, could have been tighter, but Brian De Palma's often dazzling virtuosity enhances the somewhat clichéd material he is working with and makes certain scenes look like (violent) ballet in their co-ordination and technique. It's all topped-off by an ending for which even a Wow! would be an under-reaction; one can only imagine the impact it must have had upon the people who saw it on the big screen back in 1978 (it must have sent them home buzzing). Great cast, with every actor and actress perfectly suited to their parts. One of De Palma's underrated movies. *** out of 4. "},{"Title":"Not much of a De Parture for De Palma.","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Brian DePalma, The Fury stars Kirk Douglas as desperate father Peter Sandza, who enlists the help of teenage psychic Gillian (Amy Irving) to find his son Robin (Andrew Stevens), who has been abducted by Ben Childress (John Cassavetes), the head of a shadowy government organisation.The Fury isn't really much of a De Parture for De Palma, who had scored a hit only two years earlier with Carrie, another film about a psychic teenage girl. This sense of deja vu might not be such an issue if The Fury was on a par with his previous film, but it isn't the pacing is too slow, the script rather dull, the acting uneven (at times, Douglas seems to be playing his role for laughs), and the direction over-egged, De Palma laying on his Hitchcockian style to such a ridiculous degree that supposedly dramatic scenes frequently prove unintentionally hilarious.Giggle-worthy moments include Gillian's escape from a psychic institute that is rendered laughable by an over-use of slow motion, a car chase through fog (where not being able to see both vehicles at the same time seriously reduces the thrills), a pair of unfortunate Arabs on a malfunctioning fairground ride flying through a restaurant window, and Kirk Douglas' anticlimactic death scene (after all his efforts, he simply rolls off a roof).4.5 out of 10, rounded up to 5 for the reminder of just how far games consoles have advanced since the late '70s, the extraordinarily large spectacles worn by schoolgirl Cheryl (Hilary Thompson), and the film's closing full-body explosion special effect that is shown from every conceivable angle. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but nothing special","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Following the kidnapping of his son, a spy turns to a woman's psychic connections to find him from the former friend who's intending to use his son's psychic abilities into a psychotic killer he can manipulate for the government.Frankly there's not a whole lot to really enjoy here. Among the few strong points here is the strong action-packed opening, with the big action-packed shootout that takes place on the crowded beach that comes off rather nicely with the way it manages to start this off on the numerous plot-lines while also figuring on generating plenty of strong action along the way. With the majority of the film seemingly constructed as an action movie about taking down the spy ring enables for some rather nice action as well, with a decent foot- chase through a series of apartments and a fine shoot-out in the middle of a car chase help this one out as well, As well, the scenes of the two going through the tests trying to find him as well as the utterly cheesy fun of the unleashed powers at the carnival makes for some rather fun action-scenes here that go a long way toward helping this get more of a horror feel throughout here. As well, there's some fun to be had in the finale where it really brings out some nice action and a rather enjoyable sense of resolution letting it play out in this manner with all the different story lines coming to play out rather nicely along with the bloodshed to give this a strong finish. There is a couple of really big distractions to this film, as one of the biggest is the overly-stylish direction. The slow motion escape from the Institute is a prime example, going on so long that the scene starts to slip into self-parody rather than showcase the pathos of the sequence doing the whole scene that way rather than only a small portion. The fact that there's lots of scenes that go on far too long is another big problem, spread throughout that come off as padded and overlong that go on way longer than necessary. There's tons of scenes like this, including the various conversations in the hospital and the parts in the old folk's home are needlessly overlong. That carries over into the rest of the movie with this one being so long setting up the different tactics of getting her to cooperate with them or passing their tests that this one just isn't all that much of a horror film as the industrial spy subplot takes over so much of the film that it holds this one back by not letting those elements get a chance to be featured that there's not a lot of time to let those in. The other minor problem here is the stupidity of letting him be used in that manner, which makes no sense and is destined to fail, though the other issues here are more detrimental overall.Rated R Graphic Violence and some Language "},{"Title":"With powers like yours.","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Fury is directed by Brian De Palma and adapted to screenplay from his own novel by John Farris. It stars Kirk Douglas, John Cassavetes, Carrie Snodgress, Charles Durning, Amy Irving, Fiona Lewis and Andrew Stevens. Music is by John Williams and cinematography by Richard H. Kline.De Palma once again indulges in the strange world of psychic abilities and telekinetic powers, with mixed results. On one hand it features strong performances, some masterful techniques by De Palma, a superb score by Williams, and an ending fit to grace any horror film past or present. On the other it's exposition heavy, too draggy in the mid-section and much of the screenplay isn't narratively cohesive. Yet getting through the chores is worth it, the last third of film enters the realm of the weird and the bloody, gripping in texture and execution.Far from perfect but when it hits its straps it soars. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Carrie - over...","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" De Palma's follow up to Carrie but already echoing and perhaps trying to cash-in too obviously on some of the devices which made the earlier film so successful, with lashings of gore, slow-motion action sequences and of course, the literally mind-blowing conclusion. However familiarity does breed a little contempt especially when the story is as fantastical again as Carrie, which is probably why I prefer the director's slightly more realistically grounded projects of around this time, like Blow-Out or Dressed to Kill, both highly stylised but just about believable murder-thrillers. The movie looks incredibly dated in the here and now, the actors all look like they could have walked off the set of Dallas, plus sadly some of the acting isn't far above soap-opera standard either. It's weird to see the great Kirk Douglas in the lead part and his legendary status for me detracts from any empathy you may have for his character - he's really too big for the part and he can't act down into his role. There are some attempts at humour but these too fall flat, particularly the extended early sequence when Douglas hi-jacks a dysfunctional middle-aged typical American family whilst on the run from the baddies, led by John Cassavetes. And quite why he sees fit to make a touring Saudi-Arabian party the innocent victims of Douglas' son's powers at the theme park, I couldn't fathom either. That said this isn't really a movie for actors...Hitchcock-like, De Palma here, as in so many of his movies, manipulates his players (sheep-like, dare I say) into his story until we reach the over-the-top conclusion. What you tend to look for in early De Palma instead are the directorial flourishes - these sometimes come off (the various connections between the possessed youngsters, the slow-motion death of Hester) and sometimes not (the initial kidnapping scene and the crashing merry-go-round, fail to grip or convince). Still worth watching though as a relic of the 70's but very much locked into that particular time-warp. "},{"Title":"More Bodies Than Hamlet","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" When a former (?) agent in a supersecret government agency is on holiday with his son in Israel, a terrorist attack separates the father, Peter, from his son, Robin. Peter apparently dies, and the boy is whisked to safety by Peter's best friend, and government agency man.Peter isn't really killed (though his son is made to believe so) and he both takes some vengeance on almost being killed by wounding his former friend, and tries to reunite with his son. The following may contain spoilers.Robin, as it happens, has a powerhouse of psychic abilities. This was never hinted at before the attack, which makes it odd that the action was even staged. However, Robin is taken to a facility where agency folk work at developing his powers. (A little of this is akin to a setup in Firestarter, but that film spends more time on the testing than this).Robin is becoming increasingly powerful, and increasingly dangerous.In the meantime, a young girl, Gilliam, starts developing her own psychic abilities, particularly psychometry. She demonstrates this in class, and eventually is referred to an institute for gifted youngsters, actually a front for the agency that has Robin. As her powers develop, she shares visions from Robin and others that make her a tad unstable.In the meantime, Peter learns of her, and staying literally a step ahead of the secret agency, rescues her from the institute, inadvertently killing his newly found lover in the process (life has been unkind to Peter).Robin is getting so restless that he's allowed a night on the town, where he both gets increasingly insecure and sees Arab tourists, and psychokinetically causes a machine malfunction that kills or seriously injures them. Peter and Gilliam track Robin to an estate, with high security grounds, where, inside, Robin detects Gilliam's presence in the yard, and flips out, thinking that she's to replace him, and he's to be killed. So he kills his mentor and bed partner by psychokinetically spinning her to death as if she became a centrifuge.The violence of his actions cause Gillism to freak out, and her screams alert the security forces that capture her and Peter. Peter finally is allowed to see his son, who has in the meantime killed a number of agency people by hurling them away psychokinetically.If Robin recognizes his father as a loving family member, it isn't evident. He leaps at Peter, the two go through a window, and despite Peter's best efforts at trying to rescue his son, the two fall to their death, one by one. Life definitely hasn't been kind to Peter.Major Spoiler Alert! As he lay dying, Robin apparently passes something -- his power? A compulsion? no matter -- to Gilliam. With everybody dead but Peter's former friend and Gilliam, she awakens to find him trying to soft-soap recruiting her. She takes revenge, destroying him psychokinetically.End of film!The film built up a fairly complex, interwoven story, but left Gilliam in limbo. What happens next? Does she get away? Does she hook up with her globetrotting mother? Are there other agency types who will capture her or die trying? The film would have been much better without these many loose ends. "}{"Title":"sometimes a little preposterous, but never boring in 70s Depalma fashion","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma, for better or worse, loves to mess around with some of the expectations from the audience through the genre he's working in, and the Fury is a good, messy, peculiar case of how to do a highly stylized picture. It was the director's follow-up to Carrie, and here the horror of suburban school life is replaced with some more outrageously violent, practically astounding moments. There's also a lot of plot going on, too, or at least it might seem that way. Sometimes, too, the action and turns have to depend on a complete suspension of disbelief logic. De Palma holds this logic steady enough, and provides a combination of a Government thriller and psychic power drama. What helps though is the casting, as Kirk Douglas in hero mode works best through this very narrowly focused man on a mission; John Cassavetes in one of his very best acting roles as the cold- though devil-friendly- antagonist as he kidnaps his 'gifted' son. Amy Irving fills up the rest of the main acting bill as the female counterpart to the son, getting images and (bad) connections with what's happening to him. So, it is sort of silly stuff, but also taken seriously enough in this thriller form to go with. Occasionally there will be something that isn't directed quite well enough even when something interesting is going on. But most, if not all, of the scenes with a lot of action and multiple, gruesome deaths and various bleedings via psychic boy/girl, are fun and entertaining in that very stylish way that De Palma has with his thrillers, giving the audience what they've paid to see and such. And for the greater part of the film I bought into it, that Douglas could be this old man with enough sense to match skills as an ex-agent, or that Andrew Stevens as the son and Irving could be convincing as vulnerable, confused teens with certain 'unstable' ways. De Palma also gets some great atmospheric backup from John Williams' score, and the pleasure in the plausibility of some of the more graphic scenes. Whether it's up to par with the director's best work would depend on how much of a fan one might be of his more crazy, over-the-top pictures with darkly comic scenes amassed into a potboiler of a story that would make Hitchcock probably grin and wince in equal measure. By the way, the hype that has been brought up by the critics regarding the final scene lives up to it, and it's one of the best scenes of De Palma's career in just the sheer 'wow' level of gustiness, some pun intended. "},{"Title":"Loved it.","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw The Fury I was blown away, there wasn't a thing I disliked about it. The story was fascinating, the casting supreme and it just hit me with a hook that I could not let go of. I don't know if it was just the time in my life or what, but I have always considered The Fury as one of my favorite movies. The story line was plausible, if you believed or considered that our minds are capable of more than we use them for, and the tension seemed real at the right times. I did not read the book, if there was one, so the movie held up and there was no let down, just a nice roller coaster ride for all to see. This movie has held up for me in, the test of time. "},{"Title":"DePalma's  Slightly Flawed  Classic","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Fury came out after Brian DePalma's classic, Carrie. And like the previous film, it's about a girl with a mental ability, but she's far from alone.As the film opens, we find out that Peter Sandza (Kirk Douglas)has been double crossed by his best friend (And fellow government agent) Childress (John Cassavetes). It seems that Childress wants Peter's son Robin (Andrew Stevens), who has an amazing psychic ability. Childress wants Robin so bad that he stages a shootout while they're in Israel and attempts to kill Peter (His son thinks he's dead).Peter turns up in Chicago sometime later, searching for his son and staying a step ahead from the government agents that want him out of the way. He finds out that Gillian Bellaver (Amy Irving)may be able to help him find him. Gillian is freaked out about her ability whenever she touches someone, it causes them to bleed. Seeking help from The Paragon Institute, she soon finds out 2 things Robin was there before her and that she has a connection to him. What she doesn't know is that Childress has become interested in her abilities, and wants to replace Robin with her.Robin, meanwhile, has become increasingly unstable (Despite incredibly high dosages of medications that would kill a normal person, they have no effect on him at all)and increasingly dangerous (He's developed an ability to manipulate machines and doing the same to himself). He is so much of a threat that he causes a section of a ferris wheel to crash into a building because the guys were Middle Eastern (A trigger for what happened in Israel to his father).There are some plot holes that have nagged me (You would figure after the incident at the carnival that they would have had a clue to how increasingly dangerous he's become). The film gets bloody, but the ending in which Gillian causes the bad guy to explode (using her powers)is still effective (Keep in mind that this was 3 years BEFORE the exploding head scene in Scanners). Some of the content may be a bit politically incorrect in this post 9/11 society Robin's actions at the carnival were triggered by what happened in Israel, even though these guys had nothing to do with what happened. So basically, Robin had committed a hate crime, killing them because they were Middle Eastern men. Keep your eye out for Daryl Hannah, Laura Innes, James Belushi and Dennis Franz in small parts. And John Williams fans will like the score to the film. "},{"Title":"indoor amusement park/mall","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A scene in this movie brings back fond memories of my childhood. The indoor amusement park/mall, known as Old Chicago, was an amazing place to me back in the mid 70's. First of it's kind and SADLY short lived as it went bankrupt and was demolished 6 years after it's closing. I remember always seeing the commercials on TV advertising the place and we begged our mom and dad to take us there. I had been there a few times with my parents and never thought I would/could see it again until I learned a scene in this movie was filmed inside of it. It made me feel good when I watched the scene and remembered the interior of the place exactly. If anyone that reads this has any souvenirs, t-shirts or other memorabilia, please let me know. "},{"Title":"Interesting psychic thriller","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" When his son is kidnapped by government agents who want to exploit his telekinetic powers, Kurt Douglas is determined to get him back. Staying one step ahead of the organization he goes after Amy Irving. She's a young woman who is dealing with her own psychic powers. Together they attempt to save Andrew Stevens who is being driven insane by the inability to control his gift. John Cassavetes is convincingly chilling in a villainous role. There are plenty of shocking scenes. A woman is turned into a human sprinkler in one. The ending where Amy Irving takes her revenge is one of the most gruesome scenes ever. Director Brian Depalma lives up to his reputation for creating inventive scenes. Be prepared, blood will flow. "},{"Title":"Can't miss it's De Palma","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" He certainly has mastered his style of making movies, the Hitchock-ian manner which looks so full of details and carefully planned, but God save this director's soul for using such poor looking fake blood, it's in all of his movies. The color is so incredibly fake it's just bad, especially when you have a movie as gory as this one. The acting is good, I liked the attractively stunning Amy Irving, the story was interesting as hell and kept me wondering what was going to happen, the script was above average (incredible even), some scenes (the one where Mrs Irving's character escapes from the psychic school) were absolutely amazing and overall it was a very entertaining movie. But the ending, as with so many De Palma movies, just came on to quickly, left too many questions unanswered (one of them being why the baddies did the experiments on Robin in the first place) and just felt over-rushed in every sense of the word. Do recommend a view. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Absolute Bang","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A typically idiosyncratic offering from Brian DePalma which has a pre-stroke Kirk Douglas searching for telekinesis-endowed offspring after he's nabbed by the great man's former CIA colleagues (an explosive John Cassevetes amongst others). Meanwhile Amy Irving starts to show that she too is cerebrally challenged but not in an emotionally retarded way, and is shunted off to the institute where Douglas' informant is placed - the great man subsequently seeing an opportunity to use the troubled youngster to find his own boy before government scientists utilise his powers for diabolical ends. The Fury takes a little time to get going after the 'mid-east' set opener in which father and son are separated by the treacherous Cassavetes with the aid some for-hire Arab terrorists. The script isn't up to much and one suspects DePalma knows it, hence the emphasis on his trademark technical flourishes and gloriously over the top set-pieces. Sometimes they're very effective - witness for example his use of jump cutting (effectively reworked from Carrie) in Irving's vision scenes but sometimes it all borders on comic genius...intentioned or not. I loved the sequence with the Arabian tourists, reduced to mounds of dead at a fairground by an angered Douglas Jr, but you hope the Hitchcock loving director was indulging in a bit of black humour. Only two other points to make really - Irving making an excellent bit of stunt casting, relishing her chance to invert her role in Carrie and perform a bit of psychic rage herself and the ending - possibly one of the greatest of all time. Sure, you'll laugh long and hard...and possibly for a great many days after the film's ended but its a gloriously overcooked and er, combustive finale that justifies sitting through the film's slower moments several times over. Oh, and look out for a very young Daryl Hannah as Irving's non-descript class mate. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ignore those who suggest that this is nothing but retread for DePalma.  Onsome levels, it surpasses his greatest films and is uniquely original.  There  isn't a performance in the film that's weak and the storytelling (both through  script and camerawork) unfolds like a dream.  Bloody where it needs to be and  tragic in places you don't expect, the Fury is one of my all-time favorites.  I  saw it as a young kid in the theater and hope one day to see it again on the big  screen. "},{"Title":"The Fury's Bottom-Line","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched The Fury, which features then twenty-five-year-old Amy Irving, who now strikes me as absolutely gorgeous for some reason (maybe it's her bikini scene).  Obviously a lot younger in this role, she is girlishly attractive with enchanting baby-blue eyes and a killer build. Seeing her here, I wondered why she didn't launch a more substantial career (her acting never quite came to fruition, and she's known more for her relationship with Steven Spielberg, which netted her a cool $100 million, than her starring roles). Though the overblown Brian DePalma directs the piece, it isn't very engaging, despite its astronomical five and a half million dollar budget. In fact, it's actually a more toned-down version of David Cronenberg's later Scanners (1981), which was a lot more thought-provoking and entertaining. Still, The Fury is definitely entrenched in the '70s - it's half government conspiracy (like Marathon Man and the Domino Principle) and half supernatural creepy-horror (like The Exorcist, The Manitou, The Sentinel. even Shadow of the Hawk). The fundamental plot, which certainly has its problems, circles around Andrew Stevens, who I've never liked in any role, and Irving - two teens empowered with psychic powers and telekinesis.  Or so you'd think, though the film begins as a story about Kirk Douglas trying to find his kidnapped son.  Only later does The Fury evolve into a story about the plight of the two psychics, specifically Irving.  And there's actually one point in the film where you forgot about Douglas altogether (though one of the best scenes of the film revolved around his character and a woman named Mother Knuckles -- what a great name -- played by Eleanor Merriam!). So, what I like least about the movie is its splintered storyline.  Some terrorist-run shadow institute for psychic research snatches the two psychically-enhanced kids to use as. super-weapons, intelligence spies, short-order cooks?   Viewers never quite get to the bottom of the `secret' agency's intentions, though the mysterious agency certainly turns the fun-loving Stevens into an egomaniacal asshole!  When the two storylines do finally converge (spoiler coming be forwarned) -- if you're still awake thanks to the sluggish pacing -- you get the pay-off of a man being blown apart by Irving's mental prowess (which was done later in Scanners).  Oh, and there's a slight undertow in the story that delves into the old Star-Bellied Sneetch routine of being scrutinized for being different, but it never really surfaces.  "},{"Title":"Do Not Miss This Movie","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  THE FURY has got to be one of the best DePalma films ever made, and he's made some good ones. The performances are great (especially Cassavetes) and the storyline keeps you enthralled the whole while. Douglas is splendid as well, his character has great humor throughout the film. Altogether, a very good horror film that will make your head explode!!!! "}{"Title":"A vastly underrated chiller","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brian De Palma's The Fury obviously drew parallels to his 1976 classic Carrie, which may explain it's failure at the box-office. But despite it's similar narrative, same actress, similar ultraviolent ending, if anyone examines this film closely, they will find some deeper issues being dealt with (much like Carrie).Can the U.S. government take an innocent (even if he doesn't have the psychokinetic talents that Andrew Stevens or Amy Irving possess) and turn them into a killing machine? Oh yes. Can an amoral code come between a father's love for his son? Yes. And can children (not necessarily possessing supernatural abilities) be scrutinized for being different? A resounding yes.All that aside, De Palma still delivers the goods; combing equal helpings of drama, action, humor and yes, sheer horror. And it ends with a bang! Rent this one...and enjoy!Grade B+ "},{"Title":"A scary and good old-fashioned joy ride.","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A scary and good old-fashioned joy ride that concentraits on an aging goverment agent, Peter Sandza (Kirk Douglas - Ben-Hur) who finds help from Gillian (Amy Irving - Traffic), a teenage girl who's surprised to learn that she has special abilities and he relies on her to find out where a crooked adversary of his, Childress (the late John Cassavetes - The Dirty Dozen) is doing with his psychic son, Robin (Andrew Stevens).Brian DePalma (Carrie, The Untouchables) directs here and he applies the hair-raising details where they're needed.  John Farris used his novel in adapting the screenplay.  Rick Baker's make-up and special effects are a delight to see and the ending is a good example of that.  And legendary composer John Williams serves up a tense and enjoyable musical score.  The opening theme is the best one to listen to.As for the movie itself, the performances are first-rate hands down. Douglas is reliable as he usually is, Cassavetes is up to his usual antics, and Irving shows here why she can looked upon to be a good actress. "},{"Title":"ANOTHER UNDERRATED THRILLER FROM BRIAN DEPALMA","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Fury is another underrated thriller from Brian DePalma, the Master of the Macabre (a title he earned, in my opinion). This film actually owes little to Hitchcock, other than a few directorial touches. DePalma here creates a dazzling original, with superb special effects and strong acting and a solid plot.The Fury shares a few similarities with DePalma's previous film Carrie. It is based on a best seller (by John Farris, who adapted his novel). Both films feature Amy Irving, then a newcomer to films. Both deal with psychics and telekinesis. And both are strong character studies grafted onto a thriller. The Fury is a great deal more complicated in terms of the storyline than Carrie was. The film stars Kirk Douglas in a strong performance as a government agent whose son (a psychic) was kidnapped. John Cassavetes plays the kidnapper, who happens to be Douglas' partner (all these connections are established within the first 20 minutes, so I'm not spoiling it for you) The bulk of the film deals with Gillian (Amy Irving), another psychic who Douglas enlists to find his son. Over the course of the film, there are a great many surprises and revelations that DePalma just throws at the viewer. But don't worry about being confused. DePalma makes everything clear as it progresses.The Fury finds DePalma working with mostly new collaborators, although a few (editor Paul Hirsch and some of the actors)are DePalma veterans. Despite the change, the technical credits are still first rate. The cinematographer is Richard H. Kline, who has shot many different kinds of films (exploitation, Hollywood, independent) and his photography is excellent, with great use of shadows and light. The score is by John Williams (famous for Jaws, Star Wars and many, many Hollywood films) and it is an extremely effective one, but one wonders if Pino Donaggio might have done a better job (especially after his mesmerizing work in Dressed to Kill, Carrie and especially Blow Out). But still, I want to say that Williams' score is very good, especially towards the films' climatic moments. And Paul Hirsch's editing accomplishes exactly what it did for Carrie.The acting is first rate as well. Kirk Douglas gives his usual strong performance and I go on record as saying that he is one of our most overlooked actors. John Cassavetes makes a memorable villain and although this job was most likely for the money (he acted to finance his own films; this job probably financed Gloria), he doesn't sleepwalk through his role unlike some actors. Charles Durning returns as another villain, adding to his collection of offbeat and memorable performances (The Muppet Movie added another)and Amy Irving is very good as the psychic who helps Douglas. And if you pay close attention, you'll see Bill Finley in a cameo in the first 12 minutes or so. (And if you pay really close attention, you'll see Jim Belushi)As is the case with most DePalma thrillers, The Fury has a wow of an ending. It is probably the greatest of the DePalma endings, one of such satisfaction and plausibility that you won't stop talking about it for hours after the film is over. There is a deliberate pace and some of the middle scenes are sluggish, but fortunately, they don't last long and DePalma gives us our money's worth. The Fury is not the best of the DePalma thrillers (Dressed to Kill gets my vote), but it is an excellent film that combines intelligence and craftmanship. It is a must see.**** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"totally awesome !!","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was Excellent.. lots of excitement... and scary at the same time.. i really enjoyed it.. but the only thing i didnt like about it was Amy Irving.. shes not one of my favourite actresses.. but Andrew Stevens and Kirk Douglas were very good in this one..I highly recommend this movie..  "},{"Title":"Everything a horror film should be...","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not yet having begun his quest to beat Hitchcock at his own game, De Palma was riding the crest of the box-office wave caused by CARRIE, enjoying success at last after the critical heralding but public failure of SISTERS, PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE and OBSESSION. Definitely not looking to reinvent the wheel, he chose this for his next project, based on the pulpy John Farris bestseller about telekinetic teens coming of age amidst much governmental skullduggery. Featuring Amy Irving this time essaying the role of telekinetic heroine instead of cowering victim, her presence gave audiences a familiar face to tie into the CARRIE phenomenon. With then still-fresh heartthrob Stevens, backed by a cast of able-bodied film vets like Douglas and Cassavettes, THE FURY was the perfect formula for a screaming good time at the movies buckets of blood and popcorn included. Wrapping up the trashy plot in some of his best visuals yet, THE FURY combines humor, horror and angst on a Grand-Guignol operatic scale that manages to be as engaging, but not quite as chilling or involving as the film that preceded it. This was the time for De Palma, cast and company to just have fun with the proceedings and it shows; without the accessibility of more material by populist authors like King and Farris, it would be years before he would have another hit on this scale. (One could argue the validity of that statement, until you try to make it through BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES. Again.)Film purists and casual buffs alike are torn about the redoubtable merits and deficiencies of THE FURY, and the debate definitely heats up when discussing the explosively outlandish and messy finale. Depending on what region of the country you were in that year, you may have seen SCANNERS first (which I did), a far more superior film in terms of pacing, plotting and direction, and still featuring one of the first exploding body-part sequences, (created by the always-brilliant Dick Smith.)For my own impressions of this movie, especially now, the cheesy climax effect is excusable in that it was what could be considered state of the art at the time. We've grown so used to the boundless capabilities of today's CGI work, that Dick Smith-protege Rick Baker's rendering of John Cassavettes' exploding body looks sadly dated by comparison. But I enjoy the cause more than the resulting effect, and the sly way De Palma trades a night of tragedy for a beautiful, sunlit setting, where good finally gets the upper hand and evil bites the big one.If not for that ending, which needed to be as outrageous as it was to balance off Cassavettes' OTT performance as Childress, then enjoy it for what is truly some of John Williams' best scoring ever. The love affair between composer/conductor and the much-lauded London Symphony Orchestra had already begun with STAR WARS, and by now, like lovers who know each others moods and rhythms, Williams wrote a score for his favorite musicians to attack with gusto, and they do not disappoint. The score alone elevates THE FURY from mere Saturday night-shockshow cannon fodder, and though it will never be CARRIE, it will always be a lot better than the many ripoffs that followed it. "},{"Title":"Better Than Scanners?","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is imperfect (it sags a bit in the third quarter, and some major factors in the plot are unexplained or confusing), but it is a great mix of fear and excitement. The cinematography is quite ahead of its time (the camera rarely sits still, yet remains unobtrusive), the drama is milked for maximum effect (and there are numerous sudden shocks), and the science-fiction/occult aspects of the film never overshadow the human element.  Two similar movies, David Cronenberg's Scanners and The Brood, have more science and are more amusingly grotesque, but The Fury has a coolness and tightness to it that might just beat them both. "},{"Title":"A gorgeous knockout of a horror movie","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one gorgeous knockout of horror movie--beautifully directed by De Palma and acted by Amy Irving. The script is elaborate junk, but on imagery alone this ranks with Murnau's Nosferatu and Dreyer's Vampyre as among the greatest horror movies ever made. Like those classics, the imagery is more entrancing than terrifying--I never wanted to hide my eyes. The last half-hour is just incredibly intense. Check out the way De Palma cuts from the Gothic night horror of Douglas's confrontation with his demon son to Amy Irving's cozy sunlit bedroom the next day. I always laugh out loud at this transition--because of course the director is just softening us up for the greatest horror climax in movies. "},{"Title":"An underrated DePalma paranormal thriller.","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Fury has gotten better with age and can now be viewed as one of DePalma's most satisfying thrillers.  It consists of two stories which eventually overlap.  The first story deals with a former government agent (Kirk Douglas) who searches for his son, who has been kidnapped by the feds who want to exploit his telekinetic powers.  The second story revolves around a teenaged girl (Amy Irving) who discovers that she too has paranormal powers.  Eventually, Douglas enlists her aid in finding his son. The film includes some unexpected humor and several breathtaking sequences, to include a stunning shot where Irving's character is surrounded by past images of Douglas' son (you gotta see it to believe it).  The denouement is contrived, but effective and has been ripped by other films. "},{"Title":"Thirty years before HEROES or 4400","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Thirty years before HEROES, Brian DiPalma works in the paranormal chiller mode. DiPalma always sets up gorgeous settings for the most awful things to happen to his characters. Biggest complaint is the hiring of Andrew Stevens. Eric Douglas was a much better actor than Stevens and it might have provided the boost in confidence Eric needed at that time. It may have helped resolve those issues between Kirk and Eric. Great spfx work and a warm yet gritty performance by ol' man Douglas.Whoa, Fiona Lewis was hot back in the day. There's no real reason given as to why the Irving and Stevens characters are held other than they are being trained to be weapons of mass destruction. That leads to my comparison to HEROES and 4400. Of course it also leads to all kinds of conspiracy theories, analyzing and who needs that, right? "},{"Title":"Typical De Palma, worth seeing with the right approach","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One of Brian De Palma's lesser known works, at least around where I live, I recently watched The Fury for the first time in 25 years. I had actually forgotten I'd seen it before, but as the movie progressed, I began recognizing certain scenes, while a lot of the rest seemed completely unfamiliar.This is I think typical of this movie, and a lot of De Palma's films -- there will be long sequences with dull dialogue where you wonder why they weren't edited down, and some dubious acting and bizarre plot twists, and then suddenly there will be a sequence of 5 or 10 minutes that is just dazzling. De Palma here had a finalized story-line to work with (from a novel), and didn't script himself, which is good news for those familiar with some of his auteur derailments.At the same time, the script of The Fury shows some of the director's typical weaknesses (lack of logic, inconsistent characters, etc), and it's too bad that a third party wasn't brought in to tighten up the narrative flow, strengthen the logic, and remove weak dialogue. So, ultimately, it looks very much like a typical De Palma work, a B-movie with some dazzling cinematography and a few quite powerful scenes.*** some spoilers from here on *** The good news is that the basic premise of the story is pretty interesting and at least to me in 2007, one of the assets of the movie. The notion of the two young psychics, both victims rather than masters of their powers, is an arresting idea, and while the terrorist angle is unnecessary, I could imagine someone turning The Fury into a pretty good movie today.The second asset is, to my mild surprise, Amy Irving, who delivers a terrific performance, and actually seems a little too good for this occasionally hokey movie. She's believable, convincing, and often moving. I read some snide comment about her over-preparing for B-movies, but for The Fury at least, I am grateful for this commitment. Her shock at her own uncontrollable powers is brilliantly performed, and makes for those sudden jumps in your attention, when the movie has dragged on for too long. Very nice work.The other actors seem to work on routine; Kirk Douglas acts as if he's in a B-movie about spies, and has some bad dialogue to deal with. Andrew Stevens looks right for the part, and while not a convincing actor, his creepy hunk presence seems appropriate, especially towards the end of the movie. Cassavetes is OK, but not more, and looks somewhat uncomfortable with his black suit and busted-up arm.Some of the camera-work is excellent, and as always with De Palma, there are a few show-off pieces where he goes into long complex montages that aren't really motivated by the context or narrative development, but are nevertheless exciting too watch. The feeling is, as often, that a lot of the other stuff in the movie he doesn't really care for, as long as he can deliver these 5-minute masterpieces of cinema craft here and there.Ultimately, thanks to the arresting basic premise, the occasionally masterful direction, and the performance of Amy Irving, I enjoyed The Fury a little more than I expected to. I can see how it may appear ludicrous or bizarre to others, but that wide range of responses is what you get most of the time when the director is Mr De Palma. "}{"Title":"Nutty Telekinetic Kids In Stylish International Espionage Horror Thriller","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Peter Sandza's son Robin is a gifted telepath with amazing mental powers who is stolen by a secretive intelligence agency. Peter is determined to find him, and enlists the help of Gillian Bellaver, another promising wunderkind. Can they find Robin, or will the spies get to them first ?The Fury is a great bad movie. It's bad because the subject-matter - telekinetic teens - is identical to DePalma's previous film, Carrie (even if the setting is completely different), and most of the characters behave totally irrationally. It's great because it's packed full of tremendous sequences (the car chase through the fog, all of Gillian's startling visions, the tragic escape from the institute), has a wonderful cult-movie cast, never takes itself too seriously and finishes with a real show-stopper. I really like Douglas in this picture - he hadn't played a lead in years and he took on this crazy thriller, but he plays the part with tremendous physical presence and really knocks out the tragedy. He's aided by a fabulously soft-spoken Cassavetes as the quintessential heavy, the solid and reliable Durning and a terrific turn by Lewis, Essex's finest harlot. Watch too for early bits by Franz and Hannah. The best thing though is DePalma's wonderful visual flair, with almost every scene crammed with amazing technique - a gorgeous night-to-day dissolve, a back-projected flashback with a circling foreground shot (if that's been done in any other movie I haven't seen it), some wild hand-held stuff and perhaps the most gloriously offensive special effects shot ever done (courtesy of Rick Baker) for the finale. Richard H. Kline's camera-work is first-rate throughout, and counterpoints the fun-but-cheesy John Williams music. I love seventies movies; they didn't make them like this before and they don't anymore - it's a crowd-pleasing actioner, but it's also full of played-straight drama and pathos. The script by John Farris (based on his novel) is sometimes weak, but it's never boring or self-conscious. This isn't DePalma's best movie by quite a stretch (that's Blow Out, Raising Cain or Snake Eyes) but it's still twice as good as most films. "},{"Title":"Gray Matter","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** Brian de Palma has made a career of imitating the works of directors like the late Alfred Hitchcock and the present Italian director Dario Argento. In his movies Brian sometimes hits and his films are quite good with his own unique type of stylish surrealism that enhances the Hitchcock and Argento-type like scenes. Sometimes Brian misses and his movies turn out to be both mind-bending and confusing messes. The Fury is one of Brian de Palma's misses. Brian de Palma's attempt to strike gold for the second time with a Carrie like film about telekinesis in his movie The Fury. Instead The Fury bit off far too much then it can chew and in the end it ended up chocking itself to death.The Fury has two, not one like in Carrie, young persons with telekinesis powers in two different places. When they finally got together at the end of the film all hell broke loose with people flying out of windows and spinning like tops on the ceiling until all their limbs flung off their body. This was very good visual effects for the time being but the very bad plot development in getting a hold of what the movie was trying to say. Peter Sandza, Kirk Douglas, spends the entire movie looking for his son Robin, Andrew Stevens, after he was kidnapped in Israel by Peter's friend Ben Childress, John Cassavetes, and co-worker in some secret US government agency where they both worked for twenty years. Ben staging a fake terrorist attack in order to kidnap Robin and at the same time kill Peter. Peter survived and wounded Ben with a blast from a assault rifle, that he took off a dead attacker on the beach, that cost Ben his left arm. The reason for kidnapping Robin is that he possesses a strange and powerful telekinesis talent that the agency that Ben still works for wanted to use against the enemies of the USA.After a number of wild goose chases in Chicago and with the help of Gillian Bellaver, Amy Irving, who has the same telekinesis powers that Robin has both Peter & Amy track down Robin to some safe-house outside the city. he place is run by the agency that Ben works for. Robin sensing that Gillian, his psychic twin, is nearby and goes wild and insane feeling that he'll be killed by Ben & Co. and then be replaced by her in their telekinesis experiments. Robin ends up killing his handler and lover Susan, Flona lewis, by spinning her to death. Ropin also has a number of the staff who tried to restrain him lifted up off the floor and thrown out the window to their deaths. With his poor and confused father, Peter, flung out the window together with him only to have Peter grab Robin's arm and hold on to a ledge. Robin then fights his father off and falls to his death. With a despondent Peter, after seeing this, throws himself to his death landing besides Robin. Later Ben alone with Gillian trying to smooth talk her into going along with him in his plan to use her Telekinesis powers for the US. This line of total BS on Bens part has Gillian go completely insane and use those powers on him and blast him to bits, like he was cooked inside a microwave oven. Gillian end up telling a startled Ben to go to the place where the sun don't shine yet where it hot all the time. The movie The Fury just never took off and seemed to go nowhere with Kirk Douglas as Peter running around Chicago like a lunatic from place to place at one point with nothing on but his underwear. Peter was such bad news to almost everyone who tried to helped him that they ended up being killed. John Cassavetes was darkly effected as the evil one armed man who was responsible for all the bad things that happened in the movie. In the end he got just what he so rightfully deserved. Both Amy Irving & Andrew Stevens were unstable as well as psychic in their roles as the twin whiz-kids of parapsychology causing involuntary movements in both people and objects.What really made The Fury so bad is that you could not build up any sympathy for no one in the film. From the evil Ben to the desperate Peter to the helplessly unstable and confused Gillian & Robin.. just no one! "},{"Title":"This film stinks.","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I approached this film with an open mind and little by little, two hours seemed to last for two days. Kirk Douglas plays the father of a telekenetic boy called Robin who has the unique ability to make people bleed to death and also make fairground rides go faster(a useful gift indeed). John Cassavetes plays Kirk Douglas's ex partner and ex friend who abducts Robin for his own sinister scheme. (We never find out what that is.)Douglas is helped by a telekenetic girl played by Amy Irving but unfortunately, Douglas and Irving's relationship isn't allowed to develop as they meet up far too late in the film. What also let's this film down is a lame script, a slow plot and some poor slow motion over the top death scenes which are far too unnecessary for this film. A far cry from Carrie which dealt with the subject of Psychic ability far better than this load of tripe.  "},{"Title":"A psychic mind is a terrible thing to waste.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brian De Palma directs John Farris' novel like a wizard at a witches convention. Thrills, intrigue and paranormal with vivid violence. Kirk Douglas goes in search for his kidnapped son(Andrew Stevens), who has been snatched by the head of an institute for psychic research. The ruthless boss(John Cassavetes)and his administrative assistant(Charles Durning)are also cultivating the psychic powers of a young girl(Amy Irving). Both young people with their extraordinary mind power can be sold to the highest bidding terrorist organization. My favorite two scenes happen to be two of the most violent scenes in the movie. The first is where the alluring Fiona Lewis playing Dr. Charles is elevated into the air by Stevens and is set to spinning until she bleeds to death. The second scene that gets to me is in the final moments when Cassavetes gets his just desert. Douglas is showing his age in this role as the business tycoon, who himself was left for dead. He still proves to pack a punch and hold his own as the lead. Carrie Snodgrass is ho-hum in her role as Douglas' lover and friend of Irving. Her character's demise is also quite violent. Miss Irving is perfection in her young and charming way. Look for Gordon Jump(of WKRP fame)in a small role and yes that is Dennis Franz(of NYPD Blue) early on as the young cop with the brand new car.Sometimes a little bit slow, but this is your part in earning the big bangs for your bucks. John Williams provides a very haunting score that keeps this thriller thrilling. "},{"Title":"Amazing, Exhilarating, thoroughly entertaining - Xmen Redux","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" its weird I never heard about this movie until a few weeks ago when it was introduced as viewers choice here on IMDb. I agree with a poster's POV. This movie is as good as Carrie - though different in many ways. This movie could even be a prequel of sorts to X-men 1st class where the powers of the key protagonists rival that of Jean Gray/Phoenix and Prof X. I expected more from the ending though. It seems to end very abruptly. I guess its the director's way of saying - She's in control now - 'nuff said! this movie has many parallels with the Xmen franchise. Either the author of the book the movie's based on was inspired by Stan Lee's xmen or vice versa.If you haven't guessed what the movie's about, let me make it more clear - its about a girl who's struggling to come to terms with her superior psychic/telepathic and telekinetic abilities and how these abilities terrify her - when she unconsciously causes grievous harm to people by simply touching them - similar to the effect Rogue (Xmen) has - but in a different way. Her abilities are quickly discovered by a secret government agency that 'doesn't exist' - Men In Black - if you will. But there's nothing funny about them. They are down right sinister - who want to manipulate her brain and fashion her into a weapon (think Logan/Wolverine - Xmen).One of the movie downers is that the son doesn't recognize the father when the father finally (literally against all odds) finds him and meets him face to face. The father realizes that the young man in front of him is a completely different being from the one he parted ways with earlier (beginning of movie - beach scene) and he is forced to 'not' save him at the very end. The decision crushes him to the point where he flings himself to his death as well...The movie could very well be used/leveraged by the Xfiles franchise. I would love to see a sequel or prequel to this movie. Brian de palma rocks!! The ending is very similar to how scarface ends - no surprise there - same director - same era. ) Absolutely engaging from the get go - even though this movie is several decades old. Goes to show - that strong stories, well developed characters, compelling story arcs are timeless! "},{"Title":"People with special powers","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are two people that possess psychic powers.One is Gillian Bellaver and the other is Robin Sandza.Robin gets kidnapped and his father Peter goes looking for him.But all those experiments done by a certain Childress have made Robin a completely different man.The Fury (1978) is a Brian De Palma film.It's based on the novel by John Farris.Kirk Douglas gives an outstanding performance as Peter Sandza.John Cassavetes is terrific as the villain Ben Childress.Carrie Snodgress is amazing as Peter's girlfriend Hester.Charles Durning does excellent work as Dr. Jim McKeever.Amy Irving is superb as Gillian Bellaver.Andrew Stevens is great as Robin Sandza.Dennis Franz gives his debut playing Bob Eggleston.Also Daryl Hannah (Pam), Laura Innes (Jody) and James Belushi (Beach Bum) give their debuts in this movie.I bought the film a little while back and liked it a lot.You take a scene where Gillian escapes from the clinic.It's a masterful scene, and Peter is there with his gun.This movie is a very good example of the horror genre. "},{"Title":"Very effective de Palma film (despite a few bumps in the road)","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think the Fury may be Brian de Palma's most frightening motion picture. Of all his thrillers, this one could easily be considered the most ambitious. Ironically though, it is ambition wherein the biggest problem lies. This grizzly science-fiction thriller carries the burden of a heavy story; one that is convoluted, and questionable. there are too many characters and the ending feels overlong. To put it more charitably, The Fury certainly demands a viewer's attention. Though very much low-brow, it is not a film for the weak of mind, and is in no way a film for the squeamish. De Palma's greatest quality is his knowledge of how to work with and manipulate imagery. The camera work, editing, and art direction altogether turn the Fury into an opera of a horror film. It is bold and assertive and very visceral. If the story doesn't penetrate your mind, the picture certainly will. Its suspense factor is so-so, but it knows how and when to make the viewer jump.Kirk Douglas is an exceptional actor, but not in the Fury. He does a reasonable job of balancing quirkiness with aggression, however, it still feels like a b-movie performance. Amy Irving takes that a step further. Her performance is pure b-movie, equipped with stiff, uptight delivery. Most of her acting here is done through her face. It's a very nice face, but it is often subject to miss direction. As good as he is with the camera, De Palma is not so good with actors. If I didn't know better, I would say his instructions to Irving involved little more than playing the 'make a face' game (look scared, look shy, look brain dead)Gore is not usually scary, but The Fury comes close to proving otherwise. There is a fair amount of blood in the picture, and it gets spilled in very particular ways, (not like what happens when people lose limbs, except for one moment) I won't describe the details because that would spoil a bit too much.I enjoyed the movie. It blends horror, thriller, and science fiction together quite effectively. Ignoring the fact that the screenplay could use a bit of a rewrite, The Fury, strikes me as one of De Palma's best motion pictures. "},{"Title":"Terrific supernatural thriller with a regrettable postscript","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Peter Sandza (Kirk Douglas) is a secret government agent whose son (Andrew Stevens) has extraordinary psychic gifts, which make the young man the target of a kidnapping plot hatched by Peter's duplicitous colleague, Ben Childress (John Cassavetes). Peter spends eleven months in a desperate search for his son, while cleverly evading Childress, who wants him dead. In that time, Childress and team have done their best to harness the psychic teenager's powers; but giving him luxuries, and even an elegant doctor (Fiona Lewis) as a mistress, have only turned him into a mercurial egomaniac with a violent temper. Meanwhile, another teenager with psychic gifts (Amy Irving) takes part in a two-week study at a psi research center, where she comes to the attention Peter's lover (Carrie Snodgress), who also acts as his mole. Childress learns of this young woman, too, and is eager to take control of a second extraordinary talent.Brian De Palma, working with a script adapted by John Farris from his own novel, directs a terrific supernatural thriller. Kirk Douglas, in a typically urgent and larger-than-life performance, helps to pull us into the story and lead us to care about the outcome. De Palma's vivid techniques draw us in further, for once, rather than call attention to themselves, until a slightly regrettable slow-motion sequence (one of his signature tricks with an uneven success rate) and a very regrettable gross-out postscript, which is so silly and cynical that it almost seems to mock us for having given a damn about the characters. "},{"Title":"The Fury","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Okay, let me get this out of the way before I get started with my little user comment. The exploding body is great. Really a nifty special effect, held to epic scale, often in slow motion, shown from a variety of angles. I'm guessing De Palma just couldn't wait to release it on his audience. I ate it up. I was a bit indifferent towards the story-line feeling a little development more towards Cassavetes and his objectives would've been nice. I guess he's that governmental shadowy figure who, like those who are working on a chemical agent that accidentally releases the zombie plague, works to produce the perfect weapon for his country to use against our potential enemies/threats, creating an unstable monster in the process.John Cassavetes is Childress, someone who worked really close with Peter Sandza(Kirk Douglas), a spy whose son, Robin(Andrew Stevens), has telepathic abilities untapped. Peter plans to enroll his son in a Chicago Institute for those with his type of mental gifts/powers. But, Peter is betrayed by Childress, who wants him out of the way so that he can use Robin as a weapon, instead inflicting serious psychological damage after showing the boy a recording of his father's supposed death in a boat explosion caused by Muslim terrorists(..these terrorists were actually on Childress' payroll). What was once a bright, glowing boy with a future, evolves into a young man with homicidal tendencies, whose powers are so strong that lights blink and bulbs pop as he walks past. A carnival ride, featuring innocent Arabs(..who perhaps symbolize those who he thought murdered his pops)in one of the seats, is attacked when Robin concentrates his powers towards it..his main objective, causing those Arabs harm, is met as their seat flies off the ride into a café window. This show-stopping scene doesn't quite match the body explosion, but is quite a harrowing moment in the film just showing us that he is losing control, and without proper guidance, the humanity he once possessed is disappearing. There's a second telepath, a pretty teen girl, Gillian(Amy Irving)who causes those she touches to bleed. Gillian attends the institute of Dr. Jim McKeever(Charles Durning)which is secretly screened and funded by Childress for potential weapons like Robin. Gillian discovers through the touch of McKeever's hand that Robin once attended the institute as well, going through a window. Childress desires Gillian, and so does Peter, who believes she can lead him to his son. Peter has a young lover, Hester(Carrie Snodgress, excellent as always, whose fate brings sympathy because she has such a lovely charm)as a contact who delivers information when she receives it because she's on the inside. Through her assistance will Peter attempt to receive help from Gillian, who has formed a type of telepathic link with Robin. Meanwhile, Robin has become entranced with an employee of Childress', Susan(Fiona Lewis)a doctor who has been by his side during the many different tests that have exhausted this young man. A developing jealousy and bubbling rage thrive within the unstable environment of Robin's mind and emotions, a stick of dynamite on the verge of igniting. Peter must get to him before the son he once knew is lost forever.I think the film's main flaw is that Robin's story is given little back-story with the attentions turned to Amy Irving's Gillian. The film seems to show at the beginning that this will be about Robin's mistreatment and the father trying to rescue him. But, it gears more towards Peter's infiltrating the institute and how Gillian's powers can cause more harm than good. The grasp of a doctor's hand(Carol Eve Rossen's Dr. Ellen Lindstrom, McKeever's trusty aid)causes blood draining from all the facial orifices(..and even fingernails!). When she accidentally grabs McKeever's hand, the scar caused by broken window glass(..the window Robin fell through)bleeds. Her story takes center stage, and Robin's is only subtly hinted at(..she sees through his eyes the types of mistreatment causing such instability). De Palma's film also shows Peter's constantly avoiding capture and death at the hands of Childress' men. It's here that we see his abilities as a spy at causing misdirection and confusion towards those trying to stop him from his main objective. While the film is about telepathic power and what can derive from this when misused, it has the Hitchcockian influences such as the fluid, dynamic & flashy camera-work and the grandeur of John Williams' score which properly builds it up to great heights(..there's a tempo Williams uses that gives the fantasy elements of the story a surreal power)..I felt De Palma desperately attempts to cover the flaws through his visual skills and gore. I had fun with this film, though I wouldn't consider it one of his best films. I wanted more about Robin, and this film doesn't quite provide us with enough regarding his change from innocent youth to corrupted mental madman. "},{"Title":"An Unfocused Brain De Palma","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Back in my early teens, I somehow passed on this movie. Anyway, I just finished viewing it on DVD and I was somehow disappointed. I remember the poster artwork of the film and it looked threatening and ominous and remember having heard people at the time raving about it. I can honestly say that this film hasn't aged as well as other films of the period or even other De Palma's films. The premise of the movie is very interesting Teens being taken away by a secret government agency to explore their telepathic abilities. The Fury starts on a high note, with a shoot-out scene. Kirk Douglas character is betrayed by his old pal from the agency, portrayed by John Cassavettes, who also takes his telepathic son away. The story basically deals with Douglas trying to get his son back and in the way comes Amy Irving's character. She's also a telepathic teen that somehow has visions of Douglas' son. The 2 characters inevitably join in the search of the kidnapped teen. This is more or less how the story goes, but Brian De Palma fills the rest of it with boring chase scenes, boring dialog and all done in a very slow paced fashion. This is not an effects laden or gore filled movie, it's more like a suspense/drama, but even at that it fails. The Fury sort of picks up at the end. I won't mention any spoilers, but I never figured out why Kirk Douglas' character and his son's character had the fate they had in the end. The final scene is the real deal in this movie (it's a Rick Baker special effect, so you know you'll get a treat!), but even that scene looks forced. David Cronenberg's Scanners was more successful in bringing the telepathic phenomena to the screen, in a more interesting and dynamic way. The Fury is not a bad film, it just needed a better screenplay and more focus.  "}{"Title":"Carrie's little sister","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As said before here, this could be sequel/prequel to Carrie. I personally think that this is a little sister which has same genes but it grows to quite a different direction.Same telekinetic issue here too, but otherwise this is far from Carrie. And what a hotchpotch it is! You find comedy, drama, action, thriller & even some kind of horror in it, but de Palma can even create quite entertaining film from this mix-up (with useful help from sophisticated actors).Altogether I think this is just a passable routine work from a horror genius.My rate 6/10 "},{"Title":"Brian De Palma revisits another Carrie","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's 1977 Mid East. Ben Childress (John Cassavetes) pretends to be sending Peter Sandza (Kirk Douglas) and his son Robin (Andrew Stevens) to Chicago. Instead he sets up an attack. Peter barely escapes but Robin wrongly assumes that his father was killed by Arab terrorists. Childress is gathering children with psychic abilities to train as US secret agents. In 1978, Chicago teen Gillian Bellaver (Amy Irving) sharpens her mental abilities in the Paragon Institute headed by Dr. McKeever (Charles Durning). Peter is tracking Gillian as a possible way to get his son back with the help of his naive girlfriend Hester (Carrie Snodgress) who works at the institute.The movie follows two tracks. Amy Irving's track reminds me of Carrie for more than one reason. Kirk Douglas' side feels like a spy action thriller. The back and forth between the two sides diminishes some of the tension. Director Brian De Palma keeps the movie going at a good clip but it doesn't necessarily all work. "},{"Title":"Carrie  As A Conspiracy Thriller.","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Kirk Douglas plays former CIA agent Peter Sandza, who is determined to find his son Robin(played by Andrew Stevens) who has been kidnapped by a secret government organization called Childress, (led by John Cassavetes) who want him,(and others) who have powerful psychic abilities to be used in times of war. Peter enlists the help of a Childress student named Gillian(Amy Irving) to rescue Robin, and defeat the evil Childress.Brian De Palma film is high on melodrama and violence but short on credibility, with a plot that seems like an extension of Carrie(which also starred Amy Irving) only isn't as good. Still, it does a showstopper of an ending...if you can stomach it! "},{"Title":"Mediocre De Palma But As Always Visually Interesting","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" An uneven Movie from an uneven, but always interesting, Director. In his follow up to the Mega-Hit Carrie (1976) the flamboyant De Palma exercises quite a bit but ends up with some unwelcome fat. Not without some charm and as usual it is Stylish Entertainment with some surprisingly dull Scenes.It is the Paranormal explanations that are the weak part of the Script that has an inauthentic feel and elementary understanding. Duke University Flashcards are what passes and is hardly a Paragon of PSI Studies. But here it is and this cursory Introduction is what we have so lets get on with it.There is some less than Stellar Acting, but the Lead Adult Pros do keep things going, but it is the youngsters who seem uncomfortable and unable to pull the thing off. Visually it is a slick looking Movie with the Director's Touch, but the Soundtrack is wildly unfitting at times. This is a better than Average Seventies Horror/Thriller but not up to its Creators best, but better than most attempts at Eccentric Subjects, especially in the 1970's when things often looked drab and flat. "},{"Title":"Lot's of talent but not the best film","Date":"4 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Fury isn't a bad film but it isn't great either. It's a bit muddled in the beginning and hard to really understand what the hell is going on. The book is rather focused and precise and much easier to understand and follow. This feels like the writer and director got a bit sidetracked somehow.The film definitely has flavors of the 70's with it's melodramatic, somber acting and overdone set design. We see character actors indicative of that era and some of it feels very dated. There aren't a lot of characters to like here. The boy Robin and the girl played by Amy Irving are interesting and we really want to know more about them and what their abilities are. They aren't given much of a chance to reflect and say how they feel about their telekinetic talents. We see what they can do, why didn't they use their rage to change things earlier on?Some of the scenes get lost and become a bit silly in comparison to the melodrama in other scenes. I was shaking my head when Kirk Douglas was in the car with the policemen. As I say, it isn't a bad film but there are certain elements that can become frustrating. What worked back then just doesn't work that well today for this type of film. "},{"Title":"Weak story and weak execution of a weak horror story","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a 4 or maybe a 5 as compared with horror stories or movies in general.It shows that even with good actors and an experienced director, movies can still fail to gel. The problem here, in my opinion, is a badly-crafted story and a shallow story, which was combined with a directorial style that couldn't save it and may have made it worse by prolonging the agony.A big problem in the story is the failure to anchor the extraordinary powers in some sort of plausible back story that would give them depth and signal how they could go wrong. The attempt that is made in a scene showing Carrie Snodgrass running a train and suggesting that everyone has these latent powers only weakens the scenario. Something else has evidently happened that is producing young adults with telekinetic powers. It should have been made part of the fabric of the story. And, similarly, if such powers are susceptible to such bloody and violent use, that too should be motivated. Instead, the story becomes a weak one of a father searching for his son and a bewildered young girl, with a diversion into a love affair between Kirk Douglas and Carrie.John Cassavetes is really wonderful in conveying menace and deviousness but he seems to be wasted. The set up kidnapping and supposed death of Kirk is too complicated and out of tune with the central part of the story, which is not about terrorists, real or concocted.That's the problem with the whole scenario. It lacks continuity. The parts are out of tune with one another. The suspense is really absent. At the end, the violence is a belated attempt to save the movie from its own lack of thematic material.I do think that the set must have been uncomfortable because the actors seem rather distant from their parts. Something didn't click. Maybe they didn't grasp the motivation of the story either because it wasn't there. "},{"Title":"Rather silly supernatural horror/thriller from Brian De Palma","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Peter Sandza (Kirk Douglas) is happily holidaying with his son Robin (Andrew Stevens), when he is betrayed by his lifelong friend Ben Childress (John Cassavetes). He is attacked by missionaries with machine guns, only to kill a few himself before apparently being blown up. Ben escapes with Robin, a boy Ben believes to have a powerful telekinetic and psychic ability. As Peter begins his frantic search, fellow psychic Gillian (Amy Irving) is admitted to the Paragon Clinic under the supervision of Dr. McKeever (Charles Durning), who may be linked with Robin's disappearance. As Gillian's power becomes stronger, she feels a connection with Robin, just as Peter comes close to discovering the whereabouts of his son.Brian De Palma's career is somewhat of a mixed bag. Highly influence by Hitchcock, his films are packed with homages and winks to a wide range of classic movies. He was prolific with his quality output in the 70's and 80's (Blow Out, Carrie, Scarface, Dressed To Kill), but his late 80's through to the present have been littered with the dodgy and the dire (Casualties Of War, Mission To Mars, The Bonfire Of The Vanities, The Black Dahlia), albeit with a few decent films (Carlito's Way, The Untouchables, Mission Impossible). 1978's The Fury, made just two years after the similarly-themed Carrie, lurks somewhere in between his very best and his worst.Where Carrie announced the arrival of a potentially brilliant horror/thriller director, with its high tension, gore-drenched climax, and that jump ending that bred a thousand horror copycats, The Fury tackles the same supernatural themes, but just comes off as a bit silly. One half a badly staged action film, with an old Kirk Douglas outwitting a mass of secret agents, and one half a nicely plotted, but rather unspectacular supernatural horror. Although there are few glimpses, it certainly lacks De Palma's knowing cinematic style, best displayed in balls-out Hitchcock homage Dressed To Kill.Although the film is sporadically entertaining, it's about twenty minutes too long, and seems to slow down to a snail's pace in the middle. It takes too long developing a story which is pretty straightforward, and characters that aren't particularly interesting. However when the climax comes, it's a lot of fun, and is just mad enough to save the film. I don't recall ever seeing a man exploding repeatedly from so many angles before, which is always a bonus. It literally happens about fifteen times. For a more defining telekinetic/exploding bodies film, seek out Scanners.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Great Brian DePalma Film","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Being a great fan of horror films and mysteries, I knew this Brian DePalma film was going to be outstanding. Kirk Douglas, (Peter Sandza) and John Cassavetes, (Ben Childress) were good buddies in the past, however, Ben Childressd changed and decided to kidnap the son of Peter Sandza. Ben teaches Peter's son dangerous mental methods like psychic abilities that can make people elevate and turn completely around in circles while almost touching the ceilings of a room. The system of telekinesis is utilized by Ben Childress who enjoys having evil control over people and causing all kinds of horrible things. John Cassavetes gave a great supporting role and Kirk Douglas put plenty of his energy into this horror story, which greatly surprised me. "},{"Title":"very well-done, but takes itself far too seriously","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Fury is yet another early-era psycho-thriller where the focus is dueling telepaths; in retrospect, much of it will be very familiar to those who have been weaned on David Cronenberg's Scanners and The Dead Zone. Director Brian De Palma, more renowned for his Hitchcock homages than anything else, makes a successful departure from the norm, giving equal attention to story and setpieces that are still stunning to this day (including an indoor ferris-wheel derailment, a woman levitated and spun around by a man with telekinetic powers, and a man blown to kingdom come by psychic energy). But in spite of a tightly-woven plot and great performances from an experienced cast (including Kirk Douglas, John Cassavetes, and Charles Durning), the film never gels as well as I thought it would. While very technically proficient and well-acted (the hallmark of most De Palma productions), the story becomes too convoluted for its own good, and the film generally takes itself too seriously to be considered 'fun.' That said, The Fury is a fine shocker on its own terms (it all depends on how willing you are to accept those terms). "},{"Title":"An exercise in pointless plotting but extraordinary set pieces.","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After the cheap Omen-clone Holocaust 2000, Kirk Douglas refused to give up on the horror genre, and his subsequent film was this flashy, technically remarkable Brian De Palma shocker. The Fury is based on a decent John Farris novel, and has a superb cast and stirring music by master composer John Williams. It rises to some quite fantastic set pieces, of which I will say more later. It is also plotted with a distinct lack of care and attention. In effect, the film has great moments, but between the high spots it comes across as rather a mish-mash.Government agent Peter Sandza (Kirk Douglas) is vacationing in Israel with his son Robin (Andrew Stevens) when some gun-toting terrorists show up. In the chaos that follows, Robin is spirited away by the attackers. Soon afterwards, Peter learns that the terrorist attack was a clever ruse and that all along it was a deliberate plan to kidnap Robin, hatched by the treacherous Childress (John Cassavetes) - who Peter had mistakenly thought to be his friend. It seems that Robin has frightening telekenetic/psychic powers which Childress intends to use as a new national security weapon. Peter tracks down another person with similar powers, Chicago student Gillian Bellaver (Amy Irving), and enlists her help in getting back his son.As I said, there are awesome moments along the way. The Israeli-set opening gets things off to a great start; Peter makes a spectacular escape from his enemies in Chicago; and the film's final scene has become justly famous for sheer eye-popping bravura (I won't spoil it by going into detail.... let's just say that Cassavetes dies one of the most extraordinary deaths ever committed to celluloid). However, a clutch of awesome moments do not necessarily equate to an awesome whole. The Fury pauses rather too frequently for talky moments, though no amount of talk could make a bubble-gum plot like this convincing. De Palma might just as well have given up on making this believable (for it is a wholly impossible task) and just gone for escapism. Besides that, few of the actors seem in their best form - Douglas seems indifferent; Fiona Lewis chews the scenery; Cassavetes teeters on the brink of pantomime-style villainy; and Stevens is handsome yet vacant as in all his other movies. The Fury should be seen for its best moments - and believe me, they are truly, truly great moments - but, because the whole film is less than the sum of its parts, it still fails to rank as one of De Palma's finest.  "}{"Title":"Less than the sum of its parts.","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Fury contains a number of excellent scenes and sequences -- Kirk Douglas evading capture in Chicago, the sequence at the amusement park -- but put the parts together and the movie is just too muddled.Keep eyes open for NYPD Blue's Dennis Franz. "},{"Title":"this is one of the greatest movies ever.","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of DePalma's bright shining moments. It's got the suspense and thrills of 'Dressed to Kill' and the telekinesis of Carrie' - it's like 2 for the price of one! Plus there's grisly Kirk Douglas saying lines like I killed it! With a Machine Gun! (in reference to the arm of wonderful wonderful John Cassavettes).this movie rocks. enjoy some before-they-were-famous cameos from Daryl Hannah and Laura Innes, as well as DePalma-staple, Dennis Franz.  "},{"Title":"After such a strong opening it wound up boring me silly, and I stopped at 45 minutes in","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" (Plot) An agent working for the government will stop at nothing to rescue his son, when an evil official kidnaps him to harness his lethal psychic abilities.This is one of DePalma's early duds. It certainly didn't commence things that way, though. You can't go wrong with Kirk Douglas doing his thing. I was enjoying the interaction between him & his son. It had a really exciting shootout, and I thought I was in for a memorable ride. It's all downhill from there. The pacing is absolutely horrible&#x85; I made the mistake of watching this one late at night, and found myself almost dozing off from it. I also didn't like the comedy that I saw. Dennis Franz always plays a great buffoon, but he felt so out of place. I like Kirk Douglas, and Amy Irving. I usually like movies about telekinesis, but this one is too boring for its own good. Final Thoughts This has a mixed reputation and for good reason. I personally can't see the trashy appeal. It's extremely boring, and I just couldn't get through it. I'm not gonna recommend it3/10 "},{"Title":"Not so furious...","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Political warfare amongst various agencies trying to get hold of psychic kids is a good idea. Unfortunately it's undone by director Brian De Palma's inability to present a cohesive story. This film is a mess. Spy Kirk Douglas tries to protect son Andrew Stevens from creepy John Cassavetes. Meanwhile Carrie Snodgrass (Douglas's girlfriend) comes into contact with ANOTHER psychic kid (Amy Irving). The story lines collide slightly but nothing is ever really clear. It's an ambitious undertaking that doesn't gel. On the plus side, there is a great set piece involving the destruction of a carnival ride and both Stevens & Irving are quite good. There's a pretty exciting John Williams score and the Chicago setting is well utilized by De Palma & cinematographer Richard Kline. Not based on a Stephen King novel although it does feel like that. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad and useless","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thought this movie was pretty bad and useless. It was one meaningless scene after the other, with little relevance to any overall plot or direction. A search and a chase in an overlong movie. I did like the scenes with Kirk Douglas, but they didn't seem to use him a lot, surprising since he got top billing. Most of the horror was tossing around red water. I think blood is more thick and slower to drip. As one gets used to seeing red water splashed in scene after scene, it looses whatever shock value it may have had. The final scene was pretty silly, with the girl making ridiculous body and facial expressions, and the obvious use of a manikin. As others have noted, if these teens had so much power, why did any of it have to happen? Some bad movies make good background when one is doing something else. This one doesn't even come up to that standard. "},{"Title":"I know the feeling","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The OMEN, CARRIE, DAMIEN, CARRIE, LAURA MARS, and even HIGH ANXIETY... wasn't he late 70s full of ghastly eye-rolling trubbbble! BURNT OFFERINGS and even AUDREY ROSE.... some paranormal some psychic most pukey (but DAMIEN OMEN 2 was terrific, and ANXIETY genuinely hilarious) .......and then the worst this one, THE FURY. It is a weak link in an ordinary chain of thrillers. I really disliked it 30 years ago and groaned even more again tonight. As the film progressed, with awful back projected car chases and hammy faux Hermann/Hitchcock music score, implausible plot twists (personal phone calls to pubic railway platforms etc) and basically disgusting bleeding and body part effects THE FURY was considered a major misfire in 1978. After his fabulous PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE and horrible CARRIE and spew worthy BODY DOUBLE and the hilariously awful but compelling SCARFACE in the 80s, I basically gave up on De Palma and I actually believe most audiences did too. I ran cinemas at the time and the audiences let us know their irritation at his bad films well known. Andrew Stevens was a surprise in the casting and effective very early on as the male version of Amy Irving but sadly absent for most of the rest of the film. Cassavetes. like Douglas must have wanted some cash to buy a holiday house and accepted the silly parts offered here. THE FURY should be remade as an orgasm comedy even with the same script, then it would be more plausible and enjoyable. That's its best and only possibility for a new century audience. "},{"Title":"This movie both sucks and blows","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of movie where the villain wears black suits, a black sling and a black leather glove on ONE HAND.  The fact that it features the wooden Amy Irving as the female lead should be enough to scare anyone, but if you're still not convinced that this is one to avoid be warned  there is an obnoxious female-bonding scene between Irving and Carrie Snodgress where they MAKE ICE CREAM SUNDAES.  "},{"Title":"Scanners","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma is an infuriating director. A man who makes visually interesting films that also have a flawed narrative. Some thing just never fully click in a Brian De Palma film despite his attentive knowledge of all things Hitchcock.When it does go right he can deliver big popcorn films and ironically his best regarded film critically and commercially have been big screen adaptations of television shows. The Untouchables and Mission Impossible.The Fury follows up Carrie as it deals with people who have telekinesis powers.Kirk Douglas who even though was in his 60s looks in great shape who plays a shadowy government agent whose psychic son, Robin (Andrew Stevens) is kidnapped in a staged incident in the Middle East.John Cassavetes who is Douglas's fried and colleague is behind it all. He is trying to get people with psychic powers together to use them as weapons.Amy Irving is Gillian, a young woman with similar psychic abilities as Douglas's son. Both Douglas and Cassavetes want to control her. Douglas wants her to use her powers to find her son.The film starts of intriguing enough and we see Irving coming to terms with her powers and using her abilities to unravel people with ulterior motives such as Charles Durning playing a doctor in an institute.Douglas is good as the dogged father who has been betrayed by his own agency and there is some nice comic scenes with two cops whose car he kidnaps.The film is just too damn long and Andrew Stevens is not good enough as Robin. When he reappears in the film he is just a damn brat and what is it that he has wanting to destroy Arabs in that fair ride when in the beginning of the film we see him in the Middle East and reluctant to go back to America.De Palma uses several set pieces to keep the film going and we have his usual visual tricks that he has become known for including an explosive finale.Its mixed with uneven pacing, tone and stupid plotting. As an example we see Stevens levitating and then next Douglas is trying to save him from falling.A flawed horror-thriller with some uneven performances but still visually arresting. "},{"Title":"Liked this one a bit more than Carrie.","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" As you can see from my score that I did not really care for either movie a whole lot. This one was more of the thriller type movie while Carrie was more of a horror, usually I prefer the horror just not in this case. Nothing against Carrie, but the story just did not work for me or speak to me. Nothing wrong with the movie, just one of those that is not for everybody. The movies are quite different for the most part, with the main similarity being the fact both stories revolve around telekinetic teens. Just a bit more angst involved on the Carrie side while this one at times seems almost more like a spy movie than a horror movie. This is helped by the inclusion of Kirk Douglas' character who is tracking his son throughout the movie and definitely adds the spy feeling to the movie. He also is one of the main reasons I thought this one was better than Carrie. Amy Irving is also in this movie and that is probably another reason this one is so compared to Carrie. The movie revolves around some sort of government agency or something trying to experiment on a teen guy who has telekinetic abilities and a bit of flair as those two dudes inside that mall amusement park ride can attest to. However, for the most part the powers are kind of underused in favor of the intrigue and such. So when watching this movie you will see some good scenes that are entertaining and some tired and rather boring ones as well. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Thriller by Hitchcock, I mean De Palma.","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Kirk Douglas is enjoying a summer day at the spa with his young son, Andrew Stevens, when it is attacked by some Arab renegades and Stevens is kidnapped. The crime was engineered by the sinister and treacherous John Cassavetes. Douglas manages to kill some of the Arabs but Cassavetes takes off safely with Stevens.Why would anybody want to steal Stevens? Certainly not because he can act. No, because he has shown evidence of PKE and other psychic powers. Cassavetes takes him to the Paragon Institute in Chicago, run by Charles Durning, to shape up and enhance those powers. A lot of kids with similar hidden abilities are boarded here, including a succulent teen-aged Amy Irving, who splits screen time with Douglas.De Palma introduces Irving at the beach, strolling along and chatting with her girl friend. Both wear teeny swim suits and De Palma has the good taste to give us a lingering rear view of the two naiads.That long take is an original De Palma touch. The rest of the tactics are adapted from Alfred Hitchcock -- the hand slowly descending the banister rail, the spinning out-of-control merry-go-round, the imitation Bernard Hermann score. Not that it doesn't work.Another scene owes nothing to Hitchcock. Kirk Douglas is surprised in his crummy hotel room on the Chicago loop and escapes through the window in his skivvies, holding a gun. There is an exciting chase down fire escapes in public view, followed by an amusing interlude in the apartment of an elderly couple. The husband considers Douglas's gun-toting intrusion into his TV viewing as a nuisance. The wife treats him as a guest and serves him breakfast while Douglas is disguising himself. That chase is not from Hitchcock. It's from Milton Katselas' Report to the Commissioner that appeared a few years earlier.The psychic powers business owes nothing to Hitchcock either. It's from Stephen King, whose Carrie De Palma had turned into a big commercial hit a little earlier. Overall, it's pretty well done for what it purports to be -- not much more than a nicely joined-together thriller with psychic overtones. The ending suggests that the Paragon Institute has done its work all too well. John Cassavetes explodes with pride. "}{"Title":"And The Psychics Will Strike Down with Great Vengeance and Furious Anger!","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" History appears to be repeating itself quite fast in Hollywood. Barely two years after Carrie, Brian De Palma returned with yet another horror/thriller effort dealing with paranormal phenomena. But there were the previous film, based by Stephen King's acclaimed novel, revolved on just one girl and her telekinesis, this particular movie (inspired by John Farris' novel) revolves on at least two gifted teenagers and a whole bunch of their special powers, like telekinesis, but also extrasensory perception, telepathy, mind-reading, spontaneous bleedings and even freaking levitation. But it's even more interesting to see that, just like in Carrie as well by the way; Brian De Palma remains the utmost interested in the characters behind the psychic powers and adrenalin-rushing action instead of dull scientific speeches. Much rather than listening to paranormal mumbo-jumbo or elaborating on the experiments the teenagers are subjected to, our director prefers extendedly depicting spectacular escape attempts, people falling from great heights and the battle of a sole and old-fashioned macho hero against super-villainous government conspiracies. At several times, you even almost forget The Fury primarily handles about psychic abilities and it's frustrating because this stuff prevents De Palma from filming more exciting footage. Robin Sandza, the immeasurably gifted son of ex-government agent Peter, gets kidnapped in the Middle East after a spectacularly set up ambush by his once-loyal friend Ben Childress. Peter follows the trace all the way to Chicago, where his son is supposedly concealed somewhere. He fakes his own death to get Childress of his case, seduces a much younger nurse working in the local research institution and seeks contact with the one girl with psychic gifts that are equally powerful than those of his own son. Meanwhile, however, Robin's further developing strengths get out of control and his mental condition/social skills don't exactly improve, neither. As much as I wanted to like it, The Fury is a pretty preposterous and overly grotesque film with only a handful of substantially brilliant sequences, like the opening. The majority of the film, unfortunately, is a very incoherent mess with giant holes in the plot and unexplained details left and right. The grand finale (as in the reunion of father and son) is rather dumb and raises far more questions than answers. Purely talking in terms of stylishness and visual gimmicks, on the other hand, The Fury is definitely noteworthy, just like most of De Palma's other contemporary achievements. Once again our director satiates his film with tributes to Hitchcock, but he also adds a great amount of ingenious visual tricks himself. The absolute highlights to admire here are purely stylistic exercises, like an escape entirely shot in slow-motion or the pursuit of a nurse around the clinic exclusively shown on the safety-camera monitors. The cast is rather disappointing, with the exception John Cassavetes in the role of yet another totally unreliable crook. I've always been a big fan of Kirk Douglas, but he was undeniably a bit too old here to be jumping from rooftops and dating young girls. I would give The Fury a fairly harsh rating of 4 out of 10, but it's getting one whole point extra for the two or three minutes prior to the end credits. You'll understand and immediately agree when you witness it yourself. "},{"Title":"** 1/2 out of ****","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  De Palma's second film about psychic powers features a stellar cast including John Cassavetes and Kirk Douglas, and some spectacular sequences, but fails due to a silly and muddled plot.  A few scenes are particularly memorable, like the amusement park scene, but the entire middle section of the movie lags, setting up a rather unsatisfying finale.  Douglas is excellent as usual, and Cassavetes plays the best cold De Palma villain this side of John Lithgow.  Signs of a talented filmmaker are here, which De Palma would finally pull together a few years later to make Dressed to Kill and Blow Out, both of which are vastly superior movies.  Despite it's strengths, nothing really adds up to a satisfying film experience. "},{"Title":"Brian De Palma, you're a bl**dy genius!","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A true Classic, of 1970's Cinema, and some!That is the best way that I can begin to describe this, one of my all-time favorite Movies.Once again, I first saw this Movie on my Mum and Dad's old Phillips V2000, when it was first released onto the U.K's Home Cinema market (hired from a seedy old Video rental shop on the Woolworth road), and boy did it leave it's mark!In short, I LOVE THIS MOVIE!O.k. At times the story, does tend to plod along at an almost snail's pace. But this is really a small price to pay for the Film's wonderfully inspired set pieces. Which, when they come, seem to hit you with the force of a speeding freight-train! In fact, just writing this review makes the hairs on the back of my neck tingle! As I remember each, and everyone of them. With such crystal clear clarity, that you would think I had only just finished watching the Film, for the umpteenth time! Truth is, it has now been about a year, since I last saw it!Boy, doesn't time fly, when you're having fun!If you've seen this Film before, no doubt, you'll have your own views on it, and so don't need me to tell you how good/bad it is!However, if you haven't...Trust me, when I say that this Film is a Classic, of the HIGHEST magnitude, and that it would be an absolute crime for you not to see it! "},{"Title":"Flawed, but mildly watchable.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Here's an strange mix of tried and true '70s genres The government conspiracy movie meets the eerie not quite horror movie.  Watergate begat a slew of movies about the government agency you've never heard of, so secret and so sinister, no one can even know it exists--Three Days of the Condor, Domino Principle, Parallax View, and Marathon Man are pretty indicative.  Then there was the horror movies spawned by The Exorcist--from the good like Carrie, to the awful like Behind the Door. The Fury kind of melds these two genres, not too well, and with some serious flaws.  The basic plot revolves around a couple of kids each with some form of mental power (telekinesis, psychic, ESP), and the secret government agency who wants them in order to carry out some sinister plan.  Father of one of them, Kirk Douglas is determined to rescue his son from their grip. Well, Kirk Douglas doesn't really take the role too seriously, and he's a bit too old to be doing all the gymnastics his part requires, though he's in excellent shape.  John Cassavetes is suitably evil as the head of the agency, though they seem to be hopelessly incompetent to be too imposing.  Amy Irving is actually pretty good as the other mentally powered kid.  Andrew Stevens doesn't have a lot to do, and that's likely a good thing; Charles Durning is around, and he's a primo character actor, so no problem there. The real difficulties lie in the rather lame script--it's essentially two stories, the one about the kids, and then the one about Kirk Douglas being chased by Cassavetes.  Neither one is too compelling, and when they finally converge, well, it's kind of ho-hum.  This was considered a bit gory for a mainstream movie at the time, though it's pretty tame by today's standards, or the lack of them.  Ultimately it's not that violent, and tries to tell an interesting story--and for that reason reasonably watchable.  If you catch it late night on cable, you could do a lot worse, and since it's Brian DePalma, though a bit earlier in his career, there's are a few moments of suspense.  He'll go on to do much better stuff though.   "},{"Title":"Scene Stealer","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The supporting role by WKRP lead and Maytag repairman Gordon Jump cannot be unrecognized. His comic timing, so woefully unappreciated, was evident in his role as the victim of bad timing. Entertaining flick, but cheesy in the way most '70's films are. "},{"Title":"Decent horror/thriller from De Palma.","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Fury starts in the 'Mid East 1977' where the head of a secret shadowy Government agency named Ben Childress (John Cassavetes) stages a fake terrorist attack so he can kidnap a teenage boy with powerful psychic abilities named Robin Sandza (Andrew Stevens) & leave his Father Peter (Kirk Douglas) dead. Half the plan works & Robin is whisked away but Peter manages to escape, he vows to find Childress & his son. Cut to 'Chicago 1978' & Dr. Jim McKeever (Charles Durning) is running the Paragon Institute for Childress, an institute that studies psychic abilities & tries to uncover people with these powers. Teenage girl Gillian Bellaver (Amy Irving) has been developing such powers & her Mother (Joyce Easton) agrees for her to spend some time in the institute in an attempt to help her. Meanwhile Peter is in Chicago & hot on the trail of Childress who becomes aware of Gillian & her powers which match Robins, Peter also knows about Gillian & the fact that she can help lead him to his son Robin. However Gillian & Robin start to suffer as they're powers grow stronger, it becomes almost impossible to control them...Directed by Brian De Palma I thought The Fury was a decent watch but nothing that special. The script by John Farris based on his own 1976 novel of the same name, which I have not read so I cannot compare the two although it's said that the film is considerably condensed, plays more like a thriller than horror for the first half, it sets up it's secret Government agency, the bad guy, the good guy, it has a few chases & even a bit of comedy relief in the shape of two bumbling cops & a new car. Then the film switches to more horror orientated territory with visions to sinister past events & psychic powers being used for evil & the two story elements come together at the end as Peter finds his son & Childress in a final confrontation type cliché. I thought the film dragged a little in places, too many elements just came & went too quickly & it ignores various aspects of it's story for long periods before going back to them which gave me the impression that it was was very inconsistent & at times a bit incoherent & confusing. It's never made clear as to why Childress is so interested in people with psychic abilities or what Government agency he works for. The story is complex, it's fairly engaging & gripping but at the same time it's rather dull & drawn out, I liked it for sure but I don't think I'd be in any hurry to watch it again.Director De Palma does a good job as you would expect from an accomplished director such as he. The Fury reminds heavily of Carrie (1976) with it's troubled teenage psychics which, by co-incidence or not, was the film De Palma made directly before The Fury. There is one sequence that inspired a few unintentional laughs though, the bit where Gillian breaks out of the Paragon Institute is played out in slow motion without any sound effects only some really awful & inappropriate music, it feels like it goes on forever. There's not much gore except for a cool bit at the end that looks like it belongs in David Cronenberg's Scanners (1981) when someone explodes all over the place, it's replayed several times in slow motion & from various different camera angles as well.With a supposed budget of about $5,500,000 The Fury is a very well made film & certainly has that Hollywood polish about it. One area where the film suffers from is that it has dated badly, the cars, the interiors, all the sharp suits & the latest 70's fashions tell it's own story. The acting was OK, I didn't think Irving was that good as Gillian but Douglas manages to bring a certain likability to his role.The Fury is a good watch, it's a bit long & a bit inconsistent but it entertains & tries to tell a thoughtful story. Definitely worth a watch if you have a couple of hours to spare. "},{"Title":"Past it's Prime","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" When this movie was made, it was scary and innovative, but the movie is dated. This may be because I've gotten spoiled by the modern movie technology out there, but I don't think it stands up well to the test of time. The acting was also kind of hit or miss.The cinematography was passable, at best, and the script was over the top in places and too low key in others. Another fault in this movie is the melodramatic music which hinders the movie, instead of moving it forward.This is one of the movies I would love to see remade, because I think the basic plot is great and with a little help on the script and better special effects, this would be a great movie! "},{"Title":"Awful.","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Watch out for spoilers.I'm not a big fan of De Palma. The Untouchables is a truly great movie, but that is the one and only De Palma film that doesn't suck. The Fury, I must say, sucks. It sucks a lot.It starts off good. There is lots of action and suspense. There is also a great deal of humor - it's almost an suspense/comedy. It looks like its going to be an enjoyable movie. Inexplicably, however, it gets more and more serious as the time passes. Eventually, the film becomes downright grim. I cannot understand why The Fury, which starts as an upbeat thriller, ends as an extremely morbid, depressing, and grotesque exercise in bad film making. Did I mention that it is almost completely predictable?The very last scene, I will admit, is shocking, and probably the only reason to watch this piece of garbage. I guess what I'm saying is Keep the fast-forward button handy, folks. "},{"Title":"Great trash!","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ridiculous, over-the-top, but entertaining thriller about a renegade secret agent (Kirk Douglas) obsessively searching for his psychic son (Andrew Stevens), who has been kidnapped by an evil government agency that wants him as a weapon.  He locates another psychic teen (Amy Irving), who has a mental link to his son, and plans to use her to find him.  Action-packed, fast-paced and suspenseful, even if it doesn't make a whole lot of sense. John Cassavetes is great as the head villain, and the movie has one of cinema's most satisfying (and goriest) finales.   "},{"Title":"Well... I expected more!","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As the movie begins with an excellent shocking scene, we are carried in a world which we don't clearly understand. The main problem of this movie is that we never do! Certain parts, certain actions, behaviors are never explained! Kirk Douglas plays an ex-agent something who survived an attempt of murder. His son is then used to some experiment because of his supernatural powers. Douglas, with the help of a young girl who has the same powers, tries to find him. Even if we have clues, we never find out what tests really took place, what job did Douglas have beforehand, who the abductors exactly were, and so on. To sum it up, the basic idea is quite interesting but the scenario is way too weak and loose! "}{"Title":"Did I watch the same movies as others?","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I read Wayne Malin's review of this film and I have to agree with the particulars. There's far too much talent that went unused in this film. Robin was a twit who seemed like he was in a bad high-school play. Was this really a Brian DePalma film? Did I really hear John Williams write light string music to a dramatic chase? Why was Kirk Douglas' so rambling and confusing? Was he just collecting a paycheck? Just what was I, the viewer, supposed to get worked up about? Too much of this movie lacked cohesion. Perhaps I should ask how this got a score of 6.5 on IMDb. Maybe everyone else got a different film than this fiasco.I give this a 4 (not worse... as if I can correct for the unusually high global ranking for this film) because I've definitely seen worse movies. I suppose I could give a better ranking if it got the MST3K treatment, but that never happened. "},{"Title":"As dumb as De Palma's other thrillers, but more fun.","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ehm, where shall we start...? Let's just count the illogicalities, shall we... Just for fun; but not in chronological order - after all, the movie hasn't got much order so why should this review about it be any different. Illogicalities and dePalmanesque absurdities 1) Why does everyone keep touching Amy Irving when it should have been perfectly clear to everyone - except for complete morons - that she was dangerous to touch (conclusion the characters in this film are morons)? 2) Why does Douglas's son not use his telekinetic (or whatever) power to figure out that his father was a) framed by Cassavetes, and b) still alive; 3) does Cassavetes's secret (government - ?) organization really number one million agents who at all times survey every move of everyone in any way connected to Amy Irving? One billion? The American President doesn't have that many agents looking after him; 4) Where's the explanation of how Douglas's son managed to survive that ridiculous fall through the window? 5) Related to (4) how can anyone fall in such a manner through a window? 6) Towards the end of the film Douglas's son has proved that he could fly; only minutes after that he failed to fly when he needed it to prevent his fall from the building (not the absurd fall through the window covered in Illogicalities (4) & (5)); 7) Why the attempt to get rid of Douglas in the beginning? His son was supposed to leave him anyway as agreed, so why the assassination? - no explanation at all; 8) Why did they decide to get rid of Douglas in such a spectacular and noisy manner? Surely not just so they can show this footage later to his son, or? But I have to say that I went into this movie expecting another Sisters mess so that the illogicalities and dePalmanesque absurdities didn't take me by surprise. And while Sisters was utterly stupid and suffered from a severe case of coincidentalitis and moronism, The Fury was incomparably more entertaining because its absurdities weren't as irritating. Hence, one can enjoy the action (and the film in general) and not get too distracted by the plentiful amounts of nonsense.The first half-hour or so is quite entertaining and relatively absurd-free, and Douglas is a real plus here. There is a very funny scene when he comes into an apartment to borrow clothes and ends up being treated like a king by the hostess. Amy Irving also did the best she could with a role that wasn't easy (because it's a dePalma film). "},{"Title":"Dreadful piece of schlock","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Really dreadful piece of schlock. I can only imagine that the author of the book it was based on was disappointed (or was handsomely paid) for the rights.I can't complain about the acting, such as it is. It features a good cast but there's not much they can do with what they're given.I have never been impressed with Brian De Palma. I find his work highly overrated and over the top. What he does to poor poor Cassevetes in this is just awful.The worst part is the very end and in a way reveals the De Palma's worst instincts. The Amy Irving character basically makes him explode. This is gory enough. But it gives De Palma an opportunity to show the body exploding (and it being special effects circa 1978 its not anything realistic) from five or six angles. I mean you see the body explode over and over again as if the Amy Irving character used her blue eyed powers to explode and stitch together again and explode the body again and again. Just ridiculous stuff. If Mystery Science Theater was still around and lasted for another 15 years, I have no doubt they would've gotten around to screening The Fury.A waste of talent all around. "},{"Title":"Full of sound & fury, signifying...almost nothing","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I avoided this movie on its original release, because I was not a fan of the kind of horror schlock De Palma was peddling at the time. Now, watching it for the first time 30 years later, I'm surprised at how low-key the scares are, compared to the bloodbaths we have become callous to.The plot is a muddle, involving a conspiracy that sooner or later seems to involve just about every cast member we meet. We're never really clued in to why some uber-agency is latching on to psychic kids (a plot device used much more clearly and effectively in CHILDREN OF THE DAMNED). But along the way we're treated to film debuts by a fetching 18-year-old Daryl Hannah, and a fresh-faced Laura Innes (E.R.), not to mention Dennis Franz making his first appearance as a gum-chewing cop (a gimmick still working after 3 decades), and WKRP's Gordon Jump being tied up by Kirk Douglas.The blood-soaked scenes, levitations, and psychic vision rear-projections all look very dated now. The scenes of 70's Chicago were fun to watch (as a Windy City native), especially the bicentennial L trains and retired 6000-series Ravenswood trains. One local laugh Robin's girlfriend is told to take him out on the town, but they end up at Old Chicago, an amusement park that would have been a huge drive from the home where Robin was prisoner. Was that their idea of entertaining a college-age young man? But of course, we needed the setting for DePalma's required Hitchcock tribute, including STRANGERS ON A TRAIN-like shots of the spinning ride's mechanism coming unscrewed. (I wonder if DePalma would still include Arab-ophobia in his post-REDACTED career?)If you're a horror fan, this film won't shock you, not even the ending in which the director makes sure you're aware that the villain is dead. But if you are a conspiracy buff, you might still find something of interest here. "},{"Title":"Nosebleeds A-go-go....!","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Man, I picked up a great bargain when I bought this film for half price. It absolutely blew me away! Kirk Douglas stars as (a rather old) retired agent of a top secret government project dealing with psychics and harnessing their powers. Of course, Douglas' son happens to be psychic and is abducted by the project. It's up to our wrinkly ballbreaker to rescue him from the government's manipulative clutches, and he'll need help from another powerful psychic chick to do it. Did I mention at that people tend to bleed copiously when the psychics touch them? Great pace, action and gore will keep most happy, and listen to the advice Mother Knuckles gives Douglas. Priceless!! Also,the movie contains one of the most explosive endings you are ever likely to see!!! "},{"Title":"gratuitous","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" messy 70s production values abound.shambolic script, gratuitous not only propaganda but disinfo and stereotyping, and a very old school (pre 70s ) type delivery on the part of the leading role.It could be just me but There is something unappealing about political diatribe in a scifi show.Pity because the subject could have been made better.Kinda makes one feel grateful to have Firestarter , a much more focused and successful effort.or even Carrie, the director's more palatable prior effort.It's weird that some compare this to Hitchcock, partly because Hitchcock is not that classy anyway.This flick is crassier than Hitchcock however. "},{"Title":"The grade is in case I'm wrong","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm starting to think that the ideological overtones in 70s De Palma are a fake-out. When every movie he makes ends with some hermetic display of cinematic fireworks that leaves us further from the ideological theme than we were when we came in, it makes me think the whole social commentary angle is a red herring, even a marketing exercise. So here, we get a setup where our hero is marked for death by a secret U.S. government operation which stole his telepathically gifted son to nurture him as a state weapon, turning him into a monster in the process. You'd think the climax would wrap up SOME of this, at least. But throw in this scene said son randomly and entertainingly murders a couple Saudi guys, presumably because they remind him of the US agents who dressed like PLO gunmen when they kidnapped him. A lapse like this is like a cry for help. De Palma basically tells the audience 'f*ck the message - I'm lost - let's just blow stuff up!' And things do indeed go in that direction from there. The guy is driving me nuts but in an intriguing way - what makes him run? And guess what - ANOTHER Vertigo reference! "},{"Title":"The somewhat boring quest to find one man's son","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is not Brian De Palma's best work. But it is a great movie for actors. The film lets the actors act and takes a slow pace about. The only good effects in the film do not occur until the last ten minutes and the rest is just story. Kirk Douglas is a great actor and this film does nothing to take his dignity away from him but I believe he would be better served if he just stayed in biblical epics and left the horror to new young actors our at least one's who had a concept of how they should be acted. Douglas tries to make all of his actions seem as if he is in an action film rather then a horror picture which is what this is a big budget version of. It should be added the William Finnley does a great cameo in this and it is the last collaboration between him and De Palma until this years Black Dahlia is released. (I can't wait). This is of course, unless you don't count the fact that Finnley does the voice acting of the killer on the phone in dressed to kill a year later which I don't. In Douglas quest to find his missing son he comes across somewhat De Palma regular Amy Irving and we are left to deal with inability to act for a further hour and a half. I hate her in this film. She was decent in Carrie but stinks in this. They should have given the part to Nacy Allen. The ending effect that I mentioned in post is that of the explosion of the main bad guy at the end. This is the only reason I give this film six stars for it's cool ending. They show this guy blow up from like twenty angles and then the film cuts. Loved it. If you seek this out watch only if you are a De Palma fan. If not a fan just fast forward to the end as it is the only thing worth merit. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad, actually","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The amazing thing about this movie is that it has received a score of 6 out of 10 but all the reviews rave about how great this movie is.Well, trust the numbers, not the words.  This movie isn´t great. It probably was back in the 70´s, but by todays standards it is a sad waste of time. There is hardly any suspense, the acting is generally poor and don´t even get me started on the special effects, which lack anything that could make them special.Pass on it! "},{"Title":"If at first you succeed...","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Director Brian De Palma goes the telekinesis route again, too soon after 1976's Carrie. The Fury is a confusing jumble of sorts which audiences and critics pretty much ignored at the time (except New Yorker critic Pauline Kael, who put it on a par with Hitchcock!). A kidnapped boy with mental powers is tracked down by his father and a mentally gifted young woman, but the kid has been brainwashed and doesn't trust anyone anymore. Lots of bloody sequences litter the scenario, particularly in the last 30 minutes, but they won't make you laugh in that gross-out way. De Palma splatters the red stuff everywhere, but his movie is such a groaner that the results are only depressing. A slow-motion car-and-foot chase fails to create the hoped-for dream-like mood (it just feels like filler) and the cast is over-the-top, especially Kirk Douglas. The Fury has a bigger budget than Carrie, but it doesn't even look good. It's full of dumb shocks, milked by a director who shows no shame in repeating himself. ** from **** "}{"Title":"One of DePalma's most god-awful movies!","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Everyone sucks in this movie. Amy Irving snivels, Kirk Douglas glowers, Carrie Snodgress wafts, even Cassavetes has nothing to do but kind of loom menacingly -- at least he knows he's in a dog of a picture. And '70s boy wonder Andrew Stevens (a Lucy love interest on Dallas) is, as usual, thoroughly unappealing as the figure supposedly at the center of all the preposterous shenanigans within. Of course, who can blame them with the miserable dialogue and plotting and ridiculous attempts at characterization the screenplay provides. It's no wonder this is the last film writer John Farris was ever allowed anywhere near. It's cool to see early bit parts by Daryll Hannah and Dennis Franz, but generally, this is a worthless waste of time, and every one of DePalma's most obnoxious tendencies (casual misogyny, garishly unrealistic death scenes, tone-deafness with actors) are on generous display. Speaking of tone-deafness, even John WIlliams' score is highly inappropriate at many points. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I've ever seen.","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How Brian DePalma ever got the next Hitchcock moniker I will never understand.  This film is a fine example of his unique ability to take a great premise, fine cast and ample budget and turn it into an abomination. From the gratuitous opening scene of Palestinians in speedboats machine-gunning innocent Israeli vacationers to the famous final climax this film is filled with tasteless strerotypical characters, poor acting, lousy special effects and choppy direction.  You get all the negative aspects of a cheesey B-film with none of the fun.  Be warned stay away from this mean-spirited garbage.   "},{"Title":"Kirk Douglas and clever team raise formula movie to high standards","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is pretty much a formula movie. Nothing new here. The government cover up, the guy who knows them and can outdo them. What makes this different is good writing, directing, acting, and teamwork. The entire crew can get credit for this. Douglas does a lot of running around, playing hide and seek with the government. It is his character's tongue in cheek James Bond like aura that gives this movie a huge edge. And the actors deliver. Douglas is searching for his son, who is a guinea pig in a dangerous project. He needs the help of a psychic girl. You can pretty well feel their plight. The fun that the movie makes with the formula makes this a very worthwhile movie. A lot of humor, and a lot of emotion evoked from it. "},{"Title":"the big muddy on your mind..","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  a previous reviewer, klantry, was on point when commenting that fury was muddled.. this is one convoluted, confused, yuck flick.. (names are actors' stage names) kirk works for a super-secret agency (did brian ever tell us who?); his boss (i guess) obviously is john, because john is in on a plot to kill.. who? kirk, andrew? this happens on a beach in.. where? middle east, miami, the reviera? the reason is.. why? kirk said mean things behind john's back; kirk's wife refused a pass from john? andrew's properties are important because.. he can read minds; he knows what women want; if he forgets his girl's birthday, he'll just read her mind.. the (insert any name here--every film of this genre has one) institute is important because.. andrew can meet chicks there--shoot, he can meet chicks anywhere, right?  amy wants to go there and find a hunk; or maybe she wants to train as a red cross technician for the blood donor program.. jeez, this film tells so little and we're supposed to know so much, it's like taking a test in cosmo magazine-- no matter what, you still feel stupid at the end..so, what is this run-amok production all about? i've seen my fill of super-secret agent films; ditto for gifted young people.. whenever amy displayed her abilities, she looked so bored and put out with the people who asked her to prove she could do something, i felt the same way watching (and trying to figure out) what was going on with the so-called plot.. it seems those who write favorable reviews of films like this one gush over the director, producer, the ambience, texture, artistry, blah-blah-blah.. but, they never give one word to what the movie is about, what does it mean? why is this film important? why should i care about any of it? this one has me screaming, running out of the emergency exits.. I DON'T KNOW, WHY DON'T THEY TELL ME? one more thing the book version is equally mystifying and convoluted, forget it.. "},{"Title":"Special Effects In Final Scene are Weak","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Fury(1978) is a middle of the road film that's not as good as Carrie(1976) or Dressed to Kill(1980) but is not as bad as the director's recent work.  Picks up on ideas that were hinted at in Carrie(1976) and expands them.  Shares many ideas with Obsession(1976) as well as its plot twists.  Mixture of Carrie(1976) and Obsession(1976).The main weakness of The Fury(1978) is the middle to third part become boring and slow moving.  Knowledgable about the principles of Parapsycholgy and its mysteries.  The special effects for the film are excellent except for the effects for the final scene.  One reason the special effects do not work in the final scene is they look fake and unrealistic.The carnival sequence is done with technical excellence and fine editing.  Known as the film debut for Splash star, Darryl Hannah.  John Cassavetes is just plain evil as friend turned betrayal Childress.  Its chilling to watch Robin's(Andrew Stevens) descent into madness as he becomes more obsessed with being a machine that's perfect.  Rick Baker proves here that he is one of the best when it comes to make up effects in film.The ending is sastifying to see.  The Fury(1978) is a precusor to the David Cronenberg shocker, Scanners(1981)The Fury seems to set up events that lead to the story of Scanners.  Scanners(1981) in fact picks up where The Fury(1978) ends.  Scanners(1981) is a much better movie because the story is more compelling and the special effects are realistic and superior. "},{"Title":"Another unique De Palma movie, that's just a bit too off.","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm a De Palma fan and I even always enjoy watching his bad movies. It's always something special and unique to watch, although I shall also always admit it when a movie is just bad. The Fury is also a movie that isn't among his best and for a genre movie just isn't good enough. Yet the movie has other better qualities.The movie is a bit too supernatural, which creates a gap between the viewers and the movie. It's just not an easy movie to relate with. One of its consequences is that the tension and mystery of the movie doesn't always work out. It really doesn't make The Fury one of the best genre movies but the Brian De Palma directing still provide the movie with an unique look and feel.Guess that in essence the story had more potential really. It had all the potential to become a good mysterious tense movie, with deceiving characters, film-noir style but De Palma doesn't ever really attempt to flesh the story out to its full potential. The story just isn't always the best going one also because they can't seem to decide who is the movie its main character; Peter Sandza (Kirk Douglas) or Gillian Bellaver (Amy Irving). The movie isn't always heading anywhere clearly, which also causes the movie to drag at points. The ending also feels like it was done in a hurry and even though its satisfying it still leaves an hollow aftertaste. No for a thriller this movie surely isn't good enough. Thank goodness that De Palma still provides the movie with some more than enough redeeming qualities. The movie is much different from any other '70's genre movie.The movie still clearly shows the qualities of De Palma as a director. The movie has some great classic moments in it, that are done in a typical unique De Palma style, including once more a trademark great slow-motion sequence, in which one of the main characters escapes and some gruesome graphic sequences and violent deaths. The action is done well, its graphic moments are done well and some sequences shall really live on in memory. Also even the humor works out for the movie and why hasn't Mother Nuckells become some sort of cult-figure by now? The movie has some great, action, thriller, science-fiction/horror and comedy moments but all combined it just doesn't always work out as a whole, unfortunately.Some of its moments are also made great by its unique cinematography. Guess it all is also the reason why this movie is liked better by the movie-lovers than by the more casual viewers, that won't pay too much attention to how a movie is crafted.The combination Brian De Palma and John Williams seems like an odd one. He composed one of his lesser known scores for this movie but it's definitely not one of his worst. For some reason De Palma doesn't always work with established actors but when he does, it's always something special, such as also with Ennio Morricone was the case, for the movies The Untouchables and Mission to Mars. But also when he doesn't work with 'big-name; composers the music is always good. Music always plays an important part in his movies, especially in the key- and most classic sequences, like for example in the movies Dressed to Kill, Carlito's Way, Body Double and Femme Fatale was the case.Not the best but still an unique watch.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"I'm Furious With The Fury 0*","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Totally abysmal film. Brian DaPalma has given us far better work that actually made sense. This is utterly ridiculous, and I'm being polite.You would think that a middle east shooting at the film's beginning had something to do with the Arab-Israeli conflict. You would think that there is going to be a terrorist plot. There is terror all right, but the picture quickly descends into a telekinetic nonsense, with 2 teenagers, Andrew Stevens and Amy Irving needed due to their psychic powers. We never are told the organization that wants them and what they have intended for them to do.Instead, we are subjected to wild chase scenes, and the kids using their psychic powers to cause all sorts of mayhem. When the bleeding starts, you know you're in for it. The bodies begin to pile up dramatically as just about everyone meets a horrible death. Horrible best describes this film. "},{"Title":"Over-the-Top cheesefest!","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" THE FURY is so bad that it's amazing. After the success of the overrated CARRIE, Brian de Palma was given a chance to direct another ESP thriller, with Amy Irving (also from Carrie) and the result is bad. I have never seen a movie so devoid of a story or sensible characters or logic. It's simply a mishmash of camera angles, bad acting and overblown music. There are so many unintentionally hilarious scenes in THE FURY that it's pointless to name all of them because it would take as long as the movie itself in order to do so. But here are my favorite scenes (spoilers ahead)- The scenes at the school with that bitchy Margot Kidder look-alike.- When Gillian (Amy Irving) witnesses the experiments Robin is going through and Gillian is freaking out as she's watching the bad guys replaying the film footage of the kidnapping of Robin (Andrew Stevens), which occurred at the beginning of the movie. The kidnapping wasn't scary or remotely troubling. It's just a standard shoot-em up scene and yet when Gillian watches the kidnapping, she is shown to be shocked and horrified beyond belief. I wasn't even close to being scared or troubled by the scene as Gillian was, which makes her character look totally silly.- When Gillian has a vivid ESP moment and she grabs the hand of a woman and blood starts pouring out of the woman's fingernails. Cutex overload?- When Gillian leaves the building and everything happens in slow motion, which results with the death of Hester (Carrie Snodgress), in a car accident. Cue Kirk Douglas screaming and crying and fighting, all in slow motion. Very funny.- When Robin attacks the Arab men on the amusement park ride. Hilarious moment.- When Robin attacks his father (Douglas) and both of them end-up on the edge of a rooftop, where Robin falls to his death. The really funny thing about this moment is that Robin was levitating when his father found him. So why didn't Robin prevent himself from hitting the ground by levitating his body? That scene doesn't make any sense whatsoever. And it's incredibly funny.- After Robin dies from the fall, his father, hanging on the rooftop, kills himself in anger by letting himself fall to the ground. This scene is straight out of AIRPLANE.- When Gillian blows up the bad guy (Cassavetes). I was literally rolling on the floor, like the dismembered head in the movie. Shake and Bake?The acting by everyone is atrocious. Amy Irving cries throughout the movie. Kirk Douglas is embarrassing. Most of the actors don't even seem to know what they're doing. The music is bombastic. It's obvious that De Palma was given loads of money to come up with a new CARRIE-like flick and the result is rushed and nonsensical. THE FURY reminds me of a Philly cheese sandwich it's not good for your health but it sure taste good with all that 1970s cheese in it. "},{"Title":"John Cassavettes' head explodes!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had the destinction of being released before David Cronenberg's Scanners and therefore was extremely original at the time.The premise centers on a highly secretive society that studies and monitors children with supernatural powers. (Where was Carrie White when this was being filmed?) Kirk Douglas and his young son are vacationing in Morrocco when gunfire breaks out and his son is kidnapped by a group of terrorists, or so Douglas thinks.Douglas spends years searching for his son. John Cassavettes appears as Douglas' friend but his true motives are discovered once Douglas receives information on the whereabouts of his son, now a young man. Meanwhile, Douglas' son has been taught to channel his supernatural powers for the use of evil. One hilarious scene depicts a group of wealthy Sheiks out on the town for a day of fun. They all decide to take a ride on the ferris wheel when Douglas' son decides to experiment with his new-found powers. The wheel spins faster and faster (you might actually think the picture is being fast-forwarded - don't adjust your VCR!!) and one of the carriages flies off and explodes. I don't know who thought of adding that scene, but kudos for adding comedy!It basically comes down to the story of good -v- evil, father -v- son. In a surprising twist of events, Douglas' character is killed off resulting in his son going berserk and using his telekinetic powers to make John Cassavette's head explode!!As was the trend with a lot of supernatural pictures around this time (The Entity, The Exorcist, Carrie, Scanners, etc), this was quite entertaining. With the addition of Amy Irving and Carrie Snodgress to the supporting cast - it really feels like taking a time trip back to the 70's.Not as good as the book it was based upon - but still with a gander.7/10 "},{"Title":"another horrible movie from hack brian depalma, made bearable by the presence of john cassavetes, if only for a handful of boring, heavy handed scenes.","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the best thing about this goofy, pretentious paranormal thriller is that john cassavetes was given a paycheck, with which he most certainly made movies of a vastly higher calibre.  kirk douglas is kind of funny, too, as the crack secret agent gone a.w.o.l., and amy irving is given the opportunity to reprise her role as the cutesy troubled teen that she played so well in 'carrie'.  watch it drunk. "}]