[{"Title":"A mixed bag","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having always felt that Neil Simon's work, though generally wonderful, can be hit and miss, California Suite seems to represent this more than any of his other pieces. Clearly he is a writer for performers and how well some of them respond here. Jane Fonda gives a remarkably assured and confident performance mixing vulnerability with stubbornness so effortlessly. Yes her segment is perhaps, stripped down, just the age old East/West Coast argument but it becomes a very human story about 2 people who were once in love. So great to see such a female character like hers on the screen and Jane Fonda is so skilled at introducing pathos whilst still being able to somewhat distance the viewer. It really is ultimately a very touching episode. The Caine/Smith segment is also tremendous fun with Dame Maggie doing her Margo Channing bit. The Oscar she won for this tributes her comic skills here which have perhaps been underused in her career. The wonderful Elaine May also stands out in a true farce with Mr Matthau but The Pryor/Cosby section is plainly, embarrassingly bad. It feels as if it was written by a poor sitcom writer and there are enoguh embarrassing sitcoms from America polluting the world's television. All in all, a very watchable film but wouldn't you just love to have the facility to edit films for your own viewing. "},{"Title":"Sunny, likable movie, with flaws","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've always liked this movie, ever since I saw it in the theater as a 12-year-old. (With my church youth group, no less -- what were they thinking??) It's flawed, but generally fun, and I like the sun-soaked, palm-fringed atmosphere.Maggie Smith is the undisputed standout. Her portrayal is brilliant and she and Michael Caine fling one-liners at each other with biting abandon. I've always liked both Jane Fonda and Alan Alda, so I enjoy their storyline too, though their exchanges seem forced and a little too clever. I'm a Cosby fan, but his scenes with Richard Pryor are uncomfortable -- it's troubling that the film's only black characters are relegated to brute physical comedy. Walter Matthau and Elaine May do a great job, but I never liked the hooker skit -- not sure why.I buy very few films, but I do own this one, and over the years I've watched it so many times I know all the lines...  "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An ensemble cast that dreams are made of is present in this film, and all deliver quite well, even Walter Matthau who goes a bit over-the-top. Smith deservedly won an Oscar for her role as a screen actress loses her first Oscar nomination in a very long career. As her husband, Caine is also good, but the next two best performances come from Fonda and Alda as a bickering divorced couple. Those four performers, however, only cover two out of four tales in this film, and the other two are not as well as acted and neither are they filled with the same quality of witty dialogue. It is bit weird to watch the overall film, as it becomes fragmented by the transitions between each of the stories, and towards the end the lesser interesting tales dominate. With just the Fonda/Alda and Smith/Caine stories, this is excellent, very well written stuff. With all four put together, it is still quite interesting stuff, but nothing too great. "},{"Title":"Mediocre Simon is better than none...","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" California SUITE is the 1978 film adaptation of Neil Simons' quartet of one-acts set at swank Los Angeles hotel. Out of the four stories, the strongest is Visitors from London which stars Maggie Smith as an actress in town for the Academy Awards after receiving her first nomination, in deep denial about her in-name only marriage to a closeted antique dealer (Michael Caine). Smith delivers a flawless comedy performance that ironically won her her second Oscar, this time for Best Supporting Actress. Caiine is just as effective in this bittersweet tale. Visitors from New York stars Jane Fonda as a workaholic New Yorker who has flown to California to retrieve her daughter (Dana Plato) who flew away from home to move in with Fonda's ex (Alan Alda). Fonda's character is a little on the unsympathetic side but she and Alda make their scenes work. Visitors from Philadelphia stars Walter Matthau as a man in town for a convention who tries to conceal from his visiting wife (Elaine May) that there's a passed out hooker in his bed. This episode is pure slapstick with little substance but Matthau makes it bearable. The other episode Visitors from Chicago stars Bill Cosby, Richard Pryor, Sheila Frazier, and Gloria Gifford as two couples vacationing together who get involved in some silly travel situations. This is definitely the weakest of the four playlets and looks like it should be in another movie of its own. A well-mounted, but spotty effort at best, California SUITE is worth the rental for the glorious performance of Maggie Smith alone. "},{"Title":"Too few scenes with Maggie Smith and Michael Caine","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think the movie contains funny parts, but some scenes are not that interesting, for example Alan Alda talking way too much stuff. So I think it's only about average. I must say, though, that Michael Caine and Maggie Smith did great work. They are a nice couple and really fit together very well. In my opinion their scenes are the best of the movie. I love their funny and sarcastic conversations - it's entertaining and one of the reasons I actually watched the movie until the end. I'm just a little disappointed that they don't show up as often as I'd like. It would've been more interesting that way. Of course there are lots of other big names in that movie, e.g. Walter Matthau, Alan Alda and Jane Fonda, but I must really underline Maggie Smith's and Michael Caine's good performances. "},{"Title":"Plain average","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Four stories, courtesy of Neil Simon, concerning the ongoings of several people staying at a nice hotel in sunny California.Walter Matthau's segment provides the film's only real laughs. Desperately trying to cover up his infidelity, Matthau is a riot in his attempts.Bill Cosby and Richard Pryor try their best as doctor friends who are having an awful time on their vacation with their wives. It's just not that funny, despite them both being extremely likable.Alan Alda and Jane Fonda do well in their dramatic story of separated couple meeting after nine years to discuss their child. Their segment is too short to really have an impact, might have worked well as a feature film. It's not all that involving.Michael Caine and Maggie Smith are both excellent in their little segment, with Smith portraying an actress who's up for the academy award. Caine plays her show off gay husband. The two stars really shine in an otherwise average story, not all that interesting.I feel that California Suite should have been much better, it had such potential. It's just plain average. "},{"Title":"California Suite- A Sweetie of A  Film ***1/2","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Neil Simon focuses his attention on a variety of people at a hotel in this 1978 comedy hit.Walter Matthau certainly has a penchant as a hotel guest. Remember him with Maureen Stapleton and several other ladies in another hotel farce comedy-drama?Matthau, as always, is hilarious when he attempts to hide a hooker from his wife. It seems that Elaine May is always the naive victim in films. Remember her in 1972's The Heartbreak Kid?The real acting kudos here goes to Maggie Smith for a gem of a supporting Oscar-winning performance in this film. Smith plays an actress at the hotel who has been nominated for an Oscar. A win would mean a tremendous comeback for her. Naturally, she loses. How many people have won Oscars for playing an Oscar loser in a film? Judy Garland accomplished the opposite in 1954 in A Star is Born. In the film she is an actress who wins the academy award but in real-life competition lost it to Grace Kelly for The Country Girl. Only the lord knows why.Smith is just grand as she prances around the room delivering memorable one-liners. This is just a gem of a film. "},{"Title":"Worth it for one of the all-time great scenes","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Neil Simon's 1978 film, California Suite, is four vignettes of couples descending upon Los Angeles at Oscar time one couple (Maggie Smith and Michael Caine) for the Oscar ceremonies, two couples for vacation (Richard Pryor, Gloria Gifford, Bill Cosby, Sheila Frazer) one couple for a bar mitzvah (Walter Matthau and Elaine May), and one divorced couple (Alan Alda and Jane Fonda) to discuss their daughter.The film is a mix of comedy, slapstick, and drama, with the Fonda-Alda segment witty but serious, the Matthau-May segment hilarious, the Cosby-Pryor segment slapstick, and the Smith-Caine segment a classic. Their conversation in the hotel suite before the Oscar ceremony is one of the best acted, best written scenes ever written. I'm a dark horse, Smith says of her Oscar nomination, entering the room in a gown. They must have seen the dress, Caine concludes. This is probably the most fully fleshed-out story, with the truth behind their marriage emerging as Smith descends into drunkenness later on. That and the Matthau-May vignettes are the best, with the Alda-Fonda scene coming off as somewhat dated today. The weakest is the Pryor-Crosby.Entertaining - if you don't feel like watching the whole thing, just watch the Caine-Smith and Matthau-May.Bill Cosby and Richard Pryor try their best as doctor friends who are having an awful time on their vacation with their wives. It's just not that funny, despite them both being extremely likable.Alan Alda and Jane Fonda do well in their dramatic story of separated couple meeting after nine years to discuss their child. Their segment is too short to really have an impact, might have worked well as a feature film. It's not all that involving.Michael Caine and Maggie Smith are both excellent in their little segment, with Smith portraying an actress who's up for the academy award. Caine plays her show off gay husband. The two stars really shine in an otherwise average story, not all that interesting. "},{"Title":" For a smart woman, in a Man's world, I'm not doing too bad ","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The great writing talent of Neil Simon, has little doubt achieved a stunning success. There are many shinning examples of his genius and this is one case in point. The film is called  California Suite  and has an impressive cast to make the movie work. Four couples from across the country arrive at this sunny resort for various reasons. First off are Mr. and Mrs Warren (Alan Alda and Jane Fonda) who arrive at the famous hotel to discuss their teen-age daughter and her decision to either return to New York or stay with her father in California. Although adult in their decision making, they nevertheless duel childishly with words over their different approaches. From across the Atlantic ocean arrive Mr. & Mrs Sidney Cochran (Michael Caine & Maggie Smith). He is there to give support to his wife, despite her misgivings about a nominated award. Walter Matthau stars as Marvin Michaels, from Philadelphia who's sex crazed brother (Harry Michaels) has set him up with a high priced hooker, prior to his wife's arrival. Finally there's Chauncey Gump (Richard Prior) and Willis Panama (Bill Cosby), two Dr.'s and their wives who arrive from Chicago and immediately start bickering over accommodations. Alda and Fonda are great as former married partners. Neil Simon gave them extremely good lines of dialog and it makes for a firm Tatate conversation. From Simon also came the rapid rapier exchange between Maggi Smith and Michael Caine. The playwright also created a superb character in Walter Mattau as he portrays a helpless husband, before his accusing wife. It is with laughter that Prior and Cosby are able to create such antics as to leave the hotel with a promise of revenge on their in-laws. As a result, the movie is as entertaining as a gifted playwright and superb actors can make it. A Classic result is the by-product for all audiences. **** "},{"Title":"The Brits Take California","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite a talented all-star cast, California Suite, which was based on a hit Neil Simon play, is a wildly uneven film. The episodic story traces several unrelated couples from across the U.S. that check into a Beverly Hills hotel. Like a comedic Grand Hotel, the film cuts between the stories, although the editing makes no comments, ironic or otherwise, between the episodes. Actually, the often foolish, self-centered characters make California Suite more a Ship of Fools in the sunshine than a Grand Hotel under the palms. The original play was a follow-up to the more successful Plaza Suite and demonstrated Simon's shakier take on the West Coast than on the East. For the most part, the hotel guests speak and behave like the transplanted or visiting New Yorkers that they are.Jane Fonda portrays the ultimate New York snob, and her bitchy banter with ex-husband Alan Alda only underscores her arrogance and intolerance of anything that exists west of the Hudson. Alda is a New Yorker's stereotype of a Californian with pastel sweaters and perpetual tan. While a few amusing lines pass between the terminally mismatched couple, Fonda and Alda's episode is more grating than funny. However, the New York couple display Noel-Coward wit in comparison to the wasted talents and misfires in the scenes that involve Richard Pryor and Bill Cosby as vacationing doctors. The premise of two couples that arrive to find a reservation for only one has promise. However, director Herbert Ross should have studied Chaplin, Keaton, and Lloyd before he devised the broad, unfunny physical stunts that will leave viewers grateful that both Pryor and Cosby survived the mess and moved on to better material.However, the film does have some fine moments between comedic experts Walter Matthau and Elaine May. When Matthau arrives in LA a day early, his brother surprises him with a prostitute, who passes out from too much tequila and cannot be awakened in the morning. Of course, Matthau's wife, the always-delicious Elaine May, arrives, and the comedy moves into high gear. The best episode in the film, however, involves an English actress, Maggie Smith, and her bisexual husband, Michael Caine. The couple arrives to attend the Academy Awards, because Smith is a Best Actress nominee. While Smith has some of the best-written lines in the film, her role also has a depth and poignancy that goes far beyond the cardboard characters in the other episodes. Although Caine is equally fine, Smith's role is showier, and she won a deserved Academy Award for the part. The film's special irony is that the part of an Oscar-losing-actress won an Oscar for the actress who played her.California Suite is one of those films in which a few superior scenes make it worthy entertainment, and the Smith-Caine episode pulls the film several notches higher than it otherwise deserves. Add the sparkling Matthau-May scenes, and there is at least one-half of a good movie. Although the Fonda-Alda episode is bearable and occasionally amusing, the Pryor-Cosby scenes are often labored and unfunny. However, with a strong finger on the fast-forward button, there is a good hour of comedy and fine performances to be had in this inconsistent film. "}{"Title":"Four separate stories from the mind of Neil Simon","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In 1971, the movie Plaza Suite was written by playwright Neil Simon. It featured three separate stories that all took place in that famous hotel in New York. In 1978, Simon did it again with California Suite. This one has four separate stories and takes place at the lush Beverly Hills Hotel. I prefer California Suite over Plaza Suite because I think it's funnier and has an all-star cast. Jane Fonda and Alan Alda star in the first segment which is the only weak part of the film. Fonda and Alda play a divorced couple from New York who debate on who gets to keep their teenage daughter. This portion of the film is more serious than funny and in the process doesn't really work. Fonda and Alda give good performances but I was mostly bored with this story. The second segment is far and away the best part of the film. Maggie Smith and Michael Caine play bickering Brits in town for the Academy Awards. Smith plays an actress who's nominated for an Oscar and Caine is her companion. These two great British actors play off each other beautifully and what a honor to watch them at work. I would have liked to see more of this part of the film. It's wonderful and very funny. Interestingly enough, Smith won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her role her. Isn't that something? The third segment is pretty funny too if not as funny as the second segment. Walter Matthau plays a guy from Philadelphia in town for a big event in his family (no it's not the Oscars), and thanks to his goofy brother (Herbert Edelman from The Golden Girls) ends up in a compromising position and tries to hide it from his soon-to-be arriving wife (Elaine May). The four segment is funny too but at times feels like torture. Richard Pryor and Bill Cosby play a pair of doctor friends from Chicago vacationing in L.A. with their wives, and their trip turns into a nightmare when alot of things go wrong and the two men start to get at each others throats. All in all California Suite is a pretty entertaining comedy, and I enjoyed it. *** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but flawed execution","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm biased - I'm a Neil Simon fan who loves the concept of the Suite plays (on stage, each act is a one-act play using the same set, with the actors playing different roles each act). Obviously, because the stories are intertwined in the film, they couldn't do that (they didn't do in London Suite either).But, here's my complaint the intertwining is sloppy. We'll sometimes spend twenty or so minutes with a plot, then get a quick cutaway with another (Walter Matthau's plot doesn't really kick in until an hour's passed; Alan Alda disappears after forty-five minutes).Despite this balancing flaw, there are goodies to be found Visitors From New York Alda and Jane Fonda have great chemistry (and, of course, she looks great!) one can really believe they were a couple. That being said, he's pretty weak, letting her get in a lot of bitchy lines, and barely sticking up for himself. Three stars.Visitors From London A lot of people think this is the best segment, and I'm one of them. Once again, Maggie Smith and Michael Caine give excellent performances (but there's a touch of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof throughout the whole scenario) - she deserved her Oscar (and I love that they filmed at an actual Oscars ceremony). Four stars.Visitors From Philadelphia First of all, Elaine May was reminding me so much of Louise Lasser. That being said, I could totally buy her and Matthau together, and I love how calm she was upon her discovery (she gets a great line regarding what she's gonna do). Three and a half stars.Visitors From Chicago Unfairly criticized. Sure, it's slapstick in the extreme (it gives us an idea how The Out of Towners may have looked if confined to Plaza Suite, which it was intended for), but there's something quite cool about two very different masters of stand up, Richard Pryor and Bill Cosby, going up against one another (clean vs. dirty?). And, you just know that a few weeks later, the characters got together and had a good laugh about it. Three and a quarter stars.Throw in a nice credit sequence, with David Hockney paintings, and you have a fine way to spend two hours. "},{"Title":"A not-so-sweet valentine to coupling...","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Neil Simon got an Oscar nomination for adapting his own hit play for the screen, but his writing seems to be caught in a perpetual time-warp. No subject that gets discussed is fresh, and all his 'witty' one-liners would fall flat without the help of some talented actors to keep things afloat. A Beverly Hills hotel houses Jane Fonda and Alan Alda as bickering ex-marrieds; Walter Matthau as a husband trying to hide a hooker from wife Elaine May; Michael Caine as the put-upon husband of Oscar-nominated actress Maggie Smith (who really did win an Oscar); and Bill Cosby and Richard Pryor as accident-prone husbands vacationing with their wives. Aside from the acidic verbal jousting from Caine and Smith, this comedy directed by Herbert Ross pretty much congeals midway through. Matthau's exaggerated angst is pretty funny, but this seems rote material for the actor (though he and Elaine May are well-matched). Fonda may well have accepted her dim role for the sole excuse to show off her figure in a bikini (it upstages even Alan Alda!). As for Cosby and Pryor--how could Herbert Ross sink two of the most famous comedians of the 1970s with this slapstick torpedo? Neil Simon seems to believe in the Pain of Comedy, with life's woes wrung for laughs, and he gets Ross to believe it, too. But there's too much physical shtick and not enough humanity in California Suite to make it the laugh-fest everyone was apparently aiming for. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Half a good movie","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie several times, as I am a fan of Neil Simon. In my opinion, this is half a good movie. When Jane Fonda, Alan Alda, Maggie Smith, or Michael Caine are on the screen, the film is magical for me. Jane gives a really good performance as an Ice Queen, and I understand Alan more and more as their scenes progress. Maggie Smith and Michael Caine are the real stars in this movie. If the producers thought they had a better chance of getting Maggie an Oscar by making her a supporting actress, they got what they wanted, but I really believe it was a leading performance. I did my first spit take ever when Maggie and Michael were discussing the guacamole he was eating. When she asked what the disgusting green slime he was eating I started drinking a soda and when he answered, I'm not sure, but it tastes like they ran the front lawn through a blender I lost it. And yet, at the end of their story, when Maggie Smith asks Michael to not close his eyes, to let it be me, I was truly touched. I found out several years later that that line was the inspiration for one of my favorite Country songs, Don't Close Your Eyes sung by Keith Whitley. The other two stories in the film I didn't care for, The Walter Matthau story, was too much like a Sixties leering sex farce, and the Richard Pryor and Bill Cosby story was actually embarrassing to me. I really felt like I was watching an scene out of a film from the 1930's where African-Americans took roles beneath them as it was a way to make a living. That is just one man's opinion and I am not trying to offend anyone. So the title of this review is the was I really feel. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Four separate stories (all written by Neil Simon)that take place at the Beverly Hills Hotel. There's brittle sarcastic Hannah Warren (Jane Fonda) meeting with her divorced husband Bill (Alan Alda) over custody of their child Jenny (a very young Dana Plato). As with most Simon scripts the one-liners fly fast and furious. Some of it is funny but Fonda's character is far too mean and Alda is obviously uneasy with the dialogue for it to work.Then there's Oscar-nominated actress Diana Barrie (Maggie Smith) and her bisexual husband Sidney Cochran (Michael Caine). She's agonizing over attending the Academy Awards and he tries to calm her. These two are very at ease with the comedy and drama and their story is easily the best in the film.Then there's Marvin Michael (Walter Matthau) there for a bar mitzvah. He arrives the night before his wife Millie (Elaine May) shows up. His brother sends a prostitute to his room--and she passes out and can't wake up before his wife arrives. Matthau is fun but May seems uneasy.The worst story is of two couples--Dr. Willis Panama (Bill Cosby) and his wife Bettina (Sheila Frazer) with Dr. Chauncey (Richard Pryor) with his wife Lola (Gloria Gifford). There story is basically non-stop unfunny and violent slapstick. Seeing two talented comedians like Pryor and Cosby fighting and biting each other isn't funny--just embarrassing. Even worse their wives are totally ignored! A real mixed bag here. The best joke comes from what happened after the movie. Smith won an Oscar for her acting here and her character in the movie didn't get the Oscar! Also why Smith got the award is beyond me. She's good but this is hardly an Oscar worthy performance. So, all in all, it's OK. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"One of the all-time worst comedies EVER.","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nary a chuckle to be found in the whole excruciating 103 minutes. The film starts out okay with Fonda and Alda playing a divorced couple fighting over custody of their teenage daughter. There are some semi-amusing lines about the cultural differences between the East Coast and California. The Maggie Smith/Michael Caine plot line is vaguely interesting for a behind- the-scenes feel of the movie star life. But the Walter Matthau caught-with-a-hooker-in-the-hotel-room-bed shtick is clichéd and poorly played, while the Cosby-Pryor pairing as bickering vacationers is truly awful. California Suite is a total waste of a great cast, particularly Cosby & Pryor. "},{"Title":"Fun in Beverly Hills.","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this when I was a kid. It is very appealing and being someone who likes multiple story type movies that did and does appeal to me.All the characters in California Suite were interesting and fun to watch. I think had the movie been about just one of these stories it would have been terribly boring as none would be good encompassing that long a time period on their own. As it is however, though the feel of the movie is pretty sunny, you get introduced to many different people all unique with unique things going on. Although, Suite does drag a tiny bit, for the most part it is relatively fun to watch.I like that the setting is at the hotel. I was interested in each story and thought it was overall a fun movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Walter Matthau's Best Performance","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know that this film does not get much acclaim, and it is indeed a rather inconsistent affair, but the fourth segment featuring the late great Walter Matthau (whom we unfortunately lost last Saturday)is absolutely hilarious and is by far and away the best in the film. Matthau is able to pull off the hide the hooker from my wife skit so convincingly that one could almost view this as actually happening in real life. I know of few comic actors who would not overplay this scene, and it is a great testament to the man himself. "},{"Title":"Uneven Neil Simon quartet","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Neil Simon's four story comedy about the goings on at a posh Los Angeles hotel is only funny about 1/2 the time. Alan Alda & Jane Fonda spar as exes deciding who should have custody of their teenage daughter. Fonda is venomous taking on earthy/crunchy Alda. Bill Cosby, Richard Pryor and their wives experience the vacation from hell as they bicker, flood their guest room and assault one another. There's nary a laugh there. Elaine May arrives after husband Walter Matthau and finds a hooker in his room. It's always great to see the witty May on screen, but she's left stranded along with Matthau in this laugh-less segment. Maggie Smith is an Oscar nominee, fretting about losing the Oscar while seeming to not notice she's already lost husband Michael Caine. That last segment is the keeper of this group. Smith, who won an Oscar in real life for this part, is excellent and Caine is every inch her match. Their funny/pathetic verbal assaults are really cutting. Directed with little finesse by Herbert Ross. There is a pretty good smooth jazz score by Claude Bolling. "},{"Title":"An amazing cast propels this film to respectability","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is mildly enjoyable, thanks to the amazing cast alone. With a cast like this, it should have been a lot better than it was. Anyway, Michael Caine & Maggie Smith play a rather disjointed couple coming from New York to attend The Oscars. Jane Fonda & Alan Alda are no longer together, argue constantly about custody of their daughter. Bill Cosby & Richard Pryor's wives come to play tennis and chill, but chaos ensues when they find out there is only one room vacant. Walter Matthau has too much to drink and sleeps with a prostitute. The stories are all interesting enough, but none of them are all that dynamic. Matthau has some great comic sequences, but i'd have to say Cosby & Pryor were the least interesting. It wasn't all that funny. The best is a tie between Caine & Smith's and Fonda & Alda. If it wasn't for a cast, this would have been very mediocre. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Matthau's movie","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Neil Simon's Plaza Suite was made eight years before this one, and featured Walter Matthau in a variety of roles.  In this movie, he plays the role he did best--the gruff, likeable schmiel involved in a screwball situation.  If Jack Lemmon was the Master of Frustration, then Matthau was The Master of Frustrating Situations.  In this movie, he needs to dispose of a hooker when his wife unexpectedly turns up at the posh California hotel of the title.  She's out cold, and watching Matthau break down while trying to get her out of the room is the movie's finest moment.  The other segments, which range from screwball comedy (the Richard Pryor/Bill Cosby vignette), to more sophisticated comedy (with Michael Caine and Maggie Smith) to straight drama (Alan Alda and Jane Fonda) are too varied in tone to be successful.  One minute tears are streaming down our faces from the ridiculously screwball (but still very funny) antics of Pryor and Cosby, and the next minute we are forced to watch Alda and Fonda grapple with their marriage.  Not that Alda and Fonda are unsuccessful here--their story is simply in the wrong movie.  Take away their segment, and California Suite would be a worthy follow-up to Plaza Suite (and a shorter movie, which would be a good thing in this case).   "},{"Title":"California Suite","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Four different groups have various adventures in a high-class Californian Hotel.Two maliciously witty and typically wisecracking serio-comic episodes (the Fonda-Alda and Smith-Caine duos) are teamed up with two very unsuitable and not really sufficiently executed slapstick ones (the May-Matthau and Cosby-Pryor duos) for an uneven, frequently hilarious, sometimes tiresome and always verbose compromise in this all-star Neil Simon concoction on which closer linking of the stories may have helped. The wordy duel of Oscar-hungry actress Smith and her bisexual husband Caine undoubtedly wins the day.  "},{"Title":"Not so suite.","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A bland quartet of tales via Neil Simon all set at the Beverly Hills Hotel is a West coast version of Simon's Plaza Suite. The film directed by Herbert Ross entwines the four stories that were presented separately on stage thus the film has no real climax, conclusion or resolutionit just ends. This film like so many others wastes Richard Pryor's genius, and the segment Pryor shares with Bill Cosby is an embarrassment. The scenes between Jane Fonda and Alan Alda couldn't be less interesting, in fact, the only interesting thing is that the late Dana Plato plays their daughter. Michael Caine and Maggie Smith are watchable as a couple in a third skit, though hardly worthy of the Oscar Smith received. For me, the film belongs to Walter Mathhau and Elaine May. Particularly funny is a scene of Matthau trying to put stockings on a passed out hooker. And this is one of the rare instances where Elaine May's distinctive comedic style has been put to good use on film, but 1 out of 4 does not make a worthwhile movie. Fonda fared better in Simon's Barefoot in the Park(67) as did director Ross with Simon's The Goodbye Girl(77). Say goodbye to this one. "},{"Title":"Fast Forward for Maggie Smith and Michael Caine","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Don't get confused! Maggie Smith, an actress Oscar-nominated for a stupid little comedy, and husband Michael Caine travel from England to California for the Oscar ceremony. Walter Matthau (married to Elaine May) arrives in California for a wedding and gets in a compromising situation with another woman.Alan Alda and Jane Fonda are exes and discuss sharing custody of 17-year-old daughter and how Jane is afraid of losing her once she leaves home.Richard Pryor and wife and Bill Cosby and wife go to California for a relaxing vacation.All this in one movie. You think it sounds interesting, or you think it's a riot. To say this is a complete success in entertainment would be stretching a bit...almost a lot. Right off the bat, Alda and Fonda start in going back and forth on the past and Fonda is so antagonistic, it's almost unbearable to even get through their skit. It lasts over 10 minutes. Walter Matthau's skit gets a little old as he tries to hide the body of a passed out hooker from his wife, who's he's expecting any minute. (He overslept, of course.) But, Elaine May is good in a memorable role.Cosby and Pryor's story actually starts with interest but tires with their constant griping and by the end of the movie, all of their fun ideas have turned into broken bones, bruises and casts. You get the feeling that black viewers would be offended by the way these characters are portrayed.The only saving grace is Caine and Smith, who ironically was so good in this otherwise blah movie, she not only received an Oscar nomination, but she won. But, she is great in everything; so is Caine. They should have scrapped the rest of the footage and made a short film of just these great actors. Those who watch this for them, especially Maggie, will enjoy their performances. But, will otherwise be bored stiff.Those who watch this for Matthau will be minimally pleased. Those who watch this for Cosby and Pryor will be insulted or just plain disappointed of the waste of their talents or BOTH. Those who watch this Fonda or Alda will be talked to death.Nevertheless, I have to give Caine and Smith two thumbs up or two stars each. Therefore, it gets a 4 out of 10 from me.But, if you're in a town where there's a California Suite, run don't walk to an Economy Lodge. "},{"Title":"Funny at times, but....","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having just seen California Suite, I beg to ask the question - how many African-Americans did Neil Simon know, in order to draw inspiration for the tackiest vignette of the film involving Bill Cosby and Richard Pryor?Granted this was 1978, and granted this is after all, a comedy. But Michael Caine and Maggie Smith (who ironically won an Oscar playing a woman who lost one), Alan Alda, Jane Fonda, Elaine May, Walter Matthau were presented as far more well-behaved than Cosby, Pryor or their wives.I hate to sound like a snob, but if you ask me; the implication that African-Americans act like bloody savages during a holiday sounds a little, oh, dare I say.....racist? "},{"Title":"Simple.  Mildly entertaining.","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I laughed when I first saw this in the theatre.  SPOILER; I laughed when I saw the tennis match replayed on Channel 40 KTXL in Sacramento during Creature Features. SPOILER OFF.  I had a good time when I first watched the film all those years ago.  There're some other good points in the film, but on the whole I didn't find it outstanding.  Yet it is mildly entertaining all the same.The film's held up well over the years.  But seeing a DVD version of it I now know why I had certain problems with it.  For the most part the film's rather plain.  The performances are good, and (having lived in the LA Area) the overall film caught the gist and feel of living in Southern California.But one of my gripes with these kinds of films are the successful people portrayed in them.  Even Walter Mathau's character, mister plain-ordinary East-Coast-Jewish person, seems to have somekind of social pull.  Of course to stay in a Beverly Hills type of hotel one needs to have some amount of societal success, but this begs the question of why Simon didn't author the same play concerning ordinary folks with similar problems?  Why does Jane Fonda's character have to be friends with the Washington beltway?  Why is her ex engaged with a succesful blonde actress?  Why are two succesful doctors vacationing with one another if they hate eachother so much?  Why am I looking at the problems of a succesful actress?  Who the heck are these people?  I think most folks crave for the kind of problems the characters face in this photoplay.Beyond that (and the incessant 1970's e-z listening flute music which I absloutely hated then when it was popular, and hate even moreso today) it's a decent film.  And for anybody who thought Pryor and Cosby were cast for some racial agenda (good or ill), and thought that the slapstick they brought to the film was racist, ... you've got to be off your rocker! They were the comedy highlights of an otherwise slightly above average look at the succesful people and their problems film. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let me first say that I expected PERFECTION from this movie and boy oh boy did the cast deliver! I was a little disappointed with Alan Alda's performance as the sunny divorcee who argues with his wife over who gets custody over their teenage daughter. He can't handle Neil Simon as well as I thought...In a way it sounded as though he were reading his lines. Jane Fonda was hard-edged and a little rough in this one...A real firecracker who's selfish and tries too hard at NOT being caring or maternal. All you want her to do is get off the screen. But here's where the REAL talent comes in...Michael Caine and Maggie Smith. Caine plays a homosexual-bisexual who's married to actress Diana Barrie (Smith). The best lines in the movie come out of this duo. They're funny and touching with an extremely complex relationship. Maggie deserved the Oscar for this one. She's brilliant! She delivers her lines with pure wit. Her drunken scene is worth watching alone. Bill Cosby and his little group also provides some laughs and Walter Matthau as the cheating husband is TERRIFIC...especially his reactions to everything that happens to him. Definitely rent this one, even if you don't buy it. Trust me, you'll want to rewind.  "},{"Title":"A spin and take on life, class, aging, love, relationships, and change.","Date":"12 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Neil Simon had one of the better works of 1978 as his comedy drama California Suite is a really well done take on the adventures and ups and downs of life and he shows it with an intersection of different characters all who check in and out of a Beverly Hills Hotel. Yet the characters involved have come for different reasons still all involved face personal dilemmas.You have a British couple Sidney Cochran(Michael Caine)who has to battle with his depressed actress wife Diana(Maggie Smith)who's in an outrage when she loses at the Oscars!(oddly enough Smith would win a real Oscar for best supporting actress in this role). Still thru it all no loss can prevent the love that this couple has to conquer it all.Next up on the plate is Marvin Michaels(Walter Matthau)an old east coast guy who visits the west coast only to explain to his arrived wife(Elaine May)how a sexy California blonde hooker got in his bed. This act is funny and it takes an interesting twist at the end! Then it's funny and educational as we see Hannah Warren(Jane Fonda)who's a witty educated snob and proper like socialite who's uneasy about her ex husband's(the good Alan Alda) new California life. As Hannah wants their daughter to go back with her and her new life on the east coast. This was one interesting segment as the chemistry between Fonda and Alda is top notch.And to round out two Chicago friends a doctor named Gump(the very funny Richard Pryor)and his friend(Bill Cosby)take a trip to California for vacation and both have manners that conflicts with imposing means! Overall well done picture from Neil Simon that's funny with wit and charm showing that life, love, and relationship is drama and a fun challenge of change and time. Really this is one movie to watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"I Don't Have a Lifestyle. I Have a Life.","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" California Suite was written by Neil Simon and, as with most films for which he acted as scriptwriter, it is based on one of his stage plays. The main idea is similar to that in his earlier Plaza Suite, namely that of following the adventures of different guests staying in the same hotel, in this case in Los Angeles. It is a portmanteau film with four separate stories and the hotel providing the one point of contact between them. (An earlier film with a similar premise was The VIPs, based around several groups of travellers passing through Heathrow Airport). Hannah, a New Yorker, has flown out to California to meet her former husband Bill and to discuss the future of their teenage daughter. Diana Barrie, a British actress, and her husband Sidney are in town because she has been nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress. Two doctors from Chicago (with the unlikely names of Dr. Chauncey Gump and Dr. Willis Panama) are on vacation with their wives. And Marvin, a Jewish businessman from Philadelphia, and his wife Millie have come out for their nephew's Bar Mitzvah. The Visitors from Chicago story, by far the weakest of the four, is little more than a not-very-amusing slapstick comedy based around the idea that the four characters, especially the two men, cannot move a hand or a foot without breaking something or injuring themselves. I wondered if the American Medical Association were considering suing Simon for the libellous insinuation that they would grant a licence to practise medicine to two such idiots. The Marvin story is a farce based around Marvin's increasingly desperate attempts to hide from his wife that there is another woman in his hotel room, with whom he spent the previous night. (They were unable to travel together and she flew out a night later to join him). Farce can often be desperately unfunny on screen; the cinema version of No Sex Please, We're British, for example, gives little hint that it was based on one of the most successful West End stage plays of the seventies. Walter Matthau, however, plays Marvin so well (with good support from Elaine May as his wife) that this segment becomes highly entertaining. Simon, of course, is from New York and most of his plays are set in his home city, but here he makes a rare foray to the West Coast. As his fellow New Yorker Woody Allen had done in Annie Hall the previous year, Simon takes the opportunity for some comments on the culture wars between America's Atlantic and Pacific seaboards. Hannah and Bill can be taken as representing the East and West Coast respectively. She is a driven, sharp-tongued, neurotic and workaholic New Yorker, he is a gentler, more laid-back Californian (although possibly an adopted rather than a native son of the Golden State). Jane Fonda (looking even more stunning at the age of 40 than she had done ten years earlier in Barbarella, especially when she gets to frolic on the beach in a bikini) and Alan Alda both play their parts to perfection; she in particular gets to deliver some of Simon's most barbed lines, like I don't have a lifestyle. I have a life. and You're the sort of person who'd solve the world hunger problem by having them all eat out. Preferably in a good Chinese restaurant! I could certainly imagine Allen writing lines like that. The fourth story is a bit more serious. Maggie Smith won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance as Diana, thus going one better than her character, who loses out, and I must say it was well deserved, although she might have faced some stiff competition had Fonda been nominated. (This was the year when Fonda won Best Actress for Coming Home, so I don't suppose she minded too much). This is the most serious of the four stories. Sidney is gay, and he and Diana are in a lavender marriage, possibly a more daring plot line in 1978 than it would be today. Although they love one another in a non- sexual way, Diana has entered into this arrangement because her image as a happily married woman is good for public relations, but Sidney's indiscreet behaviour, however, has started to put this image at risk. Even though she has had a successful stage career, Diana's failure to win the Oscar is a blow to her rather fragile self-esteem, and despite her curious relationship with Sidney she finds herself relying on him for emotional support. Given his normal screen image as a red-blooded ladies' man, Michael Caine might seem an odd choice to play Sidney, but in fact he is very good. Simon's plays can vary in quality when transferred to the screen. For example, Barefoot in the Park (which also starred Fonda, not nearly as good as she is here) today comes across as horribly mannered and dated. California Suite, however, is one of the better ones. One of the weaknesses of the portmanteau form is that it does not allow for the depth of plot and character development which is possible in a film based around a single story. It also has its strengths, however, one of which is its ability to combine various moods in a single film. California Suite is normally categorised as a comedy, and for three- quarters of the time it is, although the tone of the comedy varies from slapstick to farce to verbal wit. In the fourth story, however, it becomes a more serious character study. It enables director Herbert Ross to demonstrate several contrasting styles of film-making, featuring contrasting styles of acting, without the contrasts ever seeming jarring. 7/10, which would have been higher had the Visitors from Chicago story been of similar quality to the others. "},{"Title":"Maggie Smith won her second Oscar but the film is so-so","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Opening credits mingling with British artists David Hockney's artwork, California SUITE has a pleasing promise to be sophisticatedly funny or creatively witty, it is based on Neil Simon's successful play and directed by Herbert Ross in his prime (after THE TURNING POINT and THE GOODBYE GIRL, both in 1977). The film is composed of four independent stories of guests in a hotel, visitors from London are Diana Barrie (Smith), an Oscar nominated British actress attending the ceremony with her bisexual husband Sidney Cochran (Caine); visitor from New York is Hannah Warren (Fonda), who comes to settle a deal with her ex-husband Bill (Alda) about their teenage daughter; visitors from Chicago are two Black couples (Pryor and Cosby with their respective wives) who are on holiday, they cannot refrain from squabbling with each other, it is a disgraceful slapstick; finally, visitors from Philadelphia are Marvin Michaels (Matthau) and his wife Millie (May), they are attending their nephew's Bar Mitzvah, Marvin has a one-night-stand with a prostitute whom his salacious brother sends to him the night before Millie's arrival, the next morning, with the prostitute is unconscious after a Vodka binge, things become difficult for him to cover up. The four stories equally use up their carefully allotted screen-time, and narrated chronically, Smith-Caine and Fonda-Alda's parts are more drama-skewed courtesy to their incessant bickering, while Pryor-Cosby burlesque is almost interpolated like an interlude, and Matthau- May farce is left last with a foolish slant of getting redress for men's adultery with women's consumerism.Dame Maggie Smith won her second Oscar for playing an Oscar loser in the film, what a unique coincidence, her flair never shies away from being ridiculous and vulnerable, but her comical superciliousness does make a great pair with Caine's self-righteous sarcasm, not a worthy win in my book but she and Caine are no doubt the pick in this otherwise lukewarm and patchy flick, it is intriguing to follow their storyline since they are equals in this love battle, unlike Alda and Fonda pair, the ex-husband is eternally subordinate to his condescending ex-wife, and their repartee is intolerably obnoxious, they are not teenagers anymore. A final note, it is quite regrettable to watch two top Black comedians are degraded into a completely stereotyped mockery and the best thing can do is to laugh about it and act as if it has never happened. "}{"Title":"Good actors make it a good movie.","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This Neil Simons adaption is a funny sometimes hilarious piece. The 4 stories handle mainly about misfortune in a Beverly Hills hotel. Funny are especially the last two. In the third story Pryor and Cosby want to settle their difference by playing a tennis double, with their wives, which ends up with a hospital visit. In the last Matthau gets a surprise present (call girl) by his brother, but is not so happy with it, when his wife is showing up. The movie has in my opinion no weak points and has enough alternation. The star-cast with actors like Matthau, Pryor, Caine, Fonda and Alda is a guarantee for quality.     "},{"Title":"Good actors make it a good movie.","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This Neil Simons adaption is a funny sometimes hilarious piece. The 4 stories handle mainly about misfortune in a Beverly Hills hotel. Funny are especially the last two. In the third story Pryor and Cosby want to settle their difference by playing a tennis double, with their wives, which ends up with a hospital visit. In the last Matthau gets a surprise present (call girl) by his brother, but is not so happy with it, when his wife is showing up. The movie has in my opinion no weak points and has enough alternation. The star-cast with actors like Matthau, Pryor, Caine, Fonda and Alda is a guarantee for quality.     "},{"Title":"Press the fast forward","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those classic films labelled by some as amazing. I find the film indulgent, slow & tedious & incredibly annoying. All that whining and complaining and nasty back & forward sparring. If you can't find enough of that in the world already, then watch the movie. But if you are looking for a movie that will lift your spirits and not stress you out, avoid at all costs. I can say that comedy has evolved a lot since this period. Another reviewer criticised the portrayal of African Americans- valid point. But basically it just has this juvenile quality about it, a bunch of spoilt western prats who should know better. Towards the last half hour I found myself using the fast forward button "},{"Title":"Under that warm (or frigid) California sun...","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" According to what I've heard, Neil Simon's work is usually so-so, but California Suite provides a fair share of laughs. This look at four groups of people staying in an LA hotel is likely to give anyone a love-hate relationship with California.Anyway, here's the lowdown Hannah Warren (Jane Fonda) and ex-husband Bill (Alan Alda) are meeting for the first time in nine years; that segment was pretty low-key, barely a comedy. Diana Barrie (Maggie Smith) is a stuffy British actress who takes everything out on husband Sidney Cochran (Michael Caine); Smith and Caine have a great time with the material. Marvin Michaels (Walter Matthau) has a hell of a time trying to hide his shenanigans from wife Millie (Elaine May); that segment really gives you an Oh no...oh yes feeling. Finally, Drs. Chauncey Gump (Richard Pryor) and Willis Panama (Bill Cosby) really begin to get on each other's nerves; Pryor makes some great faces.Just one thing I wish that Richard Pryor and Maggie Smith could have shared a scene; that would have made for some great dialogue. "},{"Title":"Redeems itself at the end.","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Four different episodes, written by Neil Simon, and set in the Beverly Hills Hotel, are presented in this movie. Perhaps it would've been more efficient if they were consecutively shown in their entirety, but they are intercut with each other, which only makes the film feel choppy and uneven (the intercutting is not very smooth). It's true that many of the lines have wit, but you also can't overlook that they're unnaturally fast, that they're almost never believable as words coming out of the mouths of normal people. And to top all that, the movie begins with its least successful story, about the divorced-but-still-bantering Alan Alda-Jane Fonda couple, in which Fonda's character is made to be very, very unlikable. At least they saved the best for (almost) last Walter Matthau's story is pretty funny, as he tries to hide a sleeping prostitute from his unsuspecting wife, and as the wife Elaine May gives an outstanding, underrated performance. Of course, Michael Caine is good, too.    (**1/2)   "},{"Title":"Maggie Won For Losing","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Is there a special category for movies that are junk but contain some great stuff?  The goods are delivered by Maggie Smith as a British actress who couldn't be bothered to go to the Academy Awards, and who doesn't win, and has a lousy night besides.  She makes the movie memorable - were there any other actors?   "},{"Title":"Hilarious and true to life","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As always, Neil Simon's work is hilarious and true to life.The best stories for me were the ones involving Alan Alda and Jane Fonda as a divorced couple coming to an agreement over their daughter (the late Dana Plato) and, Maggie Smith as an English actress and Michael Caine as her husband.The scenes featuring Walter Matthau and Elaine May and the story revolving around Richard Pryor's and Bill Cosby's characters have more of a slapstick element to them.    "},{"Title":"Un-Entertaining from Beginning to End","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jane Fonda plays a full-on, complete bitch in this movie. Which makes sense, since she is in real life! Yes, her hatred of our soldiers and her siding with the vicious North Vietnamese has made it so my stomach completely turns just at the sight of her.But, Hollywood loves Fonda to death since she strongly reflects their values, such as they are. Also, the film offers a benefit for Cosby haters. They will enjoy screaming at the TV whenever he appears! Alan Alda does his routine Alan Alda routine. Herb Edelman plays a seriously creepy, almost-borderline-pedophiliac guy in a track suit. Maggie Smith ironically plays an actress worrying about winning an Oscar, where she herself won an Oscar for being in this movie. Her performance is routine, but maybe 1978 was a slow year in her category.Having a jazz score is a good idea, but it's more maudlin smooth jazz that belongs on Muzak than in a movie. Everything else in the movie is routine.As with most of Neil Simon's work, there are few laughs. I only laughed during Walter Matthau's segment. And, that is because of Matthau being great, not because of Simon. The Pryor/Cosby segment is embarrassing, to put it mildly.This Ken Levine dude on Turner Classic Movies (TCM), here in the United States, introduced this and other Neil Simon movies this month. He was a writer on M*A*S*H, no not Robert Altman's classic, but the TV series that Altman absolutely hated! That this introducer guy considers Simon great shows what his taste in comedy is! Luckily, this film isn't as flat-out awful as Come Blow Your Horn the 1963 absolute misfire with Frank Sinatra and Tony Bill.California Suite is un-entertaining from beginning to end. Watch it, if you like that kind of thing!*** (3 Out of 10 Stars) "},{"Title":"Humorless script, overwrought acting, a severe trial for the audience","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Many IMDb reviewers have expressed fondness for this movie, most with a few caveats. It's not surprising to me that others like it and I don't. What's surprising is that those who do like it seem to care about the same things I do - script, acting, story, emotional impact - yet come to the exact opposite conclusion that I do in evaluating each element.I didn't see this movie when it came out, and that may be a key point. I'm old enough to remember still loving Alan Alda and everything he did at the time California Suite was made. Maybe if I had seen it then, I would have been impressed by the verbal back-and-forth between Alda and Jane Fonda, or by the inclusion of Cosby and Pryor as unexpected African American professionals, or maybe even by the near coming-to-grips with queer politics in the Maggie Smith/Michael Caine scenes. At the age I was then, I also found Walter Matthau almost irresistibly funny.But here's the thing. I'm also old enough to remember when I began to find Alan Alda characters, both as they were written and as he played them, excruciatingly self-indulgent, insufferably self-righteous, and generally in love with the sound of their own voice, with the net effect that they couldn't genuinely connect with anyone around them and didn't seem to care. Where could you find the quintessential, I'm-so-sensitive Alan Alda character of the 70's and 80's? Staking out the moral high ground, while snidely pointing out how no one else was joining him.That's the case here. He chews through Neil Simon's contrived and repetitive dialog with an everything-but-the-kitchen-sink smugness as if he's actually rendering astute, bullet point observations about Jane Fonda's character, or about the mature life choices he's made, and the epiphanies he's had. He's not. And neither is anyone else in this movie.Nevertheless, Jane picks up her flint, sharpens the edge and away we go, because that's what you do in a Neil Simon comedy. Except that no one goes anywhere. The script is so lacking in insight that waiting for these two to finish a scene, put down their tools, and go collect their checks takes a numbing eternity. With so many salvos fired, there should be some colorful bursts, but every one is a dud.Neither actor manages to pitch their lines with a single, convincing feeling, let alone build toward an emotional climax. The script simply doesn't provide one. So jarring in fact, is the why-not-here/how-about-there raising of their voices, that it brings to mind wartime speeches read aloud by captives. A few awkward cadences and over-emphasized words lets the home folks know they don't mean it. A rich irony indeed for Jane Fonda. Walter Matthau, I'm sorry to say, is just irritating. Even he can't redeem a trite, horrifying attempt at sexual comedy, without the sex, that would have been unworthy of a two-minute sketch on the Carole Burnett show. He deserved better. The late seventies were his salad days, when his gruff, call-my-bluff-if-you-dare persona usually generated laughs. Yet here is, downsized to a cloying, simpering imitation of someone funny that 1978 audiences no doubt expected to hit it out of the park. He tries everything but registering a complaint. I would have forgiven him for saying look, I'm usually good at this stuff, you know I am, but I got nothing to work with here.And don't get me started on Cosby and Pryor. From an inspired decision to write them as doctors, to a miserable, when-will-it-end insult to the audience, these two wasted talents are reduced to stumbling around in a dance macabre that the Three Stooges would have lent more dignity. It's as if the audience is being asked to laugh at a nasty, open secret see, we let them play against race as urban sophisticates, but it's obvious what they're best at. Except it's not.Smith and Caine? Maggie manages what no one else does in this film, which is to draw us in, swinging deftly between rage and vulnerability. She occupies the only breathing space in the whole film. She's given little to do really, but succeeds well enough to be awarded that Hollywood staple, the make-up Oscar for having been ignored in the Prime of Miss Jean Brodie. Michael Caine plays her bored, gay husband with as much restraint as possible, but even he can't overcome the cluttered, too-clever-by-half lines Simon has written.All in all, California Suite is an obnoxious experience, fatally lacking in wit. Bloated scene after bloated scene simply collapses under too many lines with too little substance. Almost everyone involved should have known better, and has done much better on other projects. For Neil Simon, it's as if he knew none of it was sticking, so he just kept throwing more spaghetti at the wall. "},{"Title":"I'm surprised at how much I didn't like it.","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe it's just me.  I found many other Simon works absolutely hilarious Seems Like Old Times, Plaza Suite, both Odd Couples, Barefoot in the Park.... I could go on and on. This one seemed so dry and tedious.  There were a few moments that brought a smile, but the overall pace was not enjoyable.  Not sure if it was the script, casting or directing.  It stunned me how little I enjoyed this film.  Give me The Cheap Detective or Murder By Death any time.  Sorry, Neil. This one didn't do it. "}{"Title":"Horrible Writing","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wait, Neil Simon is supposed to be a good writer? Uh, what? This film has some of the worst dialog I have ever heard in a film. And it reflects poorly on Mr. Simon. Anyone who thinks people talk like the poorly executed characters in this film is either a hermit who hasn't had a conversation with someone besides himself in many years or just a damn nerd. The film is advertised as being a fun ensemble comedy, what with the fanciful DVD cover portraying an excellent cast all jivin' and groovin' together. The opening scenes get you interested, with all these interesting characters converging at a fancy hotel. From there the movie spirals downward, with Commie-sympathizer Jane Fonda and Alan Alda in a severely boring and poorly written post divorce argument. After that we get to see the immense talents of Cosby, Pryor and Michael Caine wasted on substandard material. The only reason this film gets a 3 and not a 1 (or a Zero) is Walter Matthau's hilarious performance. Matthau is so naturally funny that he can breathe life into this dead and bloated script. And even the Matthau segment is horribly resolved. This is a terrible film, and a massive waste of many great acting talents. I'm convinced that Neil Simon stole The Odd Couple script from someone else. I can't believe that the same person responsible for that classic could write something so horrendous as this clunker. "},{"Title":"A lame comedy and so-so drama with big names","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't go to movies often in the 1970s when raising my family. Of course, I took my oldest three children to see the first Star Wars flick, Episode IV &#x96; a New Hope, when it came out in 1977. I had seen parts of California Suite in the past &#x96; probably late night TV or something. So, I finally watched this recently on DVD. If most of the 1970s film fodder was like this, I can see that I didn't miss much. (I have watched a few 1970s films that I think are quite good). As a comedy, which I understand it mostly was supposed to be, California Suite fails miserably. The only laughter we get is from Bill Cosby and Richard Pryor. They are two doctors, Willis Panama and Chauncey Gump, who are in-laws and supposedly good friends. They are on a vacation together with their wives, and butt heads throughout in some very funny slapstick scenes. The dramatic and slightly comedic witty part of the film is taken up with Maggie Smith and Michael Caine, both of whom give excellent performances. Smith won her second Oscar playing Diana Barrie, a British actress who was nominated for an Academy Award in the movie. Caine is her husband, Sidney Cochran. Smith's Oscar was one of three nominations the film got, and it's curious that she was best supporting actress to Jane Fonda's Hannah Warren. The two seemed to have the same screen time. Fonda plays opposite Alan Alda as Bill Warren, but he has very few lines. Her part is mostly a running diatribe against everything. First, her ex-husband Bill; second, California and its lifestyle; and third, anything and everything else that comes to mind after that. I'm sure that Neil Simon wanted this to be a funny part in his screenplay, but neither actor does well in their respective roles. Alda is a bland wall off which Fonda's character can bounce her vitriol at break neck speed. Fonda delivers her lines like a robot &#x96; just seemingly spewing some lines she has learned. There's no emotion or even fluctuation in her voice. On the other hand, Simon was a clever writer. So I wonder if maybe he didn't intend her character to come across the way I saw her. She was definitely an itch in the film, and with a b in front of the word, one will have her character down pat. Walter Matthau is OK as Marvin Michaels. We don't see much of his scandal, but his scenes were as much pathos as comedy. Elaine May, who plays his wife Millie, was an interesting role to put in this film. But, I'm glad Simon did it, because we seldom see such characters in movies. She is a character with great character. She knows he's telling the truth when he says he would never do anything to hurt her, and that he loves her. She has the wisdom, and the love and understanding that transcend 90 percent of us most of the time. There would be no sense, no value, and no good in her dumping her husband and fighting him in court. Instead, she can forgive him. I wonder why Hollywood so rarely shows something like this. I sat through this film, expecting that it would get better, but it didn't. The short part with Matthau and May was good, Cosby and Pryor gave some laughs, and Smith and Caine were interesting and very good. All the rest was pretty dismal. "},{"Title":"Simon on low wattage","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I generally enjoyed plays written by Neil Simon many of which were turned into films. California Suite is a disappointment where the writing is not as sharp and the directing is poor.We have for separate stories of guests staying at the same hotel during Oscar week.Jane Fonda plays a New Yorker who arrives to California to meet her ex-husband Alan Alda now living a healthy and sunny life to discuss the living arrangements for their 17 year old daughter. Fonda is catty and brittle and it was the story I liked best but it was over too soon. The fault lies with the director for not pacing the four stories sufficiently.Maggie Smith won an Oscar for playing an Oscar nominee who is rather nervous and tense at the night of the ceremony and takes it out on her bi-sexual husband, Michael Caine. Smith has low self esteem and it seems the marriage is one of convenience but Smith relies on Caine who is there to provide her with emotional support.Bill Cosby and Richard Pryor are two feuding doctors vacationing with their wives and a mix up with the booking at the hotel means they spend even more time arguing with slapstick results.Walter Matthau plays a businessman who has arrived for a Bat-Mitzvah and whose sex mad brother has hooked him up with a prostitute who is still drunk in the hotel bedroom when his wife arrives.Simon like Woody Allen is an archetypical New Yorker. This is a foray to the west coast of the USA allowing him to make comments of Californian lifestyle. The opening titles start with paintings of David Hockney. The Fonda/Alda segment mixed with that of Caine/Smith gives the film a strong start.Fonda oozes cold sexuality as she mixes acerbic barbs with her former husband. The scenes with her in a bikini will certainly make temperatures rise.The Cosby/Pryor part seemed daring for the time as we have major black characters playing doctors living in a swanky hotel but the story looked rather pointless.I was also unmoved with the Matthau/May story as he tries to divert his wife from seeing the drunk hooker.What may had looked good on stage has not transferred well on the screen and now looks dated. "},{"Title":"Who Knew Hotels Could Be This Funny?","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like a fine wine, this movie improved as it progressed.  I didn't particularly like the first plot involving Alan Alda and Jane Fonda playing a divorced couple with a custody battle, but Maggie Smith and Michael Caine were funny, Richard Pryor and Bill Cosby were hysterical, and Walter Matthau and Elaine May were downright hilarious!  Chez3 from Chicago has already written most of what I wanted to say, but the ladies should take note of Elaine May's performance next time they find their husband in a hotel room enjoying his present from his brother, which happens to be a hooker.  It's simple.  Good acting and good writing usually produce good movies.  "},{"Title":"California Suite","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Smith, Caine and Matthau are the best thing in this cute version of the so-so play by Neil Simon. Smith won an Oscar for playing for an actress who has just lost an Oscar. Caine plays her snide, gay husband. Only Fonda seems strained in the picture. She pushes the comedy too much, as if she was playing for the laughs of the camera crew rather than for our benefit. Alda adds his usual sarcastic tone to the piece. I think he mastered the art of sarcasm by this point. Cosby and Pryor are okay, but it's the scene that's flawed. The film as a whole doesn't work for me, but at least it's not dated, like Simon's Plaza Suite. "},{"Title":"Funny at times - Too serious at others","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If California Suite had maintained its tone throughout it may have been a small masterpiece. Instead it's all over the map requiring the viewer to turn on and shut off our feelings every time the director's whim calls for him to cut from story to story.Story one involves Alan Alda and Jane Fonda as a divorced couple fighting over the visitation of their daughter. It's a well acted piece that is, at times, humorous and other times is very serious. Should have toned down the seriousness or eliminated the comedy all together.Story two involves Maggie Smith coming to the Oscars as a nominee with Michael Caine, her gay escort whom she loves. This one is also deadly serious with hints of humor. Again, well acted but neither story fits the movie - especially written by Neil Simon.Story three is with Bill Cosby and Richard Pryor as husbands on vacation with the wives. It all goes terribly wrong with very funny results.Story four stars Walter Matthau as a man visiting for his nephew's bar mitzvah and is given a present, by his brother, of a hooker. He wakes up the next morning to find her passed out from drinking and has a hard time reviving her. Then his WIFE shows up. This, too, is very funny.So, getting thru the first two stories is easy. Just admire the good acting. But it's the last two stories that provide the laughs.  "},{"Title":"An abominable bore","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For this to have been a comedy, I sure found nothing humorous about it. For it to have had the big name comics in it, I found few laughs. It was one of those films that I thought would never end, as a bunch of folks ran around doing stupid things in an upscale hotel. Pitiful, thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Neil Simon usually manages to write some pretty funny movies and this one still holds up well despite the uneven tone of its four storylines.  The first story involving Alan Alda and Jane Fonda as a divorced couple arguing over custody of their daughter is the most hard-edged one and for a political conservative like myself who thinks Jane Fonda committed treason in North Vietnam, has two other things going for it.  One, Fonda shows off her magnificent body for the first time since Barbarella and two, without her realizing it, her character is almost a perfect caricature of what she herself became in the 1970s when she got into political activism.  The rest of the stories are fine in their own right too.  The Cosby-Pryor segment has often been derided for its slapstick content, but the two of them manage to make it quite funny. "}]