[{"Title":"Tough","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"31 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Three workers in a car plant take it onto themselves to rob the safe of their Union office.  They come away with only $600 but they find themselves with information that they can use to blackmail the union.  However the union plans to kill the men and turn them against each other.From the writer of Taxi Driver comes this tough little social piece about how the working man is screwed by the `system'.  The plot follows three men trying to make out (admittedly illegally) and the way the system uses them against each other etc to shut them up.  The plot is very clever and the writing is superb.Pryor is great &#150; he could have been his comedy self but his acting is really sublime.  Likewise Keitel and Kotto are on top form and the support from Begley et al is really good.  The film will engross you and the final shot and line will stay with you for years.Overall &#150; an underrated classic that deserves as many viewers as possible. "},{"Title":"A seriously underrated movie. One of the last Hollywood movies exploring the lives of the working class.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"27 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Paul Schrader is often overshadowed by his more famous collaborator Martin Scorsese, which is a shame, because despite Schrader's own movies being wildly uneven, when they are good they are very good indeed. 'Blue Collar' is one of his very best works. A funny, sad and powerful look at three working class guys in a Detroit car factory, it is one of the last Hollywood movies to seriously look at your average working joe and the problems he faces on a daily basis. The three leads are all wonderful, and despite rumoured off screen problems, show a lot of genuine rapport and comaraderie.  Harvey Keitel ('Mean Streets', 'Bad Lieutenant') is one of the finest actors of his generation, and Yaphet Koto ('Alien', 'Live And Let Die') is a well respected character actor, but the revelation here is funny man Richard Pryor ('Silver Streak') who displays a depth of talent few would have thought him capable of. The three buddies are joined by a first class supporting cast including Lane Smith ('Over The Edge'), Cliff De Young ('The Hunger') and George Memmoli ('The Phantom Of The Paradise'). Also keep an eye out for a brief cameo by future 'Repo Man' star Tracey Walter, who Schrader also used in a bit part in his next movie 'Hardcore'. 'Blue Collar' is a fine movie, one of the most underrated of the 1970s, and still relevant and powerful twenty five years later. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Memorable film","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Certain films remain at the back of one's mind for many years. The first time I saw the film, on television, I was impressed by the realism of the situation and honesty of acting. The film is enhanced by the driving power of the theme music. Years later, I again saw the film on television and was reminded of it and how good it is. The lead actors, Yaphet Koto, Harvey Keitel and Richard Prior, must have enjoyed much critical acclaim from fellow actors for their performances. I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good story without too obvious predictability and easy options, especially those who think that all American movies are romanticism floss. "},{"Title":"An unjustly overlooked classic!","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film.  I knew little about it going in, other than it was supposed to be a very well done, searing drama (this according to several film books, including Leonard Maltin's yearly tomes).  I was not disappointed.  Paul Schrader - writer of Taxi Driver, Raging Bull, and writer/director of Affliction - delivers yet another gritty, working-class drama.  But the film is not without liberal doses of humor, provided chiefly by Richard Pryor in what I consider to be the best performance of his career.  C'mon, people!  How can you go wrong with Pryor, Harvey Keitel, and Yaphet Kotto (answer you can't).  The films hooks you right from the great opening credit sequence and doesn't let go 'til the final freeze-frame.  I won't give the twists and turns of the plot away, but the film centers on three desperate Detroit auto workers and their corrupt union.  It's very disappointing this film is so overlooked today (it also flopped when released)... the level of acting and direction (this was Schrader's directorial debut) is astonishing.  See this movie! "},{"Title":"It's Well Worth Your Time.","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Excellent urban drama depicting the lives of three friends who work at a car plant, and plan revenge on their boss.  Pryor is great in the lead role, which is probably his best performance in a movie.  Schrader does a fine job in his directorial debut and makes this film a pure enjoyment.  Bravo for Keitel and Kotto in their supporting roles.  A highly underrated film that deserves much better than it got.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Watch this movie","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I first caught sight of this at 1am, in the usual late night films that normally send you straight off to sleep. Not this film. I was still awake at 2.30 when it ended.Richard Pryor deserves more credit for this role than he has received. By that I mean he's received no credit for a great performance and just shows that the man had more talent than was given credit. I urge any person thinking of a union career to watch this and then do the opposite of the characters.A gritty union drama that you can't stop watching from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Pryor does his thing.","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I was extremely impressed with the acting of the 3 main characters(Pryor, Kotto, and Keitel). Since I grew up in Detroit and my Dad and uncles worked for the big 3 the Auto Industry angle caught me. In the scene where Keitel was on the Belle Isle Bridge, I spotted in the background the Uniroyal Tire Company, where my Grandad worked for over 40 years. Yet Pryor's performance was terrific. The scene with the IRS agent was CLASSIC and a perfect example of blending comedy into a not so funny situation for Zeke's somewhat straight character. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and seeing some old landmarks and areas the way they were was a treat. "},{"Title":"Great debut film from Paul Schrader as a director","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Blue Collar opens with a masterful title sequence which introduces us, quickly and effectively, to the harsh world our characters reside in and to the nature of the conditions in the factory they work in. The opening sequence is set to Jack Nitzsche's Hard Workin' Man, introducing blues music to us right off the bat, music that not only makes up basically all of the music in this film but can be seen as a motif or even a character in the film. It's amazing how confident and mature Paul Schrader is as a director at this point. Of course, Schrader had already written the massively acclaimed Taxi Driver by 1978, but contrary to what one might expect it's his confident and sure handling of the pace and mood in Blue Collar that is truly the highlight of the film, not the screenplay penned by Paul and Leonard Schrader, granted the screenplay is in itself quite terrific. Schrader is already a mature director who understands the rhythm of a film.Going back to the use of music in this film, it isn't so much the score itself by Jack Nitzsche (which is, don't get me wrong, solid blues) that's impressive, it's Schrader's handling of the music and sound in general in this film that makes it work so well. First off, the choice to go with a blues score is inspired in itself, as the nature of the music so perfectly captures what these characters are going through. In addition, the score is most noticeable during scenes where the film appears to be commenting on the futility of the characters' struggle and the misery of what they're going through. Where many films would use music to 'enhance' big, dramatic scenes, Schrader's Blue Collar makes the wise decision to use it during low-key scenes. There are several scenes that don't feature any music at all, these being some of the more important scenes. Note the scene where Smokey gets trapped in the paint room, absolutely no music, just the cold sound of the machinery (expertly mixed, might I add), which is far creepier and more effective than any score could be at that point. Similar use of sound occurs a few minutes before the end when Harvey Keitel's character Jerry is being chased.The acting here is uniformly superb with Keitel possibly giving his best performance (or at least one of them), and Richard Pryor offering what must be recognized as one of the finest performances of the 70's by anyone. Really, who knew Pryor had this sort of skill when it comes to dramatic acting? Yapphet Koto, a beloved character actor, does a fine job in rounding out the cast for the main three characters. Again, Schrader must be credited for directing his actors so well. It's well-known, of course, that the three leads hated each other and actually broke out in fistfights between takes on occasion. Perhaps that created a sort of demented chemistry between them.The screenplay by Schrader and Schrader (Paul and Leonard) is a fine, fine piece of writing, sort of the daytime factory-worker version of the crude-yet-poetic Taxi Driver screenplay. Oddly enough, it's also the source of the few major flaws in this film, as it can come across as fairly heavy-handed in certain scenes. If there's one thing I'd definitely do differently with this film, it's the final shot, which would have been terrific had this been a comedy.All in all, a great film in its own right and especially impressive as a directorial debut from Schrader. Very memorable.9/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining drama, one of the best of the 70's dramas","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Blue Collar is a breakthrough for writer Paul Schrader as a director, but also for comedian/actor Richard Pryor.  Before this, he was known for his stand-up, co-writing for Blazing Saddles and once in a while comic acting role, but here he shows his true colors of being an exceptional actor of talent.  Here, he plays one of 3 auto workers (including great performances by Harvey Keitel and Yaphey Kotto) who are tired of getting ripped off by there company and (surprisingly) there union.  So, they fight back, with some bad results.  The plot is unfolding, which helps, but it is overall the performances by the 3 leads that give this film it's gigantic kick (and what a kick).  Most likely filmaker Michael Moore's favorite film ever made, but for other people it is entertaining drama nevertheless.  A+ "},{"Title":"It's bang on.","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Ever worked in a sh***y car factory?Ever been on strike?Ever been f***ed over by your boss AND your union?No?Well,writing as someone who has experienced all the former,let me tell you that BLUE COLLAR is the truest story of car making,sweat drippin',metal bashing,production line workin' anger your gonna see.I'm writing this 28 years after its making,and I can honestly say that at no time before have I ever seen the frustration of working class men so accurately and painfully displayed.I find it hard to comment on this film objectively,because,as I have said,I've witnessed it for 11 years.From coffee machines stealing money and ball breaking foremen,to friendships destroyed over ambition and men pushed to breaking point,this film is a true reflection of life on the Track. For most it will be gritty drama,for others it will be all too familiar... "}{"Title":"Powerhouse Drama","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Blue Collar is a simple story masterfully told by co-writer/director Paul Schrader. This dramatic tale tells the story of 3 union auto workers tired of the constant screwing they get from their union. Each man is a hard worker with troubles outside of work to deal with.Richard Pryor, in easily his best performance, plays a man in trouble with the IRS. He's been claiming more dependents on his taxes then actual kids he really has and now they have caught up to him. At work he has a defective locker that continually cuts his hand when he fights with it. One of the key scenes in the movie is when he goes to his union president who fakes a phone call to the union rep about getting the locker fixed. The message is clear The union could care less about its workers.Harvey Keitel is a man with his own problems. His daughter is in such need of braces which he can't afford, one day she tries to put some metal in her mouth herself. And Yaphet Kotto, in a performance that should have merited Oscar consideration, plays a streetwise bad-ass who lives check to check spending money on booze, drugs and women.One day the three men decide to rob the union safe but end up getting hold of some important information that, if made public, could bring the union down. Soon union thugs and the FBI will become involved. That's as far as I will go with the plot. One of the joys is watching the plot unfold as these three men realize they have gotten in WAY over their heads with something that seemed so simple to begin with. Credit again must fall to director Schrader for keeping things moving and showing a realistic way of life as an auto worker. Every time we are in the plant Schrader blasts the soundtrack with pulsating music. Each man's home life is realistically depicted and the ultimate fate of each man is real and totally believable.I only have one quibble with this superb but sadly overlooked classic. The final shot is a bit heavy handed and much too abrupt. The film should and could have gone on another ten minutes. Endings seem to be Schrader's Achilles heel as he has the same problem with his equally superb and powerful Hardcore which was made the next year. It's ending is much too abrupt and totally unsatisfying as well. But that aside, Blue Collar is a film to be seen. Pryor is magnificent in his first major leading dramatic role. I wish he had done more of a mix of comedic and dramatic performances throughout his career because, as proved here, he was certainly up to the task. Keitel and Kotto are equally as fine as Pryor. A great film that deserves to be seen. "},{"Title":"Forgotten Film","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I happened to catch this on TV not even knowing of the film's existence. I was amazed that, over time, no one has ever referenced this truly outstanding film from a decade of outstanding films. Without going into too much detail, the film deals with the everyday problems and issues of three Detroit auto assembly line workers. Everything about the film is outstanding from the score (done by Jack Nietsche who worked with The Rolling Stones in their heyday), to the script (which I read was based on an article in Time Magazine), to the acting. Richard Pryor especially shines in a performance that is both funny and heartbreaking. I'd never known that he dabbled in dramatic acting before until I read an article in Entertainment Weekly that listed his performance as one of the best to never be nominated. And that's how I first stumbled upon this film. It's kind of tough to find at the local video store but if you are a fan of Paul Schrader's work and like to see a stylish and socially conscious film, (for the times at least) than check it out.  "},{"Title":"Richard Pryor Proves That He Can Be A Fine Dramatic Actor","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This 1978 Universal release is one of raunchy comedian Richard Pryor's best films and it's a highly serious drama. Pryor successfully goes for a major change of pace in this tale of a trio of auto assembly workers (Pryor, Harvey Keitel, Yaphet Kotto) who are all having some major home, work and family problems and how they decide to solve them by developing a scheme to rob the union for which they work. When they put their plan to work, things eventually go from bad to worse. It may sound like a crime comedy caper with Pryor portraying his usual con man role but it's far more serious than that and Pryor proves that he doesn't have to get laughs in order to deliver a good film performance. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow. This is a very powerful, disturbing look at lower middle class America and what people are willing to do for their families.  Powerful performances by all; Pryor, Keitel, and Kotto.  This movie is not for the faint of heart. "},{"Title":"A true hidden gem -- My #1","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've come across only a handful of people who have ever heard of this film, yet every review I've ever seen gives it at least three and a half stars, and it is listed #4 on Gene Siskel's top ten movies for 1977.Anyone who has ever wondered What is all of this getting me? cannot help but identify with these three, who, despite working hard 40+ hours per week, seem to be taking three steps back for every step forward. Richard Pryor is incredible as one of the three leads -- it makes you think his straight acting could have really developed into something special had his fortunes taken a different turn. Keitel and Kotto are both excellent, as always, and the soundtrack is a blues treat. The ending is an all-to-realistic downer that puts an exclamation point on the desparation of the story's characters.Most of the men to whom I've recommended this film have come away raving about it, while women by and large hate it.  I've believe that BLUE COLLAR is very much the male version of the stereotyped chick flick -- these three put their inner pressures and anxieties on display, take steps to deal with them, and are ultimately beaten down by forces greater than themselves. It's not an easy reality to swallow. "},{"Title":"A Pleasure and a Prosecution","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The world is represented to us through stories from parents, books, friends, conversations, groups at school, around the playground. Not all of our stories explain the world, but provide us with an easy, unconscious, involving way of making sense of it, sharing that with others. Its universality underlines its intrinsic place in human communication. This is why stories should be personal, tell the truth, and few narrative films have ever been as penetrating about how the working classes are manipulated by the system, or as affecting, especially in the grim results of each man being pitted against the other by corporate and governmental pressures, as Paul Schrader's Blue Collar, a pure rush of aggressive humor, relentless dramatic turns and real-world atmosphere.Schrader's known best for his work collaborating as screenwriter on many of Scorsese's most poignant films. If you watch Blue Collar expecting a Scorsese-style film, depending on your reading of Scorsese's work---and a wide array of certain men respond deeply to it---you'll be charmed in somewhat the same way. Schrader at the wheel, however, holds shots much longer, his compositions much wider, which could be attributed to his influence by Ozu. His editing style is less restless, but more direct The coming shift shows up. Soundtrack music of hammering insistence, steering the force of the machines stamping out car doors. And somewhat like a Scorsese film, but in a more straightforward, cut-and-dried way, the images are cut to the music. The camera brings us into the innards of an automobile factory, close enough to virtually smell the perspiration, squint our eyes against the sparks from welding torches. Blue Collar's about life on the Detroit production conveyors, about how it makes men weary, confines them to a permanent deferred credit arrangement. It's a bitter, firebrand-progressive movie about the Venus flytrap ensnaring workers between the big industry and big labor that digest them. Three workers, pals on and off the job, are each no better or worse off than the other. They work, drink afterward in the neighboring bar, go home to mortgages, bills, kids who need braces. One day they get sick and tired enough to decide to rob the office safe of their own union. What they find there's merely a few hundred bucks, and a ledger that looks to include the details of illegal loans.They're played by Richard Pryor, Harvey Keitel and the under-appreciated Yaphet Kotto. They're all three in top form. Apparently according to Schrader, none of the them got along during production. Fistfights between takes were not uncommon. Nevertheless, Pryor, especially, is a wake-up call He's been engaging in a lot of movies, though pretty much invariably as himself, his smooth tongue doggedly in cheek, running comic variations on the gist of his dialogue. This time, harnessed by Schrader, he unleashes a taut, persuasive performance as a family man, his dressing-down of a union rep and an exchange with an IRS agent definite masterstrokes. Kotto plays his opposite, an ex-con who throws all-night parties comprised of sex, booze and weed. Keitel is their white friend, constantly behind on his loan payments, who comes home one day to see that his daughter's attempted to curve paper clips over her teeth to make her friends at school think she's got the braces she should have.Schrader goes for a comfortably crude humor in their scenes The movie's at ease with itself; we get the exact nature, characteristics of their community. We get their friendship, too, which confronts what the movie tempestuously and very very directly indicts That trade federations and corporate management both implicitly work to set the wealthy against the underprivileged, black against white, old against young, to divide and conquer.The heist originates naively enough when Pryor orders that his locker be fixed. The union reps (one played by fine character actor Lane Smith) are apathetic towards Pryor and virtually everybody else. So Pryor barges into the office of the grizzled Santa Claus-looking union head who was a rebellious progressive himself, once, decades ago. And as the refined politician's handing him all sorts of subterfuge, Pryor sees the office safe, becomes inspired. The larceny itself strikes the right pitch between potboiler and in some sense a silent farce. Then, the movie's rage starts to broil. When the threesome find that the ledger may be worth more than the money, they're divided between using it for blackmail, or revealing the skimming of their own union. Schrader slowly unravels his complete picture in the second half A hearty, flourishing camaraderie abruptly embitters. The system deepens divides between them, as Pryor's furnished with a union job proposal, Keitel becomes an FBI rat, Kotto evinced to have little to no use for the capitalist machine in a scene of shocking, agonizing voltage.It took a lot of balls to make Blue Collar, particularly to track its turning points through to their inexorable outcome. It could've backpedaled in its last half hour, given us an easy, tried-and-true Hollywood finish. This isn't a liberal film but a radical one, one I'd bet a slew of assembly-line workers might see with a jolt of acknowledgement. It also took a particular cinematic penchant to make it flourish with equal banter, compassion, and tension. It's both pleasure and prosecution, functioning equally well in its humanistic layers as with its concepts. After penning Pollack's The Yakuza, Scorsese's Taxi Driver, De Palma's Obsession, Schrader was able to summon that he helm his own material, and Blue Collar is an impressive, surprising launch, taking risks and succeeding with them. "},{"Title":"Should be mandatory viewing.","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is an informing of the methods. It's NOT just about union corruption, because the company is at the core of the corruption. It is comparable to the more recent movie Devil's Advocate with Al Pacino as the Devil and Keanu Reeves as his young protégé. The Devil ultimately entraps the young lawyer and like all cases of entrapment by the devil, the devil can not do it unless the victim goes of their own free will. Keanu Reeves character protests angrily and insists that he's not a bad person. Then the devil replays every instance where he TOLD him to drop the case because the client was guilty....he TOLD him to go home to his wife. Of course in each instance he was weak and gave in to evil of his own free will. Blue Collar is EXACTLY the same morality play. It is up to the workers to get involved in their union in a responsible way. It is up to THEM to keep it honest. It is up to THEM to go home to their wives instead of staying out. The corrupt union rep TOLD them to do the right thing...before he offered them corruption. In the end, they did it all themselves...with a little help. The cryptic message at the end summarizes it all and makes it clear that we are being kept at each other's throats and enticed into acting immorally, but how it is our own weakness that plays into the hands of those with evil intentions. But you must watch until the very end...until the message plays. As one commenter said, under-rated film. It's a must see. "},{"Title":"Rare American kitchen sink drama that hits its targets.","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Factory workers find that their union is cheating them so decide to get their own back..If you thought that only the Europeans could make down-to-earth drama that entertains rather than preaches then take a look at this product and then Fat City - both great views of the American working class finding that the money goes out faster than it comes in!This lives on good acting and all three co-leads are great. Prior is underrated as a straight actor, indeed his stage act is proof that he can convey emotion with a gesture or expression better than many can with a costume and make-up. While very ill today, he was, in his prime, probably one the best stage comedian's ever and the most brutally honest. While many might take this is an anti union film, it is actually very moral in that is shows all sides of the argument as not beyond graft. Be it moral or financial. Indeed you might be confused about the purpose of the film and consider it has too much padding and the central revenge theme is put to one side for jokes, sex and in-fighting. But without  this the product would fail to seem real and down-to-earth.While praising it as a film and for its honesty, integrity and believability I can only mark it a seven because it doesn't set its sights higher than taking an honest and cold look at working class lives and, although I can't put my finger on it, needs something else to make it special.  "},{"Title":"Overlooked gem","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" How many times can one film be reffered to as underrated here on IMDb? In the case of this film it can't be said enough. This is the kind of hard hitting, emotionally involving film that made the 70s such an amazing decade in screen history. The acting is superb; without a doubt Richard Pryor's finest effort. Harvel Kietel is his usual magnetic self and Yaphet Kotto is understated yet electric at the same time. Thie dialogue is unlike what you would hear coming out of Hollywood today, and thats too bad. It hits you in the gut and makes you wince; which is as it should be dealing with this material.If you have not yet done so SEE THIS FILM! "},{"Title":"Richard Pryor, Harvey Keitel, and Yaphet Kotto give compelling performances in the drama Blue Collar","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" After years of reading about this Paul Schrader drama, I finally watched Blue Collar on Netflix Streaming. It stars Richard Pryor, Harvey Keitel, and Yaphet Kotto as three auto assembly workers who feel let down by their bosses and the union rep they don't trust. While Pryor does have some comic moments, he's allowed to be more serious when the film takes a route that challenges these three friends' loyalty to each other. Keitel and Kotto are also very compelling especially when the story concerns the latter's fate. And the score by Jack Nitzsche and Ry Cooder really pours the blues on. So on that note, I recommend Blue Collar. By the way, having noticed that the movie is produced by Norman Lear's company of T.A.T. Communications, he certainly wasn't above plugging his shows The Jeffersons and Good Times by putting some long clips in when the characters are watching television! "}{"Title":"Everybody knows what the plant is.Stands short for plantation.","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not sure if I got that Richard Pryor quote right, but it speaks volumes by the movie's end.Richard-Zeke .Yaphet Kotto-Smokey.Harvey Keitel-Jerry.Are three friends who work at a auto plant.They hang out together.They drink together,They laugh together.They get high together. They get down together.Party together.In the end.They will separate and divide together.They all are barely making ends meet at the plant.But for Zeke and Jerry who have families.Barely just isn't good enough.The IRS is on Zeke's back.Jerry's Daughter needs braces and he barely has enough food in the house to feed his family.The auto plant has a corrupt union that doesn't handle the employees right.So nothing get's fixed,Nothing gets done.So Richard goes to the head office to voice a complaint and while he's there he's notice's that an old man is an only guard to the safe there.Put Two and Two together.He's need money.Jerry needs money.Let's get together and rob it.So they do.But the money isn't what they thought it was going to be.Zeke notices a notebook of illegal loans that the union was involved in.Smokey being an ex-con.Says Let's Blackmail the union.But the union wants to cover their ass and make a lil' money at the same time.Insurance and the fact that the amount of money stolen from the safe keeps getting higher and higher.Every time a union spokesman speaks to the press.So this is where the three character's life's separates and divides.The union uses a lot of tactics of fear and bribery to get that notebook back.This is a great movie that i would recommend that u see.Two thumbs up.Richard Pryor is brilliant excellent.All of them were.You wouldn't notice it on film.But those three actors didn't get along very well.Having fights.So that has to be a mark of superb acting and directing.Very underrated picture. "},{"Title":"The 1978 vintage of the movie pleasantly shifts themes still relevant today.","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Life doesn't follow a clean plot line. Not every experience is relevant to your goals, not every friend will become a good one. Not everything turns out the way you expect. This movie mirrors that flow in a way that really added texture to the film. Characters, facing the basic needs of survival and honor, run towards the only light of hope - a wad of cash held by a corrupt union. They never would have guessed what they'd actually find - that survival and honor sometimes conflict. The vintage of this film shows a lot. The values, assembly lines, and recreations of the characters leave no doubt as to the year it was made. Thankfully, this shift has added some color and taste to the film as it aged deep inside the video vaults. "},{"Title":"Don't pass it up","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are a whole lot of great things going on in this flick. My personal favorite is the performance of the actors - their ability to tell a serious story in a humorous way.  You will enjoy watching this film! They should have an academy award for 'best dialogue' because this film would get it for 1978 - with its liberal use of four letter words, it does what few films, especially in the 21st century, do mirror the way people actually talk.  Pryor's more-or-less soliloquy in the scene at the union meeting is hilarious and genius. And the point of the film--how power corrupts even those who were once its worst victims--remains poignant today, and perhaps, always.  In short, what more fun could you have then to laugh your head off to a film which has something to say.   "},{"Title":"A brilliant film, with great performances","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film late at night on television and loved it. It is very rare to find an American film tackling issues like corruption in organised labour, or the despair of being at the bottom rung of the economic ladder. That's not to say that this film is preachy or heavy-handed in it's message. The social comment is contrasted with moments of humour and tension. The script is great, and so are the performances especially Richard Pryor (in a straight role) as Zeke Brown, a frustrated union man who wants to 'get him some representation!' I cannot recommend this movie enough, especially if you enjoyed Five Easy Pieces, or Riff Raff. "},{"Title":"A terrific film","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As part of the BBCs I Love 1970s series they showed this excellent movie. A gritty social commentary based on the lives of three car workers who find the system, and more importantly those are supposedly on their side, are screwing them over and keeping them where they are (up to their eyes in debt at the bottom of the heap) in favour of maintaining the status quo. Strong perfomances from Keitel, Pryor and Kotto with some colourful dialogue all help to make this film memorable. The most poignant moment of the film came at the very end where Keitel and Pryor are about to fight, Pryor having sold out to the Union and Keitel having refused to and having survived an attempt on his life.A must watch film for anyone. "},{"Title":"Definitely one of my all time favorites.","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is indeed an underwatched and underappreciated film. I am perpetually impressed with both Richard Pryor's and Yaphet Kotto's performances. Watching a likeable group of characters like this limp through their daily lives is very engaging. There's a great deal of comedy that makes the movie enjoyable too. From a half-ass robbery of a union office safe (their disguises are the best) to the Zeke's IRS confrontation, it's a sad story but one that pulls you in. Though I think I've heard that he has basically disowned this film, it is by far one of Schrader's best efforts. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I agree that this is an overlooked classic.  An excellent drama with great twists and turns.  Richard Pryor is so brilliant he makes you wish he had made smarter choices when selecting his movie career. Do yourself a favour and check this out. "},{"Title":"A boring disappointment","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I was disappointed by this movie by Paul Shrader, who has certainly turned in much better efforts.Yaphet Kotto, Richard Pryor, and Harvey Keitel did a good job of representing blue collar workers. But their acting and the music were about the only things to recommend this movie.The plot of three factory workers trying to burglarize their own corrupt union was dumb and undeveloped. It's difficult to root for the success of three guys with obviously devoted wives who sneak out at night to snort cocaine and screw their brains out; cheat on their income taxes; and complain they have no money while evidently spending most of their money and time drinking at the local tavern. Evidently there are one or more homicides in their past, too.But, this movie urges, let's concentrate on the important things the union has failed to get Richard Pryor's locker fixed at work.The oppression of their factory bosses and their union seems like a deserved punishment. Even so, we might hope for the come-uppance of the hopelessly evil union if the acting of the person playing the FBI agent investigating it were not much more horrid than the union. "},{"Title":"Revelas something about America you may have rather had left unrevealed","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Schrader's Blue Collar paints a depressing picture of the American blue collar worker - one Karl Marx would've simply shook his head at and scoff at in disgust. It shows a group of relatable individuals, all of whom slumming their lives away at a dead end, blue collar job, knowing all too well that they're expendable employees, when one particular member of the labor union is so unsatisfied with the lack of productivity on part of his union bosses that he challenges the incumbent to run for union boss. He believes that, if elected, he'd work for the people rather than having the people voice demands that ostensibly appear to fall on deaf ears. It isn't until he inches closer and closer to this potential gig that he realizes just what he's up against, the hoops he'll have to jump through, and the soul of his he'll have to sell in order as a price that comes with that kind of title.The optimistic soul is Zeke Brown (Richard Pryor), who works alongside his two best friends Jerry Bartowski (Harvey Keitel) and Smokey James (Yaphet Kotto). A great deal of Zeke's motivation to run for union boss comes when a tax collector comes to his house to collect unpaid taxes. In a bout of rage and frustration I'm sure many of us have felt, Zeke rants at the blameless tax collector by saying he barely makes enough money to buy food for his home, let alone keep the electricity running. He follows up by asking why he can't get a break when the same tax collectors give countless breaks to those on Wall Street. Zeke's rant is one of the defining scenes of this film, for it tackles a problem that, even over thirty years following this film's release, is a constant, every-day problem and insurmountable battle for a great deal of families.Zeke, Jerry, and Smokey decide to find a way to rob the union headquarters. However, upon executing their plan, they discover the union boss doesn't lie when he says that the union is low on cash, for they find very little money. The trio then stumble upon a ledger that contains information about illegal loans that reveal mob connections. Now the men know what it's like to be plunged into a world of crime and uncertainty, with their lives at risk and their optimism for their careers turned into a bitter, backstabbing game of survival of the fittest in a capitalist nightmare.There's a sadness that lurks in many American crime dramas and that sadness usually stems from the fact that something that should benefit people, or, at the very least, give them something to believe in, doesn't actually operate the way people think it does. Martin Scorsese's Casino showed us the brutal interworkings of a Las Vegas casino that was rigged to make the consumer lose at all cost, and make the soul pay a hefty price had they tried to beat the odds, and a movie like Oldboy shows the real ugliness of people in a crowded, tight-knit area that would lead you to believe people would be brought together or at least unified on a collective term. Blue Collar, however, cuts deeper. These are blue collar jobs we're looking at with this film; not clean-cut white collar jobs and not a rare case of fraud or backhanded dealings in one company. These kinds of manipulating tactics used amongst big business are an unfortunately common practice and Schrader exposes it in a startling manner.Schrader uses his exposure by getting Richard Pryor the leading role in a film that only manages to be funny when Pryor's character shows off his brazen attitude, which is very infrequent. Here, Pryor goes from the easily recognizable funny-man many of us know him as to a frighteningly hungry character, be it hungry for truth, or eventually, hungry for manipulation and winning. He commands the screen, even when assisted by the likes of Kotto and Keitel. This is his film through and through, a film where his formerly basic color palette of an actors transcends any kind of pre-conceived notions or judgment and shine bright and really show audiences his capabilities as a well-rounded character actor.Blue Collar is an ugly film, thematically and in terms of the situations its characters are forced into. It shows personal economic freedom and progress as a neverending cycle that results in nothing but further inequality and disenfranchisement from a country that allegedly fights against it. If a film like this came out in present time it would be a strong social statement, but its 1978 release date shows that little has changed in present time when it comes to the dealings of big business.Starring Richard Pryor, Harvey Keitel, and Yaphet Kotto. Directed by Paul Schrader. "},{"Title":"Overlooked gem of 70's US Indie  Cinema","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Following his screen writing credits on classics like Obsession and Taxi Driver, Paul Schrader would make his first foray behind the camera with the 1978 film Blue Collar. Spotlighting the exploitation of proletariat workers at the hands of forces at be, the film ranks among Schraeder's best and remains a quintessential piece of 1970's U.S. independent cinema.Blue Collar revolves around three workers at a Detroit auto plant; Zeke (Richard Pryor), Jerry (Harvey Keitel) and Smokey (Yaphet Kotto). Perpetually mistreated by their higher-ups and barely making enough money to feed their families, the film follows the group as they hatch a desperate plan to rob their union. Carrying through with the plan, the men end up stumbling upon evidence of behind-the- scenes corruption, setting the stage for the film's second half where the big wigs gradually take down each member of the group.Shot with an air of gritty realism, Blue Collar is a low budget drama with a Marxist heart - powerfully channelling themes of race, class conflict and white collar crookedness. Though similar contemporaneous films have endured better in the annals of film history, Schraeder's debut remains an overlooked gem - one worthy of being dusted off and given a second look. "}{"Title":"Putting The 'Pit' In Capitalism Blue Collar","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" From Captain Beefheart's grinding musical intro, through its unflinching critique of the pitfalls of a capitalist society, to the frozen image of a compelling friendship distorted by futility and hate &#x96; Blue Collar (Schrader, USA, 1978) is a disturbing, traumatic vision of the plight of the working class in late 1970s America. As it centres mostly sympathetically on the plight of a trio of workers on a Detroit automobile line, it has been critiqued through a Marxist lens. These men are locked into a relentless production system in which they are truly only cogs in the greater capitalist machine, and despite their best efforts to escape, they are essentially chewed up and spit out by a system that is simply too much of a behemoth to be outrun.The opening monochromatic sequence of workers on the line transforms them into automatons among cascades of welding sparks. Freeze frames and the repetitive, distorted blues riff further amplify the sense of an infernal environment the men toil within; indeed, many workers are pictured in pits, beneath the chassis of half-built cars, wearing welder's goggles. The sense of ratcheted-up tension in this place is immediately tangible; so much friction, noise and mechanical mayhem must, like hell, be gradually crushing their souls, and it is immediately clear that it is from this place our eventual 'heroes' will be attempting to escape.These heroes turn out to be a trio of pretty unremarkable and not- particularly-bright blue collars. Interestingly, Zeke (Richard Pryor) and Smokey (Yaphet Koto) are black, and Jerry (Harvey Keitel) is white. It is likely that this racial mix of main characters in a film would have been unusual in the 70s; even more unique because there is very little racial tension in the film except at key crests of conflict and anger. No, the characters get along like gangbusters, hanging out at the bar and friendly with each other's families. In fact, the night they dream up their heist, they have been living it up at a very interracial sex and drug party. Combining interracial sex with drug use and portraying it in such a neutral light seems quite avant garde, since it is in this context where the configurations of race and power are normally extremely touchy to U.S. censors.The primary conflict here is not about race, although the corrupt union bosses and shady management at the plant all are whites in suits and ties; it is more about the corruption of this production empire. Working conditions never improve, even in the tiniest ways (like Zeke's broken locker and the perpetually dysfunctional vending machine) despite the men paying into a union and complaining to their reps on a regular basis. Compounding these extremely irritating details on a day-to-day basis are the struggles with raising a family on a low income and tiptoeing precariously on a knife edge of expenses (Jerry's daughter needs braces so badly, she injures herself trying to use paper clips) and debt (Zeke has lied to the IRS). The men escape to the aforementioned orgy and fuelled by cocaine and booze, hatch a plan to attack what they've come to see as their enemy, their own lazy union by stealing dues from a safe at their local.The heist goes ahead and one moment during the robbery has a particularly tragi-comic poignancy as a guard pokes around while they are hidden in the safe, they emerge wearing ludicrous cartoon disguises. By robbing the union, the men are after all pretty much robbing themselves&#x85; and it turns out their heist has left them with only a ledger. In cleverer hands, this ledger could have been leveraged to win them some freedom, but it ends up being used to divide them as they are unable to avoid being identified by their bosses and pitted against each other, ultimately leading to Smokey's murder (by drowning in blue paint!).The dominoes keep falling until Zeke has acquiesced to become a union puppet and Jerry has gone to the FBI. The final sequence of the film depicts Jerry and Zeke hurling racial abuse at one another and almost coming to blows, with a backdrop of cars still in production. The capitalist machine hasn't even suffered a dent and the story of the trio of friends has ended in a total wreck. The industrial blues riff kicks in again over a diabolically red screen for the credits, and damnation! Nothing has changed. "},{"Title":"A very smart movie worth watching, even if you think it won't interest you","Date":"20 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a great example of the movie makers art. I had no interest in the subject matter, but within minutes I was interested, and within the half hour I was hooked. By the second half I was engrossed in the characters and the story line. The ending cleverly became a self-fulfilling prophecy - The Man want's to put you in your place, and you'll fall for it every time.There is a lot of profanity in this movie but Richard Pryor is in his element. This is the world of the blue collar worker, warts and all. This movie does a great job in highlighting the best of the life these guys have, but worse, it shows the quiet desperation these men are forced to endure every day and how easily they can be manipulated. These deeper themes do not bog the movie down, fortunately, its depth is hidden behind a good story and top performances from Pryor, Keitel and Kotto. A great movie will keep you intrigued while viewing it and thinking about it afterwards, regardless of the subject matter. Blue Collar is just such a movie, and I recommend making the effort to watch it if you get a chance. "},{"Title":"don't be fooled by Pryor being the star,  this is a gritty, realistic film about labor unions with a real message","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I had to admit something to myself after watching Blue Collar; that I have preconceptions about any movie starring Richard Pryor. Pryor made so many silly comedies like Stir Crazy and Moving I tend to want to dismiss or label every movie in which he appeared...bad move. Blue Collar is a highly entertaining film that works on several levels. Most of all it scores as a raw, gritty, muckraking type of film exposing the corruption of labor unions and corporate America. Secondly, it works pretty well on a comedic level, but its funny because it's real. The acting here is top notch and Pryor really stands out, and as good as Harvey Keitel is as an actor, Pryor matches him step for step.Zeke, Jerry and Smokey (Pryor, Keitel and Yaphet Kotto) are three buddies working for the Auto union at Checker Automotive. (a real car maker that allowed the movie to be filmed at their plant, after the big three rejected it) By day, they weld, paint and rivet, by night, they drink and party and concoct schemes to get ahead financially. Eventually they stumble upon a ledger that contains proof that their union is corrupt. They decide to blackmail the union bosses and things start to get complicated. At this point, the film starts to take a more serious tone as the union fights back in a way nobody expected. Zeke is the only one of the three the union bosses are very concerned about and soon he is being offered a promotion.Pryors even-keeled performance is the key to the film. He's tough and unflappable but smart enough to know when to give in to the powers that determine his fate. His decisions aren't necessary the ones you expect out of a Hollywood movie, but they are the ones that would likely be made in real life....and thats part of the tragedy.Another great aspect of Blue Collar is the bluesy soundtrack by Jack Nitzsche, with guitar work by the legendary Ry Cooder and the title track performed by Captain Beefheart. The establishing scenes over the opening credits are highlighted by the blues soundtrack with actual punch press sounds incorporated into the music. Its really unique... and a special nod needs given to director Paul Shrader, who handles the films change in tone nicely, and gives the film a tightness and realism that keeps our attention focused throughout.The movie Blue Collar, viewed today, is like a living time capsule from the 1970s. Lynyrd Skynyrd on the Jukebox, Good Times on the TV and Strohs Beer being served at the local Bar. Blue Collar will have a special significance for those who (like me) are from the Midwest...the rust belt. This all seems so familiar, the mindset of these union workers, the us against them mentality...feeling defeated by the system...too far in debt to go a different route in life.Some of the characters here remind me of the fathers of some of the kids I grew up with. It left me contemplating the question -were we better off when the auto unions were stronger or not? 'real wages' haven't gone up in nearly 40 years. We lose more jobs overseas every year. Were the times depicted in Blue Collar actually the good old days?...or more like, the last of the good old days? When Smokey makes his cryptic speech about the old being pitted against young, black being pitted against white, everything they do is to keep us in our place...He isn't just talking about the labor unions, I think he is talking about the whole system itself. Scary thought. "},{"Title":"title fits this movie just right","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Even though it's more than twenty years since seeing it I'll take the risk of trying to make a helpful comment on this movie.It was part of a drive-in triple bill,not knowing a thing about the movie I mainly went to see it because of the $3.00 per car admission.The opening music persuaded me right away to like the movie,it's hard driving beat had me moving in my seat.Except for Richard Pryor the names in the cast were unknown to me which may of given it more of a real life look for me.Years later I would find out one of the most impressive parts was played by Harvey Keitel.Pryors scene with the IRS man was very funny .Although he's frustrated about his financial situation the scene looks more like a comedy skit inserted as a break from the serious storyline.Pryors attempt at explaining his tax return can't be taken seriously but is sidesplitting.Living 27 years in Oaklad,10 in the poorest section I felt this movie had an Oakland look to it.Through the years I considered Oakland an blue collar town for that reason I could relate to this movie much more than others. "},{"Title":"why work ?","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a great movie, a really great movie, this type of American cinema did fade into the background towards the end of the 70s. Primarily due to the increasing popularity of the blockbuster movie, but to avoid the cliché, that genre had been around long before Jaws and StarWars.These type of movies have been re-emerging of late ,as the blockbuster is starting to falter, people want a bit of meat ,and not just to be the vegetables. Blue Collar is a slice of life, social commentary, crime caper, some people seem to find the characters habits unappealing, but that is taking this from the point of view ,that the heroes of the piece needed to be altruistic to the extreme ,as the union is the enemy. I feel that is reading this wrong,there are no goodies and baddies here.Thats the point,the film is letting you decide, it places all its moral questions right in front of you, whatever you think, it made you think,didn't it ?Anyone who has ever worked, can recognise something relevant to them in this film, why do we work , to perpetuate a cycle , everyone knows the questions and answers, as bleak as the situation may be, this film forces you to examine societies structure, and your place in it.In the present age of trivial pursuits, thats more important than ever ! "},{"Title":"An aesthete's Rust Belt","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Paul Schrader is not only an intellectual filmmaker, he is also a refined aesthete. His movie Mishima is probably the most aesthetic film I know. Blue Collar is Schrader&#145;s interpretation of the Rust Belt. The political content many detect in this movie is overrated. This is definitely not a seventies version of Jules Dassin's Brute Force or Elia Kazan's On The Waterfront. There is no clear cut separation between us and them, the essence of any kind of political propaganda. All characters are helpless puppets. Schrader pulls the strings.The way this movie was filmed shows clearly that social realism was not the aim of its director. The photography is very stylized, it shows the energetic beauty of an industrial landscape (discovered later by the advertising industry), supported by a breathtakingly good musical score. Color and wardrobe are carefully balanced, bright yellows and blues set the aesthetic basis. The actors, so it seems, were kept on a very short leash. They are often not much more than an ornament, they move little and are not only prisoners of the story but of the way Schrader transforms the story into pictures. This becomes agonizingly clear in the paint-job-murder-scene, a long, climactic incident with high symbolic meaning. It really lacks credibility and apparently leaves Yaphet Kotto, who plays the victim, clueless. Richard Pryor (wearing painfully tight pants!) occasionally breaks out and delivers a few good lines that must definitely be his, not Schrader's.Schrader used (some may even say abused) the Rust Belt for his own purposes, it is just amazing that an auteur could make this technically brilliant high quality picture which is hard to understand and certainly does not appeal to many.  "},{"Title":"A Good Premise Trailing Into A Somewhat Ambiguous Plot","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a film about a group of auto shop workers who are dissatisfied with elements of their union. I thought this would be another typical film about the lower class struggling for their rights, and any of these such films that attempt to be worth anything at all usually put some sort of twist on that basic premise, however in this film, it shifts away from its apparent initial focus, and becomes much more complex.One comment said it was a bad film because the main 3 characters were not sympathetic enough, which is always a stupid basis on which to judge a film's caliber. The whole point of the film, which any objective viewer will see midway through, is that the lines between good and bad and right and wrong among the different classes is very blurred, and in the end everyone has aspirations, and each party wants to keep what they own and possibly strive for more, whatever the cost. The focus of this film thereby becomes a criminal plot involving a robbery of the union funds which develops into a complex entanglement of various illegal or under the table activities which soon the 3 main characters are no longer able to deal with.Richard Pryor gives a surprisingly powerful performance while the character Smokey is also very well portrayed by the actor playing him. I saw this film because I like Harvey Keitel and anticipated good things with Paul Shraeder as the director. Keitel is no disappointment but his role doesn't really lend itself to anything extremely impressive.Paul Schraeder is a fairly good director who seems to add a certain realism to his films that very few directors are able to capture in the way he sets up the scene and dialogue. Also here he is able to depict a really spectacularly done death scene in my opinion, but as you get into it, like in most of his films, certain technical flaws begin to surface, and in part spoil the good elements; for example something as plainly careless as having 4 pins lined up in the bowling scene for 1 shot, and then only 3 in the next shot. Also the break-in into the building was not very convincing while not completely laughable, but I suppose one could let both these failings pass. Harvey Keitel's continued contact with the FBI character towards the end is a little too ambiguous for my liking, but by far the biggest flaw is the introduction of the debt collector to whom Smokey owed money. He is by far the most important plot device but we are given no background on him, he just suddenly shows up in Smokey's back car seat one day, then soon after, gets pinched for likely shooting a cop and sells the 3 workers out to the police. Also the whole setup when Smokey just HAPPENS to overhear some thugs calling up his friend's wife, and he shows up waiting for them with a baseball bat, (clearly after having to break in himself) while the entire family just HAPPENS to be not at home, adds to the list of stretchy plot development. When dealing with a complex plot, Schraeder often fails to strengthen or properly establish many important plot devices, and in the end they simply appear as that... plot devices. Though I cannot exaggerate too profoundly how most directors are much worse than him in this regard.This is a film that has a powerful message, good acting, and some very good scenes, but the plot just becomes too complex and it appears somewhat stagy by the near end, however it is a very engaging movie with an overall interesting story, it simply could have been greater. the first 80 minutes of this film is really nothing but buildup up to the point of the robbery. only roughly 25 minutes is left when all the real complex development unfolds. If perhaps the resolution was 10 or 15 minutes longer, it would have strengthenned the film. "},{"Title":"Great and sadly unknown","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A group of blue collar car plant workers, Zeke, Jerry & Smokey (Richard Pryor, Harvey Keitel & Yaphet Kotto respectively) decide to get even with the crooked Union that's keeping them down I can't believe I've never heard of this film before, especially inexplicable since I'm huge fans of Pryor, Keitel, Kotto, and a major fan of almost every other Paul Schrader film (the only one i dislike being the vastly overrated Last Temptation of Christ). But I'm sure glad I stumbled on this film while channel surfing one night, the acting by everyone involved is superb, all the movie fits remarkably well, the directing is great if low-key, and the whole movie just really clicks. I'll definitely be adding this to my growing DVD collection extremely soon. I just can't seem to find the right words to praise this film enough.My Grade A "},{"Title":"Paul Schrader, Director Blue Collar.","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Blue Collar (1978) was the directorial debut of one time Hollywood wunderkind Paul Schrader. After the success of TAXI DRIVER, Paul Schrader set off to make his own film. The movie was BLUE COLLAR and it starred Harvey Keitel, Richard Pryor and Yaphet Kotto. But with all those egos in one room fueled on the wonderful medicinal drugs that were available to all of them during the seventies caused a multitude of problems on and off the set.The film is about a group of disgruntled autoworkers that are tired of their corrupt and ineffective union. The three buddies decide to do something about their financial woes. But when they do, their problems have only just begun! Can the three friends ride out the upcoming store or will they all succumb to the usual pratfalls?An impressive debut for Paul Schrader. But someone who lived a repressive lifestyle such as Mr. Schrader has growing, he want totally unprepared for life in the seventies. Over the next several years, he'll suffer heartache and a personal breakdown before going back to the clean and straight life.Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Auto-erotic hostility at its most vicious!","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is a study of three factory workers in a Detroit auto factory.  Some truths about the degradation of assembly line work are shown.  There is also a great deal of Union corruption exposed, but for all its twists and turns, it actually is boring.  All the reality is spoken and in the foulest language imaginable. It is simplistically tendentious.  The main problem is its unrelenting nastiness.  It is filled with hate in Schrader's under-belly way. "}{"Title":"Over rated message movie","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Blue Collar desperately wants us to get the message that the characters shown in the movie are getting ripped off by the system.  That system being a combination of their employer, their union, the government as represented by the FBI and the pressures of life in general.  It is this system that forces them to steal from their own union, spend their meager funds on drugs, booze and mistresses, lie to their wives, and rat off one another.  I'm sure I'm not the only one that couldn't buy this nonsense.  Blue Collar has the feel of an earnest scriptwriter wanting to make a statement Unfortunately what we see is the actions of a bunch of weak men acting stupidly. Not one of Paul Schraeder's better scripts. The performances are first rate with Keitel, Koto and Pryor bringing their characters to life.   "}]