[{"Title":"Often imitated, never duplicated.","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"118 out of 138 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You'll have to excuse me and some of the other proponents of 'National Lampoon's Animal House' if we seem a little defensive about the movie. That's because it's often not recognized as the superior comedy classic that it is.  Instead, too often it is lumped in with the multitude of inferior films that it inspired, which is totally unfair.Some of the conventional wisdom about 'Animal House' is absolutely right, though. John Belushi does give a bravura performance that is reminiscent of the great comics before him like Chaplin, Keaton (Buster, not Michael), the Marx Brothers, etc., and he does it with a wonderful economy of words. His character of Bluto Blutarsky is often emulated and imitated but many times the persons doing so have no idea what it was that made him and his performance so great.Tim Matheson as Otter and his other frat house buddies were also prototypes that were much imitated too, and again often without success. Otter was the quintessential smooth talker, always working an angle on everybody, especially the ladies. When a woman tells him that his lovemaking wasn't that great, he cocks his head, points a finger at himself and mouths the words, not great? in mock disbelief. Before Tom Hanks got Big he made a career out of playing this character. Also John Vernon set a standard for straight men with his portrayal of the beleaguered Dean Wormer, plagued by his zoo fraternity.Not all of the movie's humor aims low, by any means; some of it is quite sophisticated. (Yes, you read it right.) The screenwriters and director John Landis did a great job evoking Kennedy-era America and they found a lot to laugh at. This comedy is an unqualified classic by the simplest definition-- it makes you laugh, long and loud. "},{"Title":"If your review is too long....","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"120 out of 174 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  you probably don't like teen sex comedies anyway. If you write more than 10 lines about this classic, you are taking it way too seriously. This is the King of Teen Sex Comedies, period. Anything that follows is/was a pretender or copycat. And I'll never understand why someone would spend so much time and space critiquing a film they don't like, from a genre they obviously don't appreciate. Virtually every actor plays his part realistically. I still get a huge kick out of Belushi's speech about the Germans bombing Pearl Harbor. Or Do you mind if we dance with yo dates? Or mine is bigger....my cucumber. Lots of classic lines. Just enjoy it! "},{"Title":"What started it all- and still the best","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"82 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the best college comedy ever made. Nothing has ever come close to comedic perfection, and never will again. The early bird director John Landis directs this film into greatness bringing stars John Belushi, Tim Matheson, Tom Hulce, Mark Metcalf and Donald Sutherland to the screen in brilliance. True, this film is just about a bunch of misfits defying authority in a campus of 1962, but that's what makes it so good, and original. Belushi, Metcalf, and others bring many of the laughs here, but it is mainly it's reputation that brings this film into hilarity. A landmark in cinema comedy. By the way, screenwriters Harold Ramis and Chris Miller originally were going to make this a film about Charles Manson called Laser Orgy Girls, so thank god Douglas Kenney came in and straightened this out to the right part. "},{"Title":"Maybe Can't Really Be Appreciated Anymore","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"59 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you have only seen this movie on TV, you have not really seen this movie.  One of the best movie experiences of my life was seeing this movie in the theater with a full house of college students.  I have never heard an audience laugh so hard, and I was laughing with them.  That experience can never be recaptured.  I don't know why this movie doesn't make the midnight movie tour in college towns.  That way it might have some of the same impact.  Also when it came out in 1978 it is hard to explain how big John Belushi was unless you were there and saw it first hand.  It's still funny on the small screen, but only if you see it uncut.  Never watch it on a network, they cut out most of the jokes!   "},{"Title":"This one gets a 4.0 for sure!","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"49 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Landis's directorial debut, and John Belushi's first starring role make this screw-ball comedy about college life in the early 60's a must-see.  I saw this picture for the first time when it was released to theaters and laughed my buns off; it still holds up today, almost 30 years later.Every actor in the show gives a bravura performance, with stand-out debuts by the likes of Thomas Hulce, Tim Matheson, Karen Allen, Bruce Davidson, and others.  In addition, there's a sense throughout the picture that we all knew these guys at one time or another in our lives.  Shoot, I think I may have BEEN one or two of these guys at some point in my life.  Of course, the picture revolves around Belushi's terrifically over-the-top Bluto Blutarsky; but you simply can't ignore characters like Boone, Otter, Niedermeyer, Gregg Marmalade, and my personal favorite, D-Day.The writing on this picture is really far better than the loosely-structured plot first indicates.  Each character is introduced neatly at their entrance; and, by extension, the other characters are set up by the entrances of their surrounding characters.  For instance, when we first meet Belushi's character, he's holding a schooner of beer in one hand and drunkenly taking a leak on the Delta Tau Chi lawn.  Right away, we know what the rest of these guys are going to be like.  Then, when D-Day makes his entrance, driving his hawg through the front door and up the stairs to play the William Tell Overture on his throat before pulling a beer out of his jacket and popping the top, our fears are confirmed.  Meanwhile, we get to meet the uptight, repressed, and mildly facsist other frat through similar vignettes.  Kevin Bacon is particularly hilarious in his initiation (Thank you, sir! May I have another?).John Landis made his debut with this picture, and what a debut it was! His camera follows each of the characters and events at near breakneck speed, giving the audience little time to recover from one laugh before getting slapped in the head with another.  Lots of natural lighting, and sharp, steady pacing with smooth transitions keep the story moving. Refreshingly, the film doesn't rely on over-the-top special effects to hold our attention. Then again, is there really any place for SFX in a picture like this?The whole picture is one long laugh, from beginning to end.  If you're a college grad, you'll forget what it was really like to have to work hard, study, and generally bust your tail to graduate.  If you haven't yet gone to college, this picture will give you all the wrong ideas.  On the other hand, you've gotta see this one, if for no other reason than to learn all the right (and wrong) things to do at a college party. "},{"Title":"Laughs are on the House....","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"49 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Every successful movie has its myriad clones and imitators, but none of them ever come close to what made the original so good.That's certainly true of Animal House.The laughs are all solid, especially when the main focus is in toppling the stoic pillars of decency and normality with a battle cry of food fight!.Pledges Pinto (Hulce) and Flounder (Furst) are good soldiers, making us laugh with their desire to fit in at first then, finally, to succumb to the madness and pillage and destroy with the other Deltas, led by Bluto (Belushi), who waylays all in his path.  No subsequent attempt to cash in on the Animal House success has ever made good in toppling the once and future king of the mountain.  Who has ever come close to creating a creature as lovably destructive as Bluto Blutarsky?  What other college movie's dean ever made Dean Wormer seem like an easygoing, laid-back guy?  What college movie scene comes close to the introduction of the Deltas?  The toga party?  The horse in the Dean's office?  The road trip?  The final parade?  The....Well, space is limited but you get the idea.Ten stars, and a crushed-beer-can-on-the-forehead salute to all involved with the subversive garbage that is Animal House.More power to you.And remember, knowledge is good. "},{"Title":"National Lampoon's finest cinematic moment.","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"40 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tasteless, politically incorrect and absolutely laugh-out loud hilarious, with a cast that's a Who's Who of later stars, including Peter Riegert, Tom Hulce, Tim Matheson, Karen Allen, Kevin Bacon, etc. It's bittersweet watching the brilliance of John Belushi in this, his finest hour. Every twitch of his beady eyes, every jiggle of his mighty beer belly, every line of dialogue delivered with just the right amount of bluster or sneering sarcasm -- this guy was a bona-fide comic genius. He was taken from us far too soon.Director John Landis orchestrates the escalating hi-jinks with masterful comedic precision, Elmer Bernstein contributes a very funny mock-grandiose score, and veteran character actor John Vernon provides a wonderful arch-villain as the toweringly evil Dean Wormer.There are almost too many comic highlights; pick your own favorite. My candidates Bluto's rousing speech about the Germans bombing Pearl Harbor, Pinto's Good & Bad Consciences battling over whether he should take advantage of his passed-out date, and Otter picking up the dean's wife in the supermarket vegetable aisle.Watch for co-writer Doug Kenney as 'Stork', suspected of brain damage. Another Saturday Night Live alumnus, along with Belushi and Harold Ramis, he died in a hiking accident in Hawaii not too long after the movie's release. Heartfelt thanks to him and Belushi, as well as everyone else involved in this classic, for providing us with so many laughs. "},{"Title":"Sick, depraved, juvenile, disgusting, lewd, perverted......","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yep, it must be Animal House!The classic frat comedy of all time. A simple story of college life for a bunch of delinquents who seek solace with a an endless supply of beer, toga parties and loads of young girls.It doesn't matter that the Delta House (the home of said delinquents), continually fail to pass their exams, for them sex & booze is all what life is about.The movie is a perfect vehicle for Saturday Night Live star, John Belushi, who is allowed to show off his considerable talent as the biggest sicko of the Delta bunch - check out his impression of a Zit!!But he is well supported by Tom Hulce, and surprisingly Donald Sutherland as the hippy professor with wayout theories. Able actor, John Vernon, plays the Principle of the college and often the butt of the Delta House finding a horse in his office is a classic piece of farce!All in all, the film hangs together very well with a good script and superb visual jokes. John Landis must have a wild college life himself when he made this.***/***** "},{"Title":"My advice to you is to start drinking heavily.","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This raunchy comedy was a major success at the time of its release (grossing well over $100 million in theaters alone) and still maintains a strong cult following on home video. It is the gross-out boys-only flick that launched a new wave of rude-n'-crude teen comedies, as well as immortalizing John Belushi as one of America's most beloved comedic icons.It's the 1960s and the Delta fraternity is in trouble with the Faber College's Dean Wormer (John Vernon) yet again. The frat's crazy antics have gotten out of hand and the grades of its students have been steadily declining. Grabbing at the opportunity, Dean Wormer uses their poor grades and behavior as an excuse to kick them off the campus. However, the Deltas fight back &#150; and give it all they've got.Animal House is solely responsible for the surge of teen-styled comedies in the 1980s and '90s. There is no other film predating this, to speak of, which mixed sex, profanity, vulgarity, slapstick and rebellion all into one funny little bundle. Animal House truly is a revolutionary comedy, for better or worse. Yet in fact for all its offensive material, Animal House is joyously likable, infectious and agreeable. The writers &#150; Harold Ramis, Douglas Kenney and Chris Miller &#150; create a plethora of strong characters, which helps define and separate Animal House from many of its imitators (and indeed compares it to the equally-enjoyable American Pie series, which &#150; like the Animal before it &#150; took the time to study and care for its characters, rather than completely exploit them for humor &#150; it's always harder to laugh at characters we don't care about, and much easier to laugh at those of whom we do).Director John Landis (who would re-team with Belushi again in 1980 with The Blues Brothers) not only understands his cast (mainly Belushi) but also his audience and paves a way for sibling genre entries through his realistic slapstick approach (this is not crazy in the same way as Airplane, Naked Gun or Police Academy is &#150; in fact it's far more rooted in realism and only a few sequences really get out of hand and turn into classic dumb slapstick).John Belushi as the alcoholic Bluto Blutarsky (on getting kicked out of college Seven years down the drain! I might as well join the Peace Corps!) remains the scene-stealer to this day, yet despite the film's close links with Belushi in general he is just a co-star, and when on-screen rarely speaks (a fact played to the film's comedic advantage &#150; when Bluto gives his final rousing speech, it seems to mean something, even if&#133;well&#133;it doesn't.) Belushi demanded the largest paycheck of all the actors &#150; including Donald Sutherland &#150; but is hardly the star of Animal House. Had he been, it may very well not have been as successful as it turned out to be &#150; not because Bluto is annoying, but because introducing him in smaller portions &#150; rather than focusing on him alone &#150; constructs a fall-back mechanism of sorts; when the comedy is lagging too much, they bring in Bluto for support.Bluto thrives on fun and partying &#150; when he learns of a possible toga party, he begins a chant. One imagines he's so drunk and stoned he doesn't really understand much of what is going on. The film never identifies with him on a personal level. He's just sort of there. And we get the feeling perhaps he's only involved in the frat's antics because it's a blast &#150; does he really care about staying in college? Or does he just want more free booze? Animal House might not be the best comedy of all time, and I'm hardly going to start arguing that it is. For one thing, it can tend to be a bit inconsistent &#150; the humor is never continuously strong; rather it comes in bursts. Technically, it's imperfect &#150; by a long shot. However, whoever said that the amount of laughter alone defines the greatness of a comedy? Do we need it to be fine art? Animal House doesn't only have its fair share of funny material and iconic screen moments, but is also incredibly entertaining, rowdy and cool &#150; the quintessential college film and certainly the sort of comedy any self-respecting bachelor would make sure he views at least two hundred times a year. (Give or take.) All together, now Toga, toga, toga! "},{"Title":"Vulgar, but also incredibly funny with a truly wonderful performance from Belushi","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House is not my favourite comedy or anything, but I like it very much. I do like comedy, I like John Landis and I like John Belushi, so naturally I thought yeah I think I'll like this film. And I did. While light on plot and quite vulgar strictly speaking, it is still hugely enjoyable thanks to the performances. Animal House is beautifully filmed, has a good soundtrack and John Landis does a great job directing, while the sight gags are smart and the script has enough hilarious one-liners to keep you chuckling. As for favourite scenes, I have two specific favourites, the food fight and the wonderful rallying speech. The acting is very good, while Kevin Bacon, Tom Hulce, Peter Reigert and Donald Sutherland give great performances, it is John Belushi's film all the way as he gives one of his best ever performances in this film. In conclusion, very good film and funny. 8/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"it's hard to believe this was once considered hilarious","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"23 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie on TV last night and was blown away by how relentlessly terrible it was, both in execution and content. It was interesting only as a reference point to the sensibilities of an earlier age. Since Animal House was apparently considered in 1978 to be the height of wit and daring, and since today in comparison with what might be called its pop culture progeny it appears either embarrassingly tame or lame, we can tell just how much the popular culture has evolved in the intervening time. There has been a sea change in received notions of what is cool since 1978, probably comparable to the change in such perceptions during the similar length of time between 1951 and 1978. In other words, its overtly anti-establishment themes and primitive ideas of transgressive humor make Animal House very much a product of its time. This movie can really only be appreciated as a poorly-acted and amateurishly-directed glimpse into the mindset of youngish Americans of another age. I know I'm ragging on this movie, but the humor in Animal House just doesn't translate into today's world, and on balance that is probably something for which we should be grateful. "},{"Title":"A mixed bag of a comedy, in keeping with the mixed legacy of SNL and National Lampoon","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House draws much of its humor from the oft-visited slobs versus snobs well. It is also a movie that pits men vs. women, blacks vs. whites, and the dudely bros of Delta House vs. uncool military martinets (they like to spank each other) and sensitive new-age folk-singers (he sings about having no stone and no bone, get it?) To be a wet blanket about it, and to use words that would definitely get me pantsed and hung upside-down in the dean's office, National Lampoon's comedy fits into the same niche that Saturday Night Live has occupied since the '70s of being extremely white, male, and heteronormative while also being impishly anti-authority. With that said, a lot of the tribalism depicted on screen might actually be pretty accurate when it comes to Greek life, even in the supposedly more enlightened 21st century. While in college in the early years of the millennium I knew dilapidated houses like that and dilapidated people like that. The familiarity makes some of Animal House funny, especially when the Delta House protagonists are as much the subjects of mockery as are their opponents. The figure that most often cuts both ways is Bluto, played by the movie's funniest actor in John Belushi. He's a retrograde caveman, and while he's capable of being almost heroic in the limited milieu of a frat, in any other context he'd qualify as a brain-dead sociopath. That's what makes the final shot of the movie, which reveals his post-college fate, so cuttingly funny. Animal House is sufficiently well-made and has enough laughs to get it into the comedic canon despite its mainstream brand of political incorrectness and a lot of slow and obvious scenes. "},{"Title":"National Lampoon's Best","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First off, this movie is not for the conservative individual. If you've seen other National Lampoon productions then you know what to expect plenty of crude jokes. But this is far from a bad thing, and this movie should have anyone with a sense of humor and soul rolling on the floor. The late, great John Belushi is absolutely outstanding, Donald Sutherland makes an appearance, and Kevin Bacon's Thank you sir may I have another? line is an instant classic. If you liked movies like Old School then you should definitely see this. Without spoiling anything I can tell you that this is one of the funniest movies ever made. It has had countless imitators, but no one has ever quite matched the level of National Lampoon's Animal House. "},{"Title":"Most Influential American Comedy","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kids, this is the one that started it all. Every college movie, every roadtrip movie, every snobs vs. slobs movie, every pitiful 'slacker' comedy ever made in the past owes a great debt to 'Animal House'. Although somewhat sophomoric and obviously shallow, there is a charm and a timelessness to this film. The late John Belushi absolutely chews up every scene he's in. This film is just a testament to his genius. This is also worth a rental to see a young Kevin Bacon get spanked. THANK YOU SIR! MAY I HAVE ANOTHER!5/5 "},{"Title":"A timeless comedy classic of life in a fraternity...I wish!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  They say a classic is born only after some 20 years go by and the story still evokes new fans, and smiles of those that saw it when it was new. This is such a story!Follow Otter, Boon, Bluto, and all their Delta fratmates as they scoff at authority, break with social etiquette, and create such a wild bunch of quotable lines that even time cannot diminish. One such line to look for...it's toward the end of the movie and Bluto(played in such an incredible manner by the late great John Belushi) stands up to rally the Delta's. He bellows out his rallying cry...hey, was it over when the German's bombed Pearl Harbor?...to wit Otter turns to Boon and says...German's?...and Boon says to Otter...forget it...he's on a role. This is exactly what you'll get and so much more. Great comedy, timeless performances, recognizable faces in todays entertainment, and a lasting memory of one of Belushi's most endearing performances. This is a must see for teenagers, young adults, and all us kids that saw it new and haven't watched the uncut version in a long time. A great comedy classic! "},{"Title":"This film shaped my life, see it in High School, live it in College!!","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This comic masterpeice from the minds of John Landis, Harrold Ramis, and Doug Kenney changed the way people look at college life.  The Delta House, led by Otter, Boone, D-Day, and Bluto, show the pledge class of 1962 that fat, drunk, and stupid, is the way to live it up during you college years. Some of the most quotable moments of all time.  Ramming Speed!  The number one comedy of all time!  "},{"Title":"The funniest movie of the last generation.","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House utilizes every humorous element of comedy possible. And they ALL work... you name it, Animal House buffoons it. The dialog (a first class script); the slapstick (what a cast...perfect!); the unexpected plot twists (I have watched this movie twenty times and they never cease to amaze me) are all perfect. Just to watch John Belushi walk is a rare treat. You will laugh hysterically. And, let's face it, you WILL be offended, deliciously. But that's the best part. This movie never takes itself too seriously. Which is not something one can say about the last decade's comedic offerings. This is a good opportunity to remind oneself of the not-too-serious moments of academic life. And a great opportunity to be reintroduced to the music of the 60's. Enjoy early Tim Matheson; early Kevin Bacon and a wonderful cameo as a sleazy professor from Donald Sutherland. It's hard to believe Animal House was released over twenty years old. I think it's the funniest movie since The Marx Brothers ruled Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Funny as hell !!!!","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A comedy about sex,food fights,& college life which makes this comedy one of the best comedies ever made.Steven Furst is hilarious when he vomits on Dean Wormer.Tom Hulce is fun as Pinto, while Belushi steals the show as Bluto''I'm a zit..get it ?''. I laughed so hard when Belushi is putting all the food on his tray.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"As American as pie.","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House is one of those movies that makes everyone give you a funny look if you haven't seen it. It is timeless, classic, and inspirational. And it's also just plain hilarious.Animal House is full of characters that are both so vague that you know someone like them, and yet complex enough that you'll never know anyone like them at all. You may know a crazy guy like D-Day, but you'll never know anyone who can drive a motorcycle up a flight up stairs and make funny noises at you. You may know a guy like Bluto, but you've never seen anyone rip a guitar out of someone's hands and smash it to the ground in a horribly violent manner. And you may have know/have known an eccentric professor, but none that would ever think of even letting you over to his house, much less smoke pot with you. It is simply a movie that makes you think, why couldn't college be that way for me? I would love to chuck golf balls at the ROTC, or sneak a horse into an office building. It'll never happen, but boy can one dream. "},{"Title":"3 Stooges with Snappier Dialoge","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House was a changing of the Hollywood comedy guard in 1978. Serious films like The Godfather directed by Coppola or Taxi Driver by Scorcese, which both appeared in the 70's brought the French New Wave and Post-War Italian techniques to America and hence, film became edgier and realistic.Bob Hope, Doris Day, and Sandra Dee dominated the 60's with light comedy, breezy shtick, and virginated sex comedy. Looking back to the early 60's, the Kennedy years, America was not going to deal with those crazy college kids and their first attempts at capturing what was left of the Beatnik Era. With a simmering middle class producing college bound kids in baby boom numbers, the youth culture looked for their own laugh statement.2nd City, National Lampoon, and Saturday Night Live writers and performers finally got the Hollywood green light, so naturally, with pent up baby boomer instinct, they produced the most influential comedy of the last twenty-five years.The boys of Delta are essentially The Three Stooges with snappier dialog. That's the similarity, but the difference is about rebellion and sex. The nubile young girls truly show their stuff. Dean Wormer's wife is a middle-aged Victoria's Secret. The Sandra Dee look-a-likes are daffy and weirdly sexual, almost perverted, not that there's anything wrong with that.Does it hold up 25 years later? This is tricky. My generation will always love a spirited laugher about the old days when we did some pretty risky stuff. Today, a college student, living a moderately Charlotte Simmons's lifestyle might yawn with studied angst. I give it to you Dean Wormer! "}{"Title":"More Than a Comedy A Testament to Freedom and American Way of Life","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To all those offended by Animal House.Animal House is more than a comedy. It is a testament to the American way of life and freedom. Overtly it is the unspoken reality of young male adulthood and classic experiences of college life. It takes into consideration every type of male character imaginable and gives each category an Icon they can identify with. Covertly, it is a freedom cry for the free spirited, for the oppressed minority to overcome majority rule. The techies nerds in the back room versus the popular sales men on the floor. The greasers versus the socials. The unpopular versus the popular. The individual entrepreneur versus the corporate conglomerate. At one point in every mans life he will be able to identify with each and every male Icon as comically exaggerated as a character within the film. It also gives each of us the opportunity to see and laugh at ourselves. It is the rag-tag make shift patch work undisciplined colonial minute man army versus the well organized well outfitted British red coats. In the spirit of Paul Revere, Samuel Adams, the Boston Tea Party and the American Revolution, it is the American Spirit of Freedom and Rebellion. It is the story of young boys stepping forward, volunteering, and sacrificing for what appears to be a lost cause, yet winning in the end. It is Animal House. To quote some of the great Animal House fraternity brother legacies; lets go hit some golf balls. You can't fire me. You don't even know who I work for. The meek shall all in due time toga party. It is Carpe Dium or Seize the Day. It is the story of all boys becoming men. "},{"Title":"Top 10 Comedy of All Time","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has got to be one of the funniest movies ever written. Definitely a guy-gotta-have movie, and if it's not in YOUR collection, you should ask yourself why you've waited this long.  More stars have gone on to great careers from this movie.  And very few movies have had more quotable movie lines (was it over when the Germans bombed Pearl Harbor....)  Tying a great job of casting with a fabulous screenplay and a memorable soundtrack, Animal House must have been as memorable to make as it has to watch! "},{"Title":"The Unofficial College Movie!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are in college, see this movie!  Immediately.  Don't take anything too seriously - just sit back, grab a brew and watch the members of the Delta fraternity raise hell at Faber College.Here's the lowdown the Delta House is the most disgusting, riotous, loudest frat house on campus, and Dean Wormer is considering disbanding the frat and kicking all of its members off campus.  The plot also features a rival frat full of stuck-up, preppy frat boys whose intentions are to do whatever they can to ensure that the Delta members will be kicked off school grounds for their inappropriate conduct.  Among the Delta House's offenses killing a horse in the Dean's office, cheating on exams, plenty of under-age drinking, multiple incidents of property damage and many more ridiculous stunts.  On top of this, one of the fraternity's members gets romantically involved with a 13 year-old girl that looks 18 and the president of the fraternity actually manages to score sexual intercourse from the Dean's wife!John Belushi made himself a legend in this slap-in-the-face to traditional film-making.  He plays the part of Bluto, an out-of-control student who leads his frat brothers through a series of childish pranks that upset the Dean and even the Mayor of the city of Faber.  Bluto is every party-goer's hero with his carpe diem attitude to life and his ability to down an entire bottle of whiskey in the span of about 10 seconds, not to mention his ability to devour a good portion of the college's mess hall menu!  On top of this, he registered a 0.0 GPA...impressive, eh?  This is a MUST SEE for any college student who likes to kick back a few brewskis and party-hop on the weekends.  It also features a good share of T&A for male viewers, so you really can't go wrong.  Animal House is also really clever with stereotypes and never fails to draw a laugh.Again, don't take this movie too seriously.  Sit back, grab a cold one and enjoy what could be the most hilarious movie in American film history! "},{"Title":"OVER-RATED","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"24 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has got to be the most-OVERRATED comedies of all time,I have no idea why everyone haved been raving about this silly SO-CALLED CULT-CLASSIC,sure that's what i expect from a movie like this and i do enjoy the genre,but the cookie-cutter script just frankly lacks BREAK-AWAY humor and the humor is too dull for my taste,I'll go with PORKYS, BLUES BROTHERS or AIRPLANE! anyday!! "},{"Title":"Frat Pack","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There was American Graffiti a few years earlier but Animal House set a standard of frat pack comedies with tits and ass that we still see today with the American Pie films.The film is set in the early 1960s as the college Dean Vernon Wormer wants to remove the Deltas from the campus due to repeated conduct violations and low academic achievement. Of course the Deltas will include almost anyone in their house and is a haven for misfits in contrast to the Omegas who are clean cut, smug, privileged as well as exclusive who will have nothing to do with people who are fat, ugly, poor or coloured.The screenplay and comedy was fresh for the time and the characters played by Tim Matheson, Peter Riegert, Tom Hulce have been imitated by others since then. In fact Tom Hanks very much copied Matheson's character in the 1980s.Used sparingly John Belushi gives the loudest and wildest performance as Bluto and it all ends up in chaos in a parade where the Deltas have a rogue float that causes havoc.Animal House has a messy, manic energy which its cast runs with as they know at least which direction they are heading. They blazed a trail for what followed but this film got there first. "},{"Title":"The original college comedy","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" MPAA RatingRated R for Language and Sexual Content. Quebec Rating13+ Canadian Home Video Rating14ANational Lampoon's Animal House is the original college comedy.The film which inspired other college based comedies such as Old School,Van Wilder and Revenge Of The Nerds.I have not seen this movie in a long time so I don't remember much of it.It stars John Belushi and Kevin Bacon has a small role in this film.The film is about a dean of a college who wants to expel the members of the Delta house, a rowdy drunken fraternity.There is another fraternity with rich kids who the dean likes.Basically the Delta house pulls pranks on them and the dean.Two scenes from this film I remember are the end parade scene and a part where they go into an African-American club where they see their favorite band Morris Day and the Knights, then the people in the club steal their dates.Animal House is a funny classic college comedy. "},{"Title":"those were the days","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As Archie Bunker so aptly put it...those were the days. Saw this movie for the umpteenth time and still laughed out loud. Outlandish, ridiculously immature, and at times totally unrealistic , Animal House captured the 70's cavalier attitudes towards just about everything even though it was presumably set in 1962. And what can one say about Otis Day and the Knights.... a true one hit (?) wonder but so typical of many of the rock n' roll groups of that era. Time warps all memories but Animal House relishes on making many of our own memories larger than life. If you haven't seen Animal House yet (and that certainly would be a rarity) go rent it now, or for when you're having your next toga party or food fight. "},{"Title":"toga! toga! toga!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My favorite comedy and one of the all-time greats.Perhaps more memorable one-liners than any other movie.My fave lines were by Dean Wormer concerning double secret probation and his verbal chastisement of John Bluto Blutarski.... Mr. Blu....MISTER BLU-TARSKI!!! ZERO POINT ZERO!!!!! My regards for the late comic genuis with the 0.0 GPA. "},{"Title":"flawless","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you didn't like this film first time round , give it a second chance, it grows on you! I've got to love all the characters even the baddies. I've become really nostalgic for that period , I want to go to Faber College, in that age of innocence. I wouldn't mind being a really naive freshman. By the way those characters would now be 60 years old!!! "},{"Title":"What can you say about 'Animal House'?","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What can you say about 'Animal House'? It is a true, and well-deserving classic. Okay, the ending doesn't really hold up to the rest of the film, but that is the most common thing in filmdom. It is simply THE definitive college comedy. "}{"Title":"The original, and still the best...","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Perhaps it is the greatest movie (comedy) of all time, some could argue that point.  However, I believe that it is the greatest comedy movie that will ever be made.  This is a truly funny movie.  The wonderful, colorful writing is brought to life by a wonderful cast.  In turn, the incredible talent of the  cast is tapped to the fullest extent by John Landis' superb comedic genius.  The movie is the greatest because it the original.  This statement does seem incredibly cliche, and I hear it use about many movies today.  But Animal House is the real deal.  This true masterpiece didn't rely to heavily on sight gags, shock value, plain old jokes, or good old slap stick.  Instead, this movie masterfully combined the many different aspects of comedy into one coherent film.  Although all writers and directors borrow from this classic film, none will ever top the achievement of Douglas Kenney, Harold Ramis, and John Landis. "},{"Title":"Wow...talk about a generation gap....","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House is a comedy classic and there have already been a bunch of reviews for it. So, instead of discussing the specifics, I want to relate what happened when I re-watch the film a few years ago. Now I have always loved Animal House and the film never fails to make me laugh. Even now, if my wife says 'Fawn Liebowitz', I can't help but laugh. So, when my oldest daughter got old enough to watch the film (which is 30, but I watched it with her when she turned 18), we watched it together. I KNEW she'd laugh hysterically....and she never did. In fact, when the film was over, she said 'it's okay...' and I was shocked. How could she not love the film?! Well, I think a lot of it happens to have a lot to do with when you grew up. Back in the late 70s, it worked GREAT but now here in 2008, it fell a bit flat. Wow...what a shock.So, I assume that the film will definitely work better if you grew up around the time the film was made...though it is possible that my oldest is just a weird! "},{"Title":"Forgot how great this was","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I had not seen this movie in quite awhile (especially the non-edited version). It was on HBO just last week, and watched it last night. Just plain hilarious, about fell over a few times. I am kind of odd and love the golf scene, and so much of it reminds me of real times in college. Shows fraternities are usually there just for fun. The Omegas are funny as well, the initiation is pretty darn good. Delta - get drunk and have fun. Omega - show who is in charge by making some submit to degradation. Just about right. Belushi seems like he is not even acting, just living out his life and being recorded. I heard he was trashed throughout most of the movie, and that would seem about right (and I find no fault, just getting into character). "},{"Title":"one of the most inspirational comedies ever","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House (1978)A legendary, groundbreaking and influential comedy that will be around for a long time. Animal House has been ripped off, copied or borrowed from by almost every college comedy (and many normal comedies) made since. While watching you'll see scenes from Van Wilder, Old School, Road Trip, Porky's, Accepted, and so on. The story seems like a clichéd and replayed story but that's because now, 30 years after, it is, however for its time it's very original. The writing and characters are hilarious and the acting is better than in most college comedies. Although Tim Matheson, Peter Reigert, Thomas Hulce and all the other more main characters are all funny in their own way and all give good performances this film would have been nothing without John Belushi. Belushi is more of a minor character but steals the film with his hilarious lines, facial expressions and actions. The way he chooses to deliver his lines add even more humor to the already funny writing. Animal house is one of the last comedies to come out before the 80s ruined comedies, and oddly enough it is partially Animal House's fault. I'm not saying that all 80's comedies are bad, but I feel most are. Porky's, Police Academy, Weird Science, Real Genius, etc, they're all seem to be the same style and not very funny but are still considered classics. Even the 80s comedies I do enjoy like Airplane and Caddyshack still have the same feel to them but are just funnier. Many of the films (still through the 90s and 00s) force nudity in to films where it is unnecessary and doesn't add any humor usually. Animal House sort of brought on that kind of comedy, but did it better than almost all of them, even the nude scenes are funny, not just there to bring guys in. Its truly a influential film, let alone comedy. Although it may be the responsible for inspiring some terrible films over the years, it has also inspired some of the best. It should be remembered and honored as one of the most important comedies of the 70s and of film history. 9/10 "},{"Title":"John Belushi is still the main attraction of National Lampoon's Animal House all these years later","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" All right, after about 25 years, I decided to once again watch National Lampoon's Animal House which was the movie that made SNL star John Belushi a bona fide film star. I mean, despite his role being essentially a supporting one that was created mainly to provide the most outrageously hilarious moments, he's the deservedly top-billed one that was the reason Animal House was such a big hit and continues to attract viewers today. This is certainly not to take away the contributions of such players as Tim Matheson, Peter Riegert, Bruce McGill, John Vernon, Mark Metcalf, Stephen Furst, and a young unknown named Kevin Bacon. But face it, for the most part Belushi is the show. What probably also helped were such fetching females like Karen Allen and Sarah Holcomb who along with Mary Louise Weller and Lisa Baur provide the ample nudity that I'm sure provided some wet dreams for adolescent boys everywhere. (Like me!) Script by Harold Ramis, Chris Miller, and Douglas Kenney is funny from beginning to end and director John Landis adds some great improvisation of his own to the proceedings. So what more can I say except, Toga! Toga! or Food fight! or my favorite line Was it over when the Germans bombed Pearl Harbor? Hell no! among others...P.S. As a native Chicagoan, I'm proud that Belushi, Landis, and Ramis also came from there. And, yes, the slide after the credits that says When in Hollywood, Visit Universal Studios (Ask for Babs!) was retained for the HD DVD but the tours in neither Tinseltown nor Orlando honor the discount or free pass that saying her name originally entailed. "},{"Title":"I don't remember college like this","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Fun! Excitement! Pure party pleasure! This is the ultimate in fraternity slobbery with some outstanding performances by John Belushi and Tim Matheson, and a special treat with Donald Sutherland.This was the first film appearance for some now great stars like Kevin Bacon (The Woodsman, The River Wild, Hollow Man), Karen Allen (Raiders of the Lost Ark), and Peter Riegert (Traffic, Barbarians at the Gate).Even Blues guitarist Robert Cray was there with Otis Day and the Knights.I cannot imagine anyone who doesn't rank this as one of the funniest films they have seen. "},{"Title":"This is the boy who molested me last month! We have to get married now.","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hailed far and wide as the grand daddy of all frat brother movies, this rude, crude, in your face comedy chronicles of a raunchy fraternity of losers, misfits, and sex maniacs defying the powers that be and triumphing in spite of their own ineptitude.Has some great laughs, such as when Larry's shapely girlfriend passes out half naked and his good and evil halves dispute over whether or not he should take her virginity/innocence while she's out, and the bombastic climax with the parade massacre, but on the whole, not a classic, at least not to me (Blues Brothers and Ghostbusters were better). Perhaps it's because I didn't grow up in the era, but this one just didn't do much for me. Well, to each their own.Martha Smith provides some nice eye candy at the end as Babs (she's the reason why subsequent John Landis films say When In Hollywood, Visit Universal Studios - Ask For Babs. since she is listed as becoming a Universal Studio tour guide)John Belushi has his moments but is wasted on the whole in the one note role of sloppy man-child Bluto (Jake Blues was truly his best role).Watching this film it's hard to believe that Tim Matheson (sex addict Eric Otter Stratton) was the original voice of Johnny Quest.Useless trivia - Chevy Chase was the original choice to play Otter, Dan Aykroyd was the original choice to play D-Day, and Bill Murray was the original choice to play Boone, but they were all unavailable due to prior commitments.I can't believe I threw up in front of Dean Wormer...! Face it - you threw up *on* Dean Wormer. "},{"Title":"The first and best frat boy movie ever!","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Anyone can get into this film. Come on, you can admit to one laughter coming out of your mouth. John Belushi can just make you die of laughter, because he is so funny.Animal House is your basic comedy that works very well. It also has a very promising cast. You have Donald Sutherland, John Belushi, Tom Hulce, Kevin Bacon, Karen Allen, and Tim Matheson. John Landis also has a line of movies that were all very excellent. So, you get what you are promised. You are just going to have to trust me when I say that this is a timeless comedy. It gets funnier every time that you see it.RIP John, you were a master at your work. We all miss you! 8/10 "},{"Title":"timeless, classic college humor...","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Boy, oh boy. When you think about comedies, you know that a lot of humor is topical and limited to the generation that experienced it. Other humor is truly timeless, as it is in this film. the first time I watched this movie, I was cracking up. Now that I'm at that post-secondary education level, I know from second-hand experience, it can truly be that funny. The cast, while densely packed with a talented roster, is more than enough to bust your gut. John Belushi, in particular, is a comedic talent that we will not get to experience again for a long time. The dialogue is often silly and kind of stupid, but it's always for a good reason.Mark Metcalf is a fun guy to watch. As he struggles to retain an air of authority, he is badgered every step of the way by the guys of Delta house. The golf scene is particularly enjoyable. And Donald Sutherland, though appearing only briefly, is an intriguing character as well. Seriously, the man can bring quality to even the weakest movie, which this is not. I highly recommend this to guys in the 14-20 age bracket - you're the ones who'll most enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"Delta House Lives!","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Take equal parts 'National Lampoon', 'Mad' Magazine, M.A.S.H. (the movie, not the watered-down TV show), 'Saturday Night Live', and THE KENTUCKY FRIED MOVIE, mix in the youthful, anarchistic humor of writers Harold Ramis, Douglas Kenney, and Chris Miller, add the energy of director John Landis and an inspired cast, and top it all off with liberal quantities of John Belushi, and you have the recipe of the ULTIMATE college comedy, ANIMAL HOUSE. Every time a kid tells me OLD SCHOOL, VAN WILDER, or SORORITY BOYS is the funniest college-themed movie, ever, I simply loan them my copy of ANIMAL HOUSE, and watch their opinions change!Inspired by the 'National Lampoon' High School Yearbook parodies, and college articles of Chris Miller, novice screenwriters Ramis, Kenney, and Miller were not inhibited by studio 'standards' of comedy, but had a Nothing is Taboo attitude that was occasionally gross, but was also fresh, rebellious, and wildly imaginative. The work was so original that Warner Brothers turned it down, saying it could not be made. Fortunately, Universal had executives who were fans of the irreverent magazine, and decided to green light the film. John Landis, fresh from the 'ahead of it's time' Zucker/Abrahams comedy, THE KENTUCKY FRIED MOVIE, was a perfect 'fit' to direct the film, and a cast of mostly unknowns were chosen to fill the roles, as the project was given a relatively low budget. There were a few exceptions, however; John Belushi, already a huge star on 'Saturday Night Live' was the first and only choice to play Bluto, gross-out king of Delta House; Chevy Chase, the first choice to play Otter, opted not to work with Belushi, but to make the more traditional FOUL PLAY, instead (young TV veteran Tim Matheson inherited the part, which became his best-known role); and Dan Ackroyd, for whom the biker, D-Day, was created, declined to do both 'Saturday Night Live' and ANIMAL HOUSE at the same time (Bruce McGill, in his second film, got the part, beginning a long, successful career as a character actor).The stories of the making of ANIMAL HOUSE are legendary, and are, for the most part, true. Yes, Donald Sutherland was brought in for a cameo, simply so Universal could advertise a major star in the film...yes, the University of Oregon was the only school in the country that would allow it's campus to be used, as it's president had turned down THE GRADUATE, years before...yes, Belushi and McGill DID bring a horse into the president's office...yes, John Vernon (Dean Wormer) never rehearsed with Belushi, so that his reactions to the comedian's expressions would be spontaneous...yes, Matheson did, actually, get beaten up by Oregon frat boys after 'hitting on' one of their girls at a party, prior to the shooting (so did McGill)...yes, John Landis used only one camera for the 'shoot', and completed filming in just 32 days!Chosen as one of the '100 Greatest Comedies Ever Made' by the AFI, ANIMAL HOUSE changed film comedy forever, giving voice to a new generation of film makers and audiences. After 25 years, it is still as irreverent and funny as ever, and I believe our grandchildren will continue to laugh at the antics of the misfits of Delta House!   "}{"Title":"The Movie Without a Message That Somehow Works.","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SNL's John Belushi is at his finest in this funny spoof of 1960's college life.  He leads the pack of the raunchy Deltas, who rebel against a rival fraternity and the dean of students (John Vernon).  For a movie without a message, this one is actually one of the funniest comedies of all time, and, true to form, Belushi steals every scene with his screwball humor.  A movie that's definately worth watching.5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"funny movie and john belushi' best movie","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  now a dated film,but, when it came out john belushi was excellent as the character bluto blutarsky. great movie if you attended similar college,with fraternities and sororities. kevin bacon shows he can act in this picture. all the secondary characters were great.one has to go back to the seventies to appreciate this great,comedic movie. mark metcalf plays a tyrannical doug neidermeyer. worth seeing more than once.  "},{"Title":"The template for todays college comedies","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" May not be the most original comedy ever, but it has an undefinable class, and it's no surprise to see that for the people who love it, no other comedy comes close. Today's American Pie's and all the other clones have nothing on this, its quite near to the bone, and genuinely doesn't give a damn who it upsets.Great cast, the bad guys are there just to be booed at, it has everything a comedy needs to cheer you up.Belushi is class, even though its a quote film; and I have lost count of the amount of films that have ripped scenes from here.  It was made at a time when the SNL people weren't full of themselves and their ego's, and I don't believe any of the cast was major stars at the time. The key to the film is it looked like they were having a cracking time making it, and it shows you exactly how to party, and party till you drop.Altogether now; TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! "},{"Title":"a pioneer","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" American graffiti was first, but it was not until 1978, when animal house was released that the interest for wild teen - flicks rose.I have to tell you people, I have seen A LOT of teen movies and I always compare them to AH. No teen movie after 1978 has topped it, and I don't think anyone will. The movie contains pretty much the same things that every teen flick does; Sex, party, pranks, harsh adults, and drunk teenagers. The movie is so seriously made though, that these scenes can easily be watched by adults today. I love movies that defies the way it should be done and instead offers the audience something they have never seen before (star wars, psycho). I'm not comparing John Landis to George Lucas or Hitchcock, but the man has always gone his own way, and together with the funny and talented scriptwriter Harold Ramis, he delivers one of the top ten best comedies ever which shouldn't be missed by no one.Animal house also contains a wonderful soundtrack and some great first time actors; Tim Matheson, Karen Allen, Kevin Bacon, Bruce McGuill, and the talented John Belushi (may he rest in peace) as Bluto. And let's not forget Donald Sutherland (one of my favorite actors) who, as far as I know, has never made a bad part.If you haven't seen it, and if you like to laugh, go see it.  "},{"Title":"Belushi, Ramis and Landis - In their prime and at their best","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Summer 1978, and there is a great new movie running around.  It's subversive, funny and has a great soundtrack.  The trailer was funny and everyone I know wants to see it.  Problem, the film is restricted, we are all underage, and there is no-way one of our parents would 'accompany' us to the movie.So, me and a couple of pals sneak to the theater, and sneak in - and are treated to an amazing film.Now although seamingly dated with the yearly barrage of teenager aimed 'coming of age' picks it is hard to remember that in 1978 this film was new.  It was the original that set the tone for the barrage of immitators that followed.  It is also note remembering that this film was not aimed at teenagers, rather at young adults.  The comedy and situations were original, adult in tone and they deliver.Belushi - in his second motion picture and at his prime, Ramis with his first screenplay, and Landis - only his third time at the helm, deliver.The rest of the - relatively - unknown cast are fresh and deliver.All in all a great film, and worth watching again - not the butchered for TV versions, but if possible in a repretory theater or on DVD. "},{"Title":"I Bought My Love A Chicken That Had No Bones","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The folk singer scene with Bluto (no spoiler given) is amongst the funniest in cinematic history. I just watched it last night on cable (uncut), and lord it's still got laughs after 100 viewings. so what are we supposed to do about it ya Morons??? "},{"Title":"Always enjoyable, nearly 25 years later!!","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie set the standards of what college life is really all about.  Throwing up on the dean doesn't happen too often in real life but food fights and open sex still does.  John Belushi was great and he is forever missed.  Long live John!   "},{"Title":"Still Funny","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, which is the more realistic depiction of college life in 1962? This movie or one from the uneneding series of Annette Funicello beach flicks? Which movie should be placed in a time capsule for future generations? No contest. This movie gave every college class after it something to live up to, and believe me we all tried. Ridiculous, but hilarious movie from beginning to end. The raunchiness, unprecedented in its time, pales now by what is released these days, nevertheless...  "},{"Title":"First of it's kind","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first film made by National Lampoon magazine, it's a film i've wanted to see for a long time. However, having finally seen it, it's something of a disappointment. Basically, it's the story of a fraternity house, Delta House, at a college in America and it's inhabitant's misadventures. Although it's easy to criticise, this was the first movie of it's kind, paving the way for many other similar films, such as the Porky's trilogy. John Belushi is, as always, brilliant and the rest of the cast acquit themselves admirably, but the problem is the script is just too light. An OK film, but just OK.  "},{"Title":"This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen !","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first seen this movie when it came out in the late 1970s and found it very funny.  After 20 years later I still think this movie is one of the funniest movis I have ever seen.  John Belushi no doubt one of the most funniest actors and sadly he's gone so young.  This is a classic, a cult movie, and it's great ! "}{"Title":"The classic.","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Slob humor would never be the same.  It's not physically possible to not laugh at this film.  Hilarious sight gags, one-liners, and that immortal parade scene will always have this film considered as one of the best ever. And how can you resist John Bulshi? "},{"Title":"What is Maltin Talking About?","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the top five comedies of all time. This is a **** movie that lives on today. Did Leonard rate the wrong movie? This movie spawned a whole new dialogue amongst it's viewers. Must be viewed in a series with Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Caddyshack, Ford Fairlane and a viewers choice between Monty Python and the Holy Grail or Revenge of the Nerds. As for snacks during this multi-feature extravaganza, pass on the soda pop and popcorn and opt instead for Schmidt Beer (with the wild ducks on the box) and pepperoni sticks. You are in for a truly enjoyable cinematic evening. Re-runs from The Man Show are appropriate if the crowd is hungry for more. "},{"Title":"With all this who needs a plot?","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In 1978, there were only a few things a movie needed to be really funny...sex, beer, drugs, and John Belushi.  This movie had all of that and oh, so much more. There were more one-liners in twenty minutes of this movie than nearly any other, and...oh, if only there had been more archetypes than just Tim Matheson that came out of this movie.  Particularly, the world needs more professors like Donald Sutherland.  This movie...so much genius in John Landis' vision.  This is what we all imagined college would be like in those anticipatory years. Except real college doesn't have Belushi. "},{"Title":"A landmark comedy","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the films that immediately come to mind when I think of cinematic perfection (others are RUSHMORE, CASABLANCA, SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION, GODFATHER II, JAWS and several others). Every character and every scene are perfect. The film is line after line and situation after situation of comic genius.To this day, my friends and I laughingly recite many of the lines from ANIMAL HOUSE verbatim.10/10 "},{"Title":"The Greatest Movie Ever Made","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Come on! Forget The Godfather I and II. Forget Citizen Kane. Forget Casablanca. You know what you REALLY want to see tonight. The gold-standard of movie making. A cast of thou..well, okay, dozens. Beautiful scenic panoramas, some featuring marbles and smoke bombs. The best ensemble cast ever brought together (well, yeah, maybe not Stephen Bishop, but that certainly is a poignant tune he's playing, mais non?). This little gem shows just what you can do with virtual unknowns, no script, $10,000 and John Belushi, that is, make one of the great comedy classics of a generation. Of course, I did see this while I was in college and ingesting copious amounts of highly regulated pharmaceuticals so my viewpoint may have been somewhat skewed. But as Flounder says, Oh boy! Is this great!! "},{"Title":"The cream of the crop","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Animal House ranks among those few movies of the late 1970's and early 1980's that lay the foundation for all of the comedies afterward. I'm talking about Stripes, Caddyshack, The Jerk, Vacation, The Blues Brothers, Trading Places, and, of course, Animal House.  It really is a triumph of great writing and directing.  Both John Landis and Harold Ramis each boast impressive resumes, but Animal House must rank as their funniest movie (unless you count only the first hour of Stripes)I love this movie.  "},{"Title":" Simply the greatest comedy of all-time","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Landis' Animal House is a comedic masterpiece. It's not just a funny movie,but it is so much more than that.It is full of manic energy, hilarious dialogue, and great jokes. It is very well directed by John Landis (possibly the greatest comic director ever). He directs this movie with such energy and comic zest that it is no wonder he went on to make other great movies like The Blues Brothers.Animal House is a better movie than people may have first realized. It has some wonderfuly written characters. The Deltas are all extremely likable , and the actors do great jobs of portraying them. The villians are great too. The Dean and the Omegas are written and acted to perfection.The movie also has the greatest cinematic finale of all-time. Each of the scenes have countless moments of comic inspiration and suprises. Well anyway this movie is probably the most quotable and hilarious movie ever made. "},{"Title":"classic movie about college life.","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Animal House set the standard for college/drinking/women chasing/bad behavior movies of the last 20 years. With an Oscar worthy preformance by John Belushi it is a movie that continues to be interesting and simply hilarious every time you watch it. Animal House has had a more profound effect on young men growing up than the novel Catcher in the Rye, or the films the Graduate and Platoon combined. If you don't like Animal House you don't understand the genre, film, or the arts. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest ever","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Life as a student in a small liberal arts college can get mighty strange. Believe me, I know. For the 1962 denizens of Faber College, childhood is in the past, adult responsibilities are in the future, and authority exists only to be mocked. Animal House hilariously skewers campus life and societal attitudes in the pre-Vietnam 1960's. I've watched it so many times I've begun to wonder about minutiae like the Tennessee state flag in the background of the trial scene. I've also read the book and learned the real reason one of the characters is nicknamed Pinto. (It's not the reason John Belushi gives in the movie.) But I've stopped looking for deep meanings behind details like the girls wearing copies of the pink outfit Jackie Kennedy wore in Dallas, and now, whenever I have a chance to see this one again, I just rock along with Otis Day and the Knights and have a great time.  "},{"Title":"Belushi's acting is remarkable","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Clearly, John Belushi is the star of the movie, and yet, notice how few actual lines he has. Other than his famous speech near the end, he rarely says more than one sentence per scene. His brilliance is that he can convey more with a single raised eyebrow than most other actors can even with the best of scripts. "}{"Title":"Classic fraternity comedy.","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A much talked-about movie, not just because of the stars like John Belushi, but also because of the insanity and taboos broken (lecturers smoking pot, promiscuous sex et al), Animal House is easily one of the best wild comedies ever made.Merely watching the movie makes one relish for days of skipping classes and wreaking havoc everywhere. Smashing golf balls randomly is one such insane act, along with riding a motorcycle up some stairs. Many instances like this occur, while all the time there is a storyline building up in the background which could decide the fate of everyone in the errant Delta House.Yet despite their antics and insanity, we all know deep down that there will be a good ending, and I leave it to you to see it for yourselves. "},{"Title":"How can this not be in the top?","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" How anyone cannot consider Animal House one of the funniest films ever made is beyond me. My sides literally hurt when I saw this movie in the theater. There have only been a handful of movies that have done that to me.The horse, the tape measure, and the chainsaw. Not a word is said, it only takes seconds on screen, by a nameless actor, yet it is one of the funniest bits ever filmed.If nothing else, how many other comedies 30+ years old are still watched repeatedly by millions of people.I will echo another's comment You need to see this on a DVD or VHS, not on TV, where half the humor is bleeped or cut. "},{"Title":"A classic. *minor spoilers*","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is a riot. It's just a shame that Belushi's delicious collaboration with Landis only produced two masterpieces (I don't need to tell what the other is). Well, better that zero. I actually don't quite know what to say about this movie.. it's so perfect. Landis has (or more like had) the best sense of humor when it comes to directing. It also helps that the script is very funny and the actors give top performances. It's remarkable that so many of their careers flopped after this. And really considering Landis' work in the resent years, it's been so sad to have seen his talent drift away. Oh well, enough of that.. Animal House kicks ass! The humor is so relentless and the jokes keep coming one after another.. not much breaks in between. Bluto Was it over when the.. Germans bombed Pearl Harbor? Hell no! Otter Germans? Boon Forget it, he's rollin'. Priceless.***** / ***** "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To all of you good people the lazy surburban moral slobs who won't find this movie funny.  Get a life.  Animal is a classic, and dare I say The funniest movie ever.  The script is ingenious, the acting terrific, and the directing well it proved that Landis could do much better than Beverly Hills Cop III.  I don't think I need to sum this flick up since I am willing to bet, that everyone has already seen it.  I just want to tell people that sometimes lowbrow humor is funny and clever.  Just because this movie is sleazy doesn't mean it isn't ingenious.  To all you so called good white collar guys watch this movie again and remember what it felt like to truly be alive, and then you can tell everyone else how morally reprehensable the movie was to all your family members.  This movie is a classic and should be cherised not slammed.  "},{"Title":"Laugh Out Loud!","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has got to be funniest movie ever. John Belushi is a hoot. He very funny. I almost peed in my pants watching this film. I cannot believe some of the funny moments. I would reccomend this film highly to all my friends and family. There has never been a funnier movie. I loved it. Catch it on video or better yet on the DVD. "},{"Title":"Toga! Toga!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest film I've ever seen. Belushi is hilarious and doesn't have much to say, which is okay with me, because he's a physical comedian. Another amazing film from John Landis (who also did Blues Brothers). Chevy Chase (Otter) and Dan Aykroyd (D-Day) were also supposed to be in one. Too bad for them, I guess. Co-written by Harold Ramis (Egon from the Ghostbusters). Can't be missed.  "},{"Title":"Tasteless humor at its finest","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can see why Animal House is regarded as a timeless classic among comedies.  When I first watched it, it was on network television.  Anybody who watches this movie on network TV knows they cut out the VERY best parts.  So renting this movie and watching it in its uncut format was like watching another (much better) movie.  There are some priceless lines and priceless gags.  John Belushi (God bless his soul) naturally steals the show as Bluto, and will always be remembered for this pinnacle role of his career.  He plays one of those obnoxious characters that you actually grow to like.  That's rare in the movies.  Every single character--main and supporting--holds water in this offbeat comedy.  Everyone from Peter Riegert (very underrated actor) as Otter to Donald Sutherland as the professor who gets high with his students.  Boy, I wish I was in his class...LOL.  The comedy almost always works, yet it never gets out of hand.  It always manages to deliver silly, outrageous humor without overdoing it.  And that's what makes this movie so special.  However, it is gratuitous in the nudity department--which is actually a good thing for the guys.  Speaking of nude scenes, one classic moment which always has me cracking up is when the boy is about to have sex with the girl he met at the supermarket, and she passes out on him.  Then a Devil appears on his shoulder and yells out, F**k her!  F**k her brains out!Animal House is a joyous adventure through the immorality of adolescence.  It almost never fails, and leaves you refreshed.  As long as you maintain a good, uninhibited attitude throughout the film--You'll have a blast!!!  Toga!!!!  Toga!!!!My score  8 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"John Belushi Rules!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the film that changed the face of comedy forever.  It also created a new sub genre in comedy known as the teen comedy.  Tom Hulce's role as Pinto is a warmup for his great performance as Mozart in Amadeus(1985).  Its well written by Bill Murray sidekick and filmmaker Harold Ramis.The film was in the first screenplay to take place in High School but was moved up to College to lessen the taboos.  Mark Metcalf is wonderfully cast as the fascist and hatable Neidermeyer.  The food fight scene is a gem.  Another great scene is the speech made by Belushi.Animal House(1978) was done during a excellent time in movie making for John Landis in which he came up with films like Kentucky Fried Movie(1977), The Blues Brothers(1980), An American Werewolf in London(1981), and Into the Night(1985).  John Belushi makes his film debut here and practically steals every scene as Bluto.  His performance in Animal House(1978) shows why he is the greatest comedian in the history of Saturday Night Live.  John Vernon is terrific as the mean and evil Dean Wormer.My favorite scene is the report card sequence.  Animal House would spawn many copycats that ranges from excellent to very poor.  Donald Sutherland as Jennings is very humorous.  Animal House(1978) is a comedy classic that will never be matched or surpassed on its level of anarchic Comedy. "},{"Title":"I wish I enrolled at Faber College","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The scene where Belushi jumps the ladder around the girls sorority house is the funniest scene in comedy history.  This movie was based on a thousand true stories of fraternity life in the sixties.  Bravo.  It deserves an Academy Award. "},{"Title":"One of the best-directed comedies in American film history -- and one of the funniest!","Date":"30 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jon Landis' Animal House is one of the best-directed comedies in American film history -- and one of the funniest.  Like a small and loopy symphony  (the score is in fact inextricably linked to the narrative action), it moves inexorably forward from one hilarious situation to the next.  Beloved of people who like to roar laughing but detested by high-minded and humorless moralists, Animal House has been consistently under-rated by the critics  (Leonard Maltin gives it two stars out of four, as I remember -- an outrageous assessment).  Landis' direction in this film inspired a host of stylistic imitators (the most obvious being Spike Lee, especially in Do the Right Thing), most of whom don't acknowledge the debt.  A landmark film.    "}{"Title":"what a wonderful world it is with John Belushi being a P-I-G","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Everybody knows the story of Faber College's wild Delta fraternity making their own rules while the law-and-order-obsessed dean tries to expel them in 1962. But you still have to see it! Whether it's John Belushi's whole skit in the cafeteria, the toga party, or the grand finale, Animal House is a laugh riot from beginning to end. How anyone was able to come up with something so damn hilarious shows what geniuses some people are.As for some of the characters, we'll first focus on the Deltas. Belushi's John Bluto Blutarsky is in a class all by himself, Eric Otter Stratton (Tim Matheson) is a new kind of pervert, Donald Boone Schoenstein (Peter Riegert) toes too many lines for his own good, Larry Pinto Kroger (Tom Hulce) tries but fails to play it straight, and Kent Flounder Dorfman (Stephen Furst) is a dork.Then, there's the vicious Omega house. Gregg Marmalard (James Daughton) is the creepiest of the creepy, Sgt. Douglas Niedermeyer (Mark Metcalf) represents the army's nastiest aspects, and Chip Diller (Kevin Bacon in his debut) shows that new doesn't necessarily mean good.Next, the older characters. Dean Vernon Wormer (John Vernon) is almost a Nazi, Prof. Dave Jennings (Donald Sutherland) is a proto-hippie, Marion Wormer (Verna Bloom) seems unfulfilled in life, and Mayor Carmine DePasto (Cesare Danova) likes to extort.And then there's the women. Katy (Karen Allen) is dating Boone but is often displeased with him. But especially noticeable are Mandy Pepperidge (Mary Louise Weller) and Babs Jansen (Martha Smith). Maybe it's Babs' sweet-talking accent, or maybe it's the camera angle on Mandy when Otter is talking to her in the cafeteria, or maybe it's the scene where Bluto is looking up their dresses, or maybe it's the scene where Bluto watches Mandy undress. But whatever it is, those two babes each deserve their own chapters in the Encyclopedia of Hot Women, if there ever is one! Anyway, Animal House is beyond hilarious. Not even the grouchiest, most miserly person could resist laughing. Every time that I hear Wonderful World, I think of John Belushi piling the food onto his tray. On that subject, the soundtrack rivals American Graffiti in terms of how neat it is. SEE THIS MOVIE AT ALL COSTS! "},{"Title":"Top Campus Comedy","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is about as good as its gets for this style of comedy.Almost every scene is a classic, every character is perfect, and the comic genius of the late John Belushi is evident throughout.As campus comedy goes, there are few finer, as Pinto, Flounder, Bluto, D-Day, etc, fight for there right to party (without letting little things like studies or education get in the way).My favourite scenes include - 'Food Fight' in the campus canteen 'I'm a zit, get it''Flounder shooting Neidermeyer's horse with blanks' Holy S**T!'Pinto's first sexual encounter' F**k her, F**k her brains out, suck her T**s, etc.The list is endless, and the comedy is timeless,A brilliant movie, thats got something for everyone, (although it has dated, just a little) 9/10 "},{"Title":"Because knowledge is good!","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hilarious.  It's awesome to see so many talented comedians in early performances (Matheson, Bacon, Belushi, etc.)  I have been a fan of Tim Matheson's for a while now, and Kevin Bacon's for longer.  Animal House is a great comedy, as it doesn't really have a point where it sags and becomes bland.  It's full of laughs and pretty dirty jokes.  I'm a girl and I love it!  Ladies, it may be thought of as more of a guy movie, but give it a try!  Besides, Tim Matheson is definite eye-candy!  ; )~ "},{"Title":"An American Classic!","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Animal House is not only a classic for its legacy of what comedy was like in the 70s but a classic for its comedy timing, style and characters.With such comedic giants as John Belushi and Donald Sutherland, Animal House is a riot from beginning to end!  From food fights to sex on campus, Animal House lives up to its name.Tom Hulce, as Pinto, shows us the gentler side of the 70s ... those few quiet ones that were longing to *break out* and *live*!This is a must for anyone that wants to just have a good time, laugh 'till their sides ache and see comedy at its best!  "},{"Title":"Seven years of college down the drain!!!","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Unlike many of the films on this list, Animal House is not a great moral and intellectual film designed to enlighten.  It is a raunchy, lewd, crude, and sometimes offensive comedy.  It is also one of the funniest movies ever made.  While Airplane! has exploited the most inane of comedy (to winning effect, I might add), Animal House shows a great knowledge of human behavior, insecurity, college life, and human truths, and then spins it all on its head to great delight and amusement.  The opening scene which shows two Freshman pledging a fraternity where they are clearly not wanted is the first of many laughs that rely on our sophisticated view of the world.  And while Animal House does not disappoint on any level, it is the intelligent irreverence that makes Animal House as much fun as you can have watching a movie. "},{"Title":"They Just Don't Make Them Like This Anymore","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Back in 1978 I was 9 years old.  My aunt and uncle came over to see my parents before the movie started.  On the way out my aunt turns to me and says do you want to come with us?  I was 9 and had never seen an R rated movie ever.  For some reason my parents didn't mind, so out the door I went.  I have probably seen this film about 200 times since then and every time I watch it, I still laugh out loud about something.  Brilliantly acted and even more brilliantly written, National Lampoon's Animal House is not only the standard by which all youth oriented (Under 35) comedies are measured, but it really started it all.  I am a huge fan of the Blues Brothers, but Animal House is truly Belushi's crowning cinematic moment.  The one liners are endless and if you set foot at any college today or within the last 20 years, a week doesn't go by without somebody quoting or making reference to this film.  It is a true piece of Americana, a definitive cinematic achievement.  Any other film that remotely emulates it pales in comparison.  Everything about this film is so good, right down to the way they depict college life, the parties, the rivalries and the outright hatred and disregard for the establishment.  One of the all time greats.SSB - November 5, 1999 - NYC   "},{"Title":"Wow !!","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've probably seen this film more times than I've had hot dinners, and it just gets better every time.  Some of the scenes are so classic, that they come up in drunken conversations very regularly.  The greatest tragedy is the death of Belushi.  He was truly brilliant ! "},{"Title":"Excellent !!!!!!!","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House (1978) is Pure Classic !!!!! Probably the best college movie ever made in Hollywood.I don't think any director can make the film like this even in the future.Every college student should watch this movie at least once PEven though i already watched this movie couple of times before.This is one of the film i never felt bore at all.This movie set the standards for how the college life should be. 😋 John Belushi's performance is simply outstanding in the whole film.As for my favorite is Toga party scene , Food Fight scene, Student Court scene and report card scene.It's not just a funny movie,but it is so much more than that.Anyway ,this is the must watch movie for anyone who just wants to watch a full entertainment film.MY RATING  10/10 "},{"Title":"Seven Years Of College Down The Drain!","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Belushi, Tim Matheson, Peter Riegert, Tom Hulce, Stephen Furst, Karen Allen, James Widdoes, Mark Metcalfe, James Daughton, Bruce McGill, Douglas Kenney, Kevin Bacon, Donald Sutherland and John Vernon star in John Landis' 1978 comedy. This takes place in 1962 at Faber college where we meet teens, Kroger (Hulce) and his roommate, Dorfman (Furst) who are trying to pledge a fraternity. They first come to Omega House where they meet leaders, Neidermeyer (Metcalfe) and Greg (Daughton) and it doesn't work out. Soon, they join Delta House, the worst one on campus that loves to drink and party. The late, Vernon (Killer Klowns from Outer Space) plays Dean, Vernon Wormer who wants to expel Delta since it's already on probation. When he does, they decide to take matters in their own hands. The late, Belushi (The Blues Brothers) plays Bluto, Matheson (Black Sheep) plays Otter, Riegert (The Mask) plays Boon, Allen (Scrooged) plays Boon's girlfriend, Katy, Widdoes plays Delta President, Hoover, McGill (My Cousin Vinny) plays D-Day, the late, Kenney not only plays Stork, but was co-writer of the film, Bacon (Friday the 13th) plays Chip and Sutherland (Lock Up) plays Professor, Jennings. This classic definitely paved the way for other college comedies like Porky's, Revenge of the Nerds and of course, Van Wilder. Belushi & the cast are great and the late, Elmer Bernstein's score is also great. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"bad review?","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Being from the same hometown and Fred ('59) and Kent Dorfman, I can not believe the first review listed about this movie was negative. This is the best comedy of all time. It's jokes are still funny today, 25 years later. College kids today are still mimicking the scenes and actions from the movie. People still quote the lines, and most people recognize them when they hear them. Even the music (Shout!) became popular. It's an ageless classic. Anyone who went to college can relate to the characters. Most of the actors are well known for their roles in Animal House more so than any other 'serious' roles that they have played. I've watched the movie over 75 times, and it is brilliant! Knowledge is good! "}{"Title":"Synchronicity","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't believe in magic, but I think the production of this movie, its stars, its script, its capturing of the youthful exuberance of college life--coming off the stodginess of the 50s and heading into the hellishness of the late 60s--is quite simply the best comedy I've ever seen. It wasn't magic, but sychronicity. There is a freshness to John Landis' Animal House that I don't know if I've ever seen before or since. I can't tell you how many times I've seen this movie, but I don't get sad, never get sad at how one-of-a-kind Landis'--and the writers of the National Lampoon--captured such a bright, breezy, sassy, sarcastic, and utterly raunchy bit of renegade humor. I mention getting sad because of American Graffiti, George Lucas' masterpiece snapshot of just about the same time, down to a few months off. When Richard Dreyfuss is flying away to college, and he spies the white Thunderbird on a highway below, he gets a wistful look on his face. Then Lucas, who has set us up (Hey, Greg, look at my thumb!) for a disaster we can't see coming, slaps us across the face with death and destruction. But Animal House isn't meant to be as much of a memoir tinged with sadness as a look at the knuckleheads your grandparents went to college with--and what they were capable of. It's still a memoir of the writers' experiences in their respective colleges, but it's also a celebration of brazen, funny, stick-it-to-the-dean barbarianism. The kids, even the Pharoahs, in AG are civilized. There is very little civilization that isn't hanging on by a thread in Faber College or the surrounding communities. The frat houses are either run by closeted fascists or by, to put it kindly, recidivist non-academics. The dean is a Nixonian lookalike. The cheerleaders are walking Barbie Dolls (but I don't think Mattel ever would have wanted Barbie to be caught pleasuring herself--or being watched doing it).Animal House is the perfect snapshot movie for people in their mid to late thirties (born in the early 40s), who went to school before buildings started to be occupied, draft cards started burning, and National Guardsmen began panicking with loaded M-1s. It's also a great movie for the children of the late 50s--like myself--who saw the unraveling of the optimism of the Kennedy era into the malaise of Mr. Peanut, Jimmy Carter. I loved the feeling of burgeoning possibilities and potentialities in Animal House. When a smarmy character admires a brand-spanking-new 707 streaking across the night sky, he comments to his girlfriend, Boy, those babies do move. The college professor listens to Thelonius Monk and smokes--eek--dope with the curtains down, all under an unfamiliar peace sign. A homecoming float has giant white and black hands clasped, but there's maybe the funniest moment in the movie minutes before it, where a Delta frat boy yells out to a black singer in a black nightclub, Otis, my man! and the look Otis gives the middle class white kid is beyond priceless. A writer for my hometown newspaper said that look summed up race relations in the 60s better than anything he'd ever seen. American Graffiti celebrated innocence. AH celebrated something grittier, tougher. Which brings me back to being sad after seeing a comedy. I was 20 years old when I saw Animal House. I went on a date with a very pretty girl I worked with at McDonald's. She was 18, but I don't think she had the appreciation for the cultural commentary in Animal House. No insult. I just picked up on some of the darker, more menacing things getting hinted at. I'm almost 56 now. The country doesn't feel about itself the same way it did in 1962. The generation that killed the Nazis and then took on the Soviets is almost gone. We feel adrift. Even 1978 felt more optimistic--it wasn't that long before that the world was our oyster--we could bring it back!And because we are an optimistic lot--still--the fluff and fun, the renegade and raunch, the civilized and the civilized barbarians we were in American Graffiti and Animal House, we can get it back.We can, and that's why I'm not sad.And that's why Animal House is still witheringly, hopelessly optimistically funny to this day "},{"Title":"A classic that changed high school/college comedy","Date":"8 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Delta Tau Chi is the worst fraternity at Faber College; their conduct is a disgrace and their academic achievements are non-existent... this is the house that Larry Kroger and Kent Dorfman join after being rejected by the prestigious Omega Theta Pi fraternity. Here they will get into a number of scrapes with their new friends. Members of the house get up to many dubious things; one climbs a ladder to watch the girls getting undressed; another seduces the dean's wife and another gets the mayor's thirteen year old daughter drunk at a toga party! These and many other events lead to the fraternity being disbanded and its members expelled... they don't get mad though; they get even!This film is rightly considered a classic; love it or loathe it there is no denying it had a major influence on comedies for years to come. While it lead to films like 'Porky's' and the 'American Pie' series this is actually quite a bit tamer as it isn't about a group of guys desperate to have sex; several of the gags may have sexual overtones but most don't; they are just the hilarious antics of a group of lazy students and their ongoing conflict with the dean and their neighbours the stuck-up Omega fraternity. If you sit down to watch it for the first time you'll probably think you've seen certain scenes already as they have become so well known through references in other films and TV shows. The jokes are almost all funny and on the rare occasions that one falls flat it doesn't matter as there will be another funny thing to laugh at moments later. Some people may find it a little offensive as here is some swearing and nudity; although the latter is limited to bare breasts and a couple of naked backsides... and don't worry thirteen year old Clorette was played by eighteen year old Sarah Holcomb! The acting might not be of the greatest but that is part of the films charm; the cast, which includes the likes of John Belushi, Donald Sutherland and Kevin Bacon in a minor role, looked like they were having fun.If you like a good laugh you owe it to yourself to watch this at least once although I suspect most people will want to watch it more than that. "},{"Title":"A Wild Party from Start To Finish","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hello i'm Nathan aka Monstermaster13 and this is another look back. This time i'm looking back at one of the most well comedy movies of all time.About a group of misfit college studies fighting back against the Dean and the Omegas as well as a certain man by the name of Doug (No...not Doug Walker or Doug Funnie...I mean Doug Neidermyer) I'm of course referring to National Lampoon's Animal House, this classic 1978 comedy does a playful and enjoyable spin on life on college campus.This movie has left a massive impact on pop culture and inspired many other comedy movies in the genre. Many have tried but fallen flat (i'm talking about you, American Pie sequels and Seltzer and Friedberg).The plot behind this takes place at Faber College, first there's the Omegas who are the antagonists along with Doug Neidermyer and Dean Wormer.Then there's our protagonists - the Deltas, considered to be the worst house on campus - this assortment of oddball characters are the complete opposite to the Omegas (who are upper-class and snobbish).There's Flounder, who is a portly and clumsy but still kind of innocent and naive freshman who is one of the two new additions to this group. He makes for a very lovable character and has some truly wonderful scenes, especially near the end where he participates in the destruction of the homecoming parade.Then there's the other new guy on campus, Pinto - who is very shy and pretty much one of the only normal people in the group of misfits.D-Day is a biker type, he's tough and not to mention has some really badass moments. Plus he's a really skilled mechanic.Otter is somewhat of a ladies man and the main man in charge of the campus, Boon is always trying to decide between Katy (his love interest) and his delta buddies, Stork is a nerdy type (who was thought to be brain-damaged) and there's Hoover (the official President of Delta house and the one with the highest G.P.A).And of course there's the resident lay about/slob Bluto (played wonderful by the late great comedian John Belushi) who has the funniest scenes in the movie including starting a food fight. This chubby but manic and off the wall character is the one that most people remember and is featured on many posters featuring him in the College sweater.This movie is a spin-off of the popular National Lampoon magazine and is inspired by the many outlndishly funny experiences that the editors of the magazine had when they were in college.John Landis does a fantastic job directing this movie and the cast all do superb in their roles especially Tom Hulse as Pinto, Stephen Furst as Flounder (as a side note Stephen Furst also voiced the role of Booster in the Buzz Lightyear cartoon), Mark Metcalf as Neidermyer, John Vernon as Wormer (he would later voice a similar role in an episode of Billy and Mandy) and of course John Belushi as Bluto.I mean really how can you not love Bluto? Sure he's gross but he's awesome and the way Belushi plays the role is spot on and brilliant. Making excellent use of his eyebrow expressions and non-verbal humor.This movie would later get a spin-off TV series titled Delta House which was short-lived but featured the original cast (except for Belushi of course).Although in the show they do have Bluto's brother Blotto, and Bluto is referenced numerous times in the show.While the show was quite good, the movie it was based off of is and always will be considered a classic campus comedy.If you haven't seen it, it's definitely a must see and one that you must simply watch in order to fully enjoy it.If you want to get it on DVD then get out the Double Secret Probation edition - it's got some great bonus features. Including a Where Are They Now style mockumentary. There are some really annoying ads on it thoug but that shouldn't bother you too much.One little Landis running gag that this movie originated was When In Hollywood..Visit Universal Studios (Ask For Babs) which appears after the end credits. This refers to the character Babs a female character who according to the Where Are They Now segment became a tour-guide. "},{"Title":"An often maligned classic!","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Written by Harold Ramis, Doug Kenney, and Chris Miller (the latter two also appear in the film), this is a classic farce in a deeply American tradition of sarcasm, social criticism, and outright contempt for the establishment. The film is outrageous, with non-stop laughs and bare bones comedy that runs from start to finish, making use of nudity, language, and impossible situations to bring together a comedy that has yet to be conquered. The ensemble cast is incredible, the plot nonsensical, and the stereotypes abound. The Omega's are the final stronghold of exclusivity and class separation. They control the student government, the ROTC, the Greek Council, and anything else they can get their hands on. The Deltas are the wretched refuse, the ones who will not be controlled. But is there some deep social meaning in all this? Not on your life. This film is meant to keep you on the floor in stitches, and that is exactly what it does. Not a film for the kids, and definitely not the film to show your kids the night before they head off to college, unless its to say Don't do this!. Put this one in the player, make sure you have a six pack handy, by all means have a copy in your collection. "},{"Title":"The original T&A movie","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is probably the progenitor of movies like Revenge of the Nerds and PCU Pit Party. It seems to set the style of such frat T&A movies which seemed to become quite dominant in the eighties, only to fade out in the nineties. This movie, though trashy in its appearance, I think is quite a marvelous work of literature as it movies the conflict that exists between the older conservatives and the younger progressives into the campus at Faber University. We see two freshmen come into the university seeking to join a fraternity only to find themselves ushered to the corner with the other undesirables. One attempts to make himself known, only to be introduced to the high fliers of this fraternity, and then moved back to the corner where it is heavily implied (though not outright stated) that he should remain. It is then that they decide to move to his brother's fraternity, Delta House, which is the animal house that forms the title of this movie. In this house we find the people that come to University to have fun. They drink beer, seduce girls, and simply make pigs of themselves because life is meant to be enjoyed. They are the new generation that have reacted against the oppression of the fifties and have stood up to say that they are no longer going to be bound by these rules and that they are going to have fun (it might be worthwhile to explain that this movie is set in 1962). This is the house that transforms into the fraternities of Revenge of the Nerds, and the opponent fraternity seems to simply vanish. Where Revenge of the Nerds explores the conflict between the Nerds and the Jocks, this movie brings the wider conflict of the 60's into the microcosm of the university. Here we see the conflict between those who wish to uphold the morality and the tradition of American Culture, against those to stand up and say that the foundations upon which the philosophy of freedom that America has been built on us been undermined by the tyranny of tradition and the supposed morality that is forced down everybody's throats. The alleged civilisation that is followed by the university is thrown out of the window in Delta House, where the parties are immoral, and the students simply compete with each other to see how much they can drink. This leads to the character of Bluto. He is what becomes the stereotypical animal character that appears in all movies afterwards. In Revenge of the Nerds, the similar character was very verbose, where as Bluto is not. Bluto does not need to communicate for his character is so shallow, that what he stands for is easily seen through his actions. His character is the epitome of what is uncivilised, yet we seem to have some compassion for him. As we watch him peer into the sorority house and observe the women undress, and then his reaction as one of the woman masturbates in front of him, we see that there is a character that simply throws away everything that is considered decent and simply embraces life. Is it good to do this? Well, there is a lot to discuss here, and when we consider that John Belusi died at 33 of a heroin overdose after living a life similar to this, one can see that it may be fast, but it is inevitably short. Following in his footsteps, Chris Farley also met a similar end. We are given glimpses of what goes on behind the doors of the more respectable fraternities. Bluto, who probably peeks in on the girls frequently, is quite stunned at what he sees, causing the ladder to fall back, and we are quite relieved that we are only given implications of what the woman is doing to the respectable frat leader, especially how she says that he wishes to remain a virgin until he is married. We see here somebody who is following the rules, yet circumventing them for his own pleasure, and what we see is in the end quite repugnant and really are glad that we do not see it. On the other hand, we are allowed to view the bedroom scene in which a young woman and a young man are about to have, what we later learn, to be their first sexual encounter, when the woman passes out due to alcohol. We then see him tempted to take advantage of her, and in the style of what the Animal House seems to stand for, we expect him to fall, but he doesn't. Instead he does the noble thing and takes her home in a wheelbarrow. What we thus see is that behind this attitude of the Animal House to discard the rules, we see respect, whereas in the other frats we see that the rules are twisted and bent to their own ends so as to destroy that which they do not like. As such, the tradition is scorned at while the rowdy Animal House is sympathised with. To put this movie into the category of pointless high school sex romp is to seriously undermine the true character of this movie. This movie stands out not only for the direction it sent comedies in the eighties, but also for the microcosm of the American lifestyle. The conflict we see here is a representation of the conflict that has been going through not only America, but the world for ages. We see a conflict between those who seek change and those who want to stay the same, because the familiar is the safer and to change is to enter into a risk that could be easily avoided if it fails. "},{"Title":"A Picture Perfect Shot of The Days We Knew","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Being that this is my first review as a user to this site, I figured it best to review what is probably my all-time favorite movie - Animal House.Everyone knows what the movie is about even if they've never seen but the great thing about it is that it's actually a well-made movie from even the harshest critic's point of view. Aside from a slew of great directorial aspects, quite possibly the best aspect of this movie is the character development. Each main character is treated with such a fine eye. You get to really know these characters and even feel a sense of I know that guy from a lot of them. Each character is uniquely their own person and work so well together. The movie makes you believe that this fraternity can (and trust me, does) exist. This movie sums up my life in college and probably countless others across the nation.That is probably the best quality of the movie; as crazy as some of the stuff that happens is and as wild as the characters are, it's still believable! And the reason it is rests with the outstanding cast of characters. They're real! Other movies have tried to recreate the magic of this movie and have failed simply because their characters and the situations they've been thrown into aren't too believable (a la Van Wilder - that movie is hysterical though).All in all - make sure you take a second look at Animal House and appreciate everything that this movie is. It basically defined my generation...and I was negative 7 years old when it came out! 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The End of Innocence = Popularity","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was the sleeper of the year. Made on a ridiculously low budget it went on to virtually define the comedic movie format for the next twenty years. The mystery of course is why it resonated so much with audiences in the 70's. I have several theories.1) The time period is set in the early 60's. This is just before the country went insane . College was a time to have fun. Vietnam was on the horizon, but not there yet.2) The stereotypes went well with the time period. You just knew that the preppy fraternity portrayals were not too far from reality. Anyone who rushed a fraternity in the 60's and 70's could relate to how the rushee's were treated at the respective fraternities. Some houses you just knew you were NOT going to be invited into. This is really how it worked back then.3) The simple good versus evil plot line was not overdone. The bad guys were plausible in their badness. You knew people like Marmalarde, Chip, and Neidemeyer, either in college or real life. Bluto, Otter, and the other Delta's acted LIKE we wished we could/would.4) The jokes have a weird innocence about them. Jokes that should be totally offensive are just funny. Killing a horse should not be funny, yet it's hilarious. Peeping into a girls sorority house should be creepy, but Belushi makes it funny. (I think what makes this gag work is that Belushi is so overwhelmed by the girl of his dreams hotness, that the only thing he can do is pass out. His reaction is authentic, thus hilarious.) 5) There are so many great one-liners, Thank you God., Germans? Forget it he's rolling., Fat, drunk, and Stupid, is no way to go through life, son. One caveat, don't over watch this movie. You could ruin it for yourself. About once every 2 years keeps it from getting stale. You'll see something you haven't seen before. Like good wine, it ages well.A fun joyful movie "},{"Title":"National Lampoon's Animal House","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I knew there are many spin-offs, but this is considered by the critics as the only good one, so I decided to see if for myself, from writer Harold Ramis (Ghostbusters), and director John Landis (The Blues Brothers, An American Werewolf in London). Basically, set in 1962, freshman Faber College students Larry Kroger (Amadeus's Tom Hulce) and Kent 'Flounder' Dorfman (Stephen Furst) want to join a fraternity. After visit g a few, including the snobby Omega house, they find the Delta house, where they meet womaniser Eric 'Otter' Stratton (Tim Matheson), his adventurous best friend Donald 'Boon' Schoenstein (Peter Riegert), Boon's girlfriend Katy (Starman's Karen Allen), daring thrill-seeker Daniel 'D-Day' Simpson (Bruce McGill), responsible Robert Hoover (James Widdoes), and the unforgettable John 'Bluto' Blutarsky (John Belushi). They are quickly accepted in to the fraternity and allowed to join in wild toga parties, road trips, and practical jokes. Dean Vernon Wormer (John Vernon) is determined to get all of Delta kicked off campus, and all members expelled, with the help of Omega house, with its leaders Doug Neidermeyer (Mark Metcalf) and Greg Marmalard (James Daughton), and new pledge Chip Diller (young Kevin Bacon). As the hilarious escapades continue with all Delta house causing havoc, Dean eventually expels most members for poor grades, and led by Bluto they rebel with a huge revenge at the annual Homecoming parade. Also starring Verna Bloom as Marion Wormer, Cesare Danova as Mayor Carmine DePasto, Donald Sutherland as pot smoking teacher Dave Jennings, Mary Louise Weller as Mandy Pepperidge and Sarah Holcomb as Clorette DePasto. You can tell American Pie must have been inspired by this film, with a fantastic performance by Belushi, and crammed with fantastic sight gags and one-liners, it is a very likable comedy classic. It was number 82 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes (Toga! Toga!), it was number 47 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films, and it was number 36 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs. Very good! "},{"Title":"Animal House- Is There A Psychiatrist in the House? **1/2","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Funny but over the top comedy highlighting college fraternities and the excesses that they will go to.The film was a springboard for the careers of Tom Hulce, Tim Matheson and Peter Riegert. It also gave us the comedic talents of John Belushi, but sadly we were only able to have him for four years after this film.College fraternities have always placed a tremendous part on college campuses but this Delta fraternity is really outrageous at best.Naturally, the dean of students is made to look like the villain that he is.The ending becomes a slap-stick farce and is exaggerated even as revenge is sought. "},{"Title":"There Is No Better School Campus Comedy Out There!","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film deservedly gets a ten out of ten rating from me! I loved it when I first saw it (when I were about eight years old) not so much for the jokes as at that age most went over my head, but for the semi-nudity and full nudity shown in the film! Heck! There I was, a red-blooded boy of eight seeing women in various states of undress. As a red-blooded boy of eight, what was there to not love about that?!? I also loved the food fight scene and wished I could do that at my school; sadly I didn't and neither did anyone else! I must have seen the film a few times more before I was old enough to understand all of the jokes but once I did I could do nothing but laugh. Now almost 25 years on since my first viewing of the film and I still laugh at the all of the jokes as none goes over my head and yes, I still enjoy the semi-nudity and the full nudity shown in the film! Heck! Here I am, a red-blooded man almost 25 years on from my first viewing of the film and I still enjoy seeing the women in various states of undress. As a red-blooded man, what is there to not love about that! "}{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the original teen sex comedy. This is what started them all. Animal House is probably the funniest of them all. It has absolutely everything, the nudity, drugs, the evil dean, the toga party, booze, the evil Omega house and the good Delta house. All the actors are perfect in this, especially John Belushi in the role of the drunken, violent guy in the Delta house. For those of you that are looking for a laugh, get this, it won't disappoint. Without this, there wouldn't be half the raunchy comedies there is today. Also note that this is one of Kevin Bacon's first movies.4/5. "},{"Title":"Best comedy Ever!!!","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Recently, this movie was #1 on Bravo's Top 100 Comedies of all Time. They weren't kidding.For a film that was made almost thirty years ago, it's still very funny. John Belushi is the best,and he makes Bluto the best character in the movie. There is no wonder why he was so popular on Saturday Night Live.The rest of the cast did a great job, making the Delta house truly the worst group of students on campus.It shocks me whenever i meet somebody who hasn't seen this movie yet. With the food fight and infamous 'Toga Party', this is one of the greatest movies ever. "},{"Title":"Toga! Toga! Toga!","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Such a famous line from the 1978 comedy classic that is Animal House. This movie has set the standard for comedy that all movies have tried to live up too but never quite hit it. The story line is simple, the Delta House on the campus of the fictitious Faber College are becoming the most troublesome fraternities on campus. Dean Wormer (John Vernon) is out to end the fraternity and expel every one of the brothers of the fraternity. Otter (Tim Matheson), his best friend Boon (Peter Riegert), there good friend Bluto (John Belushi), along with the rest of the fraternity, are all out to make the Dean's life a nightmare before they are eventually kicked off the campus. The story goes straight forward, starting with the rush parties, and ending with the parade of the century. A few side stories accompany it and add to the humor. Every fraternity member is unique in his own way and adds to the realism of the setting. When someone thinks realism, they hardly think a 70's comedy will have it, but Animal House is one of the most realistic views of a fraternity, on a comedic stand point, that I have ever seen. Every actor works in there role. Tim Matheson brings the life to the fraternity with his easily likable moods and womanizing ways. Robert Riegert is the more quiet one but has his moments, the scene in the all-black bar is one of the funniest scenes in the movie. Belushi, however, takes the cake. John Belushi brings out a simple character with such ease that it is mind boggling. His character of Bluto is the simple crazy brother of the fraternity, His comedy and expressions in the film are among the best ever acted and written.After you look past the superb acting the film brought, you look at the writers. Both Harold Ramis and Douglas Kennedy (RIP) showed they were the comedy writers of their times. Brining so much comedy, so many laughs, and so few points in the movie where it drags, makes their work sheer genius. The film runs just right, just over and hour and a half. The dry points, if any, are quick and painless. The comedy keeps you laughing time after time (I've seen the film near 30 times and still laugh as hard as did the first time). I recommend this to any person who had a good time in their fraternity during college or just anyone looking for a hilarious film.5/5 Stars "},{"Title":"The first and the best... ever","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An original! The genre was created with this movie. Between 1978 (when it came out) and 1983, I watched this movie 33 times. And remember, there were no DVD's and very few VCR's at this time. It was filmed on a shoestring budget and had numerous stars before they became stars.This movie will have you in stitches. Some say it's a guy flick. Maybe so, because it is in the vein of 'Keystone Kops', 'Three Stooges' and other visual, site-gag style humor.All great comedies since don't compare - Blues Brothers, Home Alone, Caddyshack, Fast Times at Ridgemont High - none match the icon that is Animal House. "},{"Title":"the finest movie on college humor ever made","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" the finest movie on college humor ever made. also one of the most entertaining comedies ever made. virtually every scene has something going on in the background, pay close attention to each scene for a rewarding fresh look. well executed and perfectly acted. tight and right script. became the most successful comedy of all time upon initial release and for good reason. it is hilarious. the cast was a tour de force of newcomers and unknowns. many went on to prosperous careers. landis did a great job of directing, katie karen allen is massively underrated and should have had a huge career, after later doing indiana jones she kinda choose some poor career choices in terms of box office success. worth watching every few years to keep yourself young. "},{"Title":"no comedy like it","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm prejudiced here, because this is my favorite movie of all time. Maybe it's just that I was in a fraternity in college, although there was never a fraternity to compare to Delta Tau Chi. Animal House was the first of the great slob comedies, and without it, movies like Caddyshack and most of the other imitations of the last 27 years could never have happened. Imagine all the things they did that couldn't be done in a movie now -- I'm only 13, casual drug use and the Negroes took our dates. But of course, the movie comes down to the one great philosophical line -- You f***ed up, you trusted us. I have probably watched this movie 50 times and I hope to watch it 50 more. The funniest movie I ever saw. "},{"Title":"A Classic 70's Comedy!","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What can be said about this masterpiece? This is the classic college high jinks comedy that launched a thousand inferior copy-cat movies throughout the 80's. John Belushi is brilliant. Not since Buster Keaton has an actor's facial expressions and body language received such big laughs without any dialog being spoken. Belushi gives a near silent pitch perfect performance as the slob Bluto. This is John Landis at his directorial peak, he also directed the fine Kentucky Fried Movie, Blues Brothers, Trading Places and An American Werewolf in London. But after that he really tanked, not since Peter Bogdanovich has a director created such a fine body of work, only to be followed by worthless crap. But I digress! National Lampoon's Animal House has an engaging story, characters and cast. Tim Matheson also gives his best performance as the confident frat leader Otter (the date with Fran Liebowitz is classic). Along with Young Frankenstein, Blazing Saddles and What's Up Doc, one of the greatest comedies of the 70's. "},{"Title":"The Original","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yes, this is the much copied original 'frat house' comedy, replete with nudity, drugs, anarchy, and every other stereo type in the books.And yet, it all works beautifully, some would say even inspiringly. Well, obviously insipiringly, as every college comedy in the last 30 years seems to have 'borrowed' from it.The plot is, well, the plot, and you'll find it elsewhere.What makes this film shine are the performances, particularly John Belushi who steals every scene he's in. How sad that we lost this clown, he could've gone on to a career that rivalled Charlie Chaplins, he's that wonderful without words. His face was so expressive, he didn't even need lines.John Vernon was the perfect foil for him, the ideal villain. Dean Wormer (perfectly named) was the character that could've been the hardest to believe, and yet he made it all real, and I actually cared for him a little bit at the end.Tom Hulce, Kevin Bacon, Donald Sutherland, Verna Bloom, Peter Reigert- this cast is amazing and they all look like they're having the time of their lives.Kudo's to director John Landis for bringing it all together and yet keeping that anarchic spirit that seems to belong to the college years. It made me want to go out and get high! "},{"Title":"Animal House","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House is the comedy of a generation and the funniest movie of all time. It is hilarious. The dreaded Delta House is the worst fraternity on campus. Its members are known for sex, drinking and bad grades. The assortment of misfits is recognizable. John Belushi is the class clown. 7 years of college down the drain! Otter is the ladies' man who beds the dean's wife. Boone and Katy are the incompatible couple. Niedermeyer is the gung ho ROTC officer later killed by his own troops in Vietnam. Drop and give me 20! Donald Sutherland shows up as the English teacher having an affair with Katy, one of his students. Dean Wormer's attempts to crack down on Delta are in vain. They simply take their shenanigans to the next level, be it a road trip or a toga party. Toga! Toga! This is one quotable movie. The statue of the college founder even provides a laugh. Knowledge is good! "},{"Title":"John Belushis best","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" the film was funnier then snl when Belushi was on. animal house was the best comedy of the 70's. i rented this film a couple of years ago and i loved it. i then bought the movie when it came out on its double secret probation edition.john Belushi was great in this i thought by the time you were introduced to him he was funny without trying. my favorite part is the lunch room when he does the zit joke. i also like it when they bring the horse into the deans office.this film had some stars that were big and weren't big yet. i hope they never remake this film because it is a classic that should be left alone and not touched. "}{"Title":"Funniest Film Ever.","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Don't listen to anyone who says some movie is the funniest ever. It probably sucks. Unless they say National Lampoon's Animal House. Filmed in 1978, and taking place in the 60's, this film pioneered Teen Sex Comedies. The Movie is extremely raunchy and has well earned it's R-rating, but unlike every single other teen sex comedy, this one is funny as hell. For example, when they are being expelled by the Dean everyone wants to give up, thinking it's over. But then, John Belushi's character stands up and gives a speech, saying Was it over when the Germans bombed Pearl Harbor? This movie is hilarious and I would recommend it to anyone allowed to see R-rated films. "},{"Title":"education takes many forms","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw Animal House as a freshman in 1979 by way of a movie screening in my college dorm. We were encouraged to wear togas (i.e., sheets) for the viewing, adding to the experience. Animal House is set in 1962 at the fictional Faber College (actually filmed at the University of Oregon in Eugene), and begins with with two freshmen trying to find a fraternity to pledge. They end up pledging with the misfit Deltas, and as they get accepted into this fraternity, so, too, are the viewers taken into the fold. We are welcomed into the Deltas' break-all-the-rules-world, going up against the staid establishment (represented by Dean Wormer & the Omega fraternity). Kevin Bacon, by the way, takes on his first film role as a member of the Omega House. The fun that breaks out in this culture/status clash makes for great comedy. All college experiences should be this good. "},{"Title":"A Hilarious comedy and John Belushi shines!!!","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"                                     National Lampoon's Animal House is one of the funniest comedies in that day. John Belushi is an excellent comedian and actor. I've only seen him in 1941 and this movie but he is by far one of the greatest and hilarious comedians ever. I couldn't stop laughing after I saw him in this movie. There a few old comedies that will be remembered like Stripes, Caddyshack, Airplane, and Animal House. Animal House isn't better than those three but comes very close and stays the same with it's non-stop laughs. This is definitely one of the most memorable comedies and thanks to John Belushi for making it be extremely successful!!9/10   "},{"Title":"Writing, Belushi, Metcalf Make It Worthwhile","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Though director John Landis displays crack comic timing, he also has a bland television-like eye and it takes the sharp, sardonic comedy writing (by Chris Miller, Harold Ramis and the late, legendary Doug Kenney) as well as the brilliant comic pantomime of the late, great John Belushi to make this worthwhile. The penchant for intricate, cross-referential humor that was the stock-in-trade of the National Lampoon in the Seventies is well on hand here (many of the characters can be found in the pages of special editions of the magazine that preceded the movie) and the comedy derived from that kind of in-joke approach still stands up pretty well. But there are a lot of toothless gags carelessly mixed in with the inspired ones and an anemic subplot about the relationship between the suave Boon (Peter Riegert) and his do-gooder girlfriend Katy (Karen Allen) drags on the malicious spirit of the thing, what with Allen constantly whining about how immature everyone and everything is. Fortunately, Belushi, using his eyes and heft rather than words, effortlessly demonstrates that bad taste beats maturity any day of the week. With Tim Matheson (just as antiseptic as Riegert and Allen), Donald Sutherland, Kevin Bacon (making his film debut) and Tom Hulce. The show is almost stolen from under Belushi, however, by Mark Metcalf as Neidermeyer, the sadistic R.O.T.C. officer, who delivers his lines with gleefully oversized relish; that he's been able to make a career out of his role (including some memorable Twisted Sister videos) is a testament to his ability to create a clearly defined, enduring character.    "},{"Title":"Ultimate feel-good College Campus satire.","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A strong cast, classic pop tunes, both slapstick and subtle jokes, empowering honesty, earnestness and college humor are the foundation of National Lampoon's movies -- particularly Animal House.John Belushi is arguably the most memorable character--clever, sneaky, lazy, insubordinate and funny.  Karen Allen (Raiders of the Lost Ark) delivers a catalytic performance.  I never knew what happened to her after that.If you watch closely you will find young Kevin Bacon in his debut.  This is even before his brief role in Friday the 13th, and he is worth watching.Donald Sutherland plays a quirky professor and John Vernon the stiff, unlikable villain Dean Wormer. When you get a chance DO see this movie. You have probably heard it is overrated (and it may be just a little), but let's face it. Animal House was a refreshing comedy for the time period, and has become a recurring classic. "},{"Title":"Spasmodically brilliant performances and real heart in the Animal's House","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The guy who wrote the main summary for Animal House, saying that it was  choppy and underrealized  is so full of crapola it makes me think he's actually one of those pseudo-intellectual preppy-boys in the Delta's rival fraternity!   I'm right, aren't I?!The guy says that John Landis hasn't mastered the basics of rudimentary filmmaking and that the performances are mechanical.  Master this, you cream puff!The scenes that John Belushi are in, alone, are some of the most spasmodically spontaneous bits of movie comedy ever filmed, you tightwad!  Oh, I just wanna smash your guitar against the wall, even if you did give your love a cherry. "},{"Title":"Favorite Movie of All Time!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Animal House is the funniest movie I've ever seen.  I can watch it over and over again.  John Belushi distinguishes himself as one of the funniest men to have ever lived as John Bluto Blutarski.  The boys at Delta House deliver some fun times for the audience.  All I need to say is TOGA! TOGA! "},{"Title":"See if you can guess what I am now...","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched this film last night, having first seen it when I was around 12.  I can honestly say that although I knew every gag and one-liner before it came up, I laughed by backside off.  This film is one of the funniest and most original of the genre - today's teen movies and 'Road Trip' style efforts just can't compare.  There has never been another comic of John Belushi's talent and abilities, and I doubt there ever will be.  "},{"Title":"One of the best comedy films ever","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this film, it is laugh out loud funny, usually when the late, great John Belushi is on screen, the man was a comedy genius. John Landis has directed some great films, this is one of the best. This film has been copied many times, but the original is always the best. It as many memorable scenes and dialogue, I highly recommend this film if you feel like a laugh. Also look out for a young Kevin Bacon. ***8/10***  "},{"Title":"THE MOTHER OF ALL THE SCHOOLS COMEDIES","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's a funny, realistic and intrigant movie about the High school, but as the first of time, probably the best of all the others that come after, as Porky's, American Pie and so on. Great in it BLUTO as J. Belushi, better than The Blues Brothers and also more young ! Notice that also the sound player is very pleasant and give the idea of the second movie The Blues Brothers. A movie to see if you like this genre of movie. "}{"Title":"Over? Did you say over?","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What can I say?  One of the greatest comedies of all time.  To me it's a look at the way college once was not just a place for higher learning, but where one can have a little fun.  Of course, tell that to the PC element that has infiltrated all our college campuses today.  Every college student should watch this movie at least once.The entire cast is unforgettable.  It's crude, perverted, immature, and I loved every minute of it!!!  A classic and a must see!!!TOGA TOGA TOGA TOGA TOGA...!!!!! "},{"Title":"Divine Comedy","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen this film about 4 times.  And it keeps getting funnier.  John Belushi was amazing as the completely disgusting Bluto and Donald Sutherland in his job was brilliant.  I think that this is a classic of slapstick, disgusting hilarity that you just can't get anymore.  I thoroughly recommend this film to ANYONE! "},{"Title":"The best.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Simply the best comedy of all time, not even close.  Top of the line cast, endless jokes and fantastic soundtrack that every college person could party to.  The movie sets the bar for the comedy movie circuit.    Simply said, ROAD TRIP!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"The trademark sex comedy which speaks volumes for the genre's capabilities.","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Animal House is the trademark sex comedy and is the forefather of such illustrious films as Porky's and Revenge Of The Nerds.  The film invents the conventions of the genre, such as drug use, nudity, and strong sexual humor.  Hardly a film in the sex comedy genre or any genre has assembled a cast of Animal's magnitude.  Belushi defines the sex comedy character, as well as other misfits Matheson, Riegert, Furst, and Hulce.  Also look for Kevin Bacon as Chip Diller and Martha Smith(Babs), the 1973 Playboy Playmate Of The Year.  Great direction by John Landis and well written by Ramis, Douglas Kenney(Stork), and Christian Miller(Hardbar).  A classic!  "},{"Title":"Crude Comedy.","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Landis directed this exceptionally crude, obnoxious comedy about college students trying desperately to gain membership in an exclusive fraternity, and how their embattled school president tries to keep things under control. John Belushi and Tim Matheson star.Although a big hit, and looked at fondly by some, I found nothing about this film to be appealing or funny. Not one likable character, or believable moment in this loud mess of a film, which has aged quite badly, if it was ever any good at all, which I doubt.I know this is a harsh review, but this film left me cold and utterly uninvolved, yet that may be a minority view... "},{"Title":"Very Nostalgic Trip to the 1960s.","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this the year after I saw each episode of Delta House and I was just as Impressed with this even after seeing the TV Series of which was based on this film.Check my review on that site too.Otis Day and The Nights along with John Belushi as Bluto and Stephen Furst as Flounder and all of the rest of the cast of the fraternity and Needermyer really make the movie as they do when they reprise their roles the following year in Delta House.Bluto's FamousFood Fight! quote and The Frat Boys having the time of their lives whether up against the administration or the soldiers including when they have the Toga Party right up to messing up the Parade and the films end with the Animal house lyrics along with the Do the Bluto lyrics. You'll go astray as how I did even the first time of which I saw this movie late on a Sunday night on HBO.But I most especially like how the Playboy Bunny flew into the window of the boy who was looking at his Playboy Magazine & said Thank You God! and even though my big brother J.Kevin blew it before I'd heard it it was still funny. Otis Day & The Nights provide good singing so that when I hear them on the radio they & their song always transports me back to the movie as the Movie does to the 1960s.Truthfully, Stephen Steve G. Baer a.k.a. Ste of Framingham,Ma. USAP.S.I got Ste as the result of my Big Brother J.Kevin being a year older than me and Unable to say Stephen at the time. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever made","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first time i've seen animal house i could'nt stop laughing.its raunchy and wild.the late john Belushi steals the show as blutarski. it depicts college and frat house's in 1963.john Vernon as the mean spirited dean wormer adds to the mayhem.this by the way was Kevin Bacon's first film,after that he went to star in;Friday the 13th. national lampoon's first comedy movie.john Landis directed this classic 1978 comedy.so whats the worst frat on campus?delta house.you'll see why.at delta house there's a party going on every night.this movie is highly(no pun intended)recommended.its a classic and its john Belushi's break out role after leaving the original Saturday night live.i give animal house 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Comedy that Showed America How to Party","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this is one of the greatest movies of all time. i give this movie 10 out of 10 stars. The actors in this movie did a great job. John Landis did a great job directing this film. Most people should love this film except if you don't like comedies. "},{"Title":"If you ever wanted to go to college this would be the recruitment film","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Belushi, the Energizer Bunny of comedy, got the role that he will always be remembered for because of the groundbreaking show, Saturday Night Live. This led to an endless parade of SNL actors who went on to have film careers, some more successful than others. Having been on Saturday Night Live, Belushi could have been the father figure for all the other actors in this movie and if you have seen the E! True Hollywood Story on Belushi it is mentioned that he was quite respected by most of the cast. It must therefore have been both a blessing and a curse to go down in history as the oldest frat boy in the world and that he would only get one more good role as one of the Blues Brothers for the rest of his life.The movie itself is nothing short of a laugh-riot most of the time. There are so many memorable scenes that it is amazing that it was shot in under 30 days. The best scene is definitely the big parade where the Deltas get revenge on their foes the Omegas and the Dean, but individual moments like Otter lying through his teeth to get girls or Flounder's reaction to the line Fat, drunk and stupid etc. If my recollection is correct, this was the first of what would be called Underground slob movies. Later we got Meatballs and Revenge of the Nerds but this is the most high brow of it's low brow imitators. Not only does it make references to Nixon and his underlings but also to the yuppies that would soon dominate the 80's. If you weren't accepted into the right fraternity, the scare tactic was that you might as well kiss your future goodbye. Not that this is an educational film, far from it but it is good that the writers thought this up because it gives the movie some class, unlike the despicable Porky's series. So all I can say is well done, Landis and to those who haven't seen this It's your loss. "},{"Title":"The First and Best National Lampoon Movie.","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Those who don't like this movie probably were not fans of the 1970's version of National Lampoon.  Back then, the magazine was racist, vulgar, and sexiest in the extreme.  That's was made it a scream to read.  Animal House follows in that tradition of the magazine.  It's just a good, fun movie to watch that makes no apologies for what it is.  This movie came out during the same time as such movies as Up in Smoke.  This was movie-making for the pure fun of it and for pure guilty indulgence.  This movie marks the first big screen appearance of John Belushi.  All in all, it's good fun to watch if you have never seen it before.  I gave it a 10 out of 10 for being a classic. "}{"Title":"Bottom Line NOT VERY FUNNY","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was quite dumb. Yes, it may have been made in the late 1970's where humor was different, but it is stupid. It is about a bunch of college students in a fraternity who do a bunch of dumb things in the film to pay back the university president for attempting to expel them. The only real funny scenes are the ones with John Belushi, who is absolutely hilarious and saves the film from being a 1 out of 10. I give it a 4 out of 10. National Lampoon's Van Wilder (the sequel to this) is a lot funnier and I would recommend seeing that instead. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"Kael-style review","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is a remarkably effective scene early in this comedy in which an English professor lectures his class on the works of Milton. Now, was Milton trying to say that being bad is more fun than being good? he says, immediately thereafter biting into an apple. The scenario - and its accompanying visual punchline - is just so perfectly subtextual and archetypal, just so RIGHT, that it elevates this hilarious portrait of 1960s college life to the firmament of genius. Indeed, what sane individual would not choose the happy-go-lucky hedonism of the apelike Bluto Blutarsky over the stern, self-imposed WASP misery of the American patrician class? As the college hijinks spin gleefully out of control, one eventually comes to the realization that chaos, when tempered by the spirit of guileless fun, is infinitely preferable to the vacuum of order. It's John Landis' paean to good old-fashioned mischief, and its winning exuberance manages to carry the day despite the movie's more subversive undercurrents. With John Belushi, John Vernon, Tim Matheson, Peter Riegert, Karen Allen, Tom Hulce, Stephen Furst, Mark Metcalf, and Donald Sutherland. "},{"Title":"Awesome-an all time classic","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anyone who was ever in a Fraternity will love this funny, funny movie. And they will get alot of the inside fraternity humor. For all the crazy stunts really are not too far off from what happens in real life-at least it brought back many memories as a Delta at Delaware. But anyone else should love this film also-it is just plain funny. Very influential also. Started a toga party craze and also the song Shout is now a staple at almost every dance in America. Good soundtrack too. "},{"Title":"31 years have not treated this well.","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For the 4 people who read my twitter feed (and the 62 people who think that I might buy their porn/dating/entertainment services if they follow me too) I put a few of my thoughts down for them as I watched. My first tweet was 12 minutes in. Not laughed once yet. Should I have? I mention laughing &#x96; I mean internal laughter too. I hadn't identified a joke, or a comedy situation by that point. Of course, I then identified that certain other things had been referencing this film &#x96; most notably an episode of Futurama called robot house when Bender enrolls in Mars University. One of the robots spends the whole time in a little beanie hat, which now becomes funnier, as I have now seen the reference material (I laughed a lot after first seeing One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest as it made the Simpsons so much funnier.) Next tweet, after the Futurama reference, was 36 minutes, I sort of smirked. I have no idea what I smirked at. Following this &#x96; This film is so bad, I've stopped forward winding the advertsI suspect this was the first film to dare to show pretty girls with their tops off. However &#x96; the accessibility of boobs is now so easy, my standards are considerably higher. My tweet that the topless pillow fight would have been better if they weren't all wearing MASSIVE granny pants made me realize that this is something that would have been cutting edge in 1978. I went a little controversial on my next one. Belushi. Only remembered as good because he died early? With him on the guitar smashing at parties though. Everyone who has ever been jealous of the smarmy bloke who plays the guitar and has the girls cooing on his every note has wanted to do that. Otherwise, he is playing quite the most charmless and one dimensional character I've ever seen in cinema. Deeply unpleasant and unlikable. Anyone whose party trick is crushing a can on his own forehead gets no sympathy from me.I found myself entirely sympathizing with the group of new kids &#x96; who have somehow made it to college (later I discover this is the only reason they aren't being drafted to fight in the Vietnam war, which I can sympathize with, but if going to college is the only way you are going to avoid getting killed in a ludicrous conflict, then surely you'd do all you can to stay there), they are searching for acceptance, friendship and like minded people. Unfortunately for them, they apparently only have two choices &#x96; the posh, rich and intelligent kids, or the complete brain dead losers. There was apparently no third choice. The posh kids wouldn't have them, and the losers couldn't care less, so the join Delta House, who are already on double secret probation (what the hell is that &#x96; how are you supposed to know you are in trouble if you aren't told about it?) After various illegal activities, underage drinking, underage sex, hints at date rape (we believe his conscience got the better of him) horse murder, in addition to academic issues, such as NOT GOING TO ANY CLASSES or having grade point averages of less than zero, they seem somewhat surprised and shocked when they are expelled.I did identify a few attempts at humor in the process &#x95; The inability to open a bra strap has now become such a cliché &#x96; and I know it wasn't a new joke when this film used it &#x96; that it is purely not funny. &#x95; The moment when Belushi's character puts pencils up his nose while in the Dean's office might have been funny, if he'd removed them on replacement of the Dean's glasses &#x96; although maybe the fact that I was expecting that to happen makes it funnier, although not that much funnier. &#x95; Sex with 13 year old girls isn't funny either. &#x95; Blatant racism in having a bunch of white kids walk into a bar full of black people, and immediately get threatened with flick-knives, - is that funny because my preconceptions are that this really isn't realistic behavior? The closest thing for me to an actual comedy moment, was when the house was being emptied and a cow was led down the front steps.In protest at their expulsion, our (anti?)heroes decide to get their revenge, ruining the homecoming parade, an event that the good people of the town were very much enjoying, they assault, molest and pretty much attempted murder their way to notoriety, finishing off with driving their death wagon or some such into the platform holding the Dean and his wife. How am I supposed to have any sympathy for people who have no idea that they are in control of their own destinies, that they are guilty of all the charges against them, and completely deserved everything that happened to them? If there was any sense of injustice against Delta House, it might have been a different matter, but these idiots did themselves no favors at all.31 years have not been kind to Animal House. I grew up with Alison Hannigan doing things with her flute in American pie. With Terrence and Philip singing about inappropriate relationships with their uncles in South Park the Movie. Having your trousers urinated on by a drunken lout (and accepting it) is gross, but not funny. Humour has moved on, and maybe going back in time to where it all started was never going to work for me. "},{"Title":"This Picture Says It All","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie should be in a time capsule. What better example to show the great progress Liberal thinking and influence had on the USA in the 1960s and 1970s? By this time, it was official anything bad is ccol and good is really bad. Got it?This has it all getting drunk every night is the goal; vandalizing is fun; being totally obnoxious and a slob is the only way to act and be cool; make fun of any kind of authority, especially anyone connected to the (ugh) military; make fun of anyone who is religious and party til you puke!!!This is what life is all about and who better to show this than John Belushi....the ultimate party slob (until he overdosed on drugs and killed himself but, hey, at least he wasn't a phony actor just playing a role).Animal House - ah, the benefits of higher education! "},{"Title":"Not bad if you like this kind of thing","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm squarely in the middle on this one. It had its moments, but it also had its faults. Unlike some other viewers, I didn't mind the bedroom scene with the 13-year-old or the blatant disrespect of the pseudo-military... I'm a product of the 1970's myself and I'm comfortable with the humor of the era, although I recognize that it doesn't translate that well to the present day. However, I thought the slob aspects of this admitted slob comedy were overdone, and that Belushi in particular was too over-the-top. He was at his best with the subtleties of his character... the classic eyebrow-lift, for example, speaks volumes and is more illustrative of his talent as an actor than the scene where he drunkenly pours mustard all over himself. I don't know how I'd feel about the movie if I had never seen it before and gave it a try... I'm looking at it with a certain amount of nostalgia and it's a completely different experience. I tend to think I wouldn't like it very much. It's true that the heroes really didn't have much in their favor, and I'm not sure why their triumphs are presented as entertaining. It's not that bad, but it's not that good either. "},{"Title":"It's not a perfect movie, but who cares ...","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Have you ever watched a movie where you know that the people and actors had a great time making it? This film has got to be a prime example of folks having a blast doing something they truly love doing. The really neat part is we, the viewing movie going public, get to see and enjoy the end result. Is it a perfect movie? Nope, and that is why I only gave it a 7 out of 10. But it ranks up there at the top of one of the funniest movies out there, at least in my book, John Landis had to be pinching himself at times to be the director of this mess, I mean film. Especially once the movie turns to the poor town trying to have a respectable parade, total bedlam ensues. Stuff is going nuts, and there is just no telling what is going to happen next. What parade has a fake sword wielding pirate running amok? Watch this movie. Have a laugh or two. It won't hurt, I promise. You just might have a great time. "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie for older teens and adults","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a raunchy comedy. It has lots lots of naked women and sexual content. This is a good movie for 16-17+. If your that age or older you will enjoy this movie. But beware that even some adults may find it too inappropriate. It is quite raunchy. This one of the oldest National Lampoon movies. It's one of the raunchiest movies of the 70s. Note that this is not a movie that you want collage trouble students to watch. This movie is about collage students that drink, have sex and strip. I like it, I just saw it for the very first time. I think it's funny. This is better then some raunchy comedies that I have seen. This not to strong in sexual content but has lots of nudity so I would not recommend watching it if you can't handle raunchy movies. "},{"Title":"Funny as Hell!!!","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" National Lampoon's Animal House is often considered by many one of the greatest comedies of all time, a college comedy classic for the ages. These opinions shared by many critics and audiences alike are very well deserved.I have only one problem with Animal House the movie starts out kind of slow and the humor is really hit or miss during the first few minutes of the film. But after those few minutes, a non-stop laughing feast begins and doesn't end until the credits. There are so many memorable moments in the movie, like the food scene, the hilarious toga party and many more. There are also so many likable characters in the movie it seems unreal. You have, of course, John Belushi in an iconic over the top role as Bluto. But you also get great stuff from the then unknown Tom Hulse, Peter Riegert as Boon and, my favorite, Tim Matheson as Otter.Animal House starts out kind of slow, but after that it's non-stop laughter from a movie that is timeless comedy gold and one of the funniest movies of all time. "},{"Title":"the original house","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's 1962 Faber College. Roommates Larry Kroger (Tom Hulce) and Kent Dorfman (Stephen Furst) apply for Omega House but it's soon obvious that they are being rejected. They find the hard partying Delta Tau Chi House and wild man John 'Bluto' Blutarsky (John Belushi) where Dorfman is a legacy. The house is led by Otter (Tim Matheson) and Boon (Peter Riegert). Boon's girlfriend Katy (Karen Allen) is serving beers. They are supported by pot-smoking English professor Jennings (Donald Sutherland). Dean Wormer aims to shut down Delta. Neidermeyer is rush chair for Omega and ROTC cadet officer.This doesn't seem like anything special nowadays and it does things that are common place today. However it was ground breaking for its time with its tasteless low-brow humor. It's also not filled with comedians as one may expect. Of course, there is the great John Belushi and that's enough for most movies. There are also memorable characters like Flounder and Neidermeyer. It's uneven and a bit messy. The leads are scattered through several characters. The female characters are underdeveloped and Mary Louise Weller has trouble keeping a straight face. Nevertheless, this is a great theatrical debut for National Lampoon and is a comedic landmark. "}{"Title":"Youthful Rebellion Caricatured","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" COMING ON THE crest of the new wave of comedy that was firmly established as a staple in our World by NBC's Saturday NIGHT in the Fall of 1975, ANIMAL HOUSE brought this genre to the big screen of the Movie House. Crude, irreverent and loaded with the double entente, it was essentially a blueprint for success in the area.BEING THAT THE story was set in those turbulent days of the 1960's, it could qualify as a sort of Period Piece. That is not to say that it is a perfect example, for it obviously is not. It is however, a good sort of snapshot of the earlier '60's; before things turned so ugly.AS FOR ITS being labeled as so ground breaking a comedy, we're not so sure. There is so much of the humor and gags owe their genesis to the sort of off colour and uninhibited misbehaviour of the typical adolescent male. ANIMAL HOUSE served as a vehicle with which this anti-establishment sophomoric set of attitudes was memorialized on the movie screen.CONCERNING THE FILM'S cast, we must say that there is no real Star here. Although this features name such as Karen Allen, Donald Sutherland, Tom Hulce and Kevin Bacon and is the initial big screen appearance of John Belushi; it is really more of a group effort, a repertoire team, if you will. "},{"Title":"hilarious and spot on","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay for all you fans who sometimes wonder how movies get made here is an insider's look. At one time I was Head of Independent Film Acquisition at Universal. That meant I looked for indie films. One day I read Variety and noticed a small article about National Lampoon making a movie. I wrote the chairman of the Lampoon and he said he had a 110 page treatment and was going to be staying at the Beverly Hills Hotel. I picked it up. Read it. Cracked up then gave it to my boss, Ned Tanen, President of Universal Pictures. Oh, John Belushi was attached to it. They made a deal and got the director of Kentucky Fried Chicken to do it, John Landis. Got the letters between me and Matty Simmonds, Chairman of Lampoon, to prove it. One never knows in Hollywood where the next hit will come from. "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Animal House, the classic college film, about a rebel fraternity in the early 1960's, before rebelling became the norm. Women, booze, pranks, road trips, toga parties; this film has it all. It unofficially stars John Belushi, who does what all great actors have the ability to do; speak loudly without even opening his mouth. Oh what a great talent, taken away so prematurely. "},{"Title":"A classic!","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies of all time.  It has no real plot and doesn't need one.  Anyone who's ever been to college (and lived on campus) can identify with the humor and antics. I dare say you could also identify with being either a Delta or one of the rules as well. "},{"Title":"In 1978, The Only Guy In The Theater Sitting There Stone Faced","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Saturday Night Live premiered in the fall of 1975. I was born in 1957, so I remember the period well. It was lauded for being irreverent, as if that was something that was still, you know,anti-establishment (whatever the hell that means-it's a badly constructed straw man), and therefore cool in the mid 1970s. It wasn't. What bugged me about the program was that even back then, right there and then on the spot, it was behind the times.The cast looked--and acted--more like a bunch of hippies--each of whom was a manque- doing their bit at some crummy coffeehouse located in The Village in-- at the latest-- 1971. Many things ended the 1960s.All in the Family, the overwhelming re- election of Nixon, the blaxploitation films, glitter, etc.The final nail in the coffin was The Big D-Disco. Disco was officially the end of the 60s. I guess by 1975, the not Ready For Prime Time Players-- a dead-on description if there ever was one--still had not seen the writing on the wall, and that hippie protest was giving way to The Hustle,The Bee Gees, and KC and The Sunshine Band. There's a connection between the original Saturday Night Live and National Lampoon's Animal House. The concept of the film--not to mention its execution--is quite simply not that funny.Going through ninety minutes by being badly behaved Sticking it to The Man. Ruining virtually everything that you touch.And then being rewarded for it. Another reviewer--who did not like the picture--brought up an excellent point when he mentioned the social pressure placed upon you to find the film amusing. You were,indeed,ostracized for claiming that the film left you cold. I realize now what my response should have been, and that was to call these people on it.Yeah. Please identify for us the portions of this motion picture that you found witty and droll. A 13 year old girl being administered alcohol and (implicitly) gang molested? A perfectly harmless animal that winds up dead in the hands of these philistines? Another man--brave enough to serve in Vietnam--killed by his own men? Always tickles my funny bone. The film is puerile-- its laughs more non-existent than forced-- and ultimately irresponsible. "},{"Title":"Still Holds Up Today!","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" National Lampoon's Animal House is a classic 1970's comedy that still holds up quite well in today's style of comedies. I assume it is because each generation of people go through the same things in college as the people did in this movie. Many of the jokes are still really funny and the script is actually decent. The cinematography and the lighting does seem to be a little outdated and worn though. This also marks the start of the very short career the late John Belushi had in cinema.John Landis's film really doesn't have an actual plot. It's pretty much a story about kids in college and how they deal with the stereotypes, parties, and the clichéd, but quite evil dean.John Belushi was hilarious. I'm saddened that he really had no career because he could have gone a long way if it wasn't for his tragic death. The rest of the cast is really good as well with some funny supporting turns by Tom Hulce, Donald Sutherland, Karen Allen, and Kevin Bacon.Overall, this is a funny film that many college kids can relate with despite being set in the early 1960's. I don't find it to be a classic as many people do, but it's still a lovable, coming-of-age comedy in my book. I also must mention of all the mean principals/deans I have seen in other teen/college movies, this dean is by far the evilest. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"An opportunity to seriously consider the unseriousness of serious stuff ... got it? ...","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Where were you in 1962? asked the tag-line of American Graffiti, 11 years later. The film was an invitation to revisit the last glimpse of American youth's innocence before Kennedy's assassination and the Vietnam War. The tone was fittingly nostalgic, served by a rocking and rolling soundtrack, to awake in the baby-boom hearts, that just turned 30, the memories of how sweet and simple these days were.As a result, we maintained an idyllic postcard image of the early 60's, I mean we, from younger, more depraved and cynical, generations. And this is why Animal House works both as the perfect complement and counterpart to George Lucas' classic. The film was released 5 years later, the baby-boom generation was still young enough to cherish those days, it's set in Faber, an archetype of any prestigious school, in the very year of 1962 and &#x85; and this is where the comparison stops and where the film's genius blooms. In Animal House, the protagonists, all brothers of the iconic Delta Tau Chi fraternity, drink, make and play dirty jokes, peep on girls and use the most pervert tricks to get them. They're gross, and immoral, yet one thing for sure, I could easily identify with them and conclude, relieved, that youth hasn't changed that much in 50 years.I make John Landis' comical masterpiece sound like a social commentary, which clearly isn't the main purpose of the film, but again, if the film only consisted on a succession of disjointed gags and sketches, it wouldn't have stood the test of time the way it did. Like many other comical landmarks such as The Producers, you have to look deeper under the stratus of vulgarity to feel the real impact. Animal House is about of social misfits in the kind of school where order, authority, and love for knowledge are the prevailing orders, yet there is an unconscious wisdom behind the behavior of the Delta brothers, as persons who refuse to be on Faber's knees and spend most time partying, having fun and making the most stupid and grotesque jokes, maybe as safest way not to express an obedience to what looks like the roots of a fascistic system.Whether it's John Belushi making a zit impression, watching a sorority pillow fight, Tom Hulce dating an underage naked grocery girl, Stephen Furst (as Dorfman, the 'fat one') ordered to shoot a horse, the group's leader having a sensual night with the Dean's wife or pretending to have a date with a dead student to appeal to her mourning friends; every moral boundary is broken. There are no rules, nothing is shocking or puerile enough to get the laughs. Like The Producers, the film rises below vulgarity, you have to feel the appeal, to put yourself in the mood, to realize what order and authority produce. Indeed, when the clean-cut bad guys end up killed in Vietnam or victim of the Nixon's administration (a classic ending à la American Graffiti), we understand that these schooldays years have probably one meaning to allow you to know where you stand for. Our Delta animals clearly know, and the film has its charming way to make you consider their states of mind as options.The film is like a MASH in school, but this time, I could relate to the characters, I studied in a prestigious school, and 10 years later, the most endearing memories left are all about these partying times and moments of fun with my friends, who didn't want to get in the right circles. I even wish I saw the film before, it would have probably helped me to seriously consider the unseriousness of serious stuff. I saw the film a few years ago, it was fun in the beginning but as it went by and I knew this was going nowhere, I started not to watch but savor every single moment, and it totally won my heart, right in the middle through the unforgettable Toga party. I have listened to many catchy songs, but Otis Day's Shout tops all of them, the song is such an integral part of my appreciation that I could dedicate a whole paragraph to it. Let's just say, I love this song, and I love watching Belushi dancing at it.The late Belushi is undoubtedly the pillar of Animal House, an accomplishment even greater since he's not the main protagonist, has a few speaking lines, but alone, he embodies the whole film's craziness and carelessness. Watch him rising his eyebrow toward us while contemplating a delicate creature taking off her clothes, we're part of the joke, watch him trying to comfort Dorfman after his car is broken, watch his expression when some bottles are broken, watch him when he empties half a bottle of Jack Daniels, because he needed that, there are reasons why people like Belushi are funny, and many other, no matter how hard they try, will never. Comical characters today beg for our empathy, in Animal House, they don't care, and that's why we love them and love to be one of them.The film is a nostalgic trip from the National Lampoon generation, the writers (among them Harold Ramis) probably discovered their comical abilities during these school years, and I envy them for that. And what they create is something not only original, but comical enough to be a laugh riot and subtle enough to appeal to more sophisticated minds. Take Donald Sutherland as the pot-smoking teacher giving a soporific speech about an artist before admitting he's as bored as his students, this is subtlety at best, but still, the film offers a hilarious shot on his buttocks that, in the context of the scene, works as one of the funniest moments (which is saying a lot) That's how it works, following the Shout song, it's a little subtler now, a little subtler now, a little cruder now, a little cruder now &#x85; hey hey hey hey &#x85;. "},{"Title":"Animal House best movie","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House is the best college comedy of all time. The thought of bringing in new actors (Kevin Bacon) to play the role as college kids in the movie was really smart of John Landis, the director. John Landis also did a great job bringing in John Belushi to play the greatest character in Animal House. I'm a zit. Get it? was in my opinion, the best quote in the whole movie. What is also interesting about the movie Animal House is the storyline of how a college campus actually was. It is the best movie for college kids, mainly because its really funny. Unfortunately, most people have not even heard about the movie, which is fairly disappointing. Kids today do not know what they are missing in this excellent comedy. National Lampoon's Animal House, by far, is the best comedy ever made. "},{"Title":"Be prepared to laugh","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House is about the Delta fraternity, a group of college men who put fun first, and academics a distant second. Anytime a prank is pulled on the grounds of Faber College, all signs point to the Deltas. The group is despised by its rival, the Omega fraternity, and the Dean of the school, Vernon Wormer, who wants nothing more than to get rid of the members of the Delta House.This is a fine ensemble cast. John Belushi is good as Bluto, who loves to drink and party more so than anyone in the fraternity. Tim Matheson gives a very respectable performance as Otter, Faber's resident womanizer. Peter Riegert also deserves mention for his portrayal of Boon, who always has a one-liner at the right time. John Vernon cannot be left out, for he is completely believable as Dean Wormer. I can't mention every cast member, but believe me when I tell you they all do a good job on screen.The laughs come regularly in Animal House, and are not limited to the words in the script. The facial expressions and actions of the characters create moments of amusement as well. I'm not giving anything away. You'll have to see it.This is a truly funny movie. Animal House is an example of how to make a good movie Perfect casting, a well done script, and good direction. Do not miss this movie. "},{"Title":"Fat, drunk and stupid is no way to go about life","Date":"25 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was my first time watching John Landis's cult classic Animal House, the father of the frat house comedies, and certainly one of the funniest. As someone who attended public schools in Brazil my whole life and whose first school experience in the US has been going to a small liberal arts college in Vermont for almost two years now, I can see the differences between Brazilian and American educational systems. However, some things are universal, and college students share some similar interests, fears, vices and weaknesses all over the world.Unlike The Graduate, this is not a bittersweet story of what's next fright; the students of fictional Faber College in 1962 don't care much about anything other than getting wasted and getting laid (We got to do something... You know what we are gonna do? Toga party!). Some of them are there just not to go to Vietnam, others just because a college education is the thing you're supposed to do and you better enjoy the last 'free' days of your life while you can. This is not highbrow humor but works both for its priceless visual and verbal gags and and as a satire of how college life had been portrayed up to then. That this is also responsible for the countless copycats that have come up to the American Pie straight-to-DVD sequels is another story altogether; and the fact that it remains funny over three decades later shows that certain things never change. The effective ensemble cast includes John Belushi, Karen Allen and a very young Kevin Bacon in their respective feature debuts, plus Tim Matheson, Tom Hulce, Donald Sutherland and Verna Bloom. Favorite line Fat, drunk and stupid is no way to go about life. 9/10. "}{"Title":"Animal House","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The celebrated college frat comedy that is probably the most recognized(..maybe, just a wee bit overpraised)in regards to it's influence. When someone even mentions a movie about a hell-raising fraternity of college guys who spend less time studying and far more time partying, Animal House comes to mind instantly. I think Animal House stands the test of time for this magnificent cast of budding young stars on the verge of stardom.You think of Animal House's zany antics regarding sex and slob humor, the movies spawned afterward are certainly more gratuitous, capitalizing on what was brought to popular life in this film. The bar had been lifted and Animal House proved that anything goes and the targets, regarding smart, intelligent people who dedicate themselves to their school and class, while thumbing their noses in superiority towards those less fortunate, getting their comeuppance in the lowest of low brow fashion would be a successful story-line to use time and again. I guess one can say Animal House started an entire comedy sub-genre all it's own. Most feel that those movies which came after this one, while far lacking in taste and exploiting the seedier, lurid elements such a plot regarding sexually active youth and their behavior on and off campus, were not as good as Animal House. That said, this movie benefits from a high energy(..I think director Landis deserves credit for this)and a cast that keep everything lively and enthusiastic. Landis had already cut his teeth with Kentucky Fried Movie, and Animal House was just another step up in his status as a major director of comedies(..Blues Brothers and Trading Places following later, cementing his stature as a go-to-guy for comedies of all sorts).The plot is essentially one fraternity waging war against the other and vice versa. John Vernon is a very disgruntled(surprised?!)dean who wants the students at Delta fraternity expelled and off his campus of Faber University. They represent a pestilence he wishes to see removed from his sight. He will coordinate his efforts at doing this by eliciting the support of James Daughton's Greg Marmalard, the handsome, chiseled dull jock and President of Omega University to find any way to get Delta expelled. Therein is the movie. You have Tom Hulce as a polite nerd virgin who doesn't know that the girl he wishes to score with is 13. Stephen Furst is the amiable fat kid who is constantly ridiculed. Mark Metcalf is uptight, vile Doug Neidermeyer, head of his chapter's military core, out to cause Furst a lot of trouble. Kevin Bacon as a freshman snob who joins Omega and is quite a soldier for their cause. John Belushi as the unkempt, foul Bluto, a college stowaway who remains because he enjoys splurging on the cafeteria food and fraternity booze. Tim Matheson, who is having all kinds of fun, is the ladies' man always out to get laid any way he can, the ringleader of Delta, without a care in the world. His pal is Peter Riegert, who follows him everywhere. The lovely Karen Allen, always dependable with that knockout smile, is Riegert's jaded gal, who decides, in a momentary lapse of reason, to enter a sexual tryst with pot-smoking professor Donald Sutherland(..the most viable name in the cast). One of my personal favorite casting choices is played by Bruce McGill, a gear head who introduces himself by riding his motorcycle up the stairs of Omega's fraternity house! My personal favorite gag is the unfortunate fate of a horse(..ridden by Metcalf)when Furst fires a gun with blanks. In future frat comedies, there's far more nudity, although, Animal House has it's share of bare breasts exposed. While I might prefer Revenge of the Nerds to Animal House, I recognize it's importance in setting a trend, where movies could go for broke and not adhere to a major story-line, while becoming a blockbuster all the same. I think, at the end of the day, that this will remain a pop culture sensation due to it's cast and fun-loving nature. Belushi really cracked me up with all his gross-out nonsense. Matheson pours out the charm, he's irresistible really, and his seduction of Verna Bloom, playing Dean Vernon's wife, is hilarious. The chaotic climax featuring Delta's revenge against the dean and Omega, by way of causing a ruckus during a Faber parade, is a riot. "},{"Title":"Toga! Toga!","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the seventies, the name 'National Lampoon' carried considerable weight in the world of American comedy. The company's first foray into film, 1978's Animal House, established a new brand of cinematic comedy and paved the way for scores of imitators.The story concerns Faber College's Delta House fraternity, a group of fun-loving students whose wild ways have them at odds with the no-nonsense Dean. Naturally, the Dean's attempts to rid himself of the Deltas meet with much resistance of a comical nature.One of the things that makes the film memorable is the well-chosen cast. John Belushi usually gets the lion's share of the attention but the entire cast is filled with memorable characters. John Vernon, Mark Metcalf, Tim Matheson and several others make up a fine comedic ensemble.The direction by John Landis captures the mayhem admirably and is nicely supported by a dramatic score from Elmer Bernstein. Also of note from a musical standpoint is the fictional band Otis Day & the Knights, who provide some vintage R&B, including a lively rendition of Shout.All in all, National Lampoon's Animal House is a classic of American comedy. I wouldn't expect it to appeal to all tastes but I find that it's among the best (perhaps the best) of the so-called 'gross-out' comedies. "},{"Title":"This Will Always Be Funny","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 100 years from now, my great great kid's kids will still laugh when they watch this movie. Animal House is the foundation of teen sex comedy. Here's where it all started. It's funny... period.If you actually have not seen this movie, you should see it if you like movies like American Pie or Van Wilder. Animal House set the standard a long time ago for movies like this.A bit of a disclaimer since people have different opinions if your idea of good comedy is Spinal Tap and Dr Strangelove, or if you are English English (you know what I mean), then you may not like Animal House. "},{"Title":"Fiction that resembled fact","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Since the movie ended up being filmed in Eugene at a Delta fraternity house, the setting and the events came remarkably close to my experience at a Delta ___ _____ house on the same campus in the mid-1960's. Even D-Day's motorcycle's trip up the staircase was a dead ringer for Brillo Pad's similar feat. The probation, flying beer bottles, toga parties, and general laissez-faire attitude about everything matched the script. On one occasion, the Eugene Police Department was called to break up a little disturbance on the front lawn only to have one of the two squad cars have its keys taken during the time that the police were policing. After searching the lawn with their flashlights, both officers piled into the second car to return to the station to get a second set of keys for the car. After they left, one of our brothers pulled out the keys from his pocket and said, Look what I found. He and a buddy drove the car through the campus with the lights flashing and the siren blaring while trying to set a new speed record. They took the car to the police station to report that they had found the keys in the grass but were nearly arrested for unauthorized use of an emergency vehicle. I saw Animal House when it was first released and I was in shock with the many similarities of the movie script to my own experiences. I called my frat roommate and when he answered I said in a somewhat quivering voice, Larry. Before I could say another word, he recognized my voice and answered, You just saw Animal House, didn't you!? The epilogue of the movie was humorous as it described what happened to the characters in subsequent years. As it turned out, I became a high school teacher and my experiences (described above) proved to be valuable in defusing classroom behaviors that were heading in the direction of certain Blutarsky-isms. "},{"Title":"A God amongst mere mortal comedies.","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House has gone down in history as the greatest college comedy on the planet. While some find it to be outdated, I still can't get enough of this hilarious laugh-fest. Harold Ramis sets the precedent with a film that redefines the comedy genre as a whole. While his other films such as Ghostbusters, Caddyshack, and Stripes are also extremely entertaining, Animal House still remains one of the best.Faber College is a high society college that prides itself on the devotion of it's students. Dean Wormer's (John Vernon) tenure has quite the list of accolades, including extortion. Most of the fraternities on campus are well-behaved and organized, with one exception The Delta House. We get our first taste of the Delta fraternity when Larry Kroger (Tom Hulce) and Kent Dorfman (Stephen Furst), visit them while browsing the campus' frat houses as freshman in 1962. Delta's long list of comedic members include 'Boon' (Peter Reigert), D-Day (Bruce McGill), Robert Hoover; the chapter President (James Widdoes), 'Otter' (Tim Matheson), and last, but not least 'Bluto' (John Belushi).The Delta House is placed on Double Secret Probation after pushing Dean Wormer over the edge with their disgusting antics on campus. After receiving this warning, the Deltas continue to throw parties, torture the arch-nemesis fraternity headed by Douglas C. Neidermeyer (Mark Metcalf), and play pranks on the college. The end result? Expulsion from the college.Just when the Delta's are down and out, we get to witness one of the most hilarious and entertaining revenge plots in cinema history! Animal House is simply the most entertaining comedy in existence, and is a trademark film from the late 70's. Before the success of National Lampoon's Vacation, Animal House set the bar for the film franchise which remains one of the highest grossing film companies to this day.Toga! Toga! Toga! "},{"Title":"One of the Best Comedies Ever Made","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House is one of the best comedies to ever be made. Some of the best scenes have to be from Bluto (John Belushi). Especially when he is walking through the lunch line trying things and putting them back. That is a classic scene right there and it is truly classic material. This movie really is what the genre we know as comedy is all about. The cast was really done well especially with the choice of John Belushi, he is one of the funniest actors of all time and he really proved why when he played Bluto in this movie. You will get so many memorable lines from all of these classic characters.So I definitely recommend seeing Animal House or you will be put on Double Secret Probation. "},{"Title":"seminal house","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the mother of all American frat house comedies. It has a stellar cast and a screenplay that was written by Jesus. See how pleased Bluto is to attain the dizzy heights of 0.0 delivered with gusto by the omnipresent John Vernon. 'a morally casual attitude' brilliant. 'killed in Vietnam by his own troops' priceless. The characters are larger than life, the soundtrack is superb. I just wonder where Dan Ackroyd was. John Landis is my favourite late seventies/early eighties comedy director, watch other Landis classics like Trading Places or The Blues Brothers. Excellent. I want to lick the balls of this film. Buy it, rent it, steal it but watch it. "},{"Title":"Super Secret Probation","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the film which started a lot of the college binge drinking films. The late John (Blutto) Belushi is the star of the binges. John Vernon as the Dean does a lot of good support & Tim Matheson is the other major player. There's plenty of eye candy in the film too.Notably, this is the first film of Harold Ramis writing career. Ramis is a creative writer who went on to do Caddyshack, GhostBusters & then the brilliant Ground Hog Day. Signs of his writing hand do show up in this film.The ending of the film with the parade & float are truly inspired. While the film is not a great family entertainment, it still provides teenagers & young adults much pleasure. Overall, this is a fun film which means that at times its gross but if you put your brain away, you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Daphne Zuniga","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House is one of the greatest movies ever made. I have one subtle and burning question that I have not been able to answer. Otter picked up a bunch of Fawn's Friends. Once they have been left at the bar and are walking home...one of them looks and speaks like Daphne Zuniga. I know that she would have only been 15 years old when the film was shot. There are no credited or uncredited cast members that play those parts. So if any one else has information regarding the ladies who played those parts could you post a note that proves this is or is not Daphne? Thanks for reading.Animal House Rules!!! Toga, Toga!! "},{"Title":"Based on a true story","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House is such a great comedy. It's gross out humor is still funny today. The best thing about it, is that it is based on a true story. So when you watch the movie you are thinking? How can all of this pandemonium happen. All college or university students should see this movie. I'm still pretty young and I get all of the jokes in this movie. The movie doesn't really have a storyline except it's about a frat house named Delta who are about to be kicked out Faber College by a Dean named Vernon Wormer. John Belushi plays one of the most disgusting characters you will ever see. If there are some classic comedy movies you should get on DVD this is one of them.10 out of 10 stars "}{"Title":"Enjoy it while it lasts!","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie brings back the best and most creative part of my college life, so it's a sentimental favorite for me and should be required viewing for those college freshmen who are homesick. You can't be missing your parents when you're tipping cows and painting dorm elevators submarine gray or Chinese dragon red at 3am.This movie was a happy reminder that college was not just about preparing for life (which is really an endless tunnel of work / responsibilities surrounded by humourless tie-wearing sorts - how come they never told us?), but about learning important social skills and having a hell of a lot of fun.It was entertaining, believable (for me!), and the acting was solid. Tim Matheson - who didn't think he was the coolest ever (and enjoy Jonny Quest all the more)? John Belushi - was the part made for him or what? Donald Sutherland gave his professor a nice oily finish so appropriate for the times. John Vernon added Dean Wormer to the college lexicon. And Tom Hulce - well, who knew this was just a stepping stone for him? I guess the casting director had amazing perception, picking not only Hulce but Kevin Bacon for the film. The Fawn Liebowitz road house joke ran a little long (maybe that's because I've seen the movie about 15 times), but it's endurable. I love horses, but I'm an adult and can enjoy the dark humour. I'm not a huge slob humour fan, but nonetheless, every time I see the Animal House food fight, I'm snickering away like I was back in the dining commons lobbing jello at my ex-boyfriend's annoying new girlfriend. Since there must be something in life that goes my way, I'm sure her butt is now the size of Nebraska and he's living a life filled with wistful thoughts of me.So every time I see the movie, I'm all happy and nostalgic about my college days. It even makes me think of pranks I could be doing at my current faceless corporation. Like building a lovely lounge sculpture of all that faceless furniture. Hmmm. "},{"Title":"Just sit back and enjoy","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House is a film with only one mission and that is to make you laugh. And in that it succeeds. If you are looking for a film with some kind of deeper meaning you have come to the wrong place. What you will get here is rude, crude, loud, boisterous humor. The plot is admittedly thin, revolving around the Delta fraternity brothers and their efforts to avoid being expelled from the university. In this kind of movie plot takes a backseat. Here the jokes are the thing and there are enough of them to make Animal House an enjoyable watch.John Belushi gives a truly memorable performance as Bluto. Bluto doesn't have much to say but his hijinks are priceless and he does have one classic speech as well. Tim Matheson as Otter, Bruce McGill as D-Day, Tom Hulce as Pinto, Peter Riegert as Pinto and Stephen Furst as hapless Flounder are also memorable in their own ways. Mark Metcalf as the Deltas' nemesis Neidermeyer gives you someone to root against, Karen Allen as Katy gives you someone to fall in love with and Donald Sutherland as Professor Dave Jennings gives you someone to make you wish all your college professors could be like that. And the music brings the whole spectacle to life, most notably a rousing rendition of Shout. There may not be much real drama but Animal House has some truly memorable characters and plenty of laughs to make it worth your while. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The title for my review says it all. This is my favorite college film even though I don't attend a pwc. But that doesn't even matter. The film isn't so much about college as it is about the deltas overcoming their hardships, which include but are not limited to.....ridiculously low grades and a dean that has it in for them because of their previous college antics. If you haven't seen Animal House, you are really missing out on something. We have Kevin Bacon here in a small role(Thank you sir, can I have another!!??) which I think is his first. But the real showstopper here is John Belushi as Bluto, an obnoxious but hilarious character in the film. Just watch him go through the lunch line and end the scene with the 'zit' joke at the snobby frat's table. I repeat, if you haven't seen this film, GO SEE IT!! 8/10 because I feel that the parade scene kind of borderlined on b moviedom and didn't fit the quality of the parts before it. "},{"Title":"Pure fun.","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this move in the theatre when it came out and I loved it. When it came out on video I bought it and have watched it many times. it is timeless and classic if you were a bit rambunctious when you were young. Like good music? It's here. Like romance? It's here.Like comedy? It's here. Pranks too. It's got messages many probably never saw in it. I sure wish John Belushi was still around. The hi-jinks that go on are funny, and on retrospect almost 20 years now, sad and meaningful too. Every time I see it I need to jump around with the music. And thepushing of the envelope with authority is also classic but pure fun. I am thankful that this movie is still around to lighten my days and give me the rebellion feeling when I need it. Food Fight!  "},{"Title":"Toga! Toga!  Toga!","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yeah, John Belushi is a huge pulsating body of life in this movie.  Every scene he is in he steals without effort.  I think trying to get too much out of the guy in his other movies spoiled the comic effect, but in this movie he is absolutely superb.  The scene where he is looking through the sorority window and turns to the camera and raises his eyebrows, letting us all in on it, was superb.  As was Seven years of college down the drain.The rest of the movie has tremendous moments, and the whole movie is gleefully mean-spirited and hilarious.  But the whole pitch of the scenes raises whenever Belushi is on the scene.  This situation absolutely requires a really futile and stupid gesture be done on somebody's part.  And indeed it does.   "},{"Title":"Belushi at his BEST!","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never saw it when it originally came out. I would've been too young anyway to understand, plus too young to be admited in. I saw this movie the first time on cable. Then re-watched it numerous times on cable and over a friend's house on his VHS system. I've never been a huge fan of Saturday Night Live (where Belushi got his start.) So I never was part of Belushi's following, thus never became a big fan of his.But watching him in this movie, as someone who's not a fan of his, Belushi scores perfect! I can't think of anyone else who could do his character like him. This movie was MADE for HIM.The rest of the stars also shine. Hey, its a movie about COLLAGE LIFEcirca 1970's. And it captures it very well. The mood, the different characters, the acting, the setting, the script, everything. There should be a collage movie made for every decade me thinks! Heheh. ) "},{"Title":"Belushi at his BEST!","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never saw it when it originally came out. I would've been too young anyway to understand, plus too young to be admited in. I saw this movie the first time on cable. Then re-watched it numerous times on cable and over a friend's house on his VHS system. I've never been a huge fan of Saturday Night Live (where Belushi got his start.) So I never was part of Belushi's following, thus never became a big fan of his.But watching him in this movie, as someone who's not a fan of his, Belushi scores perfect! I can't think of anyone else who could do his character like him. This movie was MADE for HIM.The rest of the stars also shine. Hey, its a movie about COLLAGE LIFEcirca 1970's. And it captures it very well. The mood, the different characters, the acting, the setting, the script, everything. There should be a collage movie made for every decade me thinks! Heheh. ) "},{"Title":"Funny...very enjoyable.","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Now, I have yet to go to college, but this movie certainly made me look forward to it! Very witty movie--more witty in the second half than in the first, I found. The actors were all very funny in their roles, especially Belushi (I'm a zit) as the troublemaker. Now, for the verdict Is this the best college movie of all time? I'd say so. "},{"Title":"A Toga Party After 25 Years","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Strange as it may seem, 25 years have passed since we first heard the call Toga, Toga, Toga, and the party was underway.Animal House has become a standard by which all party movies are measured, and deservedly so. Great slapstick, great songs. A movie such as this, like fine wine, seems to improve with age.How about a 25th Anniversary DVD?  "},{"Title":"Great college comedy","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Animal House is full of places where you can't help but laugh, it is a classical comedy of two houses at a college, both being very opposite. John Belushi is what makes this film certainly come alive, with his attitude towards his superiors in the film. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are some movies that just dont need an introduction, this is one of them. Why is it then that I have to tell many people who see this cover on the shelf that it is one of the funniest movies of all time, not trash. This needs a theatrical re-release, the people need to know how f%&%^ing funny this movie is, who dare say its overated?, whoever that was needs nutering becaue they know not what they say. "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Movies Of All Time","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This Is One Of The Greatest Movies Of All Time!!! Not Much To Say About It But Rent It Or Buy It. You'll Enjoy It. Wether Your A Guy, Chick, Parent Or Hippie, Its Got Something In There You'll Love. So In My Opinion, This Is The Greatest Comedy Movie Of All Time, Hands Down!  "},{"Title":"A 'house' of laughs!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Before viewing ANIMAL HOUSE, I thought about what I expected it to be and that is another lame, crude comedy with only a few laughs. Boy, was I surprised. Not only is this movie funny, it takes humor to a whole new level. I laughed a lot more than I expected to. John Belushi is the best of the cast members in terms of comedic ability and the writing/directing is first-rate. Though very funny, this movie isn't what I would call a classic like most people I know say it is. "},{"Title":"Classic comedy from great ensemble cast","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As TBS might say, this is a modern classic.  Forget Maltin's review, this is comedy at it's best.  Cast is good across the board, from John Vernon as nasty Dean Wermer to John Belushi as degenerate frat house rat.  Everybody knows some fraternity or some person that will remind them of this movie. Probably Belushi's primo movie performance.  Worth repeated viewings, loses some of its impact in censored tv version. "},{"Title":"Not in the intended audience","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Delta house at a 1962 college is threatened with expulsion, and their response is to do more of what they're asked not to. There are a few subplots(that are resolved, but not in any kind of satisfying manner), but that's essentially it. This is intentional, of course. Similar to how American Pie boils down to a simplistic excuse for crude gags(for the record, I prefer that one to this). My understanding of this is that it's an ode, an anthem(that certainly does seem to be the only point to it), to meaningless destruction, drunkenness, obnoxious, gross and wasteful behavior. Hence all the partying scenes, that I'm sure others enjoy. Maybe it also explains why they didn't feel the urge to make a single character even remotely likable. I suppose they're meant to be as stereotypical as they are(I do wish they'd at least be a tad distinct, I kept mixing them up, mistaking them for each other), and perhaps their actions, at least some of them, make any kind of sense to other viewers. Only the Saturday morning cartoon villain of Dean Wormer, and the posh fraternity, came off as occasionally logical. Why are these kids in such a high level of education if they are determined to learn absolutely nothing? I realize that that's not the right way to approach this, merely explaining why I don't consider the bad guys in this to be in the wrong. You know, if this did properly communicate that the heroes were pro-fun and the others were against it... but at the same time, our protagonists are so dirty, nasty, and I'm going in the opposite direction again... the structure isn't bad. Landis' direction, particularly in the Shout sequence(that man knows how to put images to music so that you really get into it... heck, that was the one positive to Blues Brothers 2000), is good(the chaos created is impressive). The acting is fine, for what it's supposed to be. From a production standpoint, I can barely hold anything against this. However, I don't find much of anything funny in it. Part of it is that it feels dated. I'll also admit that much of this was very new to me, culturally. That does surprise me, as I've watched plenty of this kind of flicks. And several of them, I'd suggest checking out over this one. Yeah, it's possible I don't get it(I'd argue that I do, and it just isn't to my liking). About ten minutes of the final third of this seem to have been some of the inspiration for Road Trip, my personal favorite of the R-rated teen comedy. And if you want something from this period that objectifies women at least as much and actually gives us more half or fully naked ones, go with Private School, or, to a lesser extent, Porky's(only the first one). There is a little nudity, sexuality and swearing in this. I recommend it to the people it was made for. And I do honestly hope this was helpful. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Welcome to the jungle","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What can you say about a film like National Lampoon's Animal House that hasn't been said already? Because of it being a comedy classic, featuring a hilarious cast, and putting more than one name on the map, I'll make this brief. I feel over-analyzing this film could cause an unbelievable backlash on me. But I have nothing negative to say about this gem.Not only did this get National Lampoon's name out there, but it's the poster child for buddy sex comedies. Every comedy is inspired strictly by Animal House or by a film that was inspired by Animal House. The reason I think this might have lost some of its humor today is because raunchier, crazier, and more graphic material has come out. I'm not saying today's work is funnier, but I'm saying that some classics might appear to have gone downhill, when really, newer more relevant things have come out.Think about The Simpsons. That was quoted by many people in the nineties as being the funniest show on Television. Now, some people think it still is, and some people think it's gone downhill. Personally, I think The Simpsons has gone on for so long that some episodes are either duplicates, similar, or lazily written. Not to mention, hefty competition like Seth MacFarlane and his band of shows like American Dad, Family Guy, and Robot Chicken have come along and go further in their humor boundaries than The Simpsons giving the appearance of a funnier show. When really, The Simpsons has sort of kept the same humor over the years, just more competition is out to share the pie.Enough about The Simpsons, let's talk about Animal House. Aside from being endlessly quotable, it has shown to be profitable, memorable, realistic, energized, and the first of its kind. It has a cast of people before they were household names, and humor that was looked on by parents as disgusting, when now, it's what comedies are.Animal House is nothing but a big success. It may be victim to some competition with today's films, but a part of me believes Animal House will be around for decades longer. It may never bite the dust. Even if another one comes.Starring John Belushi, Tim Matheson, Stephen Furst, Peter Riegert, Karen Allen, and Kevin Bacon. Directed by John Landis. "},{"Title":"What can I say ? Classic Belushi","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The film has become known as the ultimate fraternity film; for better or worse, it has promoted many stereotypes and formed a distinct image of fraternities in American culture. Decades after its release, Animal House still exerts a powerful influence on today's college students. Despite having been born well after the film was released, students&#151;especially men&#151;on Amercan campuses can often be seen wearing shirts emulating the Belushi character's generic College model.Animal House launch Belushi into super stardom. The movie premiered on July 28, 1978, and went on to become the highest grossing comedy of its time.The best college movie ever made! Great and funny movie with some classic scenes. American pie, road trip can never compare to this. John Belushi is a truly Legend and its a shame that he passed away.Watch it and enjoy and just lay back and enjoy the god old days!R.I.P John Belushi "},{"Title":"The Animals are in the house","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" From John Landis, the director of An American Werewolf in London (1981), comes the bunch of animals that started it all. Critic Rochelle O'Gorman commented that Animal House (1978) works for all the wrong reasons, and that is a correct assertion. There is nothing high-class or PC about Animal House, as the countless toilet-humor and sex-gags would almost certainly receive the scorn and protests of those eager to censor a movie that does not (read refuses to) conform to Hollywood standards. Surprisingly, Animal House is best remembered as being late comedian John Belushi's greatest screen role; his role as the Toga!-spewing brute Bluto is one of the great icons of comedic cinema, immortalized here by Belushi, who's having a ball as is everyone else. But there is a plot in the comic madness that's running amok in Animal House, and it concerns the epic three-way battle between Dean Wormer (the late John Vernon), the Omega House Fraternity, and the Delta House Fraternity. It turns out Dean Wormer has found a way through a legal loophole in the school's charter to have the Deltas, a disgraced fraternity of obnoxious and rowdy brutes led by Otter (Tim Matheson), expelled off campus for good and is going to use the Omegas to help him do it. But the members of the Deltas aren't going away without a fight, and so let the hijinks begin. As a satire of '60's college life and a low-brow comedy, it works both ways. In today's world, Animal House would be written off as nothing greater than all of the other toilet humor-laden comedies that we see every year and receives the butting end of so many harsh critiques. The performers fill their roles respectively, nothing more or greater than what is required from them. But the members of the Deltas are some of the most interesting and memorable screen characters ever envisioned. You should also be on the look out for a very young Kevin Bacon as an obnoxious ROTC recruit in one of the film's most memorable smaller roles.10/10 "},{"Title":"The Original Sex Teen Comedy","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the original sex teen comedy. Even if you don't like or enjoy sex teen comedies, this is a must-see for any movie goer. The movie has a fun cast, some good jokes, some classic scenes, and enough nudity to make it interesting for guys. There is not much material for women, but it still should be viewed by female movie buffs. I don't need to explain the plot because it doesn't really matter, it's a movie that is not to be taken seriously or to be nominated for academy awards,it's just pure fun. In no way am I calling this the best sex teen comedy, it's not wildly funny, it has some nudity, but not as much as movies like Eurotrip, but it is the first of its kind and should definitely be seen by all. "},{"Title":"Food King! Food King! Food King!","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In my humble opinion, Animal House is not only the best campus comedy, not only the best comedy, but the best film I have seen.It made John Belushi a star, which is in no way a bad thing. It set director John Landis up for The Blues Brothers, which, again, is no bad thing.Comedy films are seen as a lower form of films, because once you know the punch-line, you stop laughing. Not with this film. Once you have seen it and see it for another time, i guarantee that you will still laugh.10/10Thanks for listening, viewersDr. Pineapple "}{"Title":"great comedy","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first of the Nation Lampoon series. Definitely the best. If you are looking for a comedy about college life this is the one for you. Ottis Day sings some of his classic tunes in this one and John Belushi is the man. I have never laughed so hard at him before. This movie is full of great bits.I laugh every time I watch it. If you are reading this and have never seen it. Go get it right now and watch it. You will love it. the DVD has some pretty cool extras on it also. This is a great story that i think started the college life movie. It set the stage for movies like Road Trip. Although in my humble opinion this movie is the best of 'em all. I'm A Zit, get it. Great Movie "},{"Title":"This is one of the best film I have seen (apart from Blues Brothers).","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The is is one of the funniest films that I have seen. It reminds me of University life, brings back some memories of my own. Bluto has to be the best character in the whole of the film. It is a pity that John Belushi died so early in life.As for the critics of the film, they in my opinion are looking too hard at the film. This is a quality piece of filming capturing the spirit of student life.Only one other film that comes close to being the same or better is The Blues Brothers.I would rate this film 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies out there","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Where do I begin?  I will say that this movie keeps you laughing until the very end.  Belushi, Matheson and Riegert are totally amazing in this movie.  I remember when my friends and I went to see this movie right when it came out and we were laughing our butts off.  I was sixteen when I first saw this film.  This movie is definitely worth watching, especially if you like comedy.  "},{"Title":"The Champion","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Go ahead.  Knock this one off.  I dare you.I just saw Old School last night, after several of my (younger) co-workers swore up and down that it was one of the funniest movies ever made.Unfortunately, Old School makes the mistake of begging to be compared to Animal House.  Bad move.  It's a testament to Animal House that, a quarter of a century later, nothing can match it. "},{"Title":"this film is a must","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A colt film in the UK, this film has a big following in the Soul Sean played at soul weekender venues like Castier, and when you have 2000 people having a food fight at the same time as the film is just magic. The whole film is just one big toga party with John Belushi at his best. "},{"Title":"funny movie and john belushi' best movie","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  now a dated film,but, when it came out john belushi was excellent as the character bluto blutarsky. great movie if you attended similar college,with fraternities and sororities. kevin bacon shows he can act in this picture. all the secondary characters were great.one has to go back to the seventies to appreciate this great,comedic movie. mark metcalf plays a tyrannical doug neidermeyer. worth seeing more than once.  "},{"Title":"Great American Comedy","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  	How anyone could ever berate this movie with insults into its mediocre acting or variable plot line I will never know. This movie was made with such wit and humours that how anyone could even consider it not to be one of the greatest movies of all time than they should feel UN-American. Every female that has seen this movie must admit that they have gone out with someone almost exactly similar to every character. Defiantly Otter and Boon, perhaps a Bluto or a Pinto. This movie will forever go down in history as one of the supreme movies of all time and one of national lampoons finer moments. So for anyone that feels the need to disparage this film than you are attacking American life at its finest.  As such I send this recommendation into the movie abyss THIS MOVIE NEEDS RE-RELEASE EXPOSURE. `Toga' "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SPOILERS SO IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE AND WANT TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENS PLEASE DO NOT READThis is one of the greatest comedies of all time. This movie pretty much invented teen movies. There was always some funny part to this movie. Especially the part when Bluto, D-Day and Flounder take the horse into Dean Wormer's office and Flounder causes the horse to have a heart attack.The ending was classic with Delta trashing the homecoming parade. A classic movie. ****/***** "},{"Title":"Slobs vs. Snobs","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't know where the slob vs. snob trend began, but it continued all through the 80's and turned into one of the more overdone and poorly done theme movies.  Back to School with Rodney Dangerfield is one of my favorite Slob vs. Snob films, and you should check it out if you love Animal House.  This is an entertaining movie, and you should know what you're getting when you pick it up.  Also, reading that blurb on the front page for Animal House doesn't sit well with me despite his opening disclaimer.  I'm sorry if you didn't like the way Landis shapes his sequences.  He isn't that type of director.  Like everything else, film stretches far beyond your narrow window of what you find acceptable.  Landis' screwball movies like don't require such technical film making.  I feel sorry for people who hyperanalyze film, I really do.  Narrow thinking pushes enjoyable things away from you, like Animal House.  You know what you're getting, and its not brilliant cinematography or well-crafted sequencing.  If you want that, rent another movie.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Good and accurate spoof","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Animal House illustrates the zany side of a small liberal arts college with a strong Greek system as the only social outlet.  The college models for this film most undoubtedly must have been Dartmouth and Colgate--both great tiny work hard party harder colleges in the middle of nowhere where the Greeks rule (although they used to rule more in the past).  The late John Belushi is great as the whiskey guzzling, mashed potato spitting Bluto who has spent 7 years in college and still hasn't graduated.  The funniest characters are Doug Niedermyer and Eric Stratton because they're extreme parodies of the archetypes they represent.  Much of the wildness and insanity depicted in Animal House is accurate to fraternity life these days (although I wouldn't know about it in 1962, but older individuals that I've consulted who were in fraternities at that time vouch for the accuracy of the film).  I would give this film a 10 for content, comedy, accuracy, and absurdity.  Don't miss it.       "}{"Title":"Yeah, it's THAT funny","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let's see, I'm sure I'll only be able to scratch the surface of all the sins that this movie commits, starting with unrelenting misogyny, adultery, statutory rape, underage drinking, alcoholism, binge drinking, academic underachievment, impotence, rioting, drunk driving, racism, drug use, killing a horse, shoplifting, using the tragic death (in a kiln accident) of a young woman to get dates, setting off public fire extinguishers, Italian American bashing, wanton destruction of public property, the abuse of innocent marching band members, homoerotic b/d, ... this list could really go on for quite a while.  And yeah, it's also one of the funniest movies ever made.  Undeniably an immature adolescent guy movie (are there any other kind of guys?), this one really hits the mark.  Watch this one with on a double feature with PCU which came out several years ago and obviously tried to recreate the magic poking fun at todays college life.  If failed because it didn't do what AH did, take no prisoners.  Favorite scene I gave my love a chicken, that had not bone; I gave my love a cherry that had no stone, I gave my love a ... Belushi's expression is priceless as he bashes the poor post-beatnik, pre-hippy's guitar.  Best finger in the eye to the i dig love, baby crowd i've seen.   "},{"Title":"A great comedy","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Animal House is one of the funniest comedies I've ever seen. What could be cooler than to see those eager students get their asses kicked by a bunch of drunks ). Great music, great jokes, great women. What more could you ask? Watch it with beer. "},{"Title":"Maltin-style review","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A classic tale of good and evil, as imagined by the zany staff of National Lampoon magazine and translated into film by John Landis. A prudish college dean (John Vernon) uses stormtrooper tactics to quell the antics of the loutish Delta Tau Chi fraternity, who then strike back with hilarious results. Boldly subversive yet always exuberant, this comedy masterpiece is a wistful look at an era that never was an early-1960s dream world where everyone is seemingly innocent yet also outrageously naughty (and funny). Watch John Belushi carefully; he's full of surprises.    "},{"Title":"The Great American Comedy","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  National Lampoon's Animal House as it stands nearly 22 years after it's release, is the still the funniest film that I have ever seen.The underrated and over the top performance by the late John Belushi is a stark, yet sad reminder of what could have been.  He was a true talent that was lost too soon.Landis' early directorial style comes to fruition here with one of the wittiest screenplay's ever by Chris Miller, Doug Kenney & Harold Ramis.Some of the darker humor was cut from the films final negative.  That's a shame, because the film is a statement.  And as such should have been left in tact.Many films like it have come and gone since.  Many of those films wore out the formula that flourishes so well here.Good and even great comedies are extremely scarce these days.  The old adage that comedy is the hardest thing to write only helps to further solidify National Lampoon's Animal House as the great comedy institution it is. "},{"Title":"An Original","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This definitely was a film that was ahead of its time.  If this film had come out five years later it probably would have been lost in the shuffle of all the other teen sex comedies that came out at that time. However, when this film came out it pretty much broke all the rules. In fact, many of the same cliches' that would dominate many of the films that came out five years later. Also, this is a great example of the art of slapstick and John Belushi was truly a master. He may not have been in every scene, but he was the person most associated with this film. However, the one that really made a name for himself was Tim Matheson. He pretty much played up the smarmy charmer to the hilt and his performance was more understated and was a good counter to Belushi's more over the top role.  This is a true classic. "},{"Title":"Fun!!!","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  That's what comes to mind when discussing Animal House... Fun!!!This movie is genuinely funny. Basically it is made out of short skits, woven together under the premise of life on campus. I sure wish my campus was half as fun as the one depicted here. The real surprise, though, comes from Bluto Blutarsky, alias John Belushi. He can make you laugh without saying a word; the look on his face, the way he moves his eyebrows... you know he is the master of mayhem the moment he first appears on film. Curiously enough, he appeared under the helm of a supposedly more talented director (Spielberg) in 1941, without the same results. My best bet is he doesn't need any directing at all. "},{"Title":"Boring, tasteless comedy.","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I normally watch a film in its entirety before writing a review, but this one is an exception. After sitting through about 1/3 of Animal House (a movie about a college dean trying to expel the trouble-making Delta Tau Chi Fraternity), I switched it off. It was one of the most boring, tasteless comedies I have ever seen, with unfunny gags, campy acting and annoying characters. Just the loud-mouth frat brats attempting to make trouble from one wild party to the other while, at the same time, trying to outsmart the dean was too much to endure; there was no substance in the humor - just boring gags and irritating dialog one after the other. The kids getting drunk and the crude sexual materials depicted are a shameful representation of how nefarious college life can get - not something I would find entertaining to watch on the big screen.Do yourself a favor and skip this teenage/college farce. You would probably find campy teenage slasher flicks more entertaining to watch, and even more funnier, than this.Grade F "},{"Title":"Basically A Grossout Screwball Comedy","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a period piece whose main claim to fame was that it started the trend of screwball comedies in the following decades, silly and rebellious kids against dense and strait-laced adults. The story is about a fraternity in 1963 which engages in constant hooliganism, to the point where the dean of the college finally wants it shut down.After being warned of the dean's intentions, the people in the fraternity of course engage in even more of the bad behavior that got them into trouble in the first place. Big surprise-the college shuts down the fraternity. On top of that, the members of the fraternity's leadership are expelled from the college itself due to poor academic scores-and the dean reminds them that they can no longer use college deferments to avoid the military draft. So they decide to wreak revenge by sabotaging the upcoming alumni parade.The movie is basically a group of fraternity-related gags, some funny, but others lame or gross. The parade scene at the end provides the only major laughs in the movie, but the rest is basically boring. "},{"Title":"Grab a brew. Don't cost nothing'...","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ahhh, college. Those were the days. Dealing with the people, the food, the toga parties. OK, maybe the college experience of Animal House does not quite match up with your own experience, but that really is not the point. The movie rekindles warm and fuzzy memories oh everyone's college life. Everyone either remembers a party they were at, a road trip they went on, or knew an Otter, there is something in this film that each person could identify with, and that is reason for success. You may not have known a John Belushi in college personally, but you remember someone somewhere on campus that was always hanging around campus, so you assumed he went to school, but never saw in class. The success is the muted role of Bluto Blutarsky by Belushi, so when he finally does have an outburst, it's unexpected and hilarious. What do most people remember of Animal House? Was it the time Bluto ends the performance of a guitar player? Was it the impression of a zit? Was it odd dance that went along with Shout? Or was it when the stirring speech asks the immortal question, Was it over when the Germans bombed Pearl Harbor? If any of those scenes is your favorite, you will know that John Belushi was a part of it. He carries the movie as a background character, but the one who embodies the college experience. The other characters are one dimensional in it's own way, but are effective in moving the movie along. Directed by John Landis, who also directed The Blues Brothers, the movie goes from one sketch to another effortlessly, never seeming to be forced and all have an air of ridiculous, yet maybe it did really happen somewhere at sometime. It is a must see for anyone who has ever been to a fraternity party, or even those who just want to laugh for an hour and a half or so. "},{"Title":"My advice to you is ...start drinking heavily - Best Campus Comedy Ever!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  NATIONAL LAMPOON'S ANIMAL HOUSE (1978) **** John Belushi, Tim Matheson, Peter Riegert, John Vernon, Tom Hulce, Stephen Furst, Donald Sutherland, Karen Allen, James Widdoes, Bruce McGill, Sarah Holcomb, Verna Bloom, Otis Day & the Knights, Kevin Bacon.  Classic comedy about college life circa 1960s that made Belushi a superstar in his most memorable and iconic role 'professional' undergrad/uberslob frat pig Bluto Blutarsky, the hard-drinking, frantic and fun-loving heart and soul of Delta House, a broken-down fringe fraternity sect out to make Dean Wormer (Vernon perfectly square-jawed authoritarian s.o.b.) resort to placing them under double secret probation resulting in their ultimate retribution TOGA! TOGA! TOGA!   Fast and furiously funny and directed with breakneck elan by John Landis, nostalgic and crazy with some memorable moments including shooting an R.O.T.C.  horse in the dean's office; Hulce's angel and devil arguing over a drunken opportunity; Belushi's advice to Furst after his frat brothers demolish his older sibling's prized car My advice to you is...start drinking heavily; Belushi's film vault moment the food fight of cinema history; the dean's credo Fat, drunk and stupid is no way to go through life; and my personal favorite lines And For God's sake tuck in those pajamas! by the neo-Nazi Niedermeyer to Flounder and Nothing's over! Was it over when the German's bombed Pearl Harbor?! by Bluto in his rousing the frat rats to war with Omega! "}{"Title":"Weak plot, few laughs.","Date":"9 July 2012","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Weak plot padded out with scenes that end up having little relevance to other events in the movie, almost like a collection of frat house and college themed sketches. That wouldn't be so bad if the scenes were funny, but the movie only managed to raise two or three laughs from me. The main characters often came across as unpleasant and vindictive, and their lying, cheating, stealing and misogyny put me firmly on the side of the Dean. The soundtrack's pretty good though, and the acting's OK for the most part, if a little broad. This film is a milestone though, in that an endless series of frat house and college movies that came after this owe it a huge debt. "},{"Title":"it's a sad sad world","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's kinda terrifying to imagine that people considered this shambolic affair as funny in the late 70s. Or even worse, that there might be still people out there, who think that this is the high point of humor. I like all this screwball stuff from the forties and fifties and I even like some college films but this here is just plain predictable or boring. Unless, well, unless you think it's hilarious watching John Belushi stuffing food into his gob in a contrived disgusting fashion. Or wait for this The rebellious crew goes on this road trip. Why and where doesn't matter, it didn't seem to matter to the script writer, so why should it matter to you. Only, they take a car they're not supposed to take and the chubby nerd is concerned that they will get into trouble if someone notices and the next ten minutes the film relies on constant bumping into other cars for laughs. It's not so much that it insults my intelligence, brain went to sleep during the opening credits, but the timing is all wrong, the characters so stereotyped, the is not one original idea here as far as I can remember. But then, I've forgotten all about the rest because it was so fracking unmemorable. "},{"Title":"Animal House 6/10","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Paint me surprised and color me unimpressed, the classic slob romp Animal House didn't bowl me over like it should have. Instead of having streaming, nonstop laughs, it's just a broad, grossout comedy that at times can be funny, but is usually more fun. I was expecting more of a Vacation feel to it.Some of the characters in this broad comedy include Pinto (Tom Hulce) and Flounder (Stephen Furst), new recruits into the worst fraternity at Faber College, the Delta House. They are mild-mannered people, with Bluto (John Belushi) as the ringleader. Dean Vernon Wormer (John Vernon) wants to expel everyone at the Delta House for their rambunctious actions. Donald Sutherland comes in as a pot-smoking teacher.Sometimes I laughed, but mostly I smiled and had fun. Although I couldn't call it a hilarious comedy, and it's overrated, it is fun to watch. Its crude acts led to a new genre of movies the teenage sex comedy. Belushi was funny and gross, but the muckruck of characters made it not as likeable. How this is considered a classic, I don't know.My rating 6/10Rated R for language, sexuality, and drug use. "},{"Title":"This is simply terrible, like every comedy time has not treated it well","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film may have been a true classic in the late 70's when it was made but comedy is very fickle and what was funny then is seldom funny now. What was considered distasteful, grotesque or disturbing but funny back in those days now seems very cheesy and distinctly unfunny as the comedies of today have raised the bar far beyond Animal House.The problem with this movie is that every scene is either not acted enough or far over-acted by John Belushi. These problems still are in today's movies but this was a successful movie while those with similarly poor acting and cheesy portrayals of college life languish with straight-to-DVD releases and are considered poor by all.This may have started the sex-comedies of today but as I said earlier time has not treated it well as almost every comedy with this sort of premise really requires knowledge of the time it is set in, which I did not have. Admittedly, though that may of helped me find some scenes funny, the acting in this film made lines that should of worked not work and the movie almost screams for a laugh track as it would be appropriate, given the wooden dialogue and sitcom-like over-acting and premises.Time has moved on and good comedies of today are in a far superior league not just because of the acting shown but because they either choose to embrace the cheesiness or wackiness of their story and do things that people in the 70's wouldn't imagine seeing at M and R16 comedies, which Animal House tries to do but fails as the wacky, disturbing stuff was done far more tastefully.Other comedies focus on realism and are funny because you can imagine yourself in a situation not too far away from the one the characters find themselves in and the jokes they make are a lot like the ones you and your friends make.In short, Animal House may have been revolutionary in the 70's but an audience watching it today would expect far more from a movie so highly acclaimed. What they get is something that can be found on a straight-to-DVD release in any video store, with the same hammy over-acting or under-acting and a similarly stupid plot. "},{"Title":"It's a DAMN funny movie!","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let's admit the truth about Animal House.  It's pretty much a b-movie. The dialoque is very stupid. The story is pretty simple. The corny Us-vs-Authority idea is used a million times. The direction is very horrible (don't really blame Landis for this - and I think Landis is a great director as evident by An American Werewolf in London -  because the studio made him rushed the project.)  It's full of cliches.  The film seems to made for TV if not for the swearing and sex.  It's really a stretched-out version of a Saturday Night Live skit.Having said this, I saw Animal House close to ten times and I can't stop laughing each time. It's in my tope ten favorite comedies.The genius of Animal House is that it intended to a b-movie type of film. Nothing is taken seriously.  The casting is excellent and the comic timing of all the performances are very great.I understand since there have been so many imitators the film might seem very outdated. However, please see the film as it as if you were back in 1978. "},{"Title":"The Frat Pack","Date":"22 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal House is set in a college which is comprised of various fraternities. However, the narrative focuses mainly on the 'Delta' fraternity which consists of a bunch of undisciplined, loutish youths who seem more concerned with throwing wild parties and in causing mischief. Fed up with the Delta Fraternity consistently underachieving, college principal Dean Vernon-Wormer (John Vernon) appoints the college dean Greg Marmalard (James Daughton) to watch every move that the Delta Fraternity makes and Wormer warns those in the Delta Fraternity that if their grades don't improve and if there are any more infractions of the rules then they will be kicked off the campus. However, the Delta Fraternity don't take this lying down and decide to fight back against their principal.To my knowledge, Animal House was the first in a long line of teen sex comedies so it deserves acknowledgement for being original and influential at the very least. Whilst, Animal House is a funny film, I'll admit that it wasn't anywhere near as funny as I was both hoping and expecting. The humour is generally of a slapstick or a farcical nature and I'd probably say 90 odd percent of the humour is visual jokes. This humour acts as both a blessing and a curse; it's a blessing because the visual jokes work and they are funny, but it's a curse as well because it is a cheap and lazy way of getting laughs. I honestly can't remember one funny line from this film that was actually uttered from any of the characters. Some of the best comedies will have dialogue driven humour and visual humour and because this film only contains the latter it is a little bit disappointing.It's also surprising watching this today how tame it actually is in comparison to films of a similar nature that have followed such as American Pie, Sex Drive, Road Trip etc. It might have been classed as risqué and gross out when it was made, but I found it surprisingly ordinary in comparison to later films of the same genre. This isn't meant as a criticism, but merely an observation. In some ways, it's good as it showed that films can still be funny without being over the top with vulgarity. That's not to say there's no smut at all because there is, but to me the smut didn't over power the story and I felt that the balance was just about right.What really saves this film are the performances from many of the actors - notably from Furst, Belushi and Vernon. Furst is a particularly talented actor who sadly never seemed to really hit the big time which is a shame - his performance in this film was nothing short of outstanding. Likewise, the late great John Belushi also puts in a memorable performance as the main trouble-maker of the Delta Fraternity (such a shame that he was taken from us at such a young age). Finally, Vernon's performance as the principal at breaking point will also stick in your mind long after the credits have finished rolling - he doesn't get much screen time, but he makes damn good use of the time that he's given.Animal House is a film that is funny and is worth checking out. It isn't ROFL funny, but there are enough laughs along the way to make it worth checking out. If, like me, you're from the American Pie generation then it's worth checking this film out - more than anything so that you can see where it all began. "},{"Title":"The king of sophomoric comedies,if you are into them.","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You have to have a certain kind of humor to consider this a great comedy film.I understand that I'm probably in the minority if I stop short of calling this film a great comedy,but I just don't have that certain humor.There were a few moments in the film where I found myself chuckling a bit,but the other moments were loaded with vulgar language and blatant sexuality that I must say I am getting a bit long in the tooth for.I suppose I should have watched it when I was younger,at say 18-21,then I guess it's possible I would give it higher marks.If you are into this kind of humor,go for it.It is considered the best of it's kind,after all.If you are more like me,I would steer clear. "},{"Title":"Whish I was born in 1950s","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You really cannot say if this movie is a failure or a masterpiece. Each generation has its own parameters. I enjoyed the movie but I did not get any messages. Maybe because I'm living in 21st century.My problem is that I don't feel that I belong to my age but this movie couldn't take me to 1960s like other movies such as The Graduate or Midnight Cowboy. Maybe this movie is a bit ahead of 1960s (remember it was made in 1978).Anyway, I don't complain, I don't admire and I'm not in a situation to criticize...Enjoyable, watchable and acceptable...No more explanation... "},{"Title":"Still the best","Date":"26 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Probably watched this movie more than any other movie in my viewing life. Still funny as heck. Its on cable allot lately, so when nothing is on, I can always watch this and get constant laughs like usual. Its the best comedy, bar none. Sorry folks who like the newer stupid comedies that flood the movie screens nowadays, but this is the Casablanca of comedies. So many classic one liners and just funny scenes, too hard to go through them all. From the top party of all time in TV history (yes, the Toga Party) to the fat drunk and stupid line from good old Dean Wormer, its truly a classic. Every actor in this movie is perfect. No bad performances. Even Bluto saying to himself, wtf, and poring a jar of mustard on himself for no apparent reason is funny. I continue to see new funny stuff every time i watch this. This last time around, I found another classic scene. In the beginning, Just as D-Day blast the door open with is motorcycle, look for a guy standing next to the door. He gets totally blasted against the wall as D-day drives up the stairs. Funny stuff. When I was younger, this was the movie my friends played in college or at summer houses and parties. It truly is the (how to party for dummies) movie for sure..... "},{"Title":"Pharp!","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK, here I go farting into people's eclairs again I expected better. Considering that Animal House is widely considered a cult classic, I simply didn't find it that funny. While there were many amusing scenes, none of them were laugh-out-loud funny, a lot of the humour was too sophomoric for my taste, the development too weak and hectic. Not a patch on, say, Blues Brothers. Then I watched the movie again, followed the action more closely, and liked it better. I have read somewhere that when Donald Sutherland was offered a one-time payment or a stake in the movie he opted for the former, and I can still sympathize with him, but I can also see why some worship this movie. "}{"Title":"A great comedy film","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i got this film on DVD at hmv,3 for £20 on dvds and its hilarious. John Belushi is well funny as bluto,bluto is really i guese you could say a party animal. its about a 1962 College, Dean Vernon Wormer is determined to expel the Delta House Fraternity, but those at the delta house have other plans for him. this is a much better film than American pie and I'm pretty surprised it got away with a 15+ because its a pretty rude filmRuntime 109 min rated 15+ for Nudity, Adult Situations, Adult Languagegood quoteBluto See if you can guess what I am now? ........I'm a ZIT! Get it? "},{"Title":"It's a classic! BEWARE OF SPOILERS!!!","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's always great to see this movie, but ya gotta see the version that's not edited for time and content! There are a whole pile of scenes and parts of scenes that don't get shown on regular TV. You should really watch it on a movie channel or rent it/buy it. It's a classic. John Belushi is incredible. What these guys will do for a good time will crack you up over and over. It's like the two extreme ends of the college spectrum of the gung-ho frat versus the party-animals frat.Warning if you're extremely right-wing, you might not like this movie, because even though it doesn't exactly make the party animals look good, it definitely makes the gung-hoes look funny.  "},{"Title":"TOGA! TOGA! TOGA!","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this comedy masterpiece had it all in 1978... and it has it all in 2004.....A rebel frathouse that did exactly as it pleased and thumbed it's nose at the rules....Bluto did NOT Flounder...And the Future Senator snagged his beautiful blushing Bride and carried her away into the sunset.... O we thought  John Belushi was immortal and would not die... But March5, 1982 was such a black  day in the history of Entertainment....With the exception ofthe Blues Brothers.. this is Belushi at his Finest.....You WILLlive forever John.. You Will....  "},{"Title":"You have got to have the right sense of humor to appreciate this film.","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You have got to have the right sense of humor to appreciate this film. For some people, this film comes across as almost crude and vulgar. This is the beauty of the film though; many critics fail to realize this. 'Animal House' contains obscene events that society would probably condemn but many people forget that it is only a film, aimed to entertain. The scene in the cafeteria with John is probably one of the funniest moments, when he impersonates a zit with an egg. The horse having a heart attack is amusing in a warped kind of way but does not fail to provoke laughter amongst many of the audience. A suitable film for many students or as mentioned above, those who can appreciate different kinds of humor.  "},{"Title":"You can take your thumb out of my ass any time now Carmine.","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a wonderful slice of 'americana'. Animal House is one of my favourite comedies. It's beautifully crafted & the musical score is good enough to stand alone. I always feel the music is the backbone of a movie and Bernstein is simply a genius. All the actors put in excellent performances and seem to have a genuine affection for their roles. There's also a loving sense of the pre-Vietnam innocence in this film and the 'mood of the time' is captured perfectly - with one exception. Donald Sutherland's ageing pot-smoking hippy is out of place; but that isn't a criticism. On the contrary, the character is so daft it just adds to the flavour. I guess you could say Faber College is the university we all wish we'd attended. It's a shame that Tim Matheson and Peter Riegert haven't (yet) become stars, though I live in hope. Matheson in particular simply oozes talent. I won't delve into the plot details (as this is a comedy) but rest assured it's fluid, highly developed and extremely funny throughout. I just wish John Belushi could've lived to see what a cult movie this has become. I'd highly recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Neidermeyer...DEAD!!","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm certainly not going to shed any new light an ANIMAL HOUSE...I saw it 25 years ago when it came out, and it's held up over umpteen viewings since.  It's just 109 minutes of damn good fun. I recently watched a TV special plugging the new DVD, and it certainly brought back all the good memories again, and showed what can be right about comedy.  It was interesting to note that this movie grossed about 35 times its budget, and all the suits at Universal thought it was going to be a stiff.  It just goes to show that a little creativity will always win the public over vs. all the marketing overkill we get today when movies are released.    "},{"Title":"Greg, honey, is it suppose to be this soft?","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie should be a prerequisite for all incoming college students.  I saw it numerous times in school but had not seen the un-edited version to watch until I picked up the new Double Secret Probation DVD last week.  My sides still hurt this morning from watching this (twice) over the weekend.Consider the fact that the cast is composed of then-unknowns, save for Belushi and Sutherland.  Also consider that John Landis had just one camera, a budget of less than a few million, and less than a month to film the entire movie.  It certainly doesn't stand up as one of the greatest movies ever made, but the characters connect with many of us who went to school with people just like these guys (one of my friends was almost a mirror image of Otter in appearance and attitude).  Plus, if you aren't laughing at the over-the-top action then you are either dead or take yourself too seriously and why the hell would you watch a movie entitled Animal House? "},{"Title":"You may not like this first viewing!","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first this when it came out I was slightly repelled by the then shocking gross-outs. I have since watched this many times, you get to know and love all the characters, you get to notice a lot of the little jokes. These were the innocent days pre-Vietnam. I must go and buy the DVD, gotta see it again!! "},{"Title":"Amusing but...","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pretty ok flick, amusing...worth a few laughs. Didnt really strike me as a great comedy, as some have rated. Good music, ok acting, interesting and did keep me seated through it - though the humor might seem somewhat infantile at times.Nice movie to watch during the rainy day or with a few friends.Sit down, relax and enjoy, dont stick a pencil in your neck and try to analyze this one.3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Gross-out! Truly Gross-Out!","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So, this inspired the American Pie movies and I respect this genre!The story is straight and the slapstick is marvelous! The comedy is created so vastly in this piece of epic cinema that you might laugh at times! Surely, you won't hold your stomach stiff! Because if you watch it in this decade (2010-2020) or further, you might not enjoy. But shift your mindset to the 60s or 70s and blast, you WILL enjoy this!A juxtaposition of love, college, sex and teenage fantasies - NLAH is classic!Can be watched with a typical Indian family? NOLanguage Couple of deep meaning expletives/foul words Sex Loads of foreplay, no intercourse Nudity A lot, mainly women frontal exposed in more than ten scenes, male buttocks can be seen at times Violence NoFor more ; bit.ly/TEJAS "}{"Title":"Ladies and Gentlemen, I'll be brief...","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" To put it simply, this was a great movie. Even though this movie has had 32 years of college movies following it, none of them have been able to show the greatness from the original genius behind Animal House. The fact is, that none of the movies today achieve the greatness that this movie has. Most people my age (teenagers) usually like to hang around the new material and do not have any such intellectual curiosity that would lead to discovering the classics. People take too much interest in stupid movies to realize that there simply are better movies around. It's almost sad that no one appreciates movies from the 70s, because that's where the true genius behind college films is it - Animal House. It is, has been, and always will be the best frat movie, period. "},{"Title":"Widely Considered the Greatest Comedy","Date":"25 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Delta House at Faber College is on probation, and move to double secret probation. Dean Vernon Wormer is out to get them... but they aren't willing to disappear without having a little fun.This film has been voted as the greatest comedy of all time by many distinguished people. I don't know. It was good, sure, but didn't really make me laugh and i have little desire to see it again. I can't say it was bad, but it wasn't like the greatest, either.John Belushi is funny, but was funniest at his most quiet. The zit joke isn't funny, but piling food on his tray was. D-Day was cool, but Flounder and Pinto were pretty lame for being the main characters... it was really only Otter that saved this film. He should have had an even bigger role.I am glad I have finally seen this film... it took me almost thirty years to get around to it. Now it's one more I can check off the list. "},{"Title":"Basically, It Stinks","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hollywood is full of imaginations. It has shown us the romance of Human, Horses, Dogs and many other. And now, it has now taken the case of frats and the love in them. Yet another hit by Landis Studios.. This story is about a frat named Delta House Fraternity, the last frat left on the campus as the whole frat is shifted in society. The time is 1962 AD, hence it is clear that Human has developed a lot and devastated the campus completely. John Belushi remains in the frat house and cleans up all the junk, feeling lonely in the whole campus.Too many big names associated with this project. Apart from the mammoth star-cast, please pay attention to the three intellectual pool of writers contributing to the ahem... broth. The answer lies somewhere in between Brainstorming exercise gone haywire or paradigm shift went overboard.The last 15-minutes takes a complete mickey out of the audience. Whoever came up with it let me assure you it was a monkeys idea. The only part which deserved better writing was the way the lead characters meet and start to like each other which I would safely say is a minor aberration which can be ignored.Animal House is a remake of Malayalam movie which was sequel to Hera Pheri. As usual John Landis and his team customised the recipe to suit the palette. Needless to say, moving the story-base to the Americas, capturing the English summer and yet not losing sight of the plot has translated into a decent show. And for those who are crying foul, never forget that everything Hitler did in Germany was legal... then. "},{"Title":"Classic Comedy, perfect casting, great script","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved everything about this movie except for the 'primitive cultures' racist comment about blacks. Other than that deficiency, I thought it was extremely well done. The perfect casting of characters is what I think is the most notable achievement. "},{"Title":"TOGA! TOGA! TOGA!","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Even a more-so strait laced college student like myself can enjoy a movie like this.  Toga parties, pranks, and Belushi downing a bottle of JD. It's great stuff.Go watch it, or I will eat your children. "},{"Title":"one of the most quotable of recent comedies","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... to witWell, we could fight them with conventional weapons... but that could take years and cost millions of lives.  No, what's needed is a totally FUTILE and STUPID GESTURE.And we're just the guys to do it. "},{"Title":"The whole concept of College Movies is alien to us Brits........","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not surprising then that Animal House fails to strike much of a chord.Undeniably some of it is funny in the enough already raised hands kind of way,but there is no frame of reference for us to fit it in.We don't have fraternities with Greek names and initiation ceremonies we don't have Athletic Scholarships (quite possibly why we rarely succeed on the track),Toga Parties or any of the other peculiarly American phenomena that College Life entails.To see these things satirised on screen is only funny when you are familiar with the original. The late Mr John Belushi was blessed with a certain manic energy which he uses to good effect,otherwise the movie is very much an ensemble piece.It is aimed mainly at an audience who remain 15 years old at heart - a wonderful place to be if you can manage it. Connoisseurs of bad taste will love the scene in the Parade where one of the girls in the convoy is wearing a suit identical to Jackie Kennedy's in Dallas on 22nd November 1963.Clearly for Mr Landis nothing was sacred. "},{"Title":"Before Political Correction killed school boy fun","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The last of its kind; underrated as a great American movie, and now is as antiquated, and dated - Like 3-D or any film that has fun with sex, race, drinking and being young in 1962. Political Correction killed any idea of making a movie close to this one today. Wonderfully foolish, fast script and smells like a fraternity, along with the hormones - If you cannot have a great time on this beauty, you have no pulse; The Best of the lot, and the first to follow `too many to name' rip-offs that would come after. No Citizen Kane, but you will remember this one all your life  "},{"Title":"delta house is the worst fraternity on campus!","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest movie of all time.  It boasts an ensemble cast (John Belushi....) and an excellent finale.  A must see. "},{"Title":"meh.","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    Maybe it's the curse of too much hype, but this movie did not live up to everything I had heard about it.  I rented it last night because I felt un-American having not seen it yet, and now having seen it, I still feel un-American.  What is it about this movie that makes it so extraordinary?  Indeed it was perhaps the first of a very popular line of bad teen comedies, but that should not make people feel like they have to like it.  That being said, I must say that it was not an entirely bad movie.  I laughed now and then, I sensed a certain bond with the characters on screen in front of me, but I never felt like I was watching something all that special.  It was a movie about stereotypes, and it was only when the characters did something that surprised me that I laughed.  Needless to say, I did not find a drunk John Belushi breaking bottles on his head to be that funny.  There is no out-of-this world acting, scripting, or directing.  The low-down - see it because everyone expects you to, but don't expect an epic.  Expect a mediocre comedy. "}{"Title":"Hijinks With No Story - And It's Really Not That Funny!","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One has to give credit - if that's the right word - to those who put together this movie for having essentially launched an entire genre of what would come to be known as stoner movies - movies with little plot that feature a bunch of uncontrolled and uncontrollable young people engaging in a variety of sophomoric hijinks, with a lot of half-naked young women thrown into the mix. Animal House was the first. It's a series of hijinks held together very loosely by an almost non-existent story about the members of a college fraternity of losers who are the targets of the Dean's attempt to get them kicked out of school. The cast (featuring a group of actors who would become better known, such as Tom Hulce and Kevin Bacon among others) did an OK job, and John Vernon as Dean Vernon Wormer offered a perfectly dead-pan serious turn in the role. My problem with this movie (and many disagree with me) is that I really didn't find it particularly funny. It has a few humorous lines (the Negroes stole our dates after the gang unintentionally marches into a black night club; did we quit when the Germans bombed Pearl Harbor? after the guys were kicked out) but frankly it's mainly nonsense, which might be a compliment, because that's clearly what the writers and producers were going for. My other problem with it is that at almost 2 hours it goes on far too long for this kind of movie. Simply put, it didn't do very much for me. 2/10 "},{"Title":"It's the Music, Much More Than The Madness","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm not surprised that people are divided on this movie. Some say it's a cult classic, others say that it's massively over-rated. My take on ANIMAL HOUSE is that it's a movie that has to be understood in terms of the times -- not 1962, when the movie was set, but 1979, when the movie came out I believe that the music, much more than the comedy, is what caused the film to become a sensational hit.If you were in high school in the Seventies, forced to listen to gutless, spineless, empty album oriented rock like Fleetwood Mack and the Eagles, it was a staggering revelation to watch fraternity boys from just fifteen years ago partying to songs like Louie Louie by the Kingsmen. Still more shocking was the performance of Shout by Otis Day and the Knights. Try to imagine hearing that song for the first time if you were a kid who thought rock meant Stevie Nicks whining and warbling about crystal visions and Don Henley rasping listless, creepy nonsense about some dance to remember, some dance to forget. The movie itself, as a movie, is rather episodic, and uneven. Some bits work, some don't. Belushi is sometimes screamingly funny, like when he smashes the folk singer's guitar with a casual sorry. But again, notice how the real point is music -- Belushi is sacred in the movie only because he responds to this music like no one else. He's like a holy fool. He is the one who senses that folk music is a pointless dead end in pop culture. On the other hand, when Shout is going on he literally writhes in ecstasy on the floor. The shocking thing is that, for millions of teens at the time, this was not a melodramatic stunt -- he really captures what it feels like to hear that kind of rock and roll for the first time.ANIMAL HOUSE is not really a great comedy. But in some ways it is the greatest rock and roll movie ever made -- miles ahead of gutless swill like Cameron Crowe's ALMOST FAMOUS. "},{"Title":"least funny film i've ever seen","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" the plot is just a series of ill thought out strands strung together, the humour is non existent, the only time i laughed was when the girl pronounced i'm only 13, this was not out of humour but discomfort. The jokes are all clichéd and even when i heard them for the first time (in marginally better films) they weren't funny.The open premise is unbelievably shaky with the two prospective pledgers being rejected from the frat they spend the rest of the film in without this decision being changed (the speech made is booed off and his claims of entitlement through his brother immediately rejected) The frat is shut down for the toga party then shut down again for poor grades directly after the pointless one stop road trip without being reopened.To summarise base, humourless, a low point in John Belushi's career though a highlight in the National Lampoons saga. "},{"Title":"what a waste of time","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"16 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" terrible, terrible movie. it's not even funny, or even clever. this movie makes revenge of the nerds look like a masterpiece, and porky's ingenious. (the latter two are movies i actually LIKE). but this, this is an insult to the whole genre. i really don't understand how anyone calls this movie a classic. i'd say the most clever part of the whole movie is the courtroom scene and even then, it's pushing it. and the genius of belushi? good god, where? he was a crass, raving lunatic in this movie. hardly what i'd call comedy. and the rest of the cast, not funny at all. their so-called star lineup? cmon. kevin bacon played a minor role at that. so did donald sutherland. hardly the role i'd expect to see him in after an amazing performance like in Mash. ugh. there goes 1 hr and 49 min of my life i'll never get back. "},{"Title":"Funny movie, but no plot","Date":"17 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the things I like about a good comedy is if the jokes can be consistent with some sort of a plot. Many comedies are just the protagonist getting in plenty of wacky situations, but the movie has no real direction. Animal House is one of these comedies. It has some of the funniest moments I have ever seen on a movie screen, but throughout the movie several different plot lines are introduced and none of them are tied up. Two boys go to a frat to get accepted, but we don't really know if they were accepted in the end by the people there. The entire fraternity is in danger of getting kicked out of school, but instead of sticking it to the man, they just decide to give the dean no choice but to kick them off campus. To me these plots do not make a good movie, and I would give it at best a 7.8. "},{"Title":"The good and the bad","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The good Very good comic lines. Great line from Donald Sutherland was This is my job. I am paid to do this. Just moments before Sutherland ask his class about Dante's Divine Comedy (and what Satan represents). There is dead silence, indicating that in 1962, students were already apathetic. When Belushi says We didn't give up when the Germans bombed Pear Harbor. Matheson says Germans?. Riegert says Forget it. He's on a roll. When the blimp and the geek arrive at the snob frat, Kevin Bacon is hilarious when he is introduced to them. It is a memorable look of disgust. I also liked when Tim Matheson is giving a speech in front of the student council and Stephen Furst, I believe, says He's majoring in pre-law. Someone says out loud I thought he was in pre-med. Matheson says Pre-med, pre-law. What's the difference?. It is also funny that the completely crazy Blutarsky (Belushi) later becomes a U.S. Senator. There are so many classic lines in this movie. It is very entertaining and funny. The bad Sends a rather immoral message. It's supposed to be funny that the students are lazy, drinking all the time, and flunking their classes. That's not the point of a college education. The snobs are portrayed as almost completely lacking of anything redeeming. I don't find it funny that they mock Greg Marmalard's chastity. What's funny about that? Slight racial bias It isn't the end of the World, but I was a little taken aback by the scene at the black bar. This gave into the myth that whites should be afraid of the situation. What did they really have to be afraid of? Most likely, in real life the black patrons would have been afraid of starting an incident that would bring the police. This was 1962, after all. In addition, the parade scene where the black and white hand separate didn't make any sense, and wasn't explained. All in all, it was a funny film. I think though that it created a myth that college was about having fun, not for studying. "},{"Title":"No plot! No plot!... I mean... Toga! Toga!","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As far as comedies set in college go, this one is quotable, smart, funny, and basically can't be topped (especially not by such dreck as Van Wilder or PCU). However, my suggestion to you is to look past all the heavy drinking, togas, nudity, and road trips, and come to the realization that this movie basically has no plot. Preppy-uptight fraternity vs. sloppy,-relaxed,-and-lovin'-it fraternity. That's all it is. Now hit reverse back to the beer and togas. Animal House succeeds at capturing the party spirit of college, and John Belushi as Bluto Blutarski is the one at the wheel guzzling that bottle of Jack Daniel's. When the film's not a Belushi tour de force, John Vernon as Dean Wormer provides an excellent Skeletor of a villain. My favorite scene is the trial of the Delta House, when Otter (Tim Matheson) takes order and punts it like a truly maniacal lawyer, all the while backed by his brothers. Animal House may not be quite at the level the hype has taken it, but it is debatably the best movie created from the crazies at Nation Lampoon (Vacation and Christmas Vacation make it too close to call). Plus Belushi rocks. "},{"Title":"DROP AND GIVE ME 20!","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't understand some of the comments here...how can anyone not find this funny? Is it an age thing? I was in my teens when this film came out and it is as funny now as it was then. My wife still pees herself at the scene when the Dean has the Mayor in his office, with the dead horse legs up in the air in the background. My personal favourite is at the Delta freshmen party when Flounder asks these serious looking dudes you guys playing cards. Fantastic. Closely followed by Dean Warner...are they? Well from now on they are on double secret probation. Although Bluto is indeed excellent I still give the prize to the Dean - every scene he is in is tremendous.I have introduced my kids - aged 5 and 7 - to this film and THEY LOVE IT!!  "},{"Title":"Funny but less funny as we grow up","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought Animal House was the funniest movie I had ever seen, at the time I saw it, however. And I still like to watch it but I have a hard time watching it from credit to credit. Highlights for me Tim Matheson's courtroom (fraternity on trial) scene; the brief glimpse of a pretty girl's bosom in the car outside the bar; the scene with Pinto and the drunk girl; the dead horse; driving golf balls into the soup; I only wish that Karen Allen had a nude scene. So while I think this was a great movie, the older you get the less funny it becomes. I was 23 or so (and in my sixth year of college, yuk, yuk) when it came out. The real genius behind the screenplay was Chris Miller, who not only wrote some great stuff for National Lampoon magazine but also was the man behind the Coo-Coo for Cocoa Puffs slogan.  "},{"Title":"funny, but overrated","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie obviously has some very funny moments, but it is one of the most overrated movies of all time.  First of all, it is an extremely unrealistic portrayal of life in a college.  I couldn't help but roll my eyes at some of the ridiculous scenes (the ladder-window scene, smoking reefer with professors).  Second of all, it is most certainly not Belushi's best film--see the Blues Brothers for that.  Thirdly, it is not the funniest comedy of its era--hands down, that would be Airplane.  And lastly, it is not the funniest college movie; no, I'm not thinking of PCU, I'm referring to Higher Learning, a movie with so much unintentional laughter, I nearly wet my pants.  Anyway, if you must see it because of the hype, go ahead, but you'll get an unmistakable feeling of disappointment if you do. "}{"Title":"Ho-Hum","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember renting this when it was first out and I was still a spotty teenager. Now over 25 years later I have recently cleared out my company's video library and I thought I'd give it another go. I seem to recall it was a lot funnier the first time around, but as I sat there, supping a brew-ski as a middle-aged, but young at heart, single again guy, it hit me that I had hardly even chuckled at this classic college movie. It wasn't that the acting was bad even though several of the cast went on to greater things (Belushi R.I.P.), or even that I knew the story line, lame though it was, it just wasn't the laugh a minute I recalled from my youth. Ah well, on to the next movie. "},{"Title":"Stuff I Learned At Faber College","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" * A golf ball makes a yummy crunchy sound like a giant Rice Krispie when you bite into it.* The Germans didn't really bomb Pearl Harbor.* When you peep through the windows of a sorority house, you cannot be seen by women undressing inside, not even when you bang the ladder you stand on against the house to move in for a better look.* A bullet fired into a bottle from a few feet away will disintegrate upon contact, rather than passing through and injuring fleeing bystanders. This is true, I checked with the Warren Commission.* Fat, drunk, and stupid is no way to go through life, son. However, it doesn't keep Flounder from scoring a really hot toga party date.* Blacks are fun people as long as you don't wander into one of their bars.* Hey Paula sounds really good on pot.* A movie that employs lewd sex jokes, celebrates idiocy and acts of random meanness, loosely ties together unrelated comic episodes like a food fight and a vandalized parade with only a vague attempt at a plot, and ruthlessly attacks the upper class will be celebrated as a sine qua non cool classic, even by members of the upper class who would never give a Delta an even break in real life.* Writing a cool movie theme song (Animal House) was no ticket to immortality for Stephen Bishop. However, co-starring in the greatest five seconds of John Belushi's movie career was.* When a devil and an angel fight for your soul, listening to the angel means you are probably gay.* When wooing the dean's wife to bed, a toga with a tie is an irresistible combination.* Being a preppy automatically subjects you to numerous sexual deficiencies.* Jack Daniels can be chugged like Gatorade if you are in a lousy mood and need cheering up.* Roommates at all-women colleges don't show each other pictures of their boyfriends.* Animal House is a pretty fun way to spend 90-plus minutes despite its limitations, and I find myself watching it more often than I care to admit. "},{"Title":"Dormed for Life","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" (Special Note This is a delayed review from a movie I recently saw, albeit many months ago. Without notes, these are my recollections to the best of my ability. If you were to speak to me about this particular movie, I bet I could elaborate even more. Mercifully, for most of my review's general lengths, this is going to be short, sweet & to the point&#x85;Cheers.)It took me until (several months ago) to finally see the classic Animal House. I never really wanted to; it looked enormously dated &#x96; and I'm not referring to the fact it was a product of the 70s set in the 60s &#x96; and John Belushi looked utterly disgusting in the clips and trailers I've watched. Egad, was I shocked when I did like the movie, but more so for John. I LOVED his character and him. (It helped, I had a slight crush on him, but beyond that, I thought this was a comic genius whose life was cut way too short. Yeah, I'm waaaaaaaaay late to the game, but still. I'm right, no?) It's an all-over the place frat-house mishaps movie, but still somewhat fun with a fantastic finale and even better future whereabouts for the characters that hopefully warded off unnecessary sequels. It's worth a watch if just for John. "},{"Title":"Often amusing, but seldom witty - thus overrated","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Names like Reitman and Ramis are quality marks for certain comedies, which are all watchable, most of them are funny as well. But I have to admit, that Animal House has less great moments than e.g. Ghostbusters. Acting seems exaggerated and I tend to like supporting performances (Bacon, Sutherland) more than the main cast, incl. Belushi. Well, I have read that many then and present stars like Aykroyd or Chase turned down the main roles offered to them... Moreover, topics like harassment/beating, destroying property, heavy drinking, playing with food are not universally funny, even if performed by good actors and with reason. And sexuality issues were often repeated, but they were striking first time only.At least additional point for soundtrack, which is well selected. As for the movie, it is probably recommended to fraternity members and those fond of comedies full of kicking-and-falling elements. "},{"Title":"Parade Scene","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As with so many ground-breaking films, many of the basic scenic ideas are not so. Fraternal shenanigans, grand efforts at effecting mass enthusiasm at the expense of somewhat less enthusiast partners, harried social shake-out shenanigans wrought with downtime spiraling late-onset beat-down for-betcha-c'Mona&geisha calamity... Finally, culminating parade scene gloriously snagged from Mazursky's earlier film Alex in Wonderland from 1970 featuring Donald Sutherland. Cleavage partitioning, loss-leader partisan cadre with a hard-headed demonstrative clam-baked nonsensical intuitive, stripping all that is from college. "},{"Title":"Animal University","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Until 'Blues Brothers', Landis was a director without focus.  He resembled a writer too focused on short stories to care about the bigger image.  This movie gets its humor the same way the Zucker brothers and Mel Brooks get their humor--simple gags, often reliant on stereotypes.Unfortunately, Landis' work since 'Brothers' hasn't had the same writing quality.Animal House takes too much time wallowing in its own stupidity that it never makes itself worthwhile.  Here is something that deserved to be on Saturday Night Live, not the big screen.  Belushi creates a totally superficial character with his usual look at me attitude.  He too got it right the next time around.Since there is no serious intent for the humor, we can say this is an empty comedy.  The worst part is that its success has made this sort of film the norm.  So much for funny...Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"Totally Preposterious!","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     What in the world is so funny about slobbish fraternity brothers anyway?  The only part in this movie that I thought was funny was the Toga party.  I think this movie has spawned a lot of the rude and crude humor of what is now popular today.     I'm sorry, and no offense but I did not find anything else funny about this pathetic celluloid piece of trash.  Heck, I've seen more humor in Ernest P. Worrel flims!  In conclusion, Animal House, at least in my opinion is completely unfunny!  Please sit this one out, because it's a must-miss!  Go rent a Monty Python movie instead.  I give Animal House no stars! "},{"Title":"Overrated and hardly funny","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was 14 years old when this film came out, and everyone was telling me how hilarious it was. I refused to watch it on TV because I knew it would be heavily edited. So in college I bought my first VCR and rented this classic for the first time expecting to LOL from beginning to end...boy was I disappointed. I was stunned---THIS is some hysterically funny movie I just HAD to see!? I laughed TWICE in this entire piece of overrated crap! Sorry, but gross-out humor may be funny to junior high students, but not to me. And yes, I have laughed at silly films like Airplane, Naked Gun, and Fast Times at Ridgemont High. So I can appreciate silly movies--but damn, they have to have something besides cheap bathroom humor to make them funny. I don't laugh when 12-year-olds try to be funny with gross-out humor, and I find it even more insulting to my intelligence when so-called adults behave that way. Then again, Belushi's drug-induced idiocy must've convinced himself and others that this banality was actually comical! A 2 out of 10--AT BEST! "},{"Title":"This is a classic?","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After hearing all the hype about the classic comedy Animal House I figured it was time to watch this movie and see for myself. Well, if you like unlikable characters and unfunny comedy then this is your kind of movie. It makes Revenge of the Nerds seem like a masterpiece.In fact, Nerds was funnier, had a better plot and more likable characters.Even the nude scenes in Revenge of the Nerds were handled better, so to speak.Animal House? Vastly overrated.Here is some filler so it meets IMDb's quota. I guess I should criticize more of Animal House, if that's what IMDb wants. "},{"Title":"Really? a classic? thats a joke right?","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" firstly i am not a fan of the genre of teen sex comedies. i perhaps wasn't informed about this movie, i thought it would be just a funny old school screwball comedy. boy was a wrong. i think its just the stupid perverted side of Hollywood. i feel bad that harold ramis aka Egon has anything to do with this crap, since i love most of the other films hes written or been attached too, especially ghostbusters. sure teens do think about sex because its a natural part of growing up and discovering your own sexuality, but wow i mean WOW they make having sex sound like its no big deal in these films! perhaps to these jaded filmmakers, but not to the whole country. and guess what, this film started it all. i guess thats why i decided to pick on this film instead of all the other gross out films that came after it. perhaps it was successful because there hadnt been many movies like this yet, and it was probably looked at as one of a kind (until now). this is like the granddaddy of sex comedies, or as i like to call, soft porn Hollywood style. from this one retarded brainless flick we got a whole 3 decades worth of similarly retarded brainless flicks like the American Pie movies, Fast time at Ridgmont High, Porky's, Revenge of the Nerds and the countless other asinine so-called comedies that were unleashed upon the public in its wake. first off there may be college ppl out there who love to party but this movie does things that i heavily doubt ever happen in real life. its too ridiculous. first off i hate college culture, heck i hate the whole school culture of today, which is why i was happy to finally get out of high school and simply take night classes to get my certification in nutritional health. i am still working towards that. college, as in regular living-in-dorms college, is overrated and ridiculous. you don't really learn anything and the kids are obnoxious. now you can see why i hate college. this movie just intensified that hatred. every minute of watching this dreck made me thankful that i decided not to go the typical college route and avoid people like this. i guess i shouldn't blame the movie SO much as it knew what it was trying to be, as vulgar and gross as it was. but if it was supposed to have a point other then being stupid, then it failed. Jim Belushi isn't funny. thats a fact. even in blues brothers, it was Dan akkroyd who was funny. not the fat one. no wonder he died. he probably couldn't handle the fact that people seemed to only think he was funny cuz he was fat. i wouldn't want to be him. same with Chris Farley. i would have given up all the fame and money and be fit and healthy (not to mention ALIVE) instead of be a fat tub of goop, trying your hardest to look ugly beyond all hell and made out to look like a retarded idiot in films. poor guys. i pity them. and its hard to watch there movies for that reason to, aside from the fact they are not funny but just gross.in the end, this is a genre of movies that if wiped off the face of the earth in a big fire, the earth would benefit from it for we wouldn't have to see such useless pointless garbage ever again. "}{"Title":"Boring, unfunny, then and now","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"17 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember when the SNL was the rage, and people were required to watch it to be acceptable in society, and to laugh whether they thought it was funny or not. AT least SNL had some slightly humorous bits. This movie, which featured a very talented comic John Belushi), who was wasted in bits of boredom like this, was as boring then as it is now. Bravo rated this as the funniest movie of all time. But if you've never seen it, be forewarned, Bravo must have some underlying motives. You have to go into the movie determined to laugh at anything, and struggle to laugh. You have to be a great actor to laugh at this movie, or so drunk or stoned, you'll laugh at anything. It looks like something that never had a script, and was made by some teenagers who thought something sounded cool and funny, but never envisioned it. Belushi tries, and his talent is completely wasted here. Proof that a good comic isn't always a great judge of material. "},{"Title":"not that funny","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a college student, i keep hearing animal house references, and feel like i'm in the dark, so i went and saw the movie on showtime.  Well, i was really disappointed.  There was the occasional laugh here and there, but overall, i was not too entertained.  Comedy sure has made progress since then, but at the same time i was really shocked when one of the characters in the movie pulled out a dildo.  Hey, if you're gonna see it for anything, see it for the dildo.  I gave it a 5. "},{"Title":"tits and a'","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I gave Animal House 5, and that I did only because I can respect it for being the mother of the genre of idiotic teen comedies. Other than that the humor is badly dated, mostly because all comedies have the same jokes than Animal House.Jokes caused a couple of smirks, but I would be lying, if I'd say it caused hysterical laughter in me. I didn't like the over all writing either and found jokes to be badly arranged. Verbal comedy works as poorly as the visual.Animal House is typical Landis film, with long winded, unnecessary scenes, which won't take film anywhere. He's always been an average director, who hasn't succeed in altering his style. "},{"Title":"just not that funny","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  well, i go to a university that has plenty of frats and ive seen plenty of examples of frat guys and frat parties, and i can see some of the guys ive seen around modeled in this movie, so that was somewhat entertaining.  i laughed a few times during the movie, and that about sums it up.  this is just no where near a classic comedy.  its not a must see for college students.  i agree with an earlier comment by a user who said comedy sure has come a long way and im glad for it. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Lousy film but, in a way, a classic","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  1962 Faber College.  A fraternity (Delta House) has for years tormented Dean Wormer (John Vernon) by trashing his campus and wrecking havoc with really sick, immature behavior.  He finally decides to do everything he can to close them down, but they won't go out without a fight...This was a HUGE hit in 1978 (and a hit again when it was rereleased in 1980). I never understood why.  The jokes are lame and the humor was, for its time, pretty risque.  Nowadays it's pretty tame (for an R-rated film).  Also I saw it in a theatre in 1978 when I was in high school--I didn't laugh once.  Seeing it again over 20 years later it's even worse.  But, this was the first film of its type (the slobs vs. the snobs) and lead to many VERY bad imitators.  Compared to those this IS a classic.  But still not good.It has some good things in it.  It's amusing to see then unknown Kevin Bacon so young; Peter Riegert and Karen Allen make a very appealing couple (but their dramatic back story is dull); John Vernon is excellent, and very funny, as Dean Wormer; Tim Matheson is also very good--he nicely underplays his role (and flashes his butt briefly); this made John Belushi a star (he IS funny--sometimes); there's great direction by John Landis (especially during the Shout number); there's a bombastic Elmer Bernstein score that helps and seeing Tom Hulce and Stephen Furst so young is incredible.BUT that doesn't excuse the lousy script; horrible jokes; the sexism; the racism; Donald Sutherland's pointless and lousy performance and the fact that this film is DULL!!!!!!I'm giving it a 4...and I'm BEING generous!  "},{"Title":"A very overrated movie!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is very overrated by some critics, and other people. All this movie is about is sex, and beer, and more beer. Not really a plot. I just couldn't get into this movie the way some people did. I like movies with beer, and sex, but has to be entertaining at the same time, un-like Animal House. I give this movie ** out of ****  "},{"Title":"One of the worst comedy movie ever made","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is not funny. I can't believe people think this is funny. It is just awful and badly written. It is like most comedy movie a little sick. It is a poorly made film. It is pooh pooh. Stinky pooh pooh. It can be created for staring a line up of bad comedy movie about collage kids. None of which are good. But none of which are as bad as this junk. I think only reason this movie is so popular is because there are naked pretty girls in it. The awful hummer in this can make up for it believe me. Harold R.a.m.i.s could write a good movie if he wanted to. He did write some good movies. This is not one of them. The movie is pooh pooh. "},{"Title":"Predictable and heavy handed but you could do worse","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The film is not without it's charms (not least the titties) but many of the jokes can be seen a mile away (peeping tom falls off a ladder, inexperienced youth has trouble unhooking girl's bra etc) and is full of stereotypes that are funny or irritating depending on your mood (the deranged one, the inexperienced one, the lothario, the fat one, the heels that suck upto authority etc). I probably wouldn't want to watch this again unless I was very drunk. For a hilarious take on American college life I suggest you watch The Simpsons episode 'Homer Goes To College', which despite being only a fraction of the length of this film, has about 500 times more laughs. "},{"Title":"I Walked Out On This One When I First Saw It","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"16 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I attended this film first in 1978 when I was a College sophomore, and immediately recognized the plot and incidents portrayed as an eight page comic strip which I read in a late '60s issue of National Lampoon Magazine. I wondered how the film-makers would elaborate on a short comic book entry to make a feature length film? The answer was that they would expand the satiric brevity of the original written piece into an overblown gross-fest of unrestrained gags that gagged, and unrestrained actors (Belushi in particular) whose mannerisms and actions totally disconnected with what I would find humorous. It may be that I have a problem with my sense of humor, but, found myself embarrassed by the activities on-screen, and insulted by the film-makers that they would think that this was entertaining. When the boys left the (under-aged, drunk, and date-raped) girl in the grocery cart, framed exactly as I remember the comic strip drawn, I had had enough and left the theater. My teenage sons rented this one recently, and I tried again to watch it, but found that I could tolerate it even less now than I could when I was a sophomore with a sophomoric sense of humor. 0 out 10...my most hated film of all time. "},{"Title":"Funny FIlm, Hardly a Classic.","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved Animal House. I still do. It is far more comical then banal nonsense like like Seinfeld, that ignoramus Jim Carry, or whoever that jerk is who made those Spy Shagging things (whatever that losers name is). They may have made money-but not comedy. I would go so far as to say that a good fun comedy has not been made in 25 years. As such, I pity the younger film goers. What do they have to compare current comedies to? Generational arrogance and narcissism will not allow them to watch a film made at an earlier time-God forbid-and they must watch what their peers tell them to (Far be it have an original mind!). So, I loved Animal House simply because it is a comedy that is funny. You cannot have a comedy about nothing and enjoy it unless you have nothing inside. Animal House follows the rules. You have well defined characters who successfully engage in comical acts and get involved in comical events. They are funny because you know who the characters are and can relate them to the events and their own comical actions have reason, logical direction and are therefore funny. So, when Blutto gets a ladder and peeps into the girl's dormitory, we laugh not because he may be exploiting the girls (I figure someone is going to address that subject that way so I might as well do it first)or that we are exploiting them- laugh because by the time Blutto does this, we expect him to do something like this, we recognize this and we laugh. Thus, Animal House is a well made comedy that follows the rules of comedy in a contemporary sea of films made by people who are passed off as comedy makers but who are as funny as foot fungus. In that context, how could it seem to so many be as anything other but a classic? "}{"Title":"Mostly unfunny supposed classic comedy...","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  1st watched 6/10/2001 - 3 out of 10 (Dir-John Landis) Mostly unfunny supposed classic comedy that really only has a couple of scenes that are actually funny.  Belushi brings most of the laughs and one of them is in the in-famous  food fight scene where he mimics a zit  with a hard-boiled egg.  Other than this there really isn't very much in this movie that makes you laugh unless you enjoy degrading sick humor.  Also, the portrayal of women is very shallow and demeaning.  I realize that this is not the only movie that does this, but I think that it started a trend that was called the Teen Sex movie.  For this reason as well it's hard to give this movie much merit despite the fact that the AFI put this on it's list of TOP 100 comedies of all time.  I'm sorry but it just doesn't seem that funny to me. "},{"Title":"Horrible, the worst movie I have ever seen! Also Totally confusing!","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Probably the worst movie I have ever seen! The pranks and the background and the people in that movie are all horrible and lame! I didn't even understand what was going on! It was also confusing. Things were going way too fast! Totally stupid!  "},{"Title":"Kinda boring...","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Animal HOuse...belushi....considered a comedy classic, but in the end this movie was disappointing. The film had so much hype about it, that i just HAD to see it and see what all the commotion was about for myself. The movie's plot is present but in my opinion under developed. The antics that the Delta frat members engage in are in a nutshell....corny. when the film was released in the late 70s, the type of things that the movie showcases--hijinks and nudity was in fact daring, but now when viewed in 2006, the movie is just plain boring. the jokes made in the film are barely funny. nonetheless, if you want to see some 1960's styled women topless then watch this movie, that is all it is good for. "},{"Title":"Worse than Superman IV (and that was terrible)","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not only was the plot thin and dry (worse than that terrible excuse for a movie, Superman IV). The humour was as funny as being kicked in the teeth by a horse wearing spurs. At least it ended before comatose set in! It was certainly a contender for the top 10 worst movies of all time (and I have seen some bad movies!)The money would have been put to better use as a source of heat (by burning) for homeless people! (Cruel, but true) "}]