[{"Title":"Busey Delivers Big Time","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"40 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I always liked listening to Buddy Holly and felt a real loss when he was killed at a young age in an airplane crash. He wasn't in the old rock 'n roll class of , let's say, Chuck Berry or Jerry Lee Lewis, but he wasn't far behind. Who knows how big his legacy would have been had he sang for decades. Almost every single he put out was a hit.So, I was very pleasantly surprised how good a job Gary Busey did at playing him and at imitating his singing voice. He did Buddy proud, as were the actors (Don Stroud and Charles Martin Smith) who played Holly's backup group, The Crickets.Music-wise, there are some of Holly's better-known songs in the beginning of the film and its really good with a strong finish at the end as Holly and the boys are shown in Iowa in their last concert ever. Busey not only sings like Holly, he's a dead ringer for him in the looks department. Some thing was the actor''s best performance ever, and you get no argument from me.I'm also glad they ended the film on an upbeat note with that Iowa concert, instead of dwelling on his tragic accident. The ending could have been a real downer, but they didn't let it be. "},{"Title":"I was there!","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I was fortunate enough to be an extra in this movie when I was about 13 during the roller rink scenes. My junior high school drama class was invited to participate. It was a fantastic experience.Gary Busey, Charles Martin Smith and Don Stroud played the music live, all day! As a musician, I can appreciate the tireless work and dedication these guys put in to their roles. They must have played those songs 20 times. It's very difficult to maintain consistency and energy under those conditions. This is visible during a cut to a close-up on That'll Be the Day, but fortunately the unsuspecting public probably wouldn't have picked it up.Skating around all day, getting the day off from school and being transported back in time was a incredible thrill. I also had my first date on film. I had to walk a girl up to the ticket booth. Woo hoo! Even with an out-of-date haircut and hot lights melting the vaseline in my hair, it was still worth it. Fun stuff.The movie is top notch and is highly satisfying as a whole. Busey delivers his best role ever and the supporting cast is superb. I'm glad to have participated in a great film of the day. To think I could have been in Corvette Summer or something. Not.A funny ironic ending to this is that years later I was in a video store in Malibu looking at the movie the week it was released on video. Gary Busey walked in and stood right next to me. I showed him the cover and babbled on how great he was and how I was an extra and whatnot. Pretty weird, but very cool, for what it's worth. "},{"Title":"Busey's Best","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  At times, you forget that you are watching Gary Busey play Buddy Holly and start to think that you are really watching Buddy Holly! Besides the terrific acting, Busey is really singing and playing the guitar when on stage. The movie is made as real as a documentary. Like snap shots from his life, the Buddy Holly Story is just that, Buddy Holly's story. "},{"Title":"Great Busey Performance, Weak Everything Else","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" When Gary Busey got nominated for an Oscar for his performance in The Buddy Holly Story, alongside Robert DeNiro, Warren Beatty, Laurence Olivier, and winner Jon Voight, it turned a lot of heads and made people pay more attention when the film came out on video and cable. Seeing it then for the first time years ago, I was amazed by Busey's powerful dynamism, the way he lives through each moment of the film so authentically. The rest of the film was enjoyable, funny, perceptive, and made me feel like I really understood something about Buddy Holly.Watching it again years later, I still think Busey is terrific. But the rest of the film feels like a 1970s TV movie, with broad characterizations by the likes of Conrad Janis as a record exec. The Crickets are woefully portrayed, or perhaps a better word might be betrayed, given this shows them to be racist mediocrities who hold their buddy Buddy down. Even when the history isn't wrong, it feels wrong, like the scene of the Buffalo DJ who locks himself in his studio and plays That'll Be The Day non-stop until the police break down the door, helping launch the band.How'd get that dynamite sound? the actor playing the DJ asks, hamming it up.Well, there's a guitar, drums, a stand-up bass and a cricket, Buddy replies, meaning an insect got in the middle of the recording session and made some background noise.Wow, Buddy Holly and the Crickets! What a super name!There's some truth behind the anecdote, a cricket apparently did find its way into the studio and inspired the band's name, but it just feels too contrived. Same with Buddy's problems back home in Lubbock, Texas, where his girl wants him to shape up and go to college. The actress playing the girlfriend is cute and winsome, but she pouts like a sitcom actress and says her lines like she's auditioning to play Marsha Brady.But when the camera is on Busey as Holly, something takes over. He throws himself into every song with utter abandon, losing himself in Buddy's big glasses and pompadoured curls. It's not a note-perfect Buddy, but it encapsulates his spirit in a defining way. The only other actor who so dominated a film was George C. Scott in Patton.The fictionalized Crickets, only two instead of three, Don Stroud and Charles Martin Smith, are pretty terrific as backing musicians. I especially liked Stroud as Jesse the drummer, the way he cracks the skins and hammers the high hats with door-slamming authority. All the numbers are performed live, an unusual and brave choice by director Steve Rash that pays off brilliantly, capturing the raw vibrancy of straight-ahead rock 'n' roll.There's a great opening sequence, done with a swooping camera shot inside a roller rink to where Buddy and his band play some bop for the kiddies and scandalize the community. Just the way the band switches from the soporific Mockingbird Hill to the thumping Rock Around With Ollie Vee, with the audience reacting in comically but believably different ways (kids rushing the stage clapping their hands, adults rushing the exits clapping their ears) is a thrilling capsule commentary on what rock overcame to take over American culture. Also good are the period touches at the rink, like the malt bar, the roller skates, the sad fellow with the combover who plays rinkydink piano until someone taps him on the shoulders in mid-note.Also good is the Apollo Theater scene, where Buddy and the Crickets become the first white band to play in that Harlem venue, getting a hilariously cold reaction when the curtain goes up, then winning the crowd over. I sort of doubt it happened like that, but there's some funny exchanges with the theater manager, and it's nice seeing Stymie from Our Gang in an adult role, complete with his trademark derby.Basically, any scene where Buddy is performing is good, though his final performance at the Winter Dance Party in Clear Lake, Iowa, by which point he has become a solo act, is a little overdone, what with the over-the-top violins on True Love Ways and Ritchie Valens joining him on stage at the end with maracas.Meanwhile back home, the Crickets come over to Buddy's apartment, and after talking to Buddy's pregnant wife Maria Elena, decide to surprise Buddy at his next tour stop in Moorhead, Minnesota. Yeah, right. Of course Buddy won't be there, he and Ritchie and the Big Bopper having picked the wrong night to fly. All that's left is a freeze frame of Buddy and some sad music over the credits.We only had Buddy for 18 months, and this film, along with Don McLean's 1972 hit American Pie, gave him back to us in a small but tangible way. For that, and for Busey's breakout moment, it is worth treasuring, and there are some nice scenes here and there. But playing with the facts is no way to tell a legend's story, especially when it serves sitcom-caliber punch lines. It's a good movie, but the real story behind it is better. "},{"Title":"If this isn't the best rock and roll biopic ever made, it's at least the best one I've ever seen.","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The Buddy Holly Story opens on a shot of a yellow neon moon on the roof of a roller rink in 1956 Lubbock, Texas. As the credits start, the camera moves down from the moon to the parking lot, into the roller rink, past the concessions and across the rink to a small bandstand where a small band is doing their sound check. It's a tracking shot Welles and Scorcese would both appreciate. It cuts to Buddy Holly's bespectacled face peering down in rapt concentration as he grips the headphones and talks to a man putting this band on the radio. A young Gary Busey plays Buddy Holly and his performance is key. He has to somehow show the passion that Holly had for his music to make the film work. This is a rock and roll story without lines of coke chased with shots of heroin and a fifth of whiskey. This isn't about a man with several women to choose between in a sex scandalized, brood abandoned lusty tragedy. This is a film about a nice Texas boy who respected his parents and went to church and had the same girlfriend for 5 years and fell in love with rock and roll. Busey finds that spark and ignites it, his passion is clear and infectious. He really plays the guitar in the film and sings, its not overdubbed with Holly's recordings. Busey was a young guy in Hollywood in the seventies, a struggling actor and as much or more so a struggling rock musician as well. Thus, he gives a great performance, because although he isn't Buddy Holly, he's in a similar situation. His first song is the old Les Paul classic, Mockingbird Hill and he has the country twang to nail it. Next a kid calls out for some bop, and against his two band mates (in reality the Crickets were 3 guys, but the down-sizing works fine for the film's limited narrative)he leads them wailing into Rocking with Ollie Vee. The kids love it and the parents hate it. The DJ at the rolling rink tapes it and it is later released in New York without Buddy Holly even knowing it was ever recorded. This leads to the funniest scene in a film filled with humorous moments. An amped-up disc jockey from Buffalo calls up Buddy at home. The DJ has been playing That'll be the Day for 12 hours and is going for 24. The cops are banging on the station's barricaded door. Holly is confused, but when the dust settles, he is quite thrilled. He tells the boys, and their meteoric rise begins. Dan Stroud as the drummer and Charles Martin Smith as the bassist round out the band nicely and have good chemistry with each other. There are problems but not overblown drama thats found in most rock (all?) biopics. The movie doesn't manipulate you either. Your emotions soar, but they're not manipulated. When the Crickets step onto the Apollo stage in Harlem, the first white group ever to play there, then rip into an electrically charged performance of Oh Boy and win the audience over, my rock and roll loving ass got choked up and cried. Next, Busey and the boys make It's so Easy sound funkier and more soulful than I would have believed possible. Anyone with even a cursory knowledge of Buddy Holly's story will know where this movie will end. Holly died in a plane crash with Richie Valens and the Big Bopper way too young. We, as the audience know that, yet the movie is so well written, directed and lovingly acted that we forget it almost immediately. The movie isn't about his death, it's about his life and his place in rock and roll history. The film ends with his last performance and it's a good fifteen minutes of Busey rocking out possessed by the ghost of Buddy Holly. I was happy to hear him end it on Not Fade Away, my favorite of his songs. The film freezes before the end credits with the information about the plane crash, but I hardly noticed it. I was still thinking about how good that last song was. "},{"Title":"So this is Buddy Holly!","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" What a great film! I never knew much about Buddy Holly, but was familiar with his lively and fun music. This is a wonderful biography of someone who helped change the music in the 1950's. Although I never cared for Gary Bussey, he was fabulous as Buddy Holly! I don't know how accurate the movie is, but assume at least for the most part it is accurate, which makes the movie all the more interesting. The music throughout the movie just adds the pizazz to this biography. I don't think I would change a thing in this film, it was all good! What a difference in the stars from the 50's to todays music stars. How can you compare someone like Buddy Holly to Justin Timberlake? or any of the other popular singers of this generation? "},{"Title":"set the standard","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This film set the standard for all rock biopics to follow. It accomplished this through the energetic performances of the leads, the steadiness of the camera-work (avoiding 'rock-video' clichés that were actually invented for the Beatles in their first two films), tight editing, and a non-judgmental presentation of the star as human being rather than symbol or god (or demon). Yes, there are minor holes in the plot, and incidental details that are a little unnecessary, and there will always be debate between families of those personally involved as to specifics. But the issue here, as in the much more recent I walk the Line or Carpenter's famed TV Elvis biopic of the same era, is whether the meaning of the performer's life, in its time and place, as a catalyst for fans' ideals and appreciation, is made manifest in the performance, and this is clearly the case here. We come away from this movie understanding not only how Buddy Holly became a star, but why. I don't see what else one could want from the film. "},{"Title":"The True Love Weighs scene is fantastic.","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  A fine film about the late great Buddy Holly. Watch it for no other reason than to see the scene where Buddy sings True Love Weighs.  Gary Busey did his own singing and that particular scene is fantastic. Overlook the various minor inaccuracies in this picture. "},{"Title":"Gary Busey Creates a Larger than Real Life Buddy Holly","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" If there is one reason to watch this movie, it's not for an accurate depiction of Buddy Holly's life and career; it's for Gary Busey's incredible portrayal of the lead character. Busey received a well deserved Best Actor Oscar nomination for his tour de force. The film is a docudrama that overstates and over-glorifies Holly's contribution to and achievements in the early Rock and Roll era. I guess John Lennon was joking when he said Before Elvis, there was nothing because anyone who watched this movie understands that nobody knew what they were doing before Good Ole Buddy emerged on the scene a few years later. And he did it all without a producer or even a band who believed in and supported him! But when you're in the same league as Motzart, anything's possible! That's what makes Busey's performance so remarkable; he is so convincing and compelling that you actually believe this is who Buddy Holly was. Busey succeeds in creating this charismatic and dynamic performer,leader and visionary who never existed to that extent. The final scene is case in point when Holly is bombastically leading Richie Valens and the Big Bopper on stage during the final concert; in reality it could have been the 4th co-headliner, Dion and Belmonts closing that show and Holly playing drums for them which he had to do often on that tour. But this movie is not about presentation of the hard facts, but a celebration of a man and his music, which Busey's performance along with all of Holly's best songs easily accomplishes. "},{"Title":"Not very factual, but the music rocks and so does Gary Busey","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I turned 13 when Elvis hit the big times in 1956 with his first RCA hit. A year later Buddy Holly stepped in to give the King some competition. One of Buddy's major talents, besides his unique singing style and his songwriting ability, is often downplayed. Buddy was also a skilled lead guitar player, developing a unique rockabilly style all his own on his Fender Strat. Gary Busey attempts to capture this aspect of Buddy's persona. There were other contemporary master guitar rockers of equal caliber, such as Chuck Berry, Carl Perkins, and Eddie Cochran, but Buddy's talent is often overlooked.As noted by others, Busey is the driving force behind the success of The Buddy Holly Story. Not only does the script play with the facts of Buddy's life, but it even interjects several anachronisms for the two years of Buddy's popularity, basically 1957-1959. One that comes to mind is the scene where Buddy and Maria are watching a 3-D movie. Buddy is disenchanted with it all and tells Maria that it'll never last. It's just a fad. In reality there were no 3-D movies in circulation at the time. The heyday for 3-D was in the early 1950's. By 1955 the fad had already faded. Yet another example where just a little research would have sufficed to make the story more believable.At times it is difficult to separate what really happened from urban legends surrounding Buddy's career. The story about how the Crickets got their name may or may not be apocryphal, but it certainly did not take place the way it is presented in the movie. Another problem with the film is how Buddy's parents are depicted. Certainly Buddy's parents were supportive of his musical career. Maybe Baby is credited to Buddy's mother and she did have input into the writing of the song.It's good that Buddy's biggest hits were used in the movie, but I miss hearing one of my favorites, I'm Looking For Someone to Love. I'm proud that as a result of this movie, Buddy's music was reissued for a new generation to hear. His legacy is one of the very best from the early days of rock 'n' roll. Rave on, Buddy, rave on. "}{"Title":"WELL-MADE BIOPIC WITH GREAT TURN BY GARY BUSEY!","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Gary Busey's best performance in a nicely-flowing biography. Since had a musical background, he was able to do his own songs and it really works. It's always good to see that fine actor, Don Stroud (one of the crickets) and Charlie Martin Smith as well.An 8 out of 10. Best performance = Gary Busey. Thankfully, Mr. Busey was Oscar-nominated for this, losing to Jon Voight in COMING HOME. A fairly low-budget flick that doesn't disappoint, with GREAT SONGS by Mr. Holly. I hope this made plenty of dough. Busey was never this popular again for varying reasons, but thankfully he has this one great one on his resume. "},{"Title":"Buddy Deserved Better","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've got to say it.  Gary Busey saved this film.  If it were not for his fine acting talents this film would have been sub par.  I recommend the film but just barely.The biggest difficulty with the film is its broad disregard for historical, geographical and physical accuracy.  For example, why is Lubbock green and hilly?  How come Buddy's producer Petty ignored?  Where are the daily trips to the Clovis, New Mexico studio?  Why is Nashville treated as a racist hate camp out to destroy the Holly sound?  Why was Buddy's two week courtship to Maria treated as a complex, taboo, race mixing stereotype?  Why are Buddy's tile boxes as light as feathers?  Finally, why are the Crickets portrayed as trouble making roadblocks to Holly's talent?Taken on their face these inaccuracies should spell doom for any film proclaiming itself, The Buddy Holly Story.  However, Busey does deliver a stirring portrayal as the man whose death eventually led to the day the music died.  "},{"Title":"A good introduction to Buddy Holly","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" It would be unwise to judge that that either narrative or documentary to be more authentic than the other. Both formats have an underlying form of fiction and are never a true reflection of reality as producers seek to reconstruct and narrate stories in their perspectives. As both formats usually leaves some issues undiscussed due to 'complexities of subplots' and screen time, it denies viewers the opportunity to open up debates and to further investigate and construct the real truth. Adding to the viewer's inability to evaluate sources (eg comparisons with written history) and the logics behind arguments, history may be open to distortion through narrative and documentary.To most people, documentary may be seen more truthful as it usually involves actual participants' testimonies and real-life footages. However, these visuals are selected and edited, to be arranged in a way that allows producers to present their version of realism to the viewers. In The Real Buddy Holly Story, Paul McCartney seeks to establish the Buddy Holly as remembered by family and friends and how Buddy had influence the rest of the music world. The testimonies may have been distorted as memories may not be accurate and emotions have evolved to make a legend out of Buddy. The documentary did make corrections to the film version and cover other events, such as there were 3 members of Crickets and that Buddy's music was actually heard outside of USA at that time (he had to embark on a world tour!). However, it did not go into deep discussion about what happened to Buddy's wife after his death. Criticism and/or negative discussions may have been left out of the documentary as the producers seek to present a Buddy that the world should have remembered. Eventually, we don't manage to construct the whole truth as we only restrict ourselves to the past 'realties' that the documentary tells us.Personally, I prefer a narrative film because it provides rich visual imageries, which helps us to reconnect with the collective memory of that era. It gives the audiences a more constructive structure of the story, and this leads to better memory retention for the audiences when they retell the story. There is also an element of flexibility which allows film-makers to express their thoughts and views on certain issues. In The Buddy Holly Story, racial issues were highlighted and viewers can certainly relate to these issues with respect to current situations.Movie-goers consistently seek to revisit certain emotions when watching a film, and using these emotions, audiences can choose to make personal connections with the applied meanings that a film-maker wants to deliver. In most stories, people are more likely to selectively remember the struggles, the inspirations and the way the story ends. Through The Buddy Holly Story, we do remember the struggles Buddy and the Crickets had, how Maria had been a source of encouragement, and that Buddy Holly was a great performer until the day he dies. "},{"Title":"A good movie that I recall vividly.","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I first saw The Buddy Holly Story when I was about seven years old.  I had no idea who Buddy Holly was, nor can I remember what it was that made me sit down in front of the television, tuned in to HBO, and watch this engaging biopic.  What I remember was realizing that it was a (somewhat) true story, about someone who actually lived.  I recall the music, great songs that I still love today (I can't believe Gary Busey sang his own songs and so well - What a stud!) Then, came the end.  He died.  He freaking died.  I couldn't believe it.  I had no warning, no prior knowledge like most coming into this film.  It taught me a harsh lesson about life and how it doesn't follow the rules that most movies teach us. I just watched the film again tonight and was engaged all over again... and a little saddened.8 out of 10, but I'll admit to a little bias. "},{"Title":"An amazing transformation occurs...","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I've always been a Gary Busey fan since I saw him playing crazed villains in the likes of UNDER SIEGE and LETHAL WEAPON. The guy screams entertainment value, and it's tough to resist his manic charms. So I decided to go back to the beginning, and catch up with a role that helped make his name as Buddy Holly in THE BUDDY HOLLY STORY, a biopic exploring the tragic rock 'n roll star's rise to fame.It's a thoroughly engaging little movie with a definite 1970s vibe to it, in that actors are given the opportunity to act without flashy direction or editing or special effects getting in the way. Busey dyes his hair black, dons the horn-rimmed glasses and is good to go. Nothing more is needed than that.The story that plays out is never less than interesting and usually more besides. Of course, there are musical numbers popping up throughout and Busey makes these his own; it feels like it's the kind of role an actor was born to play. That alone would make THE BUDDY HOLLY STORY a decent film, but the strength of the supporting players (mainly Charles Martin Smith and Don Stroud) and the involving storyline are the icing on the cake. "},{"Title":"Not Fade Away.","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The Buddy Holly Story. Is one of the best Rock N Roll bio pictures out there. That said there really is a lot of Hollywood nonsense in there. The film makers skipped important things and left a lot of people out such as Norman Petty. Petty Helped the Crickets get started out and he became their manager when That'll be the Day became a gold plated hit.But what this movie does capture is the feel of the era. Gary Busey is at his best playing Buddy Holly with a intensity that comes through quite naturally. A lot of People who Knew Holly swore Busey was channelling Holly's spirit.The music was well done and the acting is pretty good.But we all know how the story ends. This Movie gives us all clues into How the story began. And afterwards we all wonder what might've been. "},{"Title":"A really good, low budget Buddy Holly story.","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I was a teenager when Buddy Holly became popular, leading the charge into Rock 'N Roll. But I don't remember much about him, because I had not yet gotten into that type of music. I was mostly listening to Ray Charles, Bobby Vinton, and Dion.What I especially liked about this movie is that Gary Busey, who played Buddy Holly, did his own singing. In fact, what we see are the live recordings during filming. I don't recall how Buddy Holly really sounded, but I suspect Busey did a pretty good imitation.SPOILERS. The story is pretty well known. Holly and his friends, the Crickets, began making music in their garage in Lubbock, Texas. A tape gets into the hands of a NYC record executive and he presses a 45 rpm disk, that immediately becomes a hit. Holley only signs a contract if he is given full control to produce his own records. He gets taken with the pretty secretary Maria Elena from Puerto Rico, and marries her. Forced to go on tour during the winter, to promote his records, their bus breaks down, and the next day must charter a private plane. It crashed, Buddy Holly died, along with the Big Bopper and Richie Valens. Being a low budget movie, we don't see anything of the crash or the wreckage, the music and image of Holly just stops during a stage performance, and we read what happened. I think that is even a better way to end it. "},{"Title":"Rock On!","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Gary Busey did a splendid job playing the rock-n-roll legend Buddy Holly(1936-59). He does have a spitting image to the man. Being a garage band in the 50's is sure different from today's. Having a group of three is usually simple back in those days. I bet that Buddy Holly(Busey) was a much better musician than most of what I heard. Since he lived in Lubbock, Texas, it was only a quiet country town back then. His parents were Christians, though his mother was a strong supporter of her son's work. That's one of the reasons he didn't act like Elvis. He stuck to his kinder ways. That really makes him good! When he went to Tennessee, he saw how bad the producers were. They hated rock-n-roll, that turned Holly off big time. Getting used to the different atmosphere was a challenge to Holly and his friends. He got to tour with Sam Cooke, went to the famous Apollo, which the all-Afro-American audience quickly accepted them, I liked that! And Sam Cooke made sure Holly and his band got some service. That's what I call tolerance. It's sad that he, Ritchie Valens, and J.P. The Big Bopper Richardson had their music careers cut short by a plane crash in 1959, at least their memories will live on in our hearts. I don't what inaccuracies were in the movie, all I care is that Buddy Holly overcame the obstacles of music and politics in that time, and the music is nearly-perfect. For Gary Busey, he was perfect in the role, and making the music as well. GOD BLESS YOU GARY BUSEY! 5 STARS! "},{"Title":"A refreshing look at a rock 'n' roll pioneer.","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Buddy Holly was a pioneer and victim of the early days of rock 'n' roll. The young singer/songwriter from Lubbock, Texas left his mark on the template of modern music. Inspired by Elvis Presley, Holly would spend a lot of time fighting the system in order to get his rock-a-billy sound recorded. Before his untimely death, he was mixing lush strings with be-bop rhythms. Holly would take his place with Presley, Chuck Berry, Jerry Lee Lewis and Ricky Nelson as the voices of teenage angst.This easy to watch bio is not without flaws. Some situations, events, places and even names were not correct for various reasons. What makes this movie so believable is that Gary Busey did his own singing in the part of Holly. A well produced soundtrack became a multi-million seller.Busey was nominated for an Oscar. Other stars of note are Don Stroud, Conrad Janis, Charles Martin Smith and Maria Richwine. "},{"Title":"Rave On","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The movie has taken a little flack for playing fast and loose with the facts. But it will put you close to being in a time and place that no longer exist by getting to the *feeling*.As Keith Richards remarks in Paul McCartney's movie about Holly, there's some Buddy Holly in almost all rock made since his day. The tragedy that took him is dealt with gently, and the rest of the movie recreates the joy of a great music career and a joyful body of music.Gary Busey does a remarkable, energetic portrayal of Holly, and his performances hint that he really gets into the music. As a long-time Holly fan and rocker, so do I. "}{"Title":"Rock 'N' Roll Fable","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" One of the joys of The Buddy Holly Story is that it makes do with almost no budget and still delivers a delightful, music-filled two hours of entertainment. Forget the fact that the only historical accuracy in TBHS is that Holly was a musician and he died in a plane crash. From what I've read, the movie takes titanic liberties in an effort to portray Holly as a groundbreaking renegade rocker.But, who is really going to pitch much of a fit when you get to see Gary Busey give the performance of his career . . . and absolutely nail the part? Busey is so good, your perception of Buddy Holly will be of him and not the real guy from Lubbock, Texas (sort of the way most folks think of George C. Scott when they hear the name Patton).I watched this film for the umpteenth time a few weeks ago with my wife and daughter; I had tried unsuccessfully for two years to get them to try it. My daughter was entertained (although she seemed uncomfortable with the language) and my wife laughed out loud at the comedic aspects. They liked it because it was simple entertainment. I didn't weigh them down with the historical inaccuracies.And for me, it was two hours of rock 'n' roll.Enough said. "},{"Title":"That'll Be The Day - When I Die!","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"      A highly original young writer and performer of the 'new music' emerges in Lubbock, Texas in the late 1950's.  This self-confident young man takes his little band to Nashville and then on to New York as interest develops in his innovative and melodic brand of rock'n'roll.  He finds love and professional acclaim, but tragedy is about to strike ...    The Buddy Holly Story is a modest little film with unambitious production values.  It gives us the broad facts of Holly's short life, but it doesn't really deliver the man.  Gary Busey is fine in the title role, but the Buddy Holly that he offers isn't THE Buddy Holly.  The real one, as recalled from snippets of TV shows, was less athletic, less jeans-and-sneakers, with a more eccentrically professorial air about him.  The film ends on a freeze-frame, avoiding the expense of having to show the fatal crash, and this is symptomatic of this whole enterprise - it consistently shies away from the real deal.    We see Buddy in Lubbock in 1956, driving his daddy's beat-up pickup truck and playing live at the roller-rink.  Acoustic country music and saccharine harmony is what the sponsors want, but Buddy antagonises them by rocking the joint with stuff like Ollie B.  The pulpits of Lubbock fulminate against the 'jungle music' which is poisoning young minds (Richard Kennedy is great as the preacher).    Nashville beckons, but Buddy and the boys (Ray Bob and Jesse, played by Charles Martin Smith and Don Stroud) are deeply disillusioned by the conservative, redneck attitudes of the producers.  That'll Be The Day simply won't work with a pedal steel guitar backing.  Once more back home in Lubbock, the guys find that they have been fired by the radio station and have lost their slot at the roller-rink.     Whoever scouted locations for the film did a good job.  The scenes in and around Lubbock really do suggest that flat, unadorned 50's feel.    Buddy is now at a low ebb.  His parents are nagging him to find a 'proper' career, and his girlfriend is dragging him inexorably towards safe, non-musical domesticity.  The scene in which Buddy rejects her and her whole outlook is nicely done, the bus door closing on her and its mirror obscuring her face, as Buddy symbolically turns his back on provincial Texas.    Fame comes via a series of accidents.  A demo tape somehow gets played on the air, and Buddy's 'sound' creates a stir up north.  Somebody presses and releases a Buddy song as a record, and the record starts to sell.  The company will now have to sign this obscure Texan band.  The rest, as they say, is history.    An astonishingly self-assured 21-year-old, Buddy insists on retaining control of production.  he goes on to court and marry Maria with the same single-mindedness.  However, frictions are developing between Buddy and his band (now known as The Crickets).  Ray Bob and Jesse have never amounted to anything more than a couple of good ol' boys riding the New York gravy train for the time being, but anxious to get back to Lubbock.  Buddy, on the other hand, has put hicksville firmly and permanently behind him.  The Ed Sullivan Show is the catalyst which brings the conflict out in the open.    This sequence is the heart of the film.  Buddy relishes the glare of national network exposure, and he is changing as a man and as an artist.  The silence in the band's dressing-room after the show is electric.    Buddy is gravitating towards Maria and away from The Crickets, towards production and away from touring.  Just like Elvis in the same period, his musical identity is leaving behind the tight combo with upright bass and embracing a fuller, orchestrated sound.    The film closes with an extended concert scene featuring a medley of Holly hits, representing the final, fateful performance in Clear Lake, Iowa.      "},{"Title":"A great biopic.","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The Buddy Holly Story is a great biography with a super performance from Gary Busey. Busey did his own singing for this film and he does a great job. "},{"Title":"Something touched me deep inside ...","Date":"1 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Fate sometimes acts like a bitch, it takes one's life at the commencement of a promising career, making an immediate legend out of him. You pay the biggest price to become a star who'll never die &#x85; This is the fate of legends who can't afford to become old, to get civilized, to host TV shows or do concerts in Las Vegas, or simply remember the good old days &#x85; You die early to become immortal. Indeed, life is a bitch! The Buddy Holly Story is a movie about one of these legends that prematurely deserted our world, but whose style of music never ceased to appeal and influence coming generations  Buddy Holly, one of the most influential Rock and Roll pioneers. His career didn't last more than one year and half, yet he would change the face of music forever, inspiring many generation of singers, among them, The Beatles and Bob Dylan &#x85; he would even inspire one of the most touching and beautiful songs ever, Don McLean's famous eulogy about that tragic February day where the Music died &#x85; And I started mentioning the tragedy; because I'm sure everyone who watches the film has the accident in mind, anxiously waiting for it. The apprehension becomes sadness as we're absorbed by the character's charisma, his good-hearted nature and enthusiastic attitude. We're sad because we develop an obvious fondness for Buddy Holly, this tall nerdy guy whose physical appearance would fit more for an astrophysics student. He's fun and gentle, but undeniably talented and perfectly aware of this talent. Buddy has the little something sparkling behind his legendary horn-rimmed glasses, that outshines the band. And after his buddies left the group, I understood why the movie wasn't titled The Buddy Holly and the Crickets Story. HE is the legend.And this is the story of the legend. From his beginning in the ice skating station, to his confrontation with the racist Nashville music manager and the New York producer, we respect Buddy Holly, both the artist who knows his value and the man of principles who means business. This respect is stimulated by his incredible show in the iconic Apollo theater, where he handles a skeptical black audience with a nervousness repressed by humor, we didn't expect you either before giving a virtuoso performance that would launch his stardom. His whole life is lead by a dedication to his work, and an extraordinarily frenetic energy communicated during his concerts, while singing That'll be the Day or Rock Around with Ollie Vee. I don't think there was any moment my feet stopped following the rhythm, and while watching him swaying his hips and walking on his toes, I couldn't help but think that Elvis Presley's status owes something to Buddy's precocious death. And if his life is dedicated to music, his heart is for Maria Elena. The film is not just a chronicle on Rock and Roll music or a 50's time capsule, it's about a man whose convictions don't only affect his approach to music, but to love, too. The Buddy Holly Story is a poignant love story with a nice little humorous touch as in the scene where Buddy asks Maria's aunt if he can date her niece. Maria will inspire Buddy Holly's famous love songs including True Love Ways, Words of Love, becoming the heart of his music, before being forever known as the widowed bride. A sad destiny for a woman we wish she could have prevented Buddy from going on this doomed winter part tour, if she wasn't pregnant. Ironically, Buddy's commitment indirectly killed him, while he could have become an established and sedentary artist comfortably seated in a TV driven stardom. In a flash of realization, Buddy understood that his life was on stage.And all our admiration to Buddy relies on Gary Busey's extraordinary performance. I never thought the man I remembered as Mr. Joshua from Lethal Weapon and countless forgettable villainous roles, could blow me away like he did. But after watching Steve Rash's film, my respect for Busey increased, so did my sorrow to learn that his career may have been more successful if it wasn't for an accident the actor had in the 80's. When you pull such an authentic performance, I'm sure you can handle anything. A very well deserved Oscar nomination for a performance harder than Jamie Foxx in Ray because, there are many mimics, speech mannerisms or attitudes immediately indicative of Ray Charles while Busey had to resurrect Buddy giving him an unknown aura, a personality, likable and complex, and last but not least, he did the whole singing and dancing. It's a perfect example of a great performance carrying a whole film with a solid supporting cast. Though I wish, the movie gave more screen time to Ritchie Valens who deserved, like the Big Bopper, more than two seconds of him dancing with the maracas in the climactic singing scene.And what a climax, what a thrilling moment that conveys so many opposite feelings, a joyful and exhilarating sensation of freedom and an anticipated sadness, because we know these guys are living the last moments of their life. I was waiting for the scene in the plane but unconsciously I didn't want to see it, as it would have ended the movie in an extreme negative mood. So I was surprisingly satisfied with the ending of the film. Buddy shouts See you next year the image freezes and &#x85; the rest is Rock and Roll. An abrupt ending indeed, but conveying extremely well the brutality and the shock that was Buddy Holly and his companions' death.I kept staring at the image a long time contemplating that face that revolutionized music and incarnated an era of insouciance, &#x85; my eyes were meditating, and my heart was crying, as if something really touched me deep inside &#x85; "},{"Title":"Gary Busey kicked and rocked.  Great performance on a weak story.","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I loved the movie. It was one of those movies I could watch again and again. The performance rocked. The actors were great and the story was non-stop fun. However, as a bio-epic, well, the movie just wasn't cricket (as one reviewer from ROLLING STONE described the movie in 1978).For starters, the Baptist preacher did not make any indirect blasts from the pulpit at Buddy Holly nor were his parents ashamed of their wayward rock and roll rebel boy, as depicted in the movie. In fact, the pastor considered Buddy to be a talented musician and was not as hard core anti-rock and roll as many Baptist preachers tended to be.Buddy Holly's mother was musically inclined and even contributed her song writing skills to Buddy Holly's music. (She wrote Buddy's Song which was featured on the Fletwood Mac album KILN HOUSE).There were mountains in Lubbock, but no sign of Norman Petty.While the part where that mad DJ was playing that Buddy Holly record non-stop on a radio station in Buffalo, New York, didn't really happen, that part was based on an event that allegedly did take place in that city.In 1955, a DJ announced that he would play Rock Around the Clock by Bill Haley and his Comets, non-stop if listeners would beep their horns. So teenagers drove down to Lafeyette Square and started beeping their horns. This caused a traffic jam and more drivers stuck in the jam, also started beeping their horns and this publicity stunt caused a traffic jam that extended miles out in every direction until the police and fire department finally got to break down the door to the radio station. As a bio-epic, the movie falls very short of its mark. But as a rock and roll movie, this movie delivers. It was so much fun to watch that immediately afterwords, I raced over to the record store and bought the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Gary Busey makes a better Buddy Holly than Buddy Holly","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This film biography of early rock and roll star Buddy Holly (1936-1959) is a tour de force for Gary Busey. The movie's highlights are Busey's stage performances where he plays guitar and sings Holly songs. He brings such energy to the performances that Holly's own filmed performances almost pale in comparison. Busey's infectious toothy grin lights up the screen, he creates a totally believable and winning personality and his Oscar nomination for best actor was well deserved.The film follows Holly's career from growing up in Lubbock, Texas, to stardom and New York and his untimely death in a plane crash. One thing I found interesting, if true, was Buddy's driving ambition--he had great plans to go beyond recording and performance to producing. As young as he was he was already establishing himself as a shrewd businessman and definitely wanted to take things to a higher level. We will never know if he would have ultimately catapulted his early success into a business brand like The Rolling Stones.The lyrics of many of Holly's songs are pretty adolescent; read the lyrics for Peggy Sue or Oh Boy! and you will see what I mean. Maybe to a great extent this explains his popularity with adolescent audiences, but his instrumentation and stage performances surely account for his influence on groups to follow--both The Rolling Stones and The Beatles have acknowledged his importance.Clearly some liberties were taken for dramatic effect. For example, I doubt that Holly ever punched out a producer in Nashville or that the audience at New York's Apollo theater was so immediately responsive as to be wildly dancing in the aisles. If you are interested in getting closer to the truth, see the documentary The Real Buddy Holly Story (1985) that is produced and hosted by a very relaxed and engaging Paul McCartney. This contains interviews with Holly's family, friends, and band-mates (Holly's musical brothers are not even mentioned in The Buddy Holly Story). Members of other bands like Keith Richards and Don Everly also offer opinions and stories and there is footage of old Holly performances. The McCartney production can stand on its own, but it makes an excellent companion piece to The Buddy Holly Story and perhaps should be required viewing for anyone who watches the fictionalized story. "},{"Title":"Something is definitely wrong when all you can say is it's 'competent'","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Energetic but superficial musical-biography on the life and career of late-'50s rock & roll singer Buddy Holly, who eventually perished in an infamous plane crash. A triumph for a surprisingly-lean Gary Busey in the lead as Holly, quietly driven, focused and enigmatic, but the script by Robert Gitler is nothing more than a shallow examination of stardom, full of sub-plots that go no place and supporting characters who serve little purpose. Director Steve Rash helps create moments that pop--and he's a spirited filmmaker--but the second-half of the picture really falls off. Overall a decent film, and certainly competent (that dreaded word), but nothing to get excited about, and that's a shame. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Goof Section?  This entire movie is a goof!!","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie should have never never been made! It is an insult to Buddy Holly's memory and obviously not much thought or research went into it.The only, and I mean ONLY reason to watch this biopic (if you can call it that) is to watch the very talented Gary Busey as he actually sang and played all of Buddy's songs. It's a crying shame Gary didn't win the Oscar for his role in this film. If, like the trivia section for this film says, someone else had the rights to a Buddy Holly movie, they should've made it anyway after this came out to try redeem some of Buddy's memory. Hell, they had three movies for Amy Fisher, why not two for Buddy?I heard when Buddy's wife saw this movie, she ran out of the room in tears at the part of Gary singing True Love Ways. Gary saved this movie from being a complete and total waste. "},{"Title":"My Favourite Music Biopic.","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Rock and roll music was created by African-Americans, with Chuck Berry and Little Richard being the most notable. Then a little geek from Lubbock, Texas enters the scene named Charles Hardin that changed rock's sound for the better. Charles is best known as Buddy Holly and his back-up band was called The Crickets. Along with Ritchie Valens and the Big Bopper, Holly died in a plane crash just as his career was taking off. His life and career were short, but his music was not. Holly's legacy was continued through The Beatles, rock music's first great band. Without Buddy Holly, many musicians would not be who they are today. As Buddy Holly, Gary Busey is electrifying as he does a fantastic job and actually singing while playing instruments. I think that Gary Busey gave probably the best performance of 1978. The supporting cast was also great. I think that this is my favourite musical biopic because I totally love Buddy Holly. His music is played galore by a very, very convincing Gary Busey. But many did not like this, saying that there was little parallels to the real story. Sure it would be interesting to see a real Buddy Holly movie, but Hollywood changed it for dramatic purposes. After all, it might be boring if every little detail was not changed or modified. It's been over thirty years since this came out, so there might be a new one soon. But I guarantee this will be superior. "},{"Title":"Very good biopic of early rock 'n roll music talent","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Buddy Holly (Charles Hardin Holley) was one of those rare talents who seemed to have music running through his veins. He learned various musical instruments from his older brothers and played piano, guitar, violin, and banjo. He formed a trio in high school, The Crickets, and began composing and writing his own songs as a teenager. The Buddy Holly Story is a very good biopic of this young rock 'n roll star who died at age 22. Holly was on a winter tour when his bus broke down at Clear Lake, IA. He left the rest of his touring group to proceed with the bus when it was repaired, and he took off in a private plane after the concert to go to the next town. It crashed in a snowstorm shortly after take off. Hollywood license for this film mostly involves changes in dates when things happened and some other adjustments in Holly's life. But, it is a good portrayal of Holly's hit years when he was propelled into the spotlight. And, we hear a dozen of his best hit songs. For someone with such a short career &#x96; just three years, Holly had an incredible musical output. And a huge effect on the music profession. The Beatles supposedly chose their name in 1960 in honor of The Crickets. They and other rock stars and groups that followed said they were greatly influenced by Holly's music. The movie won an Oscar in 1978 for the best music, and received two more nominations including Gary Busey as best actor. Busey does a very good job playing the shy Holly who was driven to write and play music. According to the IMDb Web site, Busey and the rest of The Crickets cast, Don Stroud as Jesse and Charles Martin Smith as Ray Bob, played and sang the songs for the film. They did a good job, and this is a good movie that will have people tapping their feet or clapping their hands to the beat and tunes of Peggy Sue, That'll Be the Day, and others. "}{"Title":"Great music and a pretty good story","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a pretty straight forward biopic of rock pioneer Buddy Holly (Gary Busey) starting from as a young man in 1956 Lubbock, Texas. His high school sweetheart Cindy Lou and his parents want him to drop his music and get something steady. All the kids love his music but all the adults are up against it. Before he knows it, his tape gets sent to NYC and they start selling his music before they could even sign him. Then his song got played over and over again by a mad Buffalo DJ.This has a couple of good actors Don Stroud and Charles Martin Smith as well as the best performance ever from Gary Busey. He got nominated for his performance. It's pretty much by the book from director Steve Rash. There is nothing too fancy in the style. It's just great music. The story is simplified for dramatic effects. I doubt anybody really cares as long as the music is that rocking. "},{"Title":"Sweet, sweet, sweet!","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I think the most important thing about this flick is that it feels light and spontaneous. I love movies that remind us how heart overcomes budget limitations every time.As much as I enjoy movies, it's a little shocking to reflect on how rarely they stir my blood--and this one does. The danger was always there that the story would stray into treacle and hokum territory; yet the emotional tone rang true.This movie is a little treasure box of chaotic nuggets. It zings and zings again, in wild and unexpected ways. There will be a surprisingly trenchant line, then there will be an over-the-top characterization that somehow touches the heart, then there will be an extended scene of sullen depressed bleakness that invites you into its velvety folds, then mercifully fades to black.And then, probably the most important thing, the passionate and resonant performance scenes. If they'd failed, then perhaps the non-performance dialog might have come off as pretentious and laughable. It's the juxtaposition of stage fire and quotidian music biz slice-of-life that helps make the whole product gel. And, funny thought, perhaps that's a bit of a metaphor for something. Your call.I loved it, and if you like a straight up biopic, I think you'll love this too. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Good music, good fun.","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This is one of those movies where I just want to move my feet and dance around the house. It's a very positive and happy type of music. The movie has some sad parts but mostly the music is what makes me happy. Gary Busey did a great job as Buddy Holly. Buddy Holly kept on going even tho his pastor, his parents and the Nashville record producer told him no. Buddy Holly didn't give up on what he liked. I didn't know much about Buddy Holly until I watched this movie. I've been to the Surf Ballroom where he last played but didn't give much attention to it until I watched this movie. It's an incredible movie with lots of fun so get on your feet and see this movie. "},{"Title":"Don't kill that cricket. It's bad luck.","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" It occurred to me while the final scene of the movie froze to reveal the scant detail of Buddy Holly's death that there are still people alive today who were at that venue in Clearlake, Iowa who remember it vividly. That has to be a haunting memory, lent even more poignancy by the lyrics of American Pie, as it pays tribute to the day the music died. The world lost some tremendous talent that day, lives cut short way before their prime, and one can only wonder what might have been if the trio of musicians who perished that day had survived to create an even greater musical legacy.I watched the film today some thirty years after it's original theatrical release. Thirty years, I have some trouble wrapping my mind around that. I had forgotten a lot of it, while remembering some of the little things, like the cricket in the wall who became immortalized with the band's name. But most of all, I remember the music. It's hard just to sit there and not begin tapping to the beat of Oh Boy or That'll Be The Day, and one has to wonder just where the threat to our morals might have actually come from with those tunes. I'm with Buddy on that score at least, how could they be jungle rhythms if he came up with them? Funny how each successive decade brought it's own threat to the fabric of society - The Beatles, Motown, Disco and a whole host of other musical forms. We're still listening and dancing to the beat, so I guess they couldn't have been all that bad.There was another takeaway from the film I had forgotten about. This is where I learned to bang a phone on the table when the person on the other end wasn't seeing things my way. I've done that a number of times over the years, but by now had forgotten the source. Well, I should be good for another thirty years or so now.You certainly have to give Gary Busey credit for his portrayal of Buddy Holly. Seeing him today, one could never imagine him as the slimmed down rocker with the horn rimmed glasses, but it was a tour de force characterization and performance that earned Busey an Oscar nod. Don Stroud and Charles Martin Smith are competent as Buddy's band members, though their characters take a back seat to much of the story. I enjoyed the subtle ways that other musical legends were segued into the picture, names like Sam Cooke and King Curtis, without ever dwelling on their presence. I'll always be a fan and follower of music from the Fifties and Sixties - 'oldies' they call them now. I guess that makes me a bit of an oldie too, but you can't replace the experience of growing up with the music history that now makes it to the big screen. Which only goes to reinforce the idea that I'll keep on enjoying the music until, well, the day I die. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Considering it's basically low-budget cast, this is a surprisingly good flick about the life and death of rock pioneer Buddy Holly. Gary Busey stars as Holly, who was one of the first to use an electric guitar for pretty much all his music. Backed up by his Crickets, Holly had a string of hits and became a bona fide star before his death in a plane crash along with Richie Valens and The Big Bopper. The film follows his rise to stardom, marriage to his sweetheart and eventual death. I like this film and believe that you will too. Charles Martin Smith also does a great job in this film. "},{"Title":"Nice musical turn for Busey","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Long before he starred in those numerous macho action films likeLethal Weapon and Under Siege, Gary Busey played one of hismost significant roles in his acting career portraying the late,great rock and roll star Buddy Holly in The Buddy Holly Story.Here, it traces Holly's rock career and the formation of hispopular backing band the Crickets, which consisted of Don Stroudand Charles Martin Smith as the players. Not does Busey looklike the Lubbock, Texas rock star, he also sings like him, too.This proves that Busey didn't always play dirtbags or hotshots,like how most movie view "},{"Title":"Best movie about the day the music died","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Gary Busey is superb in this musical biography.  Great singing and excellent soundtrack.  The Buddy Holly Story is a much better movie than La Bamba. From reading other comments, there may be some historical inaccuracies. Regardless, it is a fun toe-tapping film, and a good introduction to Buddy Holly's music. "},{"Title":"Solid, Toe-Tapping Biopic Of A Classic And Influential Fifties Rocker","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Buddy Holly is a Texas kid from Lubbock in the fifties with a prodigious musical talent, who, along with his band The Crickets, wants to make a name for himself in showbiz. After a disappointing sojourn in Nashville, they travel to New York and hit it big after signing with Coral Records. However, the non-stop grind of recording, performing and promoting, along with Buddy's temperamental perfectionism, threaten to break up the group, while an unseen tragedy is not far away ...Charles Holley, aka Buddy Holly, was a musical genius; a geeky-looking kid with glasses from Texas who played the guitar, piano and violin, wrote and produced all his own music, had a string of hit records and tragically died in a freak plane crash (along with fellow rockers The Big Bopper and Ritchie Valens) at the appallingly tender age of 22. This biopic of him and his band is a touching, amusing, uplifting celebration of his life and legacy, with a fabulous performance by Busey in the lead. Like Kurt Russell in the TV-movie of Elvis, Busey doesn't physically resemble Holly, but it doesn't matter; he becomes him completely, immersing himself in the music and the man, and when he's performing Holly's material (which, along with drummer Stroud and bass-player Smith was done for real, without looping and with no other musicians) the movie really captures the magic of the man's music and the impact he must have had on audiences. Most biopics of musicians go for big dramatic scenes, but while those are here too (arguments with record execs, jealousy within the band, Buddy romancing his future wife) this film focuses much more on the music - it's filled with good-natured toe-tapping scenes like the gig at the New York Apollo (where The Crickets were among the first white acts ever to play), or the scene in the garage where they rehearse my own favourite of Holly's songs, Every Day. Musical director Joe Renzetti won an Oscar for his adaptation of Holly's fabulous songs, and the movie is a great document of a man who for me, along with Chuck Berry, was the most original, creative and influential member of the great fifties pioneers of rock and roll. "},{"Title":"The brightest star..","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  First, I'm a huge Buddy Holly fan. I grew up knowing who he was, and I knew all about that fateful plane ride that extinguished three incredibly bright flames just like that. But I had never truly listened to his music. I had heard much of it, yes, but not until I sat down with the intention of getting something out of it did I truly come to see the real Buddy Holly. And let me tell you that my world is a different one now because of him.Because of this adoration for such an incredible man, I bought The Buddy Holly Story without ever seeing it previously. I'm torn on my views of this film. Perhaps it's because Buddy feels so alive to me that I just couldn't bear seeing Gary Busey in this role. I'll admit that he did a nice job acting, but his singing sounded so forced. It seemed to me as if he knew he didn't sound a bit like Buddy himself and therefore was using far too much energy to make an attempt at a similar sound. In some parts of the film, he succeeded. But others.. ouch.The movie spanned a period of several years, but I feel that portraying this time span could have been handled much better. I had a difficult time distinguishing at what point in Buddy's life certain events were happening. I also had a serious problem with some of the historical inaccuracies. I think the worst one was the portrayal of the Crickets. I understand how their real names couldn't be used, and how for simplification there were only two of them in the movie.. and maybe this was a good thing. Because the film's background vocals were cringe-worthy, and I disliked the way they were portrayed as a hindrance to Buddy's career. Something else that really made no difference to the film but irked me was Gary Busey's teeth. They wore me out! Buddy Holly had much better teeth. I don't know why I noticed it.. but I did.I'll end this review on what I felt was the best part of the movie Buddy's last performance. His final phone call to Maria, the Big Bopper's performance, bringing him and Richie Valens to the stage, followed by the still frame ending. It startled even me, and I feel that it effectively shows the audience how at one moment Buddy Holly was so alive and energetic, and that his flame was snuffed out in the blink of an eye. It was a beautiful way to portray this horrible tragedy I think.Good movie, despite the obvious problems.. 7/10.Some obvious flaws, could use some work... but not bad.  "},{"Title":"Another Tragic Hollywood Portrayal","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" My goodness, why don't they just leave these great under-rated legends alone? It's amazing to me when they portray these humble hometown style musicians like Buddy Holley and Ritchie Valens and turn them into stardom seeking superstars! Or when they show a truck-driving blue collar worker named Elvis Presley showing up to Sun Studios already wearing a sequined striped shirt! What a farce they try to pull on John Q Public, and sadly get away with it! The worst part of the Holly story was that it seemed like the producers or Busey himself ever spent any real time listening to Holly's 45s. Just about every lyric was wrong and out of place, 2nd verses placed before first verses on such classics as Oh Boy and Maybe, Baby, it was truly pathetic.. The only interesting sidenote was that it reunited Stroud with Charle Martin Smith, who portrayed a pair of rapists on an earlier Streets of San Francisco episode, but other than that, don't waste your time.. "}{"Title":"Long live Buddy Holly!","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The Buddy Holly Story shows the famous singer's beginnings in the dunk Lubbock, Texas, to his rise to stardom, to his tragic death in a plane crash. Strengthened by the fact that Gary Busey, as Holly, plays his own instruments, this movie is the biopic in its purest form. There are some things that seem a little hackneyed, namely the people of Lubbock considering rock 'n' roll to be the devil's music, but the masterful performances outweigh any weaknesses. If there's only one thing that's for certain in this great big world of ours, it's that Buddy Holly's music will never get stale. Whether it's That'll Be the Day, Peggy Sue, or another one of his songs, they still sound great after all these years. He remains one of the greatest singers in history.Just to show what Lubbock really thought of their most famous son, they didn't name a street after him until 37 years after his death! What a bunch of ingrates! "},{"Title":"...Or How to Get Written Out of History","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Imagine if there were a film about George Harrison. John Lennon is written out completely, while the other two Beatles are named Fred Jones and Harry Smith. You think that's ridiculous? Well, that's exactly what this film has done.The poor Crickets are all but deleted. Guitarist (the late) Niki Sullivan is written out completely. And why change the names of the drummer and bassist to a pair of nonentities named Jesse and Ray-Bob, when everybody knows that the other two Crickets were named Jerry Allison and Joe Mauldin. It is an insult to three musicians who are/ respected everywhere they go. In reality, Sullivan did a lot of the work that Holly got credit for, Allison's drumming was very much the band's distinctive sound, and - missing from the film - Mauldin climbing over his instrument was an important part of their stage act.The group started in a small recording studio, and the producer helped write some of their earlier songs. Why all this nonsense about a racist record producer who tries to C & W Peggy Sue? And why does Buddy Holly keep calling a string bass a stand-up bass, when, at the time, the string bass was the normal bass in use, and the bass guitar was still something of a curiosity? On the plus side, the actors work well with the script, and I thought Gary Busey made a good Buddy.The problem with film-makers monkeying around with history is that you would be surprised at the number of dopes out there who will come out of the cinema thinking that this is what actually happened. "},{"Title":"Best Musical","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of the best movies ever.  Gary Busey was so good in it.  He sings just like Buddy Holly.  After this movie, I got to know what kind of actor Gary Busey and a great singer Buddy Holly.  This has a good plot. "},{"Title":"Full of talent and energy.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  After watching this I'm now somewhat a fan of both Buddy Holly and Gary Busey. I'm now glad my Dad has so many of Buddy's albums as I enjoyed the music as well as the performances from the cast. Holly had a short lived life but so much talent and energy. The film and Busey's wonderful characterisation proved that. I thought he would have been the last person to be picked for the part but I guess that's what being an actor is all about.  "},{"Title":"The short life of Buddy Holly","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie tells about a young man named Buddy Holly.It tells us the story how he rose to stardom.It all lasted too little time.The Buddy Holly Story is from 1978 and it's directed by Steve Rash.Gary Busey does very convincing work in the lead.And he can also sing! Great job by Don Stroud and Charles Martin Smith.They play his Crickets band mates Jesse Charles (based on Jerry Allison) and Ray Bob Simmons (based on Joe B. Mauldin).Maria Richwine is fantastic as Buddy's sweetheart Maria Elena Holly.William Jordan is very good as Riley Randolph.As is Conrad Janis as Ross Turner.Paul Mooney is terrific as Sam Cooke.Gailard Sartain is superb as Big Popper.This movie works dramatically.I liked the romantic plot of the movie.And the songs heard there were all killers! Like Oh, Boy, That'll Be the Day or Peggy Sue, such a few to mention.All those who dig the 1950's music just love this stuff.This is a great movie to honor the life and music of Buddy Holly. "},{"Title":"Buddy Holly's Story Rates ***","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Yes, Gary Busey did a first-rate job in emulating the late Buddy Holly in this 1978 biography of the tragic rock and roll singer. The film starts from his humble beginning in conservative Lubbock, Texas to his final performance, before a tragic plane crash claimed him and several other rockers in 1959.While Busey's job was more than adequate, did he really rate an Oscar nomination? Methinks not. Besides, musical biographies, other than Coal Miner's Daughter, never do well at Oscar time. Just think of I'll Cry Tomorrow, or Interrupted Melody, or Love Me Or Leave Me, as prime examples.The film deals with reverse discrimination which is interesting in itself. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw this (video 2000) years ago and would love to see it on DVD. A good film, but I would have loved it even more if it had included the legacy of The Beatles and The Hollies etc.I also don't know exactly how true the story is - were some changes made to dramatize the story? I was only 3 when Buddy crashed, and didn't wake up to his music until the late 70's. Much later I found out our family moved into our new house on - yes, February 3rd, 1959.Well ehelhell little things you say and do... His songs will always be remembered - always... "},{"Title":"Tragic yet light","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Everyone must know who Buddy Holly is, but few people know he is solely responsible for kick starting Rock 'N' Roll, while Elvis Presley was a country singer.This biopic follows the last few years of Buddy's life and his shoot to fame in New York. It has a very 'made for TV' feel to it, and although Gary Busey creates a stunningly charismatic Buddy, the film never really takes off. Don't get me wrong, the music (it's a musical by the way) is good and fits the film well, but the script is limited and the events are portrayed in a very linear or convenient fashion to the point of being biennial.The film entertains, without expecting the viewer to think or reflect, which is the films major downfall. The film ends with a reconstruction of Holly's last concert before boarding the fateful plane, which caused his death. The sudden juxtaposition of the loud happy music with silence and a short paragraph explaining his death demonstrates the fragility of human life and a career cut short very powerfully (Buddy's wife was pregnant and his was to re-unite with his band who had left him the very next night). "},{"Title":"6/10 One of Gary Busey's finest hours","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  All though the film lacks the drama of LA BAMBA, The Buddy Holly Story isn't all that bad.  The actual story, is rather uninteresting in my point of view, but Gary Busey is phenomenal as the title character.  Busey does all of his own singing and playing the guitar, and was deservedly nominated for an Academy Award.I just wish he movie had a little more to it.  Didn't age very well. "},{"Title":"Well Acted, but not much to it","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie was decent, it was fully entertaining to watch, but the entire time I was waiting for something to happen. We saw Buddy rise to stardom and get in a few minor scuffles around the way, all directed and written in a ho-hum, average-joe style. Gary Busey was tremendous and believable (surprising that I could put the adjective tremendous next to Gary Busey). It's just that the movie didn't ever reach a climax, it just kind of drifted along.It did however get me to bring out the old Buddy Holly greatest hits cd again. Buddy Holly is the first genius of rock and roll (well along with Chuck Berry). Those 2 alone are the most significant people in rock and roll history. Without Holly there would be no Beatles (or at least likely not a Beatles with the same capacity) and without Berry there would be no Stones (or not as strong Stones).It's just a shame with someone whose story seemingly could be so strong especially with the plane crash, etc (which wasn't even in the film), that the movie about his life is just average. Without Gary Busey's believable performance, the movie would be totally forgettable. Even Busey's acting, stellar as it is, doesn't really have any dramatic peaks....it just stays at the same level.Now being a big Buddy Holly fan at least of the 1 GH cd I own (although I was born almost 20 years after his death), I have to say I was never bored watching the movie, I just wasn't ever even for a moment blown away.You'd have to compare this movie to La Bamba--due to the death of both singers in the same plane crash--and it's easy to say that La Bamba is the better movie (and that's probably partially due to its cinematic release), but the Buddy Holly Story features slightly better performances (just because when you saw Busey, I really thought he was Holly).I wish they would remake a stronger Buddy Holly movie with dramatic peaks/better writing. This one's worth watching once, but likely doesn't need to be seen much more beyond that. "}{"Title":"Disappointing, contrived biop","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The most generic, surface-level biography you could hope for.  Busey's impersonation of Holly is accurate -- but who wants to hear Gary Busey sing Maybe Baby?  Typically, the members of the Hollies are used for comic relief and melodrama (Smith and Stroud, respectively) instead of as people or even characters.  When Holly uses a string section, the old jewish-looking guys who come in tell him he's using the same techniques as Mozart.  It's just this kind of cheeky statement that makes film biographies like this (and Amadeus, about the aforementioned Mozart) so worthless.  Some entertainment can be derived from Holly's excellent styles and songs done in a B-variation. "},{"Title":"Another wasted musical biopic","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  When it comes to inferior biopics about legendary singers, Buddy Holly is the victim this time around. Gary Busey simply doesn't cut it in the title role and just about everything else in the true life film is poorly depicted. A waste. "},{"Title":"Disappointing....","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I always think it would be nice if you could somehow have a 'sneak preview' at some of the old movies that are re-released on DVD, before you purchase them. That way you could save yourself some time, money and a certain degree of aggro when you feel so utterly let down.The Buddy Holly Story is such a movie.I do not wish to go into the characterizations, or the holes in the plot, or the messing around with historical facts that this movie encompasses, for I had already come to terms with them twenty years ago, when I first began watching it.I had recorded it on the old (Monaural) Beta machine back in the early 1980s, and liked it so much, that it became a regularly-played favourite. The best part, to my mind, was Gary Busey's performance as the young Buddy, and his near-perfect vocals and guitar playing.I looked forward to the day when I could have it in ...STEREO..., and that is where the disappointment comes in.This DVD version is (supposedly) re-mastered in both audio and video, according to the shell information, but I'm afraid it left me sadly let-down and glancing at my watch, wishing for it to end.The sound is murky, bordering on the unintelligible, and so unprofessionally mixed that it had me yearning for the crystal-clarity vocals of my old Beta tape! Despite what you think of the images, or the plot, or the characters, the real draw card here is the MUSIC......and if you can't hear the lead vocals because they are drowned out by the cymbals, or the backing harmonies, or other ambients, then there's not much left, is there? I'm going to convert my old Beta version to (Mono) DVD for subsequent viewings, and put this one where it belongs, out with the rubbish! Extinction is the Rule, Survival is the Exception... "}]