[{"Title":"This film is a great and glorious piece of art","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"139 out of 197 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film, in my opinion, is, despite it's flaws (which I maintain are *few*), an utter masterpiece and a great and glorious piece of art.What Mr. Bakshi has done here is to create an utterly beautiful film and has shown his immense talent and versatility as a director of animated films. He does not receive 1/100th of the credit he deserves for literally saving the art of animation for an adult audience. If it were not for Mr. Bakshi, I don't believe animation would have survived the Disney onslaught. What is more, with The Lord of the Rings, he has not only created a beautiful animated film, but he has created an entirely new art form - unfortunately one that never quite made it off the ground.Most people will complain about the use of rotoscoping in the film (the use of live action images which are used as background images and often animated over using various techniques from what appears to be small amounts of tinting to full blown animation). But I feel that the people who complain about it simply cannot accept an art form which is out of the norm. No, this is not Disney animation. No it's not live action. No, it's not cheating - what it is is a new, fascinating, and absolutely wonderful art form. Something so fresh, and so new that it feels completely at home in such a fantastic tale as The Lord of the Rings. Bakshi's pioneering use of this technique brings the subtleties of Middle Earth to life is a very dark and mysterious way, in particular, the darker of Tolkien's creatures, particularly the Nazgul, are realized in a way that traditional animation or live action have not been able to accomplish.Peter S. Beagle's screenplay (based very little, as I understand it, on an early draft by Chris Conkling) is a very loyal adaptation of Tolkien's works. Where possible he uses dialogue directly out of the novel and it feels at home in the world which Bakshi has created. There are many cuts that were made to fit the first book and 3/4 into a single 2 hour 15 minute film, but there are very few changes to the storyline. There are a few holes which it would have been nice to have filled The reforging of Narsil, the gifts of Galadriel, the Huorns at the battle of the Hornburg, but, again, with the time limitations he had (already the longest animated feature in history), these are certainly understandable (though it makes one wonder how they could have been explained in a sequel).Also there is the delightful (one of my favorites) score by Leonard Rosenman (who also scored Barry Lyndon and Star Trek IV (the score for which is clearly based on his LotR work)). It is bombastic and audacious and, dare I say, perfect. It stands on it's own as an orchestral triumph, but when coupled with the images of the film, it enters a whole new world of symphonic perfection. So far from the typical Hollywoodland fare that it turns many people off.The voice actors are wonderful. Of particular note is John Hurt as Aragorn who just oozes the essence of Strider.The character design is also wonderfully unique, though not often to everyone's taste. But remember that it is the duty of the director of an adaptation to show you what he/she imagines, not what you might have imagined, and so Aragorn is realized with a distinctive Native American feel and Boromir appears in Viking inspired garb. This is perhaps not what you imagined, but I can only applaud Mr. Bakshi for showing us what he saw. It also might be noted that he spent a significant amount of time with Priscilla Tolkien in developing the character outfits for the film.One farther word - the Flight to the Ford sequence, in my opinion, is one of the most subtlety beautiful sequences ever to be caught on celluloid. Bakshi is not afraid to slow down the pace for a moment, and his mastery is clearly shown by the incredible tension is able to build. Bakshi's artistic ability and Tolkien's incredible work fuse in this sequence to a glorious peak which has yet to be equaled.The recent DVD release (2001) by Warner Brothers, is sorely lacking. While we can offer our eternal thanks that the film is finally available in widescreen format, the package is woefully short of extras. How glorious it would have been to have had a director's commentary, been able to see the 20 minutes of extra footage that were removed for the theatrical release. Another delightful addition could have been the assembled the live action footage which was later animated over. Also present in the DVD release is the utterly horrible voiceover at the end of the film which is a departure from the simple voiceover which occurred in the very final frames of the film. This version is plastered and poorly rendered right over the musical climax of the score.Of course, the greatest tragedy of all is that the sequel was never made. We will never be able to see Bakshi's interpretation of Gondor, of Shelob, of Faramir, of the Cracks of Doom, of Eowyn's battle with the Witch King or Gandalf's confrontation with him. We will never be graced with Bakshi's image of Denethor or the Palatir or the Paths of the Dead. It is a shame beyond all shames that we will, in the end, have to accept Peter Jackson's glitz and glitter Hollywood, action film version of these later events in Tolkien's masterpiece, but, I suppose even that is better than having no cinematic version at all.David "},{"Title":"Animated version of The Lord Of The Rings - quite good, but suffers because too many unfairly compare it to the new Peter Jackson version.","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"69 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" More than twenty years before Peter Jackson's visionary adaptation of The Lord Of The Rings, there was this 1978 animated effort from director Ralph Bakshi. An ambitious and reasonably faithful version of the story, this has sadly been rather over-shadowed by the Jackson trilogy. Indeed, many reviewers here on the IMDb (mainly those who saw the newer version first) seem to be fiercely unkind to this version.... but if one applies a little common sense, and takes into consideration the time when it was made and the technical possibilities that existed at that time, then they will realise that this is a pretty good film. Indeed, it was shortly after seeing this animated movie back in the early '80s that I sought out Tolkien's book and immediately became a lifelong fan of these richly detailed Middle Earth adventures. So, in some respects, I owe this film a degree of acknowledgement as the film which shaped my literary tastes forever.Sauron, the Dark Lord of Middle Earth, forges an all-powerful ring that gives him incredible power. Following a great battle during which Sauron is defeated, the ring falls into possession of a king named Isildur&#133;. but instead of destroying it he foolishly chooses to keep it. For centuries the ring passes from hand to hand, eventually coming into the possession of a hobbit named Frodo Baggins who lives in a peace-loving community known as The Shire. Frodo learns from a wizard named Gandalf that his ring is in fact The One Ring, the very same that was forged by Sauron all those centuries ago, and that its master is once again searching for it in order to restore his dark power over the entire land. Frodo embarks on a perilous journey to protect the ring with three other hobbit companions, but every step of the way they are hunted by Sauron's ring-wraiths, the Black Riders. There follow many adventures, during which a company of nine adventurers is formed to guide the ring to the only place where it can be unmade &#150; Mount Doom, in the land of Mordor. The film concludes with Frodo and his best friend Sam on the borders of Mordor, closing ever nearer to their horrifying destination. Meanwhile Gandalf and the other members of the company fight off a huge army of orcs at the legendary fortress of Helm's Deep.This version covers just over half of the original book. A second instalment was planned to bring the story to an end, but was sadly never completed. While the ending feels abrupt, it does at least end at a sensible point in the story. One has to feel a little frustration and regret that no sequel exists in which we might follow these animated heroes to their eventual goal. The animation is passable, with a nice variety of locales and characters presented in interesting detail. The music by Leonard Rosenman is suitably stirring and fits in appropriately with the epic narrative. The voice-overs are decent, too, especially John Hurt as Aragorn and Peter Woodthorpe as Gollum. On the other hand, Michael Scholes - who provides the voice for Sam - is rather campy and goofy, which is not well suited to the character. The Lord Of The Rings is a commendable attempt to visualise the staggering book on which it is based. "},{"Title":"Underrated adaptation","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"59 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As an animated film from 1978, this is pretty good--generally well above the standard of the days when Disney hadn't done anything good in years (and Tolkien cared little for Disney anyway).  It gets major points for innovative and careful camera work, applying cinematic techniques with relative success.  The much-maligned rotoscoping actually works pretty well, especially with the Ringwraiths, and the opening narration.  However, it is so drastically overused--possibly as a money-saving technique--that it detracts from the overall effect.  The same technique that makes wraiths spooky and otherworldly doesn't fare so well in the Prancing Pony.As for the adaptation of the story, it's actually quite good. We lose little bits here and there, minor details such as the Old Forest and Tom Bombadil, the Gaffer and the Sackville-Bagginses.  We compress a few characters, such as revising Legolas as one of Elrond's household and an old friend of Aragorn's, but that's a rather wise decision for film.  In books you have room to include the references to the larger world of the Elves and Middle-Earth's vast history. In film, you trade that for visuals and sound that convey the same elements in a different way.  Nothing critical is truly lost here, and although I have minor quibbles about some of the changes, I'm generally pretty happy with it.If only the dratted writers had managed to remember Saruman's name--he's frequently referred to as Aruman, a decision probably made to make him more distinct from similarly-named Sauron; it took me a second viewing before I was certain I hadn't misheard it.  It's also annoying that Boromir is a bloody stage viking, and irritable from the start.  However, Gandalf is excellent, and most of the rest of the voicework is excellent. If only John Hurt weren't too old to play Aragorn; I love his voice.Of course, with the film ending at the midpoint of the story, there's a vast disappointment built in.  What makes it far, far worse is the altogether miserable job done by the Rankin & Bass crew on the sequel.  That they were permitted to do Return of the King after butchering The Hobbit remains a huge mystery; they seem more interested in bad songs than in proper storytelling.  For all its faults, this film's heart is solidly in place and it tries very hard to accomplish a nearly impossible task. I can only hope that the upcoming series of films keeps as true to its vision... "},{"Title":"This is a great film!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"65 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all, the only reason people keep bitching about this film is because they can't stand a few parts of the  true story being altered. Well guess what? Peter Jackson's film wasn't a perfect rendition either. Well enough ranting. This is a very beautiful film. The backgrounds are gorgeous and taken from well known Tolkein artists. The film covers about half the trilogy (Fellowship of the Ring and up to the battle of Helms Deep in the Two Towers) and moves at a good pace. The voice casting is top notch and the most of the characters look like I imagined they would. Samwise is a bit too ugly for my tastes, but Aragorn looks AWESOME. The film has a great score that completely supports the movie. If you enjoy good fantasy stories but hate reading (the books are even better) give this movie a try, keeping in mind it was made 20 odd years ago.Also of particular note Peter Jackson's adaption of Fellowship follows almost exactly the same strand as Ralph Bakshi's (Jackson has said many times how much he admired Bakshi's effort).  "},{"Title":"Uniquely animated drama & characters true to source","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"47 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm fond of this film and it vexes me that so many reviewers rank it below the Peter Jackson trilogy. A filmed novel is always interpretive; in particular an animated film relies on the artist's vision and should be judged on its own terms. Speaking as a purist, this is a finer homage to Tolkien than the updated version. While this film has its flaws it stays truer to the source, especially so far as the characters are concerned.In the Jackson version Tolkien's Frodo is barely recognizable from the first scenes he is portrayed as a weakling, constantly wavering, manipulated by forces around him and never standing on his own two feet (this is physically and metaphorically true.) You wonder why fate chose this limp biscuit to carry the one ring to the Cracks of Doom. Jackson unforgivably rewrites Tolkien and robs Frodo of his finest moment when he allows Arwen to rescue him from the Ringwraiths...Bakshi's version respects the original, presenting a Frodo who demands the wraiths Go back and trouble me no more! Bakshi sustains Frodo's character as Tolkien conceived it. We see his decline as the weight of his burden increases. Frodo is so pivotal to Lord of the Rings you wonder why Jackson took such liberties (he does so with numerous characters)since character development propels the plot to its inevitable conclusion. Bakshi's film better explores the companionship between Legolas and Gimli in a few judicious scenes that are completely lacking in Jackson's version. Similarly we see Boromir horsing with Pippin and Merry, furthering the idea of fellowship. For my liking the camaraderie is more developed in the animated version than the live action.Tolkien's poetry is an important ingredient in the novels and Bakshi makes tribute to this in one of my favorite scenes when Frodo sings the Merry Old Inn song, minutes before stumbling into Strider. The cheery tune is chillingly juxtaposed with the darker theme music when seconds later, invisible to his friends but visible to the wraiths, Frodo is dangerously exposed. This is one of the most atmospheric portions of the film and chills me whenever I see it.The well documented budget/time restrictions limit this film's final impact but had it been completed it may have resonated with more viewers. As it is, it's worth a look. Even its detractors admit that Peter Jackson derived much of his inspiration from this prototype. "},{"Title":"it's almost like trying to put judgment on some brave, weird, unique piece of interpretation, that only has half its limbs","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"39 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Godard once said a way to criticize a movie is to just make one, and probably the strongest kind that could be made about Ralph Bakshi's take on Tolkien's magnum opus the Lord of the Rings, has actually been made by Peter Jackson. The recent trilogy, to me, aren't even total masterpieces, but they are given enough room with each book to breath in all the post-modern techniques crossed with classical storytelling to make them very good, sweeping entertainments. But as one who has not read the books, I end up now looking upon the two versions, live-action (albeit partly animated in its big visual effects way) and animated (albeit partly done with actual live action as the framework) in relation to just the basic story, not even complete faithfulness to the books. And with Bakshi's version, it's almost not fair in a way, as what we do see is really not the complete vision, not what Jackson really had (probably final cut). Robbed of Return of the King's big climactic rush of the story, and with the other two parts becoming rushed, I ended up liking it more for what it did within its limitations, though as such those same limitations make it disappointing.What's interesting too, after seeing the Jackson films first- which I also slightly regret being that I might've reacted to this differently when I was younger and prior to five years ago- is that the basic elements of the story never get messed up with. Everything that is really needed to tell the Fellowship of the Ring story is actually pretty much intact, and if anything what was probably even more gigantic and epic in Tolkien's book is given some clarity in this section. The actors playing the parts of the hobbits and the other heroes, are more or less adequate for the parts, with a few parts standing out (John Hurt as Aragorn and William Squire as Gandalf). The lack of extra characterization does end up making things seem a little face-value for those who've not even seen the other films or read the books and can't put them into context. But there is some level of interest always with the characters, and here there's a more old-fashioned sensibility amid the large aura of it being more. This is not a garden variety Disney adaptation- warts and all, this is a Bakshi film, with his underground animation roots colliding with the mythical world of Middle Earth.And what Bakshi and his animation team bring to the film is one that ends up giving what is on screen, in all its abbreviated form, its hit or miss appeal. Along with being not totally complete as a film, or as stories, the form of the film is an experiment, to see if something can be entirely rotoscoped. The results end up bringing what seems now to be retro, but at the time of course was something that was a rough, crazy inspiration on the part of the filmmakers. Might it have been better with more traditional drawn animation? In some parts, yeah; it does become a little noticeable, as was also the case in Bakshi's American Pop, that the main characters move in such ways that are a little shaky, like some kind of comic-book form done in a different way. Still, there's much I admired in what was done. The orcs, for example, I found to be really amazing in they're surreal surroundings. They're maybe the best part of the combination of the animation on top of the live-action, especially during parts where there isn't battle footage (that's really the real hit-or-miss section, as there isn't continuity from the good and bad rotoscoping), and the chiaroscuro comes through with big shapes on top of horseback. It's creepy in a good way. And the backgrounds, while also very rough and sometimes too sketchy, are beautiful with the mixtures and blasts of colors together. It's almost something for art-film buffs as much as for the ring-nuts.So, how would I recommend this animated take on the Lord of the Rings? I don't know, to tell the truth. It's certainly a good notch above the other Tolkien animated film I've seen, the Hobbit (and I've yet to see the animated ROTK), and there is some real artistry going on. There's also some stilted dialog, an all-too-rushed Two Towers segment with the most intriguing character Gollum being reduced to maybe two scenes in all. And seeing something as fragmented like this ends up only reinforcing the completeness of the more recent films. If you're a fan of the books contemplating checking this out, I would say it's worth a chance, even if it's one of those chances where you watch for forty minutes and then decide whether to stop it or not. As for it fitting into Bakshi's other films I've seen it's an impressive ambitious and spotty achievement, where as with Lynch's Dune it's bound to draw a dark, mordor-like line in the sand between those who hate it passionately and those who don't. I don't. "},{"Title":"A misfire for Bakshi, that much is certain","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"49 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I won't dwell on the purists' outrage over Bakshi's liberties with story or characters.  For the most part, they are correct.  I'm certainly not coming to the filmmaker's defense, but in the context of the material's density, animation technology of 1978, et al., this guy really took a swing at bringing this thing to the silver screen.Sadly, the film wasn't that good.  Much of the animation was disjointed, and most of the backgrounds were crudely drawn and failed to create the correct atmosphere that one gets from reading the book.  I will say, though, that I have always liked the rotoscoping, in particular that of the orcs.  There is something exceedingly frightening about the way they are displayed, something today's CGI characterizations seems to miss.  Bakshi used this technique in his other works as well, particularly in Wizards, which is a better, if different, film than his version of LotR.  But mixing purely-drawn characters (hobbits) with those that are rotoscoped (orcs) just didn't look right here.I must agree with some others who assert that some of the frame direction and scene selection is oddly similar to Peter Jackson's version of late. And if Jackson was influenced by at least SOME of the look of Bakshi's film, then what's the harm?If you want to be dazzled, this version of LotR probably won't rouse you. There's many more misses than hits.  But it isn't as bad as many would have you believe.  If it weren't a Tolkien adaptation, I think it would be received much better. "},{"Title":"Vastly Underrated Don't Listen To Tolkien Fanboys - Best LOTR Adaptation.","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"40 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" First of all no adaptation is ever as good as the book, especially when you're dealing with master writer like Tolkien. This ADAPTATION wonderfully synthesizes Tolkien's universe with 1970s psychedelia, aesthetics, and liberal culture. Yes - the animation and background painting is sometimes a little rough in its technical execution but it's beautiful none the less, and very evocative in terms of giving a unique sense of place to each of the scenes. Beyond the absolute uniqueness in imagery is the absolutely outstanding voice acting - acting that's FAR superior to the acting in the new live action movies. And while the cell animation might not be the most technically proficient animation it superbly captures the expressive bodily and facial gestures of the acting while at once not forgetting to be subtle and nuanced. The background paintings vary from traditional fantasy motif to outright abstraction, but the transition to abstracted settings is always motivated by the narrative and contributes greatly to the themes of the film. If you're a person who has to have extensive computer rendering in a film so that everything is visualized for you then I can see how you might not like this movie but if you enjoy superior acting, transcendental imagery, and JRR Tolkien then this film is a must see. "},{"Title":"By sheer luck, I love this movie","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I happened upon this movie as an 8-10 year old on a cold, dark November afternoon. I was outside playing all day, freezing, and when I came in around 4pm, I had a cup of hot cocoa and sat down in front of the TV with a blanket. I was surprised to be watching a cartoon that wasn't all happy and silly--and was in fact dark, and moralistic. It captured my imagination. I'm sure it misses the text, and is abbreviated in all the wrong places for the Tolkien purist. But it still captures the spirit of the story, the choice to carry a burden for the good of others, the consequences of selfish, rash decisions, etc. The quality of animation leaves room for complaint. But the one place where this movie clearly rises above the new films is the voice characterizations. John Hurt is great in this. If you don't like how the character is drawn, look away, and just listen to him. His voice is extraordinary. I've seen it again many, many times and it always brings me back to that time, as a kid, thirsty for some magical adventure. It's for this reason I say 'lucky', the film is nostalgic for me so I overlook its shortcomings. But between John Hurt, and Tolkien's fantasy, it still reached me, and still does. "},{"Title":"Not As Bad AS I Thought It Would Be","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"34 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My friend had the idea of watching the animated LOTR after seeing the Peter Jackson Return of The King. So I finally bought it off e-bay, thinking right from the start it was going to suck. Actually, it really wasn't as bad as I thought it would be. The animation was good for its time, they used a unique method of blending live action with animation to create some interesting effects, and the guy who did the voice for Frodo sounded somewhat like Elijah Wood.Not the greatest adaptation of a book, but trust me, I've seen a lot worse. It skips quite a lot of things, since both Fellowship and The Two Towers are compressed into one two hour movie. Definatley worth a watch, kids might like, but still, absoutley no comparision with the Peter Jackson trilogy.  "}{"Title":"Severe, Psychotronic 70's Cinema","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As a kid I was quite astonished with the dark and gloomy tone of this film, especially in comparison to Rankin/Bass's take on the same material around the same period. Also at the time I didn't really care for the animation, which I found to be rather cold and creepy (having no idea it was rotoscoped or even what rotoscoping was). However as the years have gone by and the Jackson adaptations come and gone, I feel more and more drawn to this rare piece of absolutism as I would a painting by Vincent Van Gogh or Salvadore Dali.Bakshi always had a flair for adult-oriented animation, and finally with this he found a subject befitting of his style. Lord of the Rings is some overall dark, intriguing material in comparison with The Hobbit and really was deserving of something imaginative and stylistic as only Bakshi's team could deliver. Most everything comes together quite well here with the bizarre rotoscoped animation, the characterizations, the voice performances, and Leonard Rosenman's supercharged score (one of his career best, up there and quite similar to his work on THE CAR and RACE WITH THE DEVIL). It's rather unfortunate that funding ran out and the project had to be hurriedly wrapped, quite a similar heartbreaking story as to what happened with his previous year's WIZARDS.The film is clearly unfinished in many regards. The most heinous act it commits is to end right in the middle of a major action scene with absolutely no resolution to speak of! Even ignoring its abbreviation of the books, one has to admit that narratively this film is a complete disaster. I can't imagine the marketing for this movie honestly claiming it to only be the first half of the book trilogy brought to screen. Needless to say I'd be surprised if angry audiences didn't get up and boo at the screen en masse back in 1978 witnessing perhaps the biggest cheat or, dare I say even, rip off in cinematic history.Similarly this film has a very rough feel to it in terms of animation and pacing and is entirely inconsistent. Things begin fairly polished and kid-friendly but get darker, drearier, more violent (with some surprisingly graphic gore), and sloppier as the film goes on. By the end we get the vast majority of the film not even properly animated and more or less just treated film material with undercranked smoke and clouds filling in the for the background plates. It's quite similar to the bizarre psychedelic cost saving measures Bakshi made when he took over the second season of the animated 60's Spiderman cartoons. This whole Joseph Conradian experience of a descent into hell is pretty overwhelming, oppressive, and possibly even emotionally scarring for young viewers, but it's something I've strangely come to love about this film over time.Yes, dare I say it, I just love this movie. You can't deny that it has its share of magical moments like Frodo's escape from the Wraiths, Gandalf opening the doors to Moria, and the showdown with the Balrog. Much like David Lynch's DUNE it created a vivid, creative, and whole-hearted realization of a world out of the severe butchery its source material. There's a small, artistic, and very personal loving feel given to this movie which I found lacking in Jackson's trilogy. Bakshi and his overworked team of animators may not have created the best film ever, but they did a lot with the little they had. I just wish they'd been able to see it through. "},{"Title":"My favorite screen version of the LOTR","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Peter Jacksons version(s) are better films overall from objective point of view. That being said, they are not my favorite screen versions of Lord Of The Rings, and let me explain why. Firstly, the acting of the on-screen characters is just too ordinary and uninspiring with Jackson's LOTR. The whole cast is too run of the mill. Are you claiming that those silly cartoon characters of Ralph Bakshi version are better actors than real people? one could ask. Well, they are not really silly(save for Hobbits, later about them) and they certainly pack more personality than Jackson's party - even with much more limited dialogue time. And that is because of superior _voice_ acting of the Bakshi's LOTR. Take Aragorn for example. In this version his voice is deep and charismatic with full of authority(Aragorn the lord)and with a seasoned rasp(Aragorn the ranger). This is due to John Hurt's brilliant voice acting. Compare that to Viggo Mortensen's rather high pitched sound with no soul and the duel gets quickly uneven Hurt beats Mortensen hands down. And then there is Gandalf. Probably the most dominating(and the most popular) character in the whole saga. In this Bakshi version Gandalf(William Squire) is a real wizard. And by that I don't mean he shoots bolts from his fingertips(he does not), but his presence is just captivating. He is a mystical, powerful and can switch from gentle old man to a scary person with ease. Add to that his looks Tall, old as the ancient oak, beard long as his body, sharp eyes, wizardy hook nose and of course, the classical wizard hat. A Perfect Gandalf, just like in the books. Ian McKellen's Gandalf in the other hand, is simply just too boring. He looks too human, sounds too human, acts too human and wears no hat or wields no sword. Yes a sword. In this Bakshi version Gandalf scores couple of bloody orc kills with his sword(as he did in the books). And those are stylish slow motion kills. Gandalf is not a power to be messed with. And it must be noted, that while I'm sad to say this, the great Christopher Lee didn't bring Saruman alive. Fraser Kerr in this movie did, even with a very limited screen time and lines.Before I move completely to visual aspects of the movie, it must be mentioned that the voice acting and the general presenation of the Orcs are also superior to Jackson's pretendeous bad guys. Bakshi's orcs taunt their enemies(or each other) constantly with growls, screams and nasty language. They are more believable as monsters and are more faithful to the book in my opinion. And finally, the Black Riders - or the Nazgul. Those ultimate bad guys are scary ghosts in this one - not just some riders wearing black. And they speak with haunting voice, which mesmerizes their victim. My favorite scene in the film is when the Nazgul are chasing Frodo near the river. While Peter Jackson couldn't do anything but show the riders simply chasing the party, Bakshi throws in a nightmarish dream with some cool slow motion scenes and thundering sky.But as much I like this film more than Jackson's, the latter are, if only technically, still better. And that is because of some key visuals. As you know Bakshi LOTR features a mixture of animated characters(all hobbits and the main cast) and real actors covered with paint. I don't really have a problem using real people in animation this way, but they just don't fit very well with traditional cartoon figures. This is especially true with humans(Riders of Rohan, tavern people etc.) Orcs are different matter, since they are meant to look very distinctive from other characters. Orcs, while played by humans with animation mix, look far superior to Jacksons version. They have brownish-green skin, shiny red eyes, flat face and pointed teeth. Biggest screw up in this films visuals, howerver, are the Hobbits. While I prefer almost every character in Bakshi version compared to Jackson, the latter has clearly superior Hobbits, in fact they are perfect. With Bakshi you get some irritating and rather poorly drawn humanoid Disney bambies. And you are forced to spend a lot of movie time with them, so be warned. Again, the voice acting is OK with them too, but the actors mouths cannot save the immersion damage made by these little weasels. Well, I never really liked those halflings anyway. General failures in the Bakshi script are well known. Limited playing time(with limited budget) and a lot of missing scenes. So while this film covers nearly half of the story, it doesn't do it in extensive detail compared to Jackson's version. In a summary the Ralph Bakshi version of LOTR has a superior-overall atmosphere (it feels more like Middle-Earth) -overall voice acting -music (I really dig the fantasy score by Kont & Rosenman) -Gandalf -Aragorn (One of the John Hurt's finest roles) -King Theoden -Orcs -Black Riders -Elrond (He's not some fairy hippie in this one!)While Jackson version is better-because it covers the whole story -overall visuals and special effects -Gollum/Smeagol -Balrog -HobbitsLord of the Rings by Ralph Bakshi, even with it's well known shortcomings, is one of the best animation films ever made and it captures the atmosphere of Tolkien's fantasy world very well, if not perfectly. I'll give it a score of 8½ out of 10. "},{"Title":"An excellent production about an immense subject","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have been a fan of JRR Tolkien since I was about 8 years old, and I have never failed in my admiration for both him and his literary works.I first read The Hobbit, then obviously The Lord of the Rings and was instantly hooked. Since then I have tried to collect every book that he has published, including his other University works.The Lord of the Rings is an immense work and to turn it into an acceptable film requires a lot of time and patience. Ralph Bakshi has done a terrific job of representing Middle-Earth through some truly inspired animation.It is unfortunate that he had to severely abridge some of the less important scenes but overall he has captured the main thread of things.I was a little disappointed with Sam who was not, as portrayed, a country bumpkin. He was actually quite intelligent and it was through him that Frodo made the journey to Mount Doom without giving up.It is a shame that the film ends just after the Battle of Helm's Deep as I was looking forward to the main battle at Pelennor Fields and the death of the Nazgul.Overall Ralph Bakshi has done a wonderful job with the funding that was available, and without the aid of 'computers' to enhance anything.  "},{"Title":"Disjointed.","Date":"9 April 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Every time I see this film I grin and them grimace some. Mostly grin because it is a respectable effort at a production, but I can't help but believe that the entire tale was never meant to see the screen via Bakshi. I remember opening weekend for this thing. The theatres were packed. Sold out. Or, more correctly, overbooked. Thousands thronged the theatre. Lines ran out into the streets. You couldn't get a seat for the life of you.And then the film ran. And people walked out wondering what it was they had just seen. You hear critics give their opinion, but you don't hear fans voicing their amazement at the visuals, but also feeling like they were sold a bill of goods.The artistry that went into this production is half good, half b-grade material. I think this project was given to Bakshi because he knew that the full tale would not be realized by old guard Hollywood who were paranoid of a culture that harkened back to mythology and days of yore.At the time I saw the film I had a hard time following it, even with the added narrative supplied by the characters. One moment were in location A, then the next we're in location B with some new characters. Next we're in location C confronting some event, and so on and so forth. In short, the Tolkien tale that people wanted never had a chance to materialize. It would take thirty years and an Aussie with some filmmaking know how, a track record, and a vision to propose the project and make all of Tolkien's ring saga come to life. In the meantime Tolkien fans had this half hearted effort that had some interesting visuals on one level, but lacked a lot of care on another level. Again, it was done intentionally.Then again Bakshi's films tend to have an unfinished quality to them. If you look at American Pop, Heavy Traffic, or Cool World, or Wizards, you'll note that the production tends to fall apart somewhat at the end. Cool World feels very rushed at the end, American Pop actually keeps nearly all of its gloss but suffers the same here and there. So it is that we don't just get rotoscoped animation, but full on tinted footage of stuntmen or actors doing things that should have been rendered by hand.The character design is also hit and miss. The hobbits are well done, the wizards are likewise keenly crafted, but the one dwarf in the film looks like a miner from 1849 California, and not a dwarf at all, while the elves tend to have feline eyes for some reason. The backgrounds are interesting, however. Taking a page out of Avante-Garde 1960s and early 1970s, the sets for this piece are more abstract at times, and it seems to work well from time to time with the piece that's being presented. Other times it feels like a budget saver.What to say about it in the end? All in all the film is a rushed effort, and in my opinion never had a chance from the start. My opinion is that there was probably a fear that Tolkien's tales of white heros might have been seen as socially destabilizing for a country that was just coming out of some very hefty social upheavals regarding race, politics and social status; and this falls in line with Tolkien because orcs, men, dwarfs and elves were all different races, although the orcs are the ones who are cast as the heavies. I have no direct proof of that, but one wonders how Disney Studios might have handled a similar project; which, by the way, is right up their alley (minus some of the more graphic violence).See it once. Odds are you've already made up your mind about this film. Me, I don't have too much love for it, but it's interesting to take a look at it every few years or so.See it once if you're curious about it. "},{"Title":"Come to Middle Earth, a world beyond the furthest reaches of your imagination.","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When a small hobbit named Frodo Baggins inherits a magic ring from his uncle, the wizard Gandalf investigates and discovers that the ring is an ancient creation of an evil dark lord. Should the ring end up back in his hands, he will regain his power and destroy Middle Earth. Frodo and his loyal friends set out on a a quest to destroy the ring with a band of warriors. This is an underrated adaption of the classic novels as it only covers the first half of the story. Regardless, this is an epic and wonderfully animated film.The animation is superbly done with rotoscope, which is tracing over live action footage. Ralph Bakshi worked well with the low budget he was given. The film also boasts a grand music score by Leonard Rosenman that fits every scene. There are a few plot holes with the script, but that has to be excused, considering the original deal was to make the book trilogy into two films, much had to crammed in the first one. My biggest gripe is some of the character design, Samwise was a bit too goofy, while the other hobbits act completely normal. The other characters are actually well written for the screen, and the voice actors do a great job, I was pleased that Legolas is actually a bit more helpful to the plot. The rotoscoped orcs are more comical than frightening, while the ringwraiths are eerie and nightmarish.Another problem is that the evil wizard Saruman is called Aruman, thanks to the writers. Overall, I think a little more money, better writers and telling the story in three films would have done this a lot of justice, but there is something charming about it. Ralph Bakshi made a valiant effort of making screen adaption of these classic stories. The film suffers terribly from being overshadowed by the live action films, but it's still a great movie for animation lovers of all ages. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Some may think me crazy for saying this, but I prefer this over the Peter Jackson films. With the exception of the deleted Mouth of Sauron scene, I find the animated feature to be a darker and more dire depiction of events from the Lord of the Rings novel. When watching this rotoscoped/animated version of LOTR, watch for the many sequences which were clearly referenced for the live-action trilogy. In particular, the scenes featuring Gollum.So, if you're a fan of the material -- or just want to check out a trippy piece of art work with excellent voice-acting, give this one a look. I think you'll find it to be a rewarding film to watch. "},{"Title":"Enchanting early Lord of the Rings adaptation","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" With the release of Peter Jackson's famed Lord of the Rings trilogy, it is even easier to dismiss Ralph Bakshi's 1978 animated Lord of the Rings film as inferior. I agree with the majority that Jackson's trilogy is the essential film adaptation of Tolkien's work, but that does not prevent me from enjoying Bakshi's ambitious pioneering effort. Jackson has admitted that he received at least some inspiration from seeing Bakshi's film and there are some clear similarities between their adaptations.The film's colorful picturesque backdrops are excellent and the score is memorable. I was for the most part satisfied by the drawings of the characters. The pairs of Pippin and Merry and Eowyn and Galadriel are mostly indistinguishable from each other visually, the Balrog and Treebeard were unimpressive, but these points didn't bother me very much. However, the Nazgul are aptly drawn and made sufficiently eerie. The only character representation I was bothered by was Sam's; he was made to look unbecomingly silly.This film is novel for its animation techniques. In addition to hand-drawn characters, live actors are incorporated into the animation through rotoscoping. It is quite apparent which characters are hand-drawn and which are rotoscoped, but none the less I found that the film's style was a novelty. The use of rotoscoped live actors for the battle scenes was a good decision and helped these scenes turn out well.The voice acting was generally of high quality. Particularly good was John Hurt, who provided an authoritative voice for Aragorn. Aragorn isn't a favorite character of mine from the stories, but backed by John Hurt's voice he was my favorite character in this adaptation. My other favorite was William Squire, whose voice is appropriately strong for Gandalf. The only actor who seemed inappropriate was Michael Scholes as Sam, whose voice acting was irritating and added to Sam's unfortunately silly image. The only other bothersome part of the voice acting is the mispronunciation of character and place names. Particularly strange was the decision to frequently have Saruman referred to as Aruman.In producing this film, Ralph Bakshi expected to have the ability to produce two films. Hence, this film contains about half the story, from the start of The Fellowship of the Ring to the end of the battle at Helm's Deep in The Two Towers. The obvious implication of this is that the film's story is a highly condensed version of the story from the books. I enjoy the original stories and more thorough adaptations, but the liberties taken to compress the story didn't bother me, even the choice to leave Arwen out of the story. Enough of the key elements of the story were in this film to keep me engaged for the duration and there was even a novelty in being able to breeze through half the Lord of the Rings story in 132 minutes. The battle scenes were impressive and in particular the orc march to and battle at Helm's Deep were tremendous.Ralph Bakshi's version of The Lord of the Rings isn't perfect and no doubt a number of Lord of the Rings readers lament the cuts to the story. However, for me the drawbacks of this film were minor compared to the thrill of seeing an effective adaptation of half of a great trilogy. My only strong lament is that I am unable to see the second part of this first great tale of The Lord of the Rings since Bakshi was not given the budget to create a sequel. "},{"Title":"I keep trying to like this movie...","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"27 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" But I just can't. I get that Bakshi's rotoscoping was cutting edge, but to me it just looks awful. That's not what kills this film, though. In a nutshell, the pacing makes the actual story nearly impossible to follow for anyone who hasn't already memorized it. In some parts, it moves too quickly (obviously there were time considerations), but other scenes drag out forever without actually contributing to the plot. The orc battle scenes in particular felt like the same images over and over and over and over again (drenched in the murky rotoscoping), to the point where it was impossible to tell what was actually supposed to be happening. It almost feels like Bakshi was more interested in splashing images on the screen than in telling a story. I guess if you like the images, and you already know the story (or aren't interested in it), then this movie will be great fun for you.I won't bother with purist complaints about the movie not following the book. Literature and cinema are two related but vastly different forms, and what works for one often does not work for the other. If anything, part of the problem is that it follows the book too closely at times, not allowing for how awkward the written dialog sounds when actually spoken. The only real complaint I have about the adaptation is Bakshi's reading of Sam as a gay, retarded circus midget. I also get the sense that this portrayal was somehow intended to be comic relief. Why take such pains to render such an important character so impossible to take seriously?I so wanted to like this movie. I really did. I kept thinking that I would like it better after reading the book (the first time I saw it was in the theater, and I didn't understand most of it), or when I had gotten old enough to appreciate it. I even thought it might be fun to do a compare and contrast with the new films. None of it helped. I understand that this movie has many devotees and many more apologists. I wish I could see whatever it is you all see when you watch it. "},{"Title":"The Orcs are Cool!","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a severally underrated film, due to several reasons; almost all of the people that see this today will compare it to PJ's epics and that is unfair considering a good 20 year gap between when the films were made and the fact that due to certain film studios the sequel was never finished and the complete difference in art and culture from then and now. Also it is worth a note that Tolkien fanatics take a swipe at anything that isn't strictly following the lore from the books.Naturally I had a few issues; the first one would be how irritating Sam was he not only looked 'special' but he also talked like he had mental problems.. Secondly Sauruman looking like Santa need I say more, and thirdly Pants pants pants.. there is a notable lack of leg wear in this film and a lot of people have mentioned it, I personally never took much notice before but when I thought about it I find it hard to believe that idea made it through to the completion of the film.One of my favorite scenes in the whole movie was the Fords of Rivendell and the Black Riders (Ring Wraiths) the art and the atmosphere of this entire scene was breath taking and the Rotoscope truly made the Black Riders an impressive if not terrifying sight. The moving in between the real world and the wraith world as the chase was unfolding was spectacular. People are really negative about the Orcs in this film but I really like them, there simply designed but have a lot of character﻿ and are easy to identify with and remember. Despite the Orcs classic timidness, they form a potent force and its easy to see the threat that they pose to the free peoples of Middle-Earth, and they are really cool.Also worthy of note are the actors of Aragorn, Boromir and Gandalf who really stepped up with a worthy performance and brought their characters to life.In my opinion the best way to get hyped up to watch the trilogy is to watch this version first, it is such a great way to kick off a Lord of The Rings marathon.I would give this film an 8/10 for artistic vision thanks to Bakshi on a shoestring budget.Jimzombie. "},{"Title":"Animation is the way to go","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember watching this late at night on black and white TV, long before a live-action version was so much as a twinkle in Peter Jackson's eye... and being very impressed. Finally getting my hands this week on a VHS copy that was being thrown away (and isn't that just par for the course..?) I had the chance to revisit this film, and found that it still stands up quite well, although it's not quite the success that memory had painted.I have to confess to a certain bias here. Some reviewers announce themselves as confirmed Jackson-lovers, others as Jackson-haters; I'm not exactly either. I was a devotee of the BBC Radio adaptation by Brian Sibley originally broadcast in 1981, and instantly recognised the voice of Gollum here -- Peter Woodthorpe would reprise this performance almost note-perfect for the radio three years later.I must say, however, that where I found Jackson's films an increasingly indulgent disappointment, the Bakshi version, for all that it has been cut to the bone, is actually more accurate. Yes, there are the usual, understandable changes (here it is Legolas rather than Arwen who is substituted for Glorfindel as the Elf sent from Rivendell to meet the party) and there is a great deal of telescoping of the action. (The only exception to the latter, as others have remarked, is the oddly extended sequence at the ford of Rivendell, where the Ringwraiths, having demonstrated a chilling ability to freeze and draw back Frodo in mid-flight -- which they deploy again when he defies them after crossing the river -- then for some unexplained reason simply chase after him in a prolonged straight gallop, which is initially nightmarish but pointless, plot-wise, and definitely goes on too long.) I would also agree that the Balrog is unsatisfactory, due partly to bad animation, and that Gandalf windmills his arms too much.But having watched both approaches to the film, I feel more than ever that the animated route is the one to take. In a tale that is half-myth (oddly enough, one thing that is included is a snippet of Aragorn's story of Beren and Luthien) the extreme literalism required by live-action filming, where everything from monsters to mail-shirts has to be created in detail to appear on camera, is counter-productive latex-faced (or CGI) monsters are less monstrous than sketchily-drawn shapes, heroic costumes tend to look rather silly worn on real bodies, and hobbits or dwarfs with non-human body proportions are easy to animate but hard to film convincingly. Many reviewers have cited the sniffing Ringwraith in the woods, with its crippled, half-human movements, as one of the scariest moments in the film -- it certainly frightened me silly when I saw it for the first time alone in the dark!The extreme stylisation of the introduction (plus a voice-over done with great skill and economy to sum up the back-story in a few sentences) works very well to depict an almost mythical era, and the change to the comic-book rusticism of the Shire -- I particularly like the Proudfeet -- corresponds effectively to the similar change in tone of Tolkien's prose. I did feel that there were some missed opportunities where the potential of animation could have been used to great effect Gandalf threatening Bilbo with his true power in the opening scenes, Bilbo seeming to become a Gollum-like creature under the influence of Ring-lust at Rivendell, and Galadriel's famous temptation speech all were drawn more or less straight, where it would have been trivial to distort the scene to reflect the hobbits' changed perceptions. But generally speaking the changes in detail and palette -- firelight hues at Bree, bright colours re-emerging at Rivendell and in the Fangorn clearing, dirty greys and browns for Moria and the desolate lands -- work well to reflect the mood of the various episodes, where a live-action approach simply doesn't allow you to blur the background or sketch in a stylised setting.As a fan I didn't care for either Jackson's or Bakshi's depiction of Lothlorien -- again, I feel that the radio soundscape was the best evocation I've come across of a beautiful, slightly uncanny woodland paradise caught out of time -- and I feel that Bakshi got the elven singing at this point pretty badly wrong, but I do like the little montage at this point showing the various members of the Company relaxing together after their travails in Moria. Aragorn giving a hobbit-fencing-lesson here is as charming (and equally uncanonical) a spectacle as Boromir engaging with the hobbits in Hollin in the Jackson version.The depiction of Aragorn as convincingly weatherworn Ranger is good throughout this film (Viggo Mortensen's scruffy Jesus look really didn't work for me), although it would have been interesting to see how they planned to 'clean up' the character in the second half for Gondor's benefit. John Hurt, unsurprisingly, gives a sterling vocal performance, as does a resonant William Squire in the part of Gandalf. The hobbits are, I suspect, intended to reflect contemporary youth as audience-identification figures I find the animated style (their proportions are much more 'cartoonish' than those of the human characters) works well to differentiate them, and the whole 'hairy feet' thing as drawn here comes across as much more plausible than in more literal depictions, including much fan art.Personally I have less objection to Boromir as Viking -- he was always a fairly bludgeoning type -- than to beardy-Aragorn (illogical they were both Numenorians, after all), although I am clearly in a minority here!The big flaw in this picture is always going to be the fact that it was an unfinished project, with a bizarre tacked-on voice-over ending attempting to resolve matters. A pity; it would have been interesting, not to mention less frustrating, to see what Bakshi planned to make of Shelob and Minas Tirith, never mind the Dead... "}{"Title":"Don't compare to Jackson's masterpiece and you may enjoy it","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am one of the biggest fans of Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings trilogy and as part of my countdown to the Hobbit, I decided to watch Bakshi's 'Lord of the Rings' I heard it was a great film, but I disagree with it. Its not an awful movie, but its not a great movie. However, I can understand the trouble that it takes to compress the content from the first 4 volumes of J.R.R Tolkien's 'Lord of the Rings' into 2 hours, but there were vast problems with this film along with some good things.The best thing about this film was definitely Frodo Baggins, who is portrayed here as a brave little hobbit who will not give in without a fight, unlike PJ's Frodo who is a little wimp! It was great to see the main character as a bit stronger guy. The first hour of this film was surprisingly good (that is the content from Tolkien's Vol 1 and 2) but the last half was absolutely awful in my opinion.I'm not asking for long fight scenes or great animations. What I want is the story to be told well but also have some character development. In the first hour of Peter Jackson's Fellowship of the Ring, we have a whole lot of character development with Frodo and Gandalf, whereas in this version there is almost NO character development. This makes for an overall bland film. Certainly, the animations would've been brilliant for its time, but here they have not aged well at all. I've seen better animated films for its time than this one. Many of my favorite characters from Jackson's 'Lord of the Rings' are completely destroyed, such as Samwise and Boromir. Samwise is portrayed as an extremely annoying retard if you may say so. Every time he says something in this film, it annoyed the hell outta me. In Jackson's, whenever Samwise said something, it was courageous and influential, whereas here I just wanted to punch this annoying 2D character! I also hated everything with Boromir; in Jackson's version Boromir was a tough man, with the idea of protecting his people til the very end, but is ultimately defeated by the Power of the Ring. In this film, Boromir (in Moria) got knocked out by one goblin twice in the same GODDAMN scene! I mean, he looks like a Viking, Aragorn looks like a Native Indian- American and Saruman looks like Santa Claus! It wouldn't have been that hard to make animations that made them resemble Tolkien's work. In one scene, at the very end of the film, King Theoden or Eomer is portrayed as a brown man!?! Seriously!?!?!However, with the time given Bakshi tries his best to compress all the content but the film doesn't seem inspirational mainly due to no character development. When Bilbo cried at Rivendell, you cannot feel any emotion whatsoever because of the fact that Bilbo only had 2 minutes of screen time before that. There was no development or introduction to his character and the same goes for all other characters.The voice-acting by many is really poor. Its such a disappointment, in particular Gollum. I'm not asking for an Andy Serkis, but half the time Gollum was speaking normally. Saruman's voice actor was poor and its clearly apparent that Sir Christopher Lee was to play that role, none other. The action at times looked brilliant, and at times it was laughable, mainly in the second half. What else annoyed me at times was the fact that they used images to tell parts of the story. For Lord of the Rings fans, just give it a go. I can hardly think any would be satisfied with this film as its far too rushed.It was, overall, a bit of a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Made memorable due to its atmospheric tone","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Frodo and friends embark on a journey to destroy the One Ring and end Sauron's reign over Middle Earth.Ralph Bakshi brings Middle-Earth to life in this 1978 adaptation which still retains an eerie quality that spooked me as a child thanks to its usage of Rotoscope. Costing 4 million The Lord of the Rings is a little more slicker than its unlinked Rankin/ Bass' 3 million budgeted predecessor The Hobbit (1977). In addition, Gollum is better realised in this incarnation. Even back then John Hurts voice would have been suited for Gandalf more than Aragorn, that said, the voices are all cast well including Anthony Daniels as Legolas and the production tries it's best to stay true to the source material. Despite errors with names (notably Saruman being referred to as Aruman at times), the pacing being a little off, the animation/art far from perfect and an abrupt ending there's adequate entertainment to be found. While it's a long slog for the causal viewer and too dark for young children there's something charming about the production. For the most part The Lord of the Rings is enjoyable thanks to its elusive atmospheric tone and made memorable due to its ethereal visuals. "},{"Title":"Fantastic effort by Bakshi","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Through the years Bakshi's portrayal of Tolkeins masterpiece has taken a battering, which in my opinion is unjust. Bakshi took a bold step with his revolutionary take on the film by introducing Retroscope animation and it was a total triumph. Having watched this film in the early eighties I was totally in awe of the fantastic use of live figures against the animated background. The scenes with the Black Riders and the Orcs are superbly done and add depth and dimension to the film.Bakshi has to be also congratulated on the skill of casting accredited actors to voice certain characters. William Squire works brilliantly as Gandolf and John Hurt is superb as Aragorn. The Director also sticks to the story line where possible with one or two improvisations along the way. The battle at Helms deep is also artistically brilliant and works on many levels. Add to that the fantastic soundtrack and you have a work of cinematic art years ahead of its time. If you watch Peter Jackson's trilogy then you will be able to spot similarities but do not compare as they are two totally different films. The only negative about Bakshi's masterpiece is that he couldn't raise the funds to complete the story.Do yourself a favour and sit down and watch this brilliantly made movie albeit cut short. "},{"Title":"Movie super underrated.","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is truly one great masterpiece. Its a shame its so underrated.And its a shame too it doesn't have a sequel \It will fell strange for those who watched the movies of Peter Jackson, as the characters are way different and even the places seem to be completely other things. And you will laugh like hell when you see saruman.The art is great and it surely deserved recognition.And now i'm going watch it again DO yea, 10/10 for the movie, it deserves it. It may not be the LOTR of peter Jackson, but it is surely great. "},{"Title":"Peter S. Beagle","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm still trying to figure out what the heck Peter S. Beagle, an ardent Tolkein fan and excellent fantasy writer as well (The Last Unicorn) was thinking, and how much input he REALLY had in the actual production (did Bakshi make his own edits to the script?)The opening monologue about the history of the One Ring, for instance, was cleverly done. It appropriately and cunningly got non-Tolkein readers up to speed. Leaving out Tom Bombadil was a wise decision, since Bombadil has absolutely nothing to do with the story. However, leaving out the Ents? What, did Gandalf all by his lonesome defeat 50,000 orcs? What WERE those orcs, anyway? They looked like mutants from Total Recall, not twisted versions of Elves.It did have its moments, though -- my favorite scene is still when Frodo offers the One Ring to Galadriel. Her response is priceless, and very true to the book.  "},{"Title":"A valiant, if unfinished, attempt","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ralph Bakshi puts his money where his mouth is, and attempts to film the unfilmable (at least it was at the time).Or half of it, at any rate.Any book as visual as Lord Of The Rings is going to have every reader creating his own mental pictures, and the minute you commit a vision to celluloid you are going to put the back up of all those who don't share your visualisation.Much of Bakshi's Lord of the Rings was close enough to my visualisation that I was happy enough to accept it, at least until the Jackson versions came along.The voice talent was great. The animation was adequate. The rotoscoping was an interesting innovation, if not 100% successful.There were some really irritating errors - Saruman being referred to as Aruman for instance. And I never saw Sam as that much of an idiot bumpkin - Bakshi's Sam never had the innate nobility which Jackson brought out.But this was a noble effort, and it's a shame that the remainder of the story was never filmed. "},{"Title":"For back then, this is very impressive.","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I really liked this movie, and it is true, too many people compare it to the Peter Jackson films. Even more impressive was that they fitted two books into one film, many people consider that a mistake and that things were missed out, when actually considering the books aren't very easy to adapt, I thought this film wasn't too bad an attempt. The animation was very impressive, a little dated by our standards, but bear in mind people it was made in the 70s and that it is lower budget than that of Disney or Pixar. The music was very well done especially the orks' march to Isanguaard, very haunting indeed. Though speaking of the orks, a very young audience will find them very frightening, and will be deterred by the sight of blood. The film is also overlong and a bit slow, but anyone who's seen the Peter Jackson films will argue that they have the same problem. The voice talents are exceptional, standouts being Christopher Guard as the idealistic Frodo, William Squire as the wise Gandalf(very good but Ian McKellan was better but only marginally) and John Hurt's brave Strider/Aragorn. Some of the scenes in this film are very hard to depict, like the scenes with the Black Riders(the scene in the inn was genuinely creepy), and I must say, that in general, the execution of those scenes were well-above average. In conclusion, despite the flaws, this film is nowhere near as bad as people say it is. My dad and my brother are both die-hard LOTR fans, and they say that this film was very well done. 7/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"Doomed to failure.","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Let me begin to say I like Bakshi's rendition of Lord of the Rings. I like it despite its many flaws. But this version is an artistic failure. Bakshi's approach to the source material has only the outcome, that it will not be impressive; that is viewed as a representation of Tolkien's novel. Bakshi's view on Fantasy differs completely from what Tolkien envisioned, or his loyal idolaters. Bakshi probably played with the idea of filming Lotr because of his flirtations with Hippydom, fortunately Bakshi is far too cynical and violent to have made this his personal ideals. Although Bakshi loves creating worlds himself with ideals of friendship, peace and love, he is not familiar with Tolkien's tale of lackluster and fascistic (yes, I said fascistic) views on heroics, friendship, war and betrayal and its overbearing self-important mythology.The visual design too fails to accord with Tolkien's view of Celtic and Nordic designs and of course Middle-Eastern and Asian visuals for the villains. Bakshi's visual concepts veer more toward sword-and-sorcery (the virile and truly entertaining side of Fantasy) But if Bakshi's animated film is viewed from an animation viewpoint it has a lot to offer, once again Bakshi experiments with rotoscoping, instead of using stock footage as in Wizards, this time actual ad hoc film material is used, the result is interesting but not beautiful. Bakshi would master this technique in his later film Fire and Ice. Some of the backgrounds in Bakshi's LorR are truly beautiful and exceed Jackson's monochromatic Alan Lee designs, thereby Bakshi's vision on some characters is far more interesting that Jackson's pretty boy approach to Tolkien's flaccid heroes,(Jackson's visualizations appeared as the male crowds of a metal-concert but with more groomed beards.) and Galadriel is actually sensual than just some frigid-looking stick-figure. Where this version is absolutely horrible is its narrative. Tolkien's obese book is trimmed down -not a bad thing, in itself &#150; and made more confusing and boring, in the later mentioned adjective this version does capture the essence of Tolkien's work.I say save this one for a rainy day, when you have three hours to kill. "},{"Title":"A nice film, but now overshadowed...","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, finally it has been done... LOTR is on the big screen and will be completed; however, I have always been a fan of Bakshi and his vision of Middle Earth (in fact, I get the feeling that Jackson is as well).  It was a noble effort, but, in the end, it failed in many ways.I really do like it, and I am happy to see that the film has been released on DVD, but all the same it cannot compete with Jackson's vision of Tolkien's books.I would still advise people to go and rent it (or buy it), especially if you have kids who want to see it (Jackson's versions is a bit too intense for many younger kids), because it is still enchanting and wonderful (although a bit dark in some places).You can always rent Return of the King to fill in the end for young viewers.For us older viewers, though, rent it for the pure joy of the animation... it was truly beautiful and still holds up in many ways.  Bakshi clearly loved the story and had a strong vision for the look of the film. If you have not seen it, check it out...  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes, this movie isn't really good, and yes, it doesn't really fully cover the first two books very well. But still, the animation isn't all that bad. While I can understand some hardcore Tolkein fans are a little dismayed over this movie, the movie seems to be more directed towards people who haven't read the book.But, I'm sure that by the time the live action Fellowship of the Rings comes out, this movie will probably be forgotten... "}{"Title":"well...","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Bakshi did a good job in Moria, and you hadda like some of the Helms Deep stuff. But lord...Bakshi's rendering of some of the characters is pretty bad. You have Boromir as  Brian Dennehy, Legolas as C3PO in a ballet get up at that, the hobbits all doing their Beatlemaniac wig bit, and Aragorn...looks like he's related to Iron Eyes Cody. Murky backgrounds, so so music, some decent rotoscoping but a little of that goes a lonng ways...It's hard to watch them leave out Bombadil, gut the whole Ent bit and race through Lorien while spending soooo much time on Gimli and co.s run across the plains there.You wonder about who decided to do the editing, and why they included what they did. One thing that REALLY didn't work was Sam-they made him look straight outta Deliverance. That was a big no-no.I could go on, but won't-this film has been hammered mucho in the past. Just put it behind you, good viewers-and await Peter Jacksson's little trilogy. Am sure That will be a major improvement.** outta **** stars, not too good.  "},{"Title":"Bakshi's Vision of Tolkien's Masterpiece","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is surely for selected audience, with no doubts. Tolkien freaks were surely disappointed with Bakshi's realization of the book, but weren't they with Jackson's version also? There's always those whom you can't please, but who cares anyway. Bakshi has made his own vision of the Tolkien's world, with characters of his own. Aragorn-as native American, some kind of trapper, you can say. Boromir is a Viking, as Gimly also, who's been designed in similar way. Bakshi's Hobbits have much more emotions and charm, of Tolkien's folk of Hobbit's than the actors from Jackson's movie. Legolas, also, is one fine Elf, enough said. Movie it's self, have nice parts and holes also. Nice parts goes for untypical dark and smooth atmosphere, well used fight scenes, grim landscapes, dirty and horrid Orcs (which looks and acting suits movie very well) and very cool and mystic characters. Although, soundtrack for this movie is fantastic, one of the best soundtrack scores ever. Bad parts are those that movie lacks from exceptions of some very important scenes, and some jump overs in storyline. Balrog design is very bad in parts. It seems to much unfinished in some scenes. Also, Battle at Helms Deep looks much empty, even if used Rotoscopy was well done, attack on castle and face-to-face fights are very low and muffed. Friendship between Legolas and Gimly is also in question, thus they didn't make any of close connections during the movie, like they did in book. Exception of Tom Bombadill, is reasonable, 'cause it would take much time of the movie for nothing. All in all, movie is fine one to be watched and it's one of Bakshi's true gems, with his personal seal in audio and video form. Movie lacks from some mistakes, but it's surely work of art for his time, thus no one has ever treated rotoscopy technics like Bakshi did. Big disappointment is that second part hasn't been finished, because of production house scams, but as Ralph Bakshi stated once, there's always a chance for second part to be maid, but when? "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly True Adaption","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Bakshi's LotR tends to take a lot of heat from the Tolkien net-crowds and I really don't get why. Okay, the film did use rotoscoping to an excessive degree, which tends to cause that irritating jitter. It's when Tolkien-nerds start to complain about little details like there's only one two-note horn-call in the entire movie or any in a million insults directed at Gandalf and Saruman's fantastic beards or the horned-helmets of Sauron and Boromir that I start to wonder if these people even bothered to look at the picture as a whole.I was very pleased with the level of adaption and wasn't too distracted by the opening sequence or even the apparent deviations from the original story. In all I think the opening alone was a lot more informative than that of the first Jackson movie. Also all and any accusations of nonsensical dialog are often cases of people not paying attention to the plot.Of course we get the regular dropping of Tom Bombadil which is a shame.The movie is not flawless however. Admitedly the Balrog fight was quite pathetic and I think it would have been more effective had the scene been lit more dramatically. Now, it looks a bit flat. While I was impressed that the half the story could be fit in a two-hour format it is true that at times the film cuts from one event to another quite abruptly (not that I had any problems following the plot, but I can see why some people do).In all, the movie is quite good, not very clean and I hated how over-joyed the hobbits seemed most of the time, but it is definitely better than most fan-sites would let you think. "},{"Title":"good cartoon from Ralph Bakshi","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The only version of Tolkien's trilogy (or at least, half of it), until Peter Jackson's recent epic, this cartoon has been unfairly maligned over the years when in fact it is not bad at all.With exceptional voice talent on board (especially John Hurt as Aragorn, and Norman Bird as Bilbo), and good drawings, largely true to the characters, this version trips along with excellent pace and structure.The difficulty in translating this complicated novel to the screen shows in the fact that this 'Lord of the Rings' doesn't quite to justice to its source. But it tries, and almost succeeds. "},{"Title":"Fun to Watch...","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" First off, this is a really big disappointment to any Tolkien-fan, though it is fun to watch just to see the alternate vision Bakshi had for Middle-earth. The prologue is well done, though the vision Bakshi has on Sauron, Isildur, and many other characters seems either lazy in trying to achieve an individual look, or just ugly with no inspiration whatsoever.The acting is arguably hammy and corny. Sometimes the actors can do their job well, while other times things just get out of control in terms of what we know of these characters (be it from a fan's perspective, or that of a newcomer). The good thing about animation is that it can cloak a very bad performance, and had this been a film in live-action, each of the actors in this film's cast could face their own form of scrutiny in the way they voiced their character.This film can go out of focus a lot. Too much time is spent on wasteful minutes of a prolonged flight by Frodo from the Ringwraiths -- a tedious 5-minutes of slow-motion to show the wraiths in the Shadow world's view, and endless chase scenes. I laughed out loud when Aragorn tripped over his sword in the montage when the Three Hunters were chasing the Uruks. The battle for Helm's Deep is lackluster action. This film's version of Gollum seems superior to the one used in Rankin Bass's version of The Hobbit and The Return of the King. The writing for this film is all over the place, making it a pretty terrible adaptation -- even though some scenes are nice nods to the book, they come off as glimpses compared to the rest of the film. Boromir looks like a viking and Aragorn is wearing a skirt... need I say more in the lack of detail or attention to the character's Tolkien wrote. Treebeard is poorly realized, as well as Theoden -- who looks like he just came from a film about the Crusades.The music is pretty good, though is very forgettable. It's a pretty good companion to THIS film, though to imagine it to other scenes is nearly impossible, or poor in taste.Overall, this film is fun to watch just for the laughs. Bakshi did what he could in so little time, but ultimately, the rush in rotoscoping and drama behind the scenes gives the audience a lackluster adaptation of Tolkien's epic stories. This is just one film that was too rushed. Worth a watch. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The voice weren't so theatrical like in the Jackson trilogy, but I liked it.The Balrog wasn't done very good - it looked like some sort of dragon. I don't think the ending was abrupt, it comes very naturally.I didn't like the beginning, because the forging of the Rings and Sauron's downfall are seen only as shadows, not as fully-developed objects.Anyway, I think this is a good film and it does a good sequel to Rankin/Bass's 1977 Hobbit.It can compete with the 2001/2002 films. "},{"Title":"i love this film !!","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Am i the only person on this planet who loves this film version despite its only half finished.I think the particular scenes and direction he took is much more appealing to a fan of the books. I think the characters are also a lot better than the new film, john hurt as aragorn is excellent casting so are others including boromir and gandalf. the elves were more elf like and so too were the orcs. and the characterization of the hobbits is superb.I love this film and watch it again and again.yes it has its faults in a production sense but like any artist that is struggling it somehow gives it more of a loving feeling "},{"Title":"So much better then the new films","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" So much better than the new films. Admittedly, effects can't be compared, but the spirit of the book is in the Bakshi's work. Voice acting is excellent, and characters feel true; Aragorn is not a pretty boy, Gimli is not an idiot, and thank God we are spared from the aggressively soppy love story that was barely hinted in the book but was so overdone in Jackson's movies. As an animated movie, it is not what you would expect. Technique is unusual, but in the service of atmosphere; especially when acted scenes are combined with animated ones - it adds to the eeriness of black riders, and combat scenes are that much better. I liked it a lot, and as time goes by, i like it even more. Every true fan of Tolkiens work should try and see this one. Nine out of ten, because we never saw the second part. "},{"Title":"See it just to realize how good of a job Jackson did","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The attempt to adapt Tolkien's works is a momentous task. The mistake Bakshi made was trying to condense the trilogy into 130 minutes and 8 million dollars. I thought he did a (fairly) good job visualizing middle-earth, and was an obvious influence on Jackson, but altogether the film falls apart for many reasons...rotoscoping being one of them. The terrible method of animation has never looked right to me, and Lord of the Rings would have served better as a live action film or one done in the traditional manner. Another problem is the running time...two hours and 15 minutes. This version drops off abruptly, right about half way through the second book. Also, to much is condensed for it's own good. Jackson's 3-hour version of Fellowship barely gets it down on celluloid, whilst this version is extremly sketchy. I'm glad Jackson refused Miramax's two-picture deal and waited for someone to offer him the chance to adapt it in three films. "},{"Title":"Uninvolving but not a total loss","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ralph Bakshi's attempt at bringing J.R.R. Tolkien's epic tale to the screen years before Peter Jackson is a valiant effort that falls short for more reasons than the obvious. Many purists will no doubt complain about what's been left out or the depictions of some characters. Others will say that the story ends abruptly and, since there was never a part two, it leaves the movie feeling incomplete. Still others will talk about the uneven mixture of traditional animation and rotoscoping. All of those are valid complaints but not major ones for me. Granted, I saw the Jackson films already so there was a certain degree of comparison that was inevitable, however unfair that may be. I'm certainly not going to slight the movie for not being able to compete with something made decades later with a budget over twenty times what this had (for the first movie of the trilogy alone). I'm also not going to nitpick what was left out or who didn't look like they should because the Jackson series gave fans a gazillion hours of footage of to cover almost every base. The animation is good for the era and I generally appreciate Bakshi's use of rotoscoping. The man was an artist, not an assembly-line animator like most at the time, and that should be praised.The main problem I had with this is that it is not as emotionally involving as the Tolkien story demands. It's a story that deserves a deeper treatment than what we have here. That came later with Jackson, thankfully, but the lack of emotional resonance in this version is a major flaw. I also wish the music score wasn't so unexciting and forgettable. I've read that Bakshi originally wanted to use Led Zeppelin music. At first that sounds like a terrible idea but I can't help but wonder if that would have been so weird that it actually worked. Overall, it's a mixed bag that drags some and never really pulls you in like it should. Bakshi respects the material enough to follow it as closely as he can with the restrictions he had. He also creates some fine atmosphere and fills the movie with so many interesting visuals that it's hard to dismiss it entirely. "}{"Title":"a great adaptation for a great novel","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" what i admire is how close to the book was being just two hour long, the scenes from the book are adapted very well using the most important lines from the novel and holding true to the story's atmosphere (in a childish way but very true to the novel.But yes, it is very flawed i am not going to lie, sometimes it feels rushed, but just few times,and the character are sometimes over the top (again, only few times)some characters are misrepresented, but only in appearance because their personalities are similar to those of Tolkien's writing (except Sam, Sam's character was horribly done)examples are Aragorn, Boromir, Gimli (But to be fair that was the standard dwarf of those times), Elrond, Saruman (again not for being with a color, but being only red, in the book, he transformed into Saruman of many colors, but here it looks like Saruman the red), between others. other problem is the ending, the movie's ending is the end of half of the story, this was meant to be two movies, but because of the box office failure the sequel was never Greenlighted (saddly) and the movie is only book and a half, leaving many loose ends.but to the positive part, the movie keeps you entertained and it holds up well to tell such a big story as lord of the rings.with the bad motion capture animation i have no problem because it takes you to great battle sequences.if you compare it to Peter Jackson's epic trilogy, Jackson's version wins, but this movie doesn't fall shorter having a good opponent to the epic trilogy.In conclusion,this movie is well passed, suspenseful, exciting, and even epic in it's own way. "},{"Title":"fascinating but limited","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's J.R.R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings books 'The Fellowship of the Rings' and 'The Two Towers'. Hobbit Frodo Baggins must guard the one most powerful ring against powerful dark forces with the help of Gandalf, Samwise and others.Ralph Bakshi directed Wizard. Using the same rotoscoping of live-action footage, it has that fascinating 70s animation style. It's actually very effective for the material especially since the needed special effects haven't been perfected yet. The style is definitely a very interesting vision and gives an adult sensibility in the animation. However there are limitations with the compressed nature of the film and it also doesn't help that this movie never got the needed sequel. It ends in an unsatisfying cliffhanger. It's a fascinating cinematic oddity but not much more. "},{"Title":"Underrated Animated Classic","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is not directly a sequel to the Rankin/Bass 1977 TV movie The Hobbit but among fans, including myself, it is the second film in the series (it's just not officially the sequel).I was about 6 years old when I saw this TV movie. I can still recall being excited and engrossed in the story. It is a captivating film although it is by no means perfect. I can still enjoy this classic today. There is no comedy in this flick even though it is a cartoon - it really is a mature film that adults can enjoy.This is well worth watching if you are a fan of the books, Peter Jackson's film series or the old TV movie The Hobbit.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"I wish I liked it","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ralph Bakshi's 1978 LOTR adaptation is one of the most divisive entries in his filmography. Some see it as a bastardization of its source due to having to condense so much into little screen time. Others praise it as a bold work of art. I can understand both views, but after watching this twice, I am sorry to say I cannot come to the conclusion that this is a good movie. And it has nothing to do with how close it is or isn't to the books.To start with the positive side of things, the score is magnificent. In fact, I like it more than the music from the much-loved Peter Jackson LOTR trilogy, probably because it's less gloomy and bombastic. It just exudes fantasy and adventure. The animation is mostly solid and I enjoyed how Bakshi employed rotorscoping with the more sinister characters.However, even though the animation and rotorscoping are good on their own, I do not think they blend well. The mix of realistic characters, more cartoony characters, and the rotorscoped characters make for a messy, rushed aesthetic that feels more annoying than cutting edge. I think the rotorscoping worked much better in Bakshi's previous fantasy film, Wizards (1977), since it was only a mix of non-realistic characters with rotorscoped demons and monsters.The editing is sometimes awkward and the characterization choices are sometimes borderline strange (in Sam's case, it was downright abominable; OH HOO-RAYYYY!!). Some of Gandalf's antics are unintentionally funny. The pacing is atrocious and there are stretches where you find yourself groaning and checking your watch every other minute.In conclusion, the film just feels unfinished. Bakshi often had to work with low budgets and one could accuse him of being an undisciplined artist, but he was certainly capable of better than this if Heavy Traffic (1972) and Wizards are anything to go by. "},{"Title":"themes were heroic and strong.","Date":"22 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- The Lord of the Rings, 1978. Totally animated version of the first two books of J.R. Tolkien's fantasy world of Middle Earth.*Special Stars- Voice and character Movement Billy Barty, Anthony Daniels, John Hurt, Felix Silva.*Theme- Friends working together towards a common goal can achieve anything.*Trivia/location/goofs- A totally rotoscoped animated film. Listen for many famous actors voicing lead and supporting roles. Locations Spain.*Emotion- I saw this in the theaters when it came out in the 70's and it was the center of a J. R. Tolkien mini-fad. There were belt buckles, maps, and other marketing blitz items rolled out for the public. Even Star Trek's 'Spock', L. Nimoy included a silly Hobbit song on his record he released in that year. That is when I read the trilogy books and enjoyed my introduction to Middle Earth. I found this film unique, strange and interesting because of Ralph Bakshi's use of odd animation and rotoscoping and actor movements. The film and the film's music themes were heroic and strong, too. I bought the record from the film. However, I was disappointed that the quest of little Frodo never got to finish in a sequel, but this film introduced me to all things Hobbit. I would say see this film for it's Hobbit beginnings that Peter Jackson took to incredible heights, first. "},{"Title":"LOTR Cheesy, Yet Captivating and Fun","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When you hear the title Lord of the Rings, it's very hard not to immediately think of Peter Jackson's excellent trilogy of films and of course, his most recent prequel based on The Hobbit. But there is another film based on LOTR, an animated film in fact, that follows the adventures of Frodo and the Fellowship depicted in the first two volumes of J.R.R. Tolkien's trilogy. It's Ralph Bakshi's Lord of the Rings film from 1978, and if you are a LOTR fanatic (even a semi fanatic like I am), this is one you surely have to check out. As I stated before, this film is based upon the first two books in J.R.R. Tolkien's LOTR trilogy of books, The Fellowship of the Rings and The Two Towers. Unlike the Rankin Bass version of The Hobbit (released a year before), the animation is done in the style of rotoscoping and in several scenes, the animation looks so realistic and contemporary, you forget you are watching animation and think you are watching live action instead. It's very well shaded, vivid, and the colors and atmosphere of each scene really set the mood and suck you into the world of Middle Earth. I just love how magical and innovative the entire film feels. I like to think that this is what Disney's LOTR would've be like had it been made. It has that kind of power that rips you right out of your own reality and puts you right in the crowd along with Frodo, Samwise, Aragorn, Legolas, etc. Speaking of the characters, the voice acting of each classic Middle Earthling is fantastic. Some might argue that the voices are corny and really over the top (I'll admit, Sam and Gandalf are over the top at times) , but in my eyes, it really adds a lot of charm and humor when we need it most. John Hurt is breathtaking as Aragorn/Strider, having that mighty prudence in his voice to really make you feel intimidated. Anthony Daniels, who you all know as C-3P0 from the Star Wars saga, really takes the cake when playing Legolas, the Elven archer, adding a touch of might and naivety to the character that we had never seen before. The actors they got to play the Hobbits also get an A+ in my book, and William Squire's Gandalf rivals that of Sir Ian McKellen's Gandalf in the Jackson films. Overall, Ralph Bakshi and his crew really prevailed with this adaptation of the legendary Tolkien tale, and although the film didn't do so hot when it was first released, it has gained a massive cult following throughout the years, so much so that it even got it's own Blu-Ray release in 2010. The action is good (for 70s standards), the voice acting is goofy, yet profound, and it really adds a bit of magic that has never been seen before in any other LOTR adaptations. If you are looking for something LOTR that isn't Rankin Bass or Peter Jackson, then this is your pot of gold. It may be cheesy, but it's captivating and most of all, fun. I loved it when I was a kid, and watching it several years later, I still love it to pieces.YOU SHALL NOT PASS! "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and absolutely unique,","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The animation is incredibly interesting and sometimes very fluid and realistic.The atmosphere is creepy, weird and wonderful, this is a dark and odd fantasy adaptation of the first two books of the Lord of the Rings (the final book is not covered).As with all adaptations, comparing this film to the book or other renditions is pointless - so don't do it.Something about this movie feels incredibly fantastic and unnerving. The fact the animation is based on real footage, that gives it a sense of realism that is unparallelled for a non-computer generated cartoon.If you want something with outstanding, scary, weird and amazing atmosphere and unique artistry, definitely check this film out. "},{"Title":"Animation is Weak, but This Movie Makes a Valiant Effort","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I can't help but compare Ralph Bakshi's Lord of the Rings to the Rankin-Bass version of Return of the King. Both are derided as inferior efforts to adapt J.R.R. Tolkien's Middle-Earth saga to animation and film. It would not be until Peter Jackson's trilogy based on the books that audiences and critics alike felt that the Lord of the Rings books finally had a perfect film adaptation. The Bakshi film suffers from the same problem as the Rankin-Bass movie it tries to bite off more than it can chew by trying to shovel in as much it can into a compact film. Bakshi's effort might better have been served by being pieced apart as a trilogy, but I supposed money constraints and the fears of distributors that part one of a three-parter might be a flop both precluded this.Frankly, I do not like Bakshi's style of animation. The rotoscoped effects, while possibly groundbreaking back then, do not hold up well. The marauding orcs look like people wearing black costumes. I can't make up the facial features of the orcs at all! Worse, the human- traced movements and body design of the orcs and the Nazgul riders look too damned human and realistic when contrasted with the cartoon-like hobbits, human and wizard characters. The contrast is annoying to watch, and distracts from one's enjoyment of the narrative. The animation is passable. It is not horrendous, as far as the design for the good characters, but neither is it spectacular or breathtaking. I think the best-designed character is Treebeard; he looks more like a traditional Bakshi character; I think it might be the scrunched-up fact of the Ent that hints at the Bakshi style. The backgrounds for Middle Earth locations do not look stunning, but they are not too bad either. In fairness, the hobbit characters look fairer than their Rankin-Bass counterparts; in Bakshi's version, Frodo and Sam do not have giant noses or faces creased with wrinkles (maybe they used Jergen's far e cream before filming for Bakshi?). The action scenes are not that fun to watch. The battle of Helm's Deep seems to be too faded and opaque to enjoy. The red scenery and silhouetted orcs clashing with the heroes is literally difficult to watch. Again, budgetary constraints might be to blame for the crudity of the animation, so my judgment may be far too rude and harsh. The animation is not the movie's strength, whatever the reasons for the resulting style.In fairness, the movie does it absolute best to translate the first two books of the Lord of the Rings trilogy to the screen, plot-wise, and compresses the content as best as it can. The ending seems incredibly rushed, and the deletion of important plot points towards the end gives the film an anti-climactic tone. Watching this film made me feel like I was back in college writing an essay in the blue book for a history class during the finals. I have just written a highly-detailed eight paragraphs during the forty minutes. I have no conclusion, nor have I even completed the body of my essay, and five minutes are left on the clock before testing ends. What do I do? I shoehorn a slick, quick, sloppy conclusion and ending to my written essay exam. That is exactly how the final twenty minutes of Bakshi's Lord of the Rings plays out. Only 2/3 of the saga is described, leaving Rankin/Bass to complete the remaining third with its inimitable style of wrinkly-faced hobbits, a John Huston Gandalf, a screeching mad Brother Theodore as Gollum, and disco-singing orcs. The movie does it's damnedest to treat Tolkien's novels with respect, but there is so much content in the books (Tolkien was not one to spare any detail or side-story, however perfunctory to the main plot) that doing a faithful adaptation that also makes sense is a formidable feat. Bakshi tries his best, but the results seem rushed.In all, this is a passable film, but for fans of either Bakshi's animation or the Lord of the Rings books, it is a film worth watching. It is not the atrocity it seems to have been rumored to be; the voice acting is quite good, and *most* of the film follows the plot of the books, and the film is easy to follow. The pacing of the film is smooth, in spite of its two hours. Still, don't expect Lord of the Rings by Bakshi to be some sort of secret or unsung masterpiece. The poor quality animation greatly detracts from the movie. The execution flags greatly at the end. Maybe Bakshi, should he find funding and investors who believe in the project, should re-do Lord of the Rings as a trilogy; but this would seem a redundancy in light of Jackson's three-part magnum opus, which is now engraved forever in the annals of Hollywood as a film legend. If Bakshi opts out completely from rotoscoping and works tirelessly to improve his animation style, he could definitely make a beautiful Lord of the Rings three-part trilogy. Jackson proved that it can be done.Maybe Bakshi can try an animated version of The Silmarillion? Then again, this may be left to someone like Don Bluth, with Brian Froud as the head concept designer and storyboard artist, and a hell of a good screenplay writer. "},{"Title":"If only United Artists didn't say no to adding Part One.","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Lord of the Rings is recognized as either the book series or Peter Jackson's billion dollar trilogy based on the Lord of the Rings (LOTR). Ralph Bakshi made his interpretation of the classic books in 1978. Since then it has become a massive cult classic.Now people's expectations were to see all the three books in the one movie. Instead the movie adapted two of the books leaving people confused when the movie ended. This movie was the first LOTR movie to be released in theaters. A financial success but a mixed-opinion received movie that wasn't finished doesn't add up to a bad movie. It adds up to a unique one.Highly recommended for those who love animation and film. "},{"Title":"Interesting animation technique, ham-fisted handling of the story","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I don't have a coherent review, just some points to make.(1) This movie actually has TWO visual styles. Some of the characters (hobbits, Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli) are actually drawn (though they move like real people, thanks presumably to rotoscoping), and some of the characters (such as the orcs, and especially the characters in the prologue) look like live actors filmed through a red filter. But I'd rather talk about how this movie handled the story.(2) The live actors are so bad, they're a hoot. Check out the prologue The actors are all silhouetted and they STILL look like actors in a high-school play. Note especially the ultra-lame swordplay, and the laugh-out-loud display that Gollum makes of his suffering at the hands of the ring (he ducks behind a rock, holding his shaking hand up in the air and making gargling noises -- funny funny funny, so bad it's good). Also check out the live actors at the inn in Bree -- people in Renaissance costumes, pretending to be drunk, and grinning swaying dwarfs (the real kind). Hilarious.(3) The movie can't make up its mind whether the traitor wizard's name is Saruman or Aruman; he's referred to by BOTH names.(4) In the interest of brevity, the screenwriters butchered some of Gandalf's best lines, and Gandalf ends up sounding lameWhen Frodo says to Gandalf, I wish it need not have happened in my time, Gandalf says (in the book and in Peter Jackson's film -- I'm quoting from memory) So do all who live in such times, but that is not for us to decide. All we can do is decide what to do with the time that is given to us. This movie, instead, has Gandalf saying, almost absently, So do I. Lame!When Frodo says What a pity Bilbo didn't kill that vile creature (Gollum) when he had the chance, Gandalf says (in the book and in Jackson's film) It was pity that stayed Bilbo's hand. Do not be too quick to deal out death and judgment. I feel that Gollum may yet have a critical part to play before this is over. This movie just has Gandalf say Yes -- it was pity, pity and mercy. Gee, thanks, Gandalf.(5) Samwise Gamgee comes across as a bumbling clown, with his goofy voice and flailing arm motions. But of course his flailing arm motions are nicely animated.(6) SPOILER ALERT. This movie ends abruptly. I can only imagine how much this film angered Tolkien fans back in the day. Gollum is leading Frodo and Sam toward the Secret Stair, the orcs are attacking the men of Rohan at Helm's Deep, Gandalf shows up with the formerly exiled Riders of Rohan, the orcs flee, and a narrator suddenly announces The forces of darkness were driven forever from the face of Middle Earth by the valiant friends of Frodo. As their gallant battle ended, so too ends the first great tale of The Lord of the Rings. Since the forces of darkness were driven forever from the face of Middle Earth, I guess there was no need to worry about what happened to Sam and Frodo.So this movie is only so-so -- 5 stars out of 10. Its animation is often well done and fun to watch, and parts of the film are good, but parts of the film are awful, and its handling of Tolkien's story is clumsy and ham-handed. "}{"Title":"Watch it and judge for yourself...","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There are lots of people who hate this movie, and then there are quite a lot of others like me who really like it. I suggest that anyone who's read the books should get hold of it (not an easy task these days) and make up their own mind. I personally think that it is a great film, with some fantastic animation, great performances and buckets of atmosphere. OK so it stops halfway, but it wasn't the filmmakers' fault - they ran out of cash I seem to remember. Overall I liked it, but it isn't for everyone especially people who want to see a film that stays 100% (or even 90%) true to the books as a lot of events are missed out. "},{"Title":"Worth watching...again and again","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think people have judged this film unfairly. How on earth do people expect the entire book to be condensed into 2 hours without leaving stuff out? And I very much doubt that the coming trilogy will be entirely accurate either so comparing it with that is unreasonable. I think this is a very good attempt at capturing the true magic and mystery of Tolkien's books. John Hurt is fantastic as Aragorn - his voice is beautiful and captivating! The Black Riders are truly chilling at the start and instil a suitable amount of fear. Gandalf is powerful and in control and the battle scenes work well with rotoscoping and make it suitably adult. There are improvements to be made however - it utterly bewilders me why the film makers decided to stop halfway through and some bits of the film tend towards being funny when I am sure they are not supposed to be (These include Aragorn falling over whenever an enemy approaches and some of Sam/Bilbo's ridiculous faces) The problem with this film is that I do not think the script writers knew which type of people they were aiming this film at -Adults/children (As a child I did not much like the cartoon but now I appreciate it much more.) and also between those who knew Tolkien's books/ Those who didn't. It is such a large work that I think it is necessary to decide which- I believe this tried to aim for those who did not know the book, which was a mistake for it is only dedicated fans who are watching it.On the whole I would advise any fan who is prepared to be open-minded to watch it - you are in for a treat. If you are just going to nit-pick about the plot - Forget It! "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"1 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The animation is truly wonderful; the people and creatures are drawn with a certain realism. Their expressions and movements are spot on. Then there's also the symbolic choice of colour, the way that mood is created, the choreography of action with a perfect film musical score (beautiful in it's own right, but rousing and evocative in combination with the images), not forgetting the authentic, touching dialogue. It's Poetry.This film is so superb that I didn't like the more recent regular film adaptations of the Lord of the Rings trilogy (the recent films, in my opinion, don't match up to the enchanted world created by Bakshi's animation.)In fact I've seen Bakshi's version perhaps more than 20 times, so many times maybe even more than 40! Now if that's not a recommendation, I don't know what is!! "},{"Title":"Even unfinished it's far, far superior to Jackasson's travesty","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" See the summary line. As far as it proceeds, it's a much more faithful adaptation of the books, not prone to introducing the diluted, self-amused tamperings of a lackluster writer-director. Much of Tolkien's dialog, character motivation, and story-pacing are retained, none of which can be said of Jackasson's trite, my-first-big-film foray. The only thing the more recent adaptation has to recommend it over Bakshi's animated version is pretty live cinematography. Even so, the rotoscoped orcs and other forces of evil are far creepier than the rubber grotesqueries of Jackasson's juvenile invention.The result is that Bakshi's version, while far from perfect, keeps much more of the true feel of the books for devoted readers than does the mega out-hollywoods-Hollywood clunkalong. Only thing I still can't figure out is why they changed Saruman's name to Aruman. "},{"Title":"Hopelessly confused","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ralph Bakshi had a good idea--do The Lord of the Rings trilogy as three separate animated films. Back in 1978 it would have been impossible to do this live action. I saw it in a theatre in 1978 with my brother and some friends. I had just read The Hobbit but never the trilogy--my friends have never read any of it. We did like it and it made sense at first--but the film slowly got more and more confused as it went on. For whatever reason Bakshi did the first book AND half of the second book. Trying to cram all that into a film only a little over two hours was unwise (to say the least). Characters were introduced at light speed and the story barreled ahead full force never stopping to explain events or plot. By the end we were all totally lost and couldn't figure out what was happening. A woman in front of us had read all the books beforehand. She said they ruined it afterwords and urged us to read the books instead. It's a good thing we got that incredible trilogy all those years later live action. This is, at best, a curiosity item. The animation IS good but the story is impossible to follow and it ends very abruptly. Animation fans might want to take a look but it's not really worth it. "},{"Title":"Bakshi's Bumpy Road to Mordor","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" One wonders why an animator with a wise-cracking, New York sensibility like Ralph Bakshi wanted to tackle Tolkien. After all, Bakshi gave us such gritty, urban comedy dramas as Heavy Traffic and Coonskin. Even Wizards, his warm up to Lord of the Rings, squeezed in plenty of bawdy New Yawk types, including a cigar-chomping wizard and goblin warriors who sounded like they were straight out of Brooklyn. Perhaps he wanted to stretch himself by tackling a book that most other film-makers (including, supposedly, Walt Disney) deemed unfilmable. Or maybe he just thought that making Rings would be like printing money--all the Tolkien geeks would see it three or four times, right? What ever Bakshi's reasons, the result was a wildly uneven, sometimes interesting movie.Take Bakshi's use of rotoscoping (tracing characters from a live-action film). He mixes rotoscoped characters rather liberally with fully animated characters. Sometimes, it's effective--for example, when Frodo puts on the ring of power and enters the world of the Black Riders and their master, Sauron. The rotoscoped Riders do, indeed, look ghostly--as though they're from another dimension--and the effect is quite creepy. (Peter Jackson picked up on this in his version of Rings.) But when Baskhi rotoscopes a large crowd, as in a tavern scene, it looks like a cheap way to, well, animate a large crowd, or an out take from Yellow Submarine, and the movie suffers. The battle scenes are especially bad. The massive orc army in the climatic battle at Helms Deep, with its ape-like figures in what seem to be bearskins and hobo masks, looks like something Terry Gillam whipped up for an episode of Monty Python.The character design is erratic, too. Gandalf the Gray looks about right, but the old wizard, with his pointed hat and staff, is a fairly easy figure to visualize. Aragorn, the tortured king without a throne, is captured well as a scruffy, yet regal ranger. The hobbits all, unfortunately, look alike, except for Frodo's good friend Sam (he resembles Buddy Hackett, while the others look like Bobby Sherman). The tragic Boromir looks like the mascot of the Minnesota Vikings, and the elves would fit in well on Star Trek as Vulcans. Gimli, the dwarf, in his overalls and slouched hat, seems to be in search of Snow White (perhaps this is a sly wink at Disney).The design of the orcs is laughable, but that may have been the idea--they are a bunch of bumbling idiots, for the most part. They look like Fred Flintstone with tusks and horned hats. Barney Rubble could take these guys.If Bakshi had been a bit more restrained with his rotoscoping by using it only for the evil characters while fully animating the good characters, this would've been a much better movie. The voice work is good (although the hobbits come off as a bit fey), and the screenplay is a reasonably decent adaptation of Tolkien's complex novel (well, half of it, at least). Bakshi fans will want to check it out. Tolkien fans will want to stay away. "},{"Title":"WHY NO SEQUEL!","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have heard so many negative reviews, its very tempting for me to dislike this movie.  Except for one little problem with that... THE MOVIE'S GREAT!I admit, he shouldnt have left out so much.  Also, I thought Aragorn, Legolas, and maybe Sam could've been done better.However, I remember loving this movie every time I watched it even when I was a little kid.  All the hobbits(except maybe Sam), Gandalf, Boromir, Gimli, and Galadriel are done very well.  The Balrog is ok.  The wraiths and orcs are excellent(sorry I guess I'm not sophisticated enough to be outraged by the horrible pseudo-animation of the film).  I remember being genuinely scared after seeing the wraiths and orcs.  Obviously there was room for improvement, but overall I was entertained by this movie; it made be get interested in the LOTR trilogy.Would that there had been a sequel! "},{"Title":"Probably OK as a Tolkien-intro for Pre-teens","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Another reviewer suggested that this film would be a great intro into the Tolkien world for young children, and I would qualifiedly agree, though Rankin-Bass' cloyingly saccharine Return of the King might be better for that age group.  Other reviewers have pointed out that from an adult perspective this film is laughable, and this also cannot be denied.  As someone who both loves animation and, like so many Tolkien fans, was bitterly disappointed to see this film debut in 1978, I would now like to gas on a bit about Ralph Bakshi, The Lord of the Rings (LotR), and filmmaking.Ralph Bakshi has always been a filmmaker who was prepared to take risks, and his output is always wildly over-the-top.  Anyone who feels THIS film is terrible should try to sit through the Rankin-Bass 'completion' of the story.  Heavy-handed, predictable and unimaginative, the competent but uninspired Arthur Rankin and Jules Bass turn Tolkien into a joyless morality play.  Laugh or fume, you won't turn away from Bakshi!  However...Bakshi mixed traditional animation with rotoscoping (tracing over live-action images, then animating them) effectively in his 1976 fantasy film, Wizards.  Rotoscoping was used carefully in Wizards, and to save time and money Bakshi also often interspersed animation with scenes where the camera simply moved across a still picture, with voice-over narration.  The story rambled, character development was non-existent, and other criticisms could be made, but basically Wizards succeeded as a film.  It was carefully organized and shot on budget, with a clever use of money-saving shortcuts.  Why couldn't Bakshi have done the same thing here?One of my favorite films is Ken Russell's Lair of the White Worm.  That film bears little resemblance to Bram Stoker's book; the director has ruthlessly cut elements away, changed the characters, updated the setting, and completely reorganized the story.  The result is a howling success!  Like other tomes such as Moby Dick or The Remembrance of Things Past, LotR is a vast warehouse of ideas.  A successful film treatment of such works requires a ruthlessly imaginative adherence to the basic principles of movie storytelling.  "},{"Title":"You gotta be in the Mood","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It seems as if many defenses for this film has to do with the limitations of the director but I'm gonna run on the notion that you shouldn't rate films on their intentions but on what they accomplished and so I would have to say this is a movie deeply flawed but worth a look.  First off, I think this movie is a prime example why a book should be adapted (ie. altered somewhat) when made into a movie.  I thought the book was great but that doesn't mean I want to see a cliff-notes version of it reenacted.  There is almost nothing in this movie that isn't in the book but the plot doesn't make sense, many of the lines contradict what happens in the movie and for those who were angry about the character changes in the Jackson film, none of the characters are developed here.  I actually like the rotoscoping in the film but there doesn't seem to be any consistency to it.  Characters are animated in some scenes and rotoscoped in others.  If only the orcs and Nazgul were Rotoscoped it would have been much better.  The skirts are distracting as is the horrible look of Sam.  I must confess though this film holds a specia l place in the memories of my childhood.  There is something interesting with its stark imagery and dark tone. I don't think that was the tone of the books though and have to say that with all it's changes, Peter Jackson kept most of important themes from the book in a way that this more faithful movie did not.  Lastly, I'd like to say that I do like this Gollum and his Sneakin' exchange with Sam and Frodo still makes me laugh.  Classic.  "},{"Title":"An astonishing achievement by any standards..","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This must be the all-time greatest animated adaption of a major novel. I was blown away the first time I saw Bakshi's brilliant movie. I had never read the Tolkien books. The Lord Of The Rings sounded to me like some ancient tome I would have to find in musty book shops.. The movie made me want to read the books and so I did but always with the movie in mind.. The most memorable scenes in the movie are those with the Ringwraiths. They are completely and utterly chilling and un-nerving! The various styles of animation only enhance their menace along with the weird sounds they make. Peter Jackson will have to go some way if he wants his ringwraiths to match Bakshi's for sheer terror! The tv trailer for the new movie emphasises the horror aspect. Well I would think parts of Bakshi's version are too disturbing for kids! Bakshi most certainly HAD read the novel and was very faithful to the plot. No less a highbrow mag than Films Illustrated gave the movie a top rating and said  Bakshi's movie captures the full mythic sweep and power of Tolkiens story. The range of expressions on the characters faces and depth of emotion is amazing for an animated movie from 78. Its all here folks,the humour,the horror,the tragedy and triumph.. I've just seen the movie again on video and its better than ever!  "}{"Title":"Fantastic Peace of Filmaking","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Disney had the rights for years, but did nothing with them. Kubrick tried and failed. John Boorman even built sets, but he fared no better. Peter Jackson is currently trying--but his production has put off WAY into the future. Yet in 1978, a relatively unknown X-rated animator was able to put Tolkien's classic tale to film. Backed by producer Sault Zantz (THE ENGLISH PATIENT), Ralph Bakshi was able to create an amazingly real and faithful production of THE LORD OF THE RINGS. Despised by Hollywood Mega Studio's, Bakshi was attacked for his use of Rotoscoping (tracing live people for action scences). While this technique makes Bakshi's Middle Earth a complete delight, his budget was soon pulled and so only half a movie was ever made. Yet what a half it is. Grand in scope, beautifully drawn, and terrifying at every turn, Bakshi will be remembered for this achievement well into the millennium. Available to rent only, Zantz has pulled any copies that were for sale.  "},{"Title":"The best Interpretation so far....","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have read half these comments from people who say that the film is uneven and rubbish and they have no idea what they are talking about From the grand opening music to the effective narrative of the story of the ring to the actual story itself the film displays the ultimate battle between the forces of good and evil in a world that is as beautiful and that is harsh From the noblest frodo aragon to the vile gollum to the unrelenting the dark riders to the corruptible, saramon to the tempted,boramir and bilbo to the innocent samwise this film captures the spirit and essence of the books and is the sole reason i read the books in the first place.Me and my friends was watching it again months ago two had n't seen the film before but were transfixed from beginning to end which to me is a testament to the books and the film as well.The battles are believable because the struggle of life and death is portrayed quite well and certain characters sacrifices make it more emotional to the final victory at the end.There are elements missing from the book but that does not make it bad as you guys seem to think.As long as it captures the spirit of the original material is what's important and Baski's lord of the rings does this to great effect.The animation techniques employed in this film from traditional cel animation to rotoscoping and special effects make this a wonderful and sometimes eerie film visually and atmosphere from the wonderful score is nothing short on excellent.    "},{"Title":"Worth a look","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you have read the books then forget the characters that Tolkien built in your head. The representation of hobbits, dwarves etc have had the 'disney' treatment. The dark riders are excellent, and as I had always imagined from the books.Cinematically this is an excellent film, mixing live motion and animation to produce amazing effects for the year. I only wish he (Bakshi) had been given the money to complete his epic.It's worth having the video as they will be worth a bit after the 2001 Lord of the Rings !! "},{"Title":"No way near as bad as everyone is making out!","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For Gods sake the Lord of the Rings was christ-knows how many pages long. How was it supposed to be turned into a word for word animation?! Even if Bahkshi had been 100% faithful to the book there still would have been complaints that the way the characters were drawn were nothing like the way readers imagined them. A book like Lord of the Rings is almost impossible to film satisfactorily because it has such a HUGE following and everyone had their own opinion of what it should be like. The animation was groundbreaking for its time and added an certain, dread-filled and stylish atmosphere to the film. What did you want? Disney? The fact that the film stops half way through the story is admittedly a fault but not of the film itself (however i'd agree with statements that say it's overlong because it is.... but then so is the book). The actors used to voice the characters were wonderfully authentic (esp.Hurt) and niggling quibbles aside (the 'Aruman' thing) this is an entertaining and worthwhile film for fans of the book. To be honest i don't think you can favourably compare any book and subsequent film. The mediums are too different. "},{"Title":"A good film of a great trilogy","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to be honest - this is the film that got me into books.  I fell instantly in love with the world, the characters and the amazing, un-nerving animation.If you love the books, you will love the film. If you don't love the books, you will still enjoy a great story. Don't listen to the controversy hype - it's utter nonsense. I will admit that some interesting characters have been cut, but the film is still complete, still enjoyable, and still oozes atmosphere. Kids will love it! "},{"Title":"This is one of the most underrated animated films of all time.","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is for TRUE JRR Tolkien fans and TRUE animation fans.    Bakshi did not have the money to do a lot of the things that he originally wanted to do in the movie.  Also people seem to forget the fact that the trilogy is a DENSE and LONG (but not boring) trilogy.  Even in the upcoming new movies they will NOT!!!!!!! be able to do the whole story.  Things will always be cut out and condensed.  In my opinion Bakshi did a wonderful job of giving us an overall sense of middle earth and who these wonderful characters and what they were about.  For those of you who put this film down, YOU KNOW NOT OF WHAT YOU SPEAK.  This was a faithful adaptation.  It was beautiful animation and the rotoscoping actually gave some interesting effects. This is no different that the technology of some computer animation out there. Some of the wonderful computer graphics are done in a similar way, or have all of you forgotten that??????Please anyone a fan of Tolkien put aside your misgivings and view this film for what it is -- a wonderful glimpse into a fantasy world.  An overall feeling that you are in middle earth with these great characters. "},{"Title":"Fantastic piece of filmmaking","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Disney had the rights for years, but did nothing with them.  Kubrick tried and failed.  John Boorman even built sets, but he fared no better.  Peter Jackson is currently trying--but his production has put off WAY into the future.  Yet in 1978, a relatively unknown X-rated animator was able to put Tolkien's classic tale to film.  Backed by producer Sault Zantz (THE ENGLISH PATIENT), Ralph Bakshi was able to create an amazingly real and faithful production of THE LORD OF THE RINGS.  Despised by Hollywood Mega Studio's, Bakshi was attacked for his use of Rotoscoping (tracing live people for action scences).  While this technique makes Bakshi's Middle Earth a complete delight, his budget was soon pulled and so only half a movie was ever made.  Yet what a half it is.  Grand in scope, beautifully drawn, and terrifying at every turn, Bakshi will be remembered for this achievement well into the millennium.  Available to rent only, Zantz has pulled any copies that were for sale.   "},{"Title":"Jackson vs. Bakshi","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Am I the only one who, after seeing Peter Jackson's version, thought that it was *quite* possible that he watched *this* version first, and based his movie on it?? There's just some scenes (like most of them) that look like the real-life versions of the animated....... especially Fellowship. Which brings me to another point. Is it true that this animated movie was actually filmed in real-time, and then the cells were drawn over, effectively animating them? Just trying to consolidate a maybe-rumour........ Mind you, I'm sure the answers to this question are contained *somewhere* online...... but then again, all answers are... anyhow, FAR superior to the Return of the King followup by a complately different artist... "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie regardless...","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have read comments that say the movie was terrible, and that the animation was terrible. I would say that the animation was great and that the movie dealt with the book as well as it could have. There are even parts in this film that i found to be better than in the Peter Jackson movies.People cant forget that this movie was made in 1978 and it was a particular style of animation. Alot of people would say Japenese anime is terrible looking.. but it has a cult following. So to say the animation is  bad is not fair.The only thing I am not happy about is the fact that the production crew ran out of money and could not finish the film. Ending at Helms Deep was unfortunate as I would have loved to see how Bakshi would have ended his version.  "},{"Title":"unfair Bakshi/Jackson comparisons","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There's only one way to fairly compare Bakshi's version to Peter Jackson's films on the decisions each made while making their films, not on thinks like budget, or time constraints. Bakshi gets bashed on this site for things that were not his fault. He didn't even want his film released until it was done, but the contributors forced it to be. Jackson basically had leave to do anything he wanted, while Bakshi had to make his film with his hands tied. When you judge each film maker based on the things they both could control, you find out which film maker did the better job. Bakshi did as much with his very limited resources as anyone could have. The sad thing is that Jackson had the resources to tell Tolkien's story as well as it could be told on film, but he waisted the chance. Instead he chose to rewrite the story in order to add things that would appeal to a mass audience (like a love triangle and action movie-style fight scenes). I can see why people think that Jackson's version is more entertaining, but that's largely due special effects, technology, and the fact that he changed Tolkien's story to suit his whims whenever he saw fit. Bakshi showed a far greater respect to Tolkien's story (even if he made changes to names, pronunciations, and couldn't complete it) than does Jackson. The irony is that Jackson borrowed from the Bakshi version quite a bit. The scenes that were omitted, the order of the story telling, and that scene with the four hobbits hiding under the tree root from the Black Rider is positively stolen. I guess you could say that by today's standards Jackson's version may be more entertaining, but Bakshi's version is a far better (and more respectful) representation of Tolkien's books. "}{"Title":"A sad story","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie and was really disappointed. Not because Bakshi's version was not a good one. I thought it was great. I was disappointed because I had thought that Peter Jackson had done great original work with his treatment of the subject. Now that I saw Ralph Bakshi's version I realized that Jackson looted Bakshi's film in the most shameless, preposterous and highly unprofessional manner. There were so many scenes taken directly from the Bakshi movie that I could not believe such thing happened. The beginning narrating the events associated with the forging of the rings and the last alliance, the falling of the ring from Golum's hand, the presentation of the hobit houses with their round windows and doors, the Bilbo speech at the party, the flow of the adaptation omitting the Tom Bombandil events, the first encounter with the black rider, the idea of presenting the events discussed at the council of Elrod (such as the imprisonment of Gandalf at Isengard) in their correct chronological order, the Moria and Argonath scenes, the parallel telling of the stories of Frodo/Sam and Aragorn/Gimpli/Legolas after the breaking of the fellowship etc... were all ideas taken from Bakshi's film.Now, since there is no single acknowledgement for Bakshi's efforts by the makers of the new films, I am filled with sadness for their attitude. More disappointing are the comments made by viewers who compare the two films without thinking that the first was the basis for the other. Jackson's film looks so nice. Why doesn't he give credit to the film his picture is heavily based upon?     "},{"Title":"more faithful to Tolkien","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film a bit of an oddity. For those not familiar with the books, this version may be a struggle. The eternal problem of cramming the scope and majesty of the books into a 2+ hour film, is one that both this and Jacksons version have to contend with. As such you are bombarded with backstory information at the beginning. Coupled with this is the speed in which the narrative progresses. The film moves through is 132min duration in a heady rush, with the subtlies of the books being lost.But for me the conundrum is this - I prefer this version. Although highly stylized, I like the animation. It's not a realistic interpretation of the Tolkien landscape, but i don't think that it was Bakshi's aim - rather, I think, to capture essence and tone of the various stages of the journey through middle earth. For example, when the Hobbits and Aragorn are being pursued by the Black Riders. The landscape seems to reflect their fears and apprehensions, the horror of the pursuit of the Nazgul . This happens all through the film.The narrative is also closer in tone to the books than Jacksons film. Although whole sequences from the books are lost (The Old Forest and Barrow Downs for example), all the main events are included. Unlike Jackson, Bakshi, does'nt feel the need to change the dialogue of Tolkien, or to constantly push the Hobbits as central and pivotal characters.My main bone of contention with Jacksons film is Gandalf. As good as McKellan is in the role, Jackson has turned him from the Strong, wise, commanding, demi-god (Maiar for those who know the Silmarillion)that he is in the books, to a rather confused, bumbling servant. (See the first interaction between Gandalf and Saruman in Jacksons film and compare it to the same scene in Bakshi's version)The Music is another irritant in Jacksons film. I like Irish music, but I think music in film should enhance the emotional content on the screen. I felt rather underwhelmed by Howard Shore's score. Whereas Leonard Rosenmans soundtrack provides a superb complement to the on screen action (Listen to the Black Rider sequences).Now ill admit the The new version is a better all round film, with some fantastic set-pieces, as well as more coherent storyline. For those unfamiliar with the books (an thus unable to fill in the blanks) I would recommend Jacksons film first, But if like me you want a more faithful Tolkien experience, and you can put with some ropey animation, then this is the film for you.  "},{"Title":"Rotoscoped Concentrated Evil","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Bakshi did the world of animation a terrible disservice when he decided to tackle the grandeur that is Tolkien's The Lord of The Ring.  He took the first half of the book (3 out of 6 in terms of books, it is normally broken up into a trilogy of The Fellowship of The Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of The King) and attempted to fit it into just over an hour and a half film.  There is no character development here, and Tolkien virgins will surely be lost as to just what a wide scope the author had attempted.  With no explanation as to just how crucial the journey of Frodo is, the viewer is rushed through the high points of the story; elements such as the friendships of the four hobbits, Aragorn's (Strider, the ranger) background, Boromir's inner struggle, and Gandalf's constant and undying love are non-existent.  And it only worsens as the film progresses!The battle of Helm's Deep is so butchered it is almost unbearable to watch, let alone comment on.  This is where the Rotoscoping really goes overboard - at this point in the film it is almost as though Bakshi has completely given up (such a shame he didn't, this would have done far less harm had it never been finished).  The battle is as lackluster as they come... it is difficult at times to tell which side we are watching, and Bakshi keeps the presence of Aragorn, Gimili, and Legolas to a minimum for some appallingly stupid reason. And yet again, the viewer is rushed through the storyline - there is little if any explanation as to whom Theoden is, let alone his motives in this battle.  Eomer, Eowyn, and Grima Wormtongue are mere fixtures rather than critical characters in the development of the journey.This is surely a film to be missed on all accounts (unless of course you want to truly understand what a blessing Peter Jackson is to the film community).  Tolkien fans and virgins alike will find fault in nearly all Bakshi has done here... YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED! "},{"Title":"read me","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" this, although edited, is by far the purist adaptation of Tolkien masterworks. and I'm sorry to be bigoted but if you do not think so you have no grasp on the original book and/or are ignorant beyond measure, having been o'overwhelmed by Hollywood tripe. the voice acting is so potent in this film that it makes my hair stand on end each time i watch it and the animation still stands up today to any stylised, corner-cutting, contemporary dross that Disney or Pixar create. it also puts to shame the recent Hollywood's, fat boy Jackson adaptations that really make me cringe and oscillate down to my very foundations each time someone speaks of them. Ralph Bakshi, i love you and thank you sincerely for this magical rendition. p.s john hurt the voice of Aragorn is forever yours. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Piece of Filmaking","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Disney had the rights for years, but did nothing with them. Kubrick tried and failed. John Boorman even built sets, but he fared no better. This is what film-historians remember before Peter Jackosn Made the 3 greatest films of all time. Yet in 1978, a relatively unknown X-rated animator was able to put Tolkien's classic tale to film. Backed by producer Sault Zantz (THE English PATIENT), Ralph Bakshi was able to create an amazingly real and faithful production of THE LORD OF THE RINGS. Despised by Hollywood Mega Studio's, Bakshi was attacked for his use of Rotoscoping (tracing live people for action scenes). While this technique makes Bakshi's Middle Earth a complete delight, his budget was soon pulled and so only half a movie was ever made. Yet what a half it is. Grand in scope, beautifully drawn, and terrifying at every turn, Bakshi will be remembered for this achievement well into the millennium. "},{"Title":"Way better then the new Lord of the Rings movies.","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Directed by Ralph Bakshi in 1978, Lord of the Rings is based on the JRR Tolkien book of the same name. It contains both books, which the third movie was scrapped due to lack of funding.The movie basically follows the book, with a few little snips here and their.The animation is typical Ralph Bakshi style. It also uses rotoscoping, but unlike Wizards, the rotoscopes actually make contact with the characters.I prefer this movie too Peter Jacksons movies, because those are way to long drawn out and boring. "},{"Title":"Cool but shame it wasn't completed","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" OK so comparing this to the brand new LOTR trilogy is a little bit unfair (as most movies pale in comparison let alone a 70's semi-animated unfinished movie) so i won't bother. I remember this little flick from when i was a kid and it's stuck in my mind all these years. The animation is decent and yes the coloured up real life scenes could be better but it does deserve some praise as there wasn't really anything (film wise) before this about LOTR and it tells the story quite well. For what it is it's good but nobody can expect to fit that much detail from the book in to an animated movie especially a non-Disney one. It is a shame it wasn't completed, i hate loose ends but it's definitely worth a watch and is a nice little part of the LOTR collection. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Terrible.","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I cant describe how terrible this movie is. Am i the only one here who finds the way its animated totaly disgusting? The Men of Rohan look 100% fake with their poorly colored hair, that doesnt even come close to matching what the actors look like. The orcs looked terrible. Why does gandalf walk with a bad limp? Why cant they pronounce things correctly? Saruman isnt Aruman. There were other what sounded like terrible pronounciation*sp* of Tolkiens characters. All and all im glad the studio who made this pulled the plug out from the sequal, it was just a terrible terrible adaptaion. Go watch the hobbit cartoon for a better cartoon of Tolkiens work. Hell, even the cartoon version of ROTK is better then this dribble.  2/10  "},{"Title":"No, not the eyes!!!!","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Right then. It's fun now and again to really vent your spleen, and happily this utter travesty of Tolkien's masterpiece (yes I am a fan) has given me the chance. While I may not have enjoyed the film I can at least make myself feel good here.While the film has many problems, I feel I can sum them up in three, that is to say the visualisations of the characters, the hatchet work on the plot (this includes the pronunciations), and the baddies.First, the characters. I don't think a single character looks even slightly like I imagined. Or even like what the book actually usefully describes them as looking like. Gandalf the Grey is blue, Saruman the White is red, Boromir...????, the elves either look like, well, men, or bizzare alien entities (c.f. Legolas) but worst have to be the hobbits. I suppose Frodo, Merry and Pippin aren't *too* bad (despite the colossal hair) but no treatment of any character in any film ever has been as cruel as that meted out to poor old Samwise. He appears to be the genetically mutated offspring of Worzel Gummidge and some horses. Sam, as you (and of course Bakshi) should know, if you have so much as glanced at the book, is a stalwart companion and, some might say, the true hero of the story, not a freakish gap-toothed bumpkin yokel who appears to have been run over by at least three cars.Next. What happened to the plot. Admittedly it's gotta be difficult to squash it all into two-and-a-bit hours (which raises the question of why you're doing it in the first place) but removing anything that's salient to what's actually happening in the film while dropping in a few hints about Beren and Luthien in order to give the impression that you've read all the background is really a little bit inexcusable. And worst of all, I've heard some people complain about replacing Glorfindel with another background character, Arwen, in the new version (which I think is really rather good) but replacing him with Legolas is just evil.And last, the baddies. Far less fearsome than Sam (by quite some way the scariest character in the film), each of the types of villain appears to have been the victim of its own special mauling. The ringwraiths (which I'd heard before, from otherwise reliable sources, were actually OK in this film) appear to be zombified for no real reason and have (gnnnnnnnnnrrrrrrrrr) red eyes. Red Eyes. Sorry, having read the book and all that's round about the worst thing anyone could have done when animating them. The Orcs are really poor, that is to say people, in some cases with bags on their heads, have been shaded green and someone has very shakily drawn on, in pure white, some fangs. And finally the Balrog. Uncontrollable laughter is NOT supposed to be the response to a foul demon of the first age.All in all, the worst murdering of any artistic product I've been witness to since I heard the Coors' version of Everybody Hurts. "},{"Title":"What was he thinking?","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ralph Bakshi was not what I would call a great animator. He had the distinction of injecting his movies with adult elements. The deftness and production savvy needed to create a passable adaptation of LotR was not to be found in a person who heavily used rotoscoping and Filmation quality animation. The movie had many inconsistent and distracting details throughout.The first half of the film is actually not bad. The characterizations of everyone (except Sam) deserve a nod. One well done moment includes the reaction of Gandalf as he realizes what the password is to get into Moria. But that does not help the film enough.The elves are doe-eyed and distracting, looking super-bright in the night scenes. Something about Galadriel seems pretentious and unapproachable. The rich splendour of Caras Galadon is never really explored. And the elvish singing is just plain annoying.Then, the movie starts to get worse ...From the oddly Scandinavian depiction of the Rohirrim to the ridiculous and obviously evil looking Grima, the poor production design is further revealed. Treebeard looks quite the cartoon item, while the orcs are too vague to stay interesting.And then, there's the Battle of Helm's Deep. My God, is this incoherent and ridiculous. The events that filled in the last ten minutes are so incomprehensible that I challenge anyone to make enough sense of it to include in a motion picture.Read the books. Wait for Peter Jackson's epic. Avoid this ... attempt at telling the LotR story. It's not to be viewed seriously. I really mean it! "}{"Title":"loved it","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  every time i watch this movie i get engrossed and wish i was in middle-earth...always takes me away ..esp the mines of moria.. the animation is superb and neat..i was 13 and saw it in limited release on the big screen.i think they should re-release it .. now that millions have read the books ,it may be hard to comprehend if you haven't read em but just sit back and enjoy the ride .. most people who would go see it have read the books .i always kept hoping that bakshi would make a sequel to finish the trilogy. maybe someday someone else will do it to make up for the awful rankin/bass animated return of the king...can't wait for the live action trilogy,1st one suppossed to be out next year sometime... "},{"Title":"My (probably biased) opinion of Lord of the Rings!","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Stunning Animated film, My opinion probably is slightly biased as I LOVE Fantasy.  The Books are brilliant too, I loved them as a child, and I still do now as an adult.  I think the animations are great, the actors/actresses voices suit the characters, the music is tense and gives the film a great atmosphere. I could watch this film over and over again, Unfortunately I don`t own a copy. I have read some of the other comments on this film, the opinions are a mixed bad, I suppose it`s a case of HORSES FOR COURSES. I love Lord of the Rings and I can`t wait for the Film version to appear (hopefully very soon!) "},{"Title":"This movie can be summed up in one word'Crap'","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I grew up being a very avid fan of the Lord of the Rings.  Then I found out, when I was in high school, that someone had actually made a movie, I simply had to rush out and rent it.  Yikes!  I was expecting animation along the lines of The Hobbit,  instead I got Bakshi's whacked out 'Wizards-esh' funky 70's animation.  The drawings for the main characters left something to be desired (hrmm... was Aragorn wearing a tunic or a sundress???).The story itself was severely butchered, the party's interaction with Eomer and the Riders of Rohan was extremely abridged.  I know some of you out there are thinking, yeah, yeah, yeah, bruce86, it's a movie, it'll never be as good as the book, but if you're going to try to make a film adaption of such a well known and cherished book, I HOPE you would try to stick as close to the story line and away from artistic license as possible.I believe the only reason people rated this movie so high is because we are all starved for Tolkien movies.  This is pretty much all we've had available to us for years.  I can't wait until the 'live action' films come out-- that way I can hopefully forget this version of LOtR ever existed.  "},{"Title":"Very...Amusing","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" All my life I've been LOTR fan. When I was ten I loved the Hobbit, and I saw Bashki's LOTR once, and I loved it. Of course, I had had no other movies to really compare it to. I never really read the books until a year before Jackson's Fellowship came out. After reading the books, and seeing Jackson's, my sister and I were curious as to how much we remembered correctly of Baski's LOTR. So, we checked it out from the library. The animation techniques were...interesting, to say the least. The orcs were much like the sand people of the Star Wars trilogy. The character animation really left much to be desired. My sister and I laughed uproariously during the council of Elrond. And who wouldn't? The council was composed of a garden gnome (Gimli), Peter Pan (Legolas), a Native American (Aragorn), Ceasar (Elrond), along with the expressionless hobbits. Overall, I found the movie...Amusing. Nothing really was frightening about the balrog even!(It looked like the Lion King, wearing bunny slippers.) "},{"Title":"Good for a laugh, if nothing else.","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I must admit, I have never read the books that this film is based on, but I know almost everything about them, and I have a habit of taking issue with films that take gross liberties with the plot. Sometimes, I'll forgive the film if it is well done, as I did with the preliminary script for Holes done by the director/screenwriter for Donnie Darko. But is this a good film? Absolutely not, I'm afraid. The plot resembled a certain ethnic cheese. For example Elrond says that on the one hand they cannot destroy the ring, but on the other hand, they cannot keep it. They must take it Mount Doom where it was made, he say, but he never says that that is the only place it can be unmade, and based on what he said he said before, those who do not know this detail will think that nothing can be done to destroy it. So, once they take it to Mount Doom, what are they going to do with it? File it away in some curio cabinet? As for audio/visual, the film is a disappointing mixed bag. The music is intrusive and overblown, and the several of the vocals sound oddly -reptillian, resembling the gravelly, high-pitched voices omnipresent in the dubs of Sergio Leone films. The film switches from traditional animation to rotoscope so often it is nausea-inducing. The all-roto orcs are seriously disturbing to look at. Here are a few memorable weak spots Boromir, in his final confrontation with the Uruk-Hai, takes three arrows TO THE HEART, yet battles on. Two arrows later, he decides to expire. Sam, who has become oddly effeminate, makes eyes at Frodo when Aragon tells them the story of Beren and the elf woman who's name eludes me. The Rohirrim And The Orcs decide to have a slow-paced, one-sided life-size (my apologizes to hyphen haters out there.) chess match in place of a traditional battle, in which the orcs allow a lone horseman pick them off for a while... until he gets too close. Then the gloves come off. Gandalf, when he shows up to end Helm's Deep, goes Tarantino on the Uruk's sorry hides. He slashes their heads off, and at that minute, their hearts decide to work overtime to pump blood out of their bodies like a Roman fountain. A cute and cuddly Balrog that should have got it's own plushy toy. That said, rent this and chuckle at it. Don't expect anything else, though. "},{"Title":"Where did that two hours, 15 minutes of my life go?","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Some people don't like the animation. Personally, I think the animation was quite remarkable given when this movie was done. There are lots of older cartoons that I just love. My problems with this movie are not the animation, but basically the way it was constructed. The characters are all just... well, goofy. And for this movie, they shouldn't be. Apparently, everyone in LOTR has a limping problem (for starters.) Just the way they acted in general annoyed me. My two sisters and I were laughing through most of this movie. I think that if many people had seen this before seeing the newer ones, they wouldn't have gone. I'm glad I rented this and didn't buy it. There are few movies that give me a headache. This was one of them. However, this isn't the worst movie I've ever seen, although it ranks up there. Or down there, depending on your view. "},{"Title":"Not so great, even for it's time...","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I wasn't expecting this movie to be much more than a cartoon movie from 1978. I have no problem with primitive movies, and the word dated is meaningless to me where it comes to movies. I mean, newer animation movies aren't necessarily better than old movies I think, and sometimes that dated animation even has it's own charms. But I think this movie had some serious flaws that have nothing to do with it's year of origin, or the state of technology that was present and available at the time it was created.To begin with, a pity is of course the fact that although the crew's initial intention was to make a cartoon version of the *entire* trilogy, after the battle of Helm's Deep they ran out of money and decided to let the end credits roll down the screen. But I'm afraid this incompleteness is not the biggest flaw of this movie. Note I heard an even worse and rarely known sequel was made in the 80's, to cover the remaining part of the story.Let me go into a little more detail concerning my opinion on the movie as it exists, despite the incompleteness of it. There were a few things I surely liked about this movie. First of all the story of course (be it not completely covered), but I guess Tolkien should be credited for that and not the crew of this movie. Secondly, I like to see as many as possible interpretations of this great and beautiful world created by Tolkien, because I hate my imagination to become biased by any single interpretation of what any of the characters or locations look like. This movie is just another visual interpretation, and I like it for that, even regardless of quality. Third of all I liked the drawings (background, etc.), at times that is.Let me declare why I say at times The partially beautiful, colorful and charming cartoon parts in this movie are all too obviously interwoven by low-budget camera scenes of flesh and blood extras with a frequency that increases as you proceed through the movie into parts of the story with more action. Either to save money or because the crew thought this made the action scenes look cooler, the crew made the pittyful decision to record scenes of flesh and blood actors, and overlay them with a 4-color palette in a failed attempt to let these scenes match with the cartoon scenes. This could remind you of crossover movies like Who framed Roger Rabbit, but with this movie I assure it's totally different. Rather than a tasteful combination, in this case it's obviously a failed attempt to *hide* the fact that some parts aren't really drawn cartoon scenes. The with this is that these scenes are, mainly because of the 4-color-palette, so ugly they made me think that this is what it must look like when you're looking at reality through a thick layer of mud.Additional problem caused by this the result is that this movie is a mixture of two differnt styles that don't fit together at all in my opinion. To begin with, the cartoon parts are mostly beautiful and the other parts were, as I said, very ugly. But apart from that and maybe even more important, the stiffly moving but charming cartoon drawings of Gandalf and the hobbits just don't fit with the smoothly moving but awfully colored Nazgul or the Orcs, for instance. In comparison, those latter suddenly appear to have extremely un-cartoonish physics and locomotion which of course perfectly reveals the fact that you are looking at flesh and blood actors, even when through 4-color palette to make it look more primitive. Needless to say I preferred the stiffly moving but colorful animation of the cartoon parts.Another thing I really hate is the casting of the cartoon characters. It seems the drawers didn't spend a lot of time thinking about how they were gonna draw the characters. Aragorn looks extremely unfriendly and unsympathetic, more like a bully than like a mysterious but well-meaning stranger. Gandalf and Saruman look exactly alike which was very confusing. Boromir looks like a Dwarf, Elrond doesn't look like an Elf, Legolas looks kinda like an Orc with blond hair and Sam looks like a retard which I think is an insult to his very important character in the story. Frodo is at least one head taller than his three fellow Hobbits, which kept disturbing me, and at the end of the battle of Helm's Deep finally, it got even worse when what I assumed was Gandalf riding his horse, appeared to be Theoden.Conclusion As a devoted Tolkien fan, I really wanted to see this movie, and I'm glad I did. But I really feel no urge to view it again any time soon. As said and explained before, I think this movie has a lot of serious flaws that are not the result of that fact that it was made in 1978, little more than 25 years ago. "},{"Title":"Brilliant use of graphics","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The film as far as I know was ground breaking by air brushing live characters to make them appear as a cartoon.  The content stayed very close to Tolkien's books and it really was a pity that the whole trilogy could not have been finished.  I sometimes giggle to myself when I remember Gollum and his quaint way of speech.  me hates it, my precious. On The whole a very good film, one which I now have in my DvD collection thanks to the interest bought about with the imminent release of The Lord Of The Rings 2001. It will be interesting to see how Gollum will be portrayed in the new adaptation released here in a few days.  By the year 2003 the whole of Tolkien's books will have been put onto film and as far as reports I have read so far go it will out shine the even Star Wars Trilogy. "},{"Title":"Not altogether bad!","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In my opinion a very good stab at portraying the book.  Some scenes are extremely atmospheric, and the Moria sequences are just as one visualizes them in the mind.  Unfortunate that the film only runs to victory at the battle of Helm's Deep, but still an extremely watchable movie.  I wish I still had a copy!  "},{"Title":"Whoa... this movie is really BAD","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After seeing Peter Jackson' miraculously brilliant movie version of The Lord of the Rings, I had to finally see the much maligned 1978 animated version.Let me get this off my chest first. There are those out there who thinks that the movie is alright to watch, and there are those who still cannot get over the shock of seeing their beloved story being torn and shredded into little pieces. At first I thought, how bad can it be? But upon seeing this movie, I became a true believer. A believer that Ralph Bakshi had indeed turned a great novel into trash.For those who hasn't seen this movie and need recommendation, you just hav e to watch this movie just to understand why it has deserved so much criticism for all these years. First of all, the artwork is TERRIBLE and very, very inconsistent to the point where you think that Ralph Bakshi must have ran out of time and money to do a decent job. The movie combines characters that seemed naturally hand-animated with rotoscoped human beings that looked eerily real, it doesn't look like if it belongs there. Just imagine an artist blending surrealism with cubism into one canvas, or Walt Disney with Leonardo Da Vinci. Chaotic backgrounds is often depicted as rough paintbrushing work. Visually, this movie is a total mess.Now for the characterisations, which I'm afraid its no good either. Saruman is often pronounced as Aruman and he wears red and not white gown, and as a wizard who supposedly possess a beautiful and spellbinding voice, he sounded like a croaking frog. Gandalf is so theatrical its not funny, with his riverdance-esque spins and exaggerated hand-weaving gestures. Samwise Gamgee is being turned into such a coward, all he does is hug people when he gets scared (but unfortunately the other hobbits do the same thing) and instead of being down-to-earth and courageous, he is too effeminate and annoying, unlike his likeable novel counterpart. Aragorn wears Robin Hood's short skirt, Gimli is turned into a monstrously tall Dwarf, and Boromir is now a Scandinavian Viking sporting an awfully thick red beard. Why did the Nazguls limped at first but later on managed to walk normally? Also, there are a lot of bad editing, such as the fellowship suddenly arrived in front of Galadriel from Moria's exit without any transition shots of them travelling from one point to the next. The Balrog looked laughable as opposed to be striking fear into our hearts, and what's up with his growling? The Balrog is no zoo lion, and it does not growl! The soundtrack did not enhance any emotions or situations in the slightest bit, which doesn't help at all.There are some good, well-executed moments, but they are a rarity. This movie has too many flaws, and that is not good enough considering the mythical status of Tolkien's stories. Peter Jackson's version is billions of times more superior in every single way, and thank goodness we can all watch that one instead! "}{"Title":"The One Film, forged by the Dark Lord Bakshi","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Three words Oh. My. GOD. This is a godawful movie. I was laughing so hard, I was choking. What was up with only half of it actually being animated? Why did all the characters insist on waving their arms around constantly? Why didn't Aragorn have any pants? What's up with Boromir the Red? Why was Gimli modeled after Sneezy? Why did the Council of Elrond turn into a Middle-Earth toga party? Sam was so ugly, it wasn't even funny, AND, Frodo and Sam got waaaay to comfortable when Aragorn told them the story of Beren and Luthien. This movie was so bad, it was to the point where I was actually rooting for the men in gorilla masks -- err, I mean, orcs. Need I mention the fact that it only went to the middle of the Two Towers? Good for a laugh (a really, really big laugh), but not to be taken seriously. If you want a real Tolkein experience, look up Peter Jackson. "},{"Title":"Very good, if incomplete, version of Tolkein's masterpiece","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Yes, I know that people who have seen Peter Jackson's version insist that this version, assuming they have seen it at all, is vastly inferior in every way. And yes, I know this version of the story actually ends in the middle of the narrative. However, those points being granted, one has to acknowledge that Peter Jackson enjoyed several advantages that Ralph lacked, namely time and a budget. Peter Jackson had three years in which to complete his epic film trilogy, which was far more time than the amount of time Backshi was allotted. In addition it should be mentioned that Ralph Backshi produced his film on a budget of only $4 million, an amount which is dwarfed (or, perhaps one might more accurately say, hobbited) by the $281 million Peter Jackson spent producing his movie trilogy. For that reason, comparisons between the two versions are more than a little unfair. However, that being said, what Ralph Backshi did have in abundance was imagination and artistic skill. I'm sure there are those who will consider this heresy, but I think one might compare Ralph Backshi to Orson Welles in that none of the animated features that he directed ever really came out as well as he intended. Like Orson Welles, Ralph Backshi never seemed able to get sufficient financial backing to complete his movies as well as he originally visualized them. The 1970s was not a good period for animators, unless one had the backing of a huge studio like Disney, which Backshi certainly never did.So, if you watch this again, bear in mind that it was produced on what today would be considered a tiny financial budget. In fact, it appears that Backshi was so strapped for cash that he was never even able to finish more than the first part. Like Eisenstein's Ivan the Terrible, Ralph Backshi's Lord of the Rings remains unfinished. "},{"Title":"An epic animated adventure, left unfinished","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If it weren't for Peter Jackson's ambitious live action Lord of the Rings trilogy in the early 2000s, Ralph Bakshi's 1978 animated epic would be the definitive screen adaptation of J.R.R. Tolkein's fantasy saga.Having never read Tolkein's books, my understanding of The Lord of the Rings came from Peter Jackson's films, and it's surprising how similar this earlier animated version is. Besides following the same storyline, some visual designs and many of the shots are very similar. It's almost as if Jackson used Bakshi's film as a guide for his storyboards, unless the images come from Tolkein's descriptions or the books' illustrations.Bakshi's THE LORD OF THE RINGS is an ambitious undertaking, condensing the first two books of the series into a single epic animated feature. And while many directors considered Tolkein's story impossible to film in live action (until Jackson pulled it off), Bakshi's film is actually largely live action itself. The animation makes heavy use of rotoscoping, i.e., drawing over live action reference footage to capture lifelike movement. In fact, most of the film tries to blend animation with live action footage, with some characters completely animated and others (usually the gruesome orcs) barely filtered live action. And there are times (usually the action scenes) when characters are clearly colorized live action footage, or they sort of phase between animation and live action.It seems like rotoscoping was used as a shortcut, to save the animators the pain and agony of hand-drawing an army of beastly orcs frame-by-frame. And perhaps as a way to capture realistic motion (with flowing capes and lots of running hither and thither). The blending of animation and rotoscoping/live action yields mixed results, but it doesn't get in the way of telling the story.Bakshi's film is not dumbed down for the kiddies. It's dark and violent and, I imagine, faithful to the spirit of Tolkein's work. Of course that's not to say that kids can't enjoy the movie. The tone seems just right and the adventure tale is as captivating as ever.I was very interested to see this animated LORD OF THE RINGS and as I watched it I was impressed by how the film manages to cover most of the important scenes and include most of the important characters I remember from the Peter Jackson trilogy. At the time I was expecting Bakshi's THE LORD OF THE RINGS to fit all three books into a single film, clocking in at just a little over two hours. I was curious to see how he'd done it. But to my surprise, the movie leaves things up in the air with a sense of to be continued. Apparently the third book, The Return of the King, was going to be filmed as Part Two, but such a film never materialized. So the movie we're left with only covers two-thirds of the saga, ending after the battle at Helm's Deep with Frodo and Sam still on their way to Mount Doom. The story of the One Ring is never concluded and Gollum's devious plot is never realized.The film is quite enjoyable, bringing Tolkein's fantasy tale to life, but it ends rather abruptly with empty promises of more adventure to come. "},{"Title":"A decent interpretation and easy to admire","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Lord of the Rings is viewed as the grandfather of all fantasy literature, so trying to fit such a work into a 2 hour animated piece was always going to be a mighty struggle. If anyone could do it then controversial animator Ralph Bakshi was probably the most able. As a big fan of the original stories I can see that this film has some strong good and bad points. What we get is a film that has its heart in its right place and captures the folklore aspect of the books, but rushes through many important scenes and doesn't have enough time to develop all of the characters.The plot follows Fellowship and the first half of Two Towers quite closely. Hobbit Frodo Baggins receives the one ring that could rule Middle-Earth and sets off on a quest to destroy it before the powers of darkness can claim it. As a result of the films length many important parts of the book are condensed or done away with completely. While it is done with good intentions and to keep the core structure in place, we learn little about the characters and that keeps you at arm's length for most of the film. In the Jackson films I cared about the characters despite the epic story, but here I couldn't care less what happens to most of them.The animation is a mixed bag. The traditional animation looks pretty good and captures the tone of the books almost perfectly. However a lot of the other animation, especially in the action scenes, is rotoscoped which is very odd looking. Its live-action with animation over the top of it and it results in everything looking extremely grainy even though it allows for more fluidity. Throughout the film they both overlap each other and it is extremely obvious when that happens which is distracting. The background paintings are all excellent and expand the world well, whilst many of the places look like you would have imagined them to which is nice.As I alluded to the characters are very much a mixed bag. On one hand I do like Frodo, they make him very charming and thoughtful which makes it easy to sympathise with him. Aragorn is excellently done, even though he looks like a Native American, he has a commanding presence and John Hurt does a wonderful job voicing him. Merry and Pippin are much subtler here which I like compared to Jackson's jokey take. Boromir is also interestingly done and is conflicted character is played up smartly here. Gollum is done fine too and they get the split personality down well, whilst Legolas and Gimli are both good even though they aren't give much time to get an insight into their characters.However Sam is terrible in this. He is just a bumbling idiot and there is no way he'd be allowed to go with the fellowship. Gandalf is also a bit over-the-top too, his powers aren't really looked into and they play up his confused side more than needed. Saruman is very dull and again we don't get an insight into his abilities. The other supporting characters aren't very interesting either and though it is entirely understandable that time be spent on the main characters it is a shame seeing as a lot of the side characters are very enjoyable.The action sequences are where the film truly shines. Every sword or arrow that connects looks and sounds like it hurts, taking a more traditionally brutal approach which works perfectly. The top notch sound effects and the occasional splatter of blood give a real weight to many of the violent moments in the film. The many battles with the Orcs are always given a strong feeling of tension and intensity which draws you in. The climactic battle at Helms Depp drags on a little bit yet it fits as the positive ending the film wants and the battles with in Moria do have a real sense of danger to them, even if the Balrog looks very daft. Tension is one of the films strongest aspects. There is a real sense that danger is around every corner and this crafted brilliantly throughout. Any encounter with the Rings Wraiths is fantastic given their creepy design and scenes involving them always carry an eerie atmosphere. The score by Leonard Rosenman is very good. It has the mysterious and epic mixture that fits the fantasy genre well. The main theme is incredibly catchy and is pretty much guaranteed to be stuck in your head. The more atmospheric pieces are great and add a great deal of tension when they are used.On the whole this is an enjoyable and very ambitious attempt at the great fantasy stories. Given the limited time and lack of budget the film was never going to be great or stick that closely to the books, but it is easy to admire it for what it is. The story is condensed well all things considered and there are some enjoyable characters, not to mention the fierce action scenes and score are great as well. Yet some really interesting parts are skipped over, there is very little character development and the animation is varies from good to very poor. If you are a fan then this is a good version to check out and has a more grounded feel that will appeal to some. It would have been interesting to see Ralph Bakshi do The Return of the Kings and it's a shame we never did. "},{"Title":"There is a reason part 2 was never made","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is, quite simply, bad.I was aware of Ralph Bakshi's Wizards and I found most of it appealing although I was not a fan of the rotoscoping. But the actual artwork I liked a lot.Then I was at the 1977 Houston Comicbook Convention and Art Festival and some woman from United Artists hosted a talk where she showed artwork and stills from the upcoming movie.I was pretty excited. I loved The Lord of the Rings, and had a habit back then of rereading it every year starting in April.The movie showed up and it was terrible. Yes it took ridiculous liberties with the story but the biggest issue in my mind was the endless rotoscoping. Sometimes you would see the same scene over and over, rotoscoped into different shades of color.I get it - rotoscoping is cheap compared to actual full animation, especially when you are just using clips from other movies and shows. And sadly that is what it made this movie look - cheap.I still remember when the movie ended some guy a couple of rows up from me said, What the hell was that? And I heard several variations on the theme, That was it?In short, not enough artwork and too much reliance on cheap rotoscoping, too much reworking of a story too well known (if you think you can write a better story, write it! Don't steal someone else's), and just an abrupt end to the movie.People can say now it was great but it was not well received as evidenced by the fact that Bakshi studios never made the second part. "},{"Title":"There shouldn't be any comparison to PJ's trilogy... except....","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ... when discussing Peter Jackson as a filmmaker; because that is ultimately where he is exposed for the guy who was in the right place, at the right time, with top notch source material and the right budget. There isn't any doubt about these salient truths Bakshi's lotr is both stunningly artistic and painfully chaotic, its voice acting at times makes some of Jackson's characters sound hilariously inept, but some of his artistic liberties (Saruman the White wearing Red, for one) are hard to understand. Bakshi's film is also obviously unfinished. Jackson's trilogy possesses an undeniable totality.There's also very little doubt that Jackson borrowed very heavily from Bakshi's work and it bears mentioning that being influenced or inspired by the 1978 work doesn't necessarily mean duplicating exact imagery and shot aesthetics. Fellowship especially suffers from this; there are countless scenes (the first time frodo encounters a ring wraith, strider chilling' in the corner of the prancing pony smoking' his pipe to name a couple early ones) that aren't just interpretations of the same source material but aesthetically identical. this is lazy filmmaking even if it is well done. so not only does Jackson have one of the finest sources to work with in Tolkien's work but he also has a damned good and groundbreaking filmmaker to lift from. belch.i still love Jackson's trilogy above just about everything in the world save the original star wars trilogy lol it was one of those things where the planets aligned, the films were made at just the right time with all the right pieces in place and it just clicked. you can't compare the two versions of the story because, aside from the source, there are almost nothing else circumstantially in common. so yes, the trilogy is superior in *nearly* all ways to bakshi's interpretation...but nobody ever said we couldn't like em both ) "},{"Title":"Has to be rated in real time, not in retrospect in this post-Peter Jackson version world.","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Good to see that the SyFy channel (over here in Europe) occasionally puts this classic on, even after all the years.Also good to see that other IMDb recommendations include Watership Down, and The Secret of Nimh.As a father starting in 1980 this film (a treasured VHS copy - can't remember the source), plus the two above, was very frequent viewing for me and two young fellas throughout the '80's. And the fact that the older son can still quote the script word for word speaks volumes for the impact this film had at the time.Why is the rating only at 9 - the sudden stop after the Battle of Helms Deep, presumably due to budget overruns, was a tragedy. Particularly as no finalisation followed over the ensuing years. It left three of us still wanting more.However, it stayed remarkably true to the book, losing only because of the necessary truncation. The rotoscoping was a breakthrough visual technique at the time; Peter Jackson uses the latest CGI version in turning Andy Serkis into Gollum (and later on King Kong). Many of Ralph Bakshi's sequences (and almost scripts) make it into the Jackson version. So all in all this was a valiant attempt to film a book that first got my serious attention in c.1970.Ralph Bakshi / Saul Zaentz also have to be complimented on getting what must have been a strong license from the famously private Tolkien Family. The fact that Peter Jackson makes reference to them in his credits makes me wonder was Jackson's effort a sub-license.All in all, for 1978 this was a great achievement - and certainly gave this family many many hours of viewing pleasure.The only other animation in recent years that got my attention was Princess Mononoke; but for me that didn't have a favourite book as back-up.And for other Tolkien heads out there who call their house Rivendell. Was talking to someone today who noticed my house name, and said they had an acquaintance with similar, but who went the whole hog and called their holiday home Lothlorien. Which is really why I watched SyFy tonight, and felt it time to make this review.In these apocalyptic days, some of us find comfort in the fact that we've been nuttier than squirrel poo for decades. "},{"Title":"Underrated art work","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There are comments on this movie from people paid to be film critics. These people often seem more interested in showing they've read a book on anthropology or post structuralism and complaining about a film in those references.But people want to see films to ENJOY them. The 1978 'Lord of the Rings' is a delicate piece of art. Some of the animation isn't great but it costs a lot for time and a lot of lot of money to make feature cartoons. The night riders are actually better in this version than the Peter Jackson movie they are more sinister especially their sounds. It's not heavy reverb effect but a subtly disturbing sound.The battle scenes are rotor scoped which gives them again a subtly disturbing effect. The film ends with a quick montage of what would have been the sequel if it was completed. "},{"Title":"A good film, just pretend Peter Jackson never existed - a tiny spoiler if you could call it that","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" To start with, the film was made back in the late 70's, so the animation and colouring isn't amazingly special, even at the best of times. The animation varies from using pure animation to real live actors being animated over. This unfortunately leads to many scenes suddenly looking obscure and extremely dirty, but quite fascinating. The actual artwork on some of the characters is not as creative as you would expect from a fantasy film. Legolas and Boromir look very good, and so do all of the Hobbits, but Gimli doesn't look like the stereotypical fantasy dwarf you would expect to see. One other problem the film suffers from is the lack of artwork on the Orcs, you only ever see a few models, they all look generic, dirty with very little colour, and lack detail to them. Notice there is no mention of Uruk Hai.... Now that is out of the way lets move onto something that the film is strong on; audio. The voice acting throughout the film is of a really high quality, the voices are extremely clear despite the film being over 30 years old. The script is well constructed and thought through, with competent actors delivering their individual characters well. Even the Orcs, despite their appearance, behave and sound the part; sadistic, manic and unintelligent, sorta how you'd expect a disgruntled and mouldy man in a potato sack to behave. The soundtrack, is much like the voice acting, very good. It just sounds like it belongs in the film. Its hard to describe but sit back in your chair listening to it with your eyes closed, and you could probably imagine what scenes they went with.Moving on to the actual story. Unfortunately I have never read the books so I can't criticise without comparing it to Jackson' films. However on comparing the two films, both hit very similar key scenes. Jackson's films cover more scenes over two films, but Bakshi fits the first two books into two hours. That is not a problem as films never best the written versions, even Jackson omitted some scenes. But it did mean that in Bakshi's version, some characters were only mentioned in passing and not properly introduced, Eowyn and Eomer are two characters who were unfortunately overlooked. In conclusion the film has nothing on the Jackson versions, but as I said pretend Peter Jackson never existed. If you do that you can see how this film, despite being flawed in places, is a very impressive film. Not quite a masterpiece, but definitely a classic worth respect and recognition, especially as Bakshi ran out of money half way through the film. "},{"Title":"Passable","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie tried to be so good, it just didn't get there.I would recommend this film to anyone who has read 'The Lord of the Rings'. While it skips over a lot of the book, the scenes that are included are quite similar to their counterparts in the book. It is fun to see the scenes from the book come to life, and they mostly looked very similar to what I had in my head. The film is closer to the source material than Peter Jackson's trilogy, but is still much worse in my opinion.It lacks heart. The characters don't show any major development, and it is hard to identify with or like any of them. John Hurt does a good job as the voice of Aragorn, but sadly that's not enough to make up for the animators and writers portrayal of him. The characters aren't introduced well enough; Aragorn's introduction is pretty much I am Aragorn, a friend of Gandalf's and not much more is disclosed about him.Another major problem is the animation. Ralph Bakshi uses this technique called 'rotoscoping', which I wont go into very much depth on, partially because I don't know exactly what it is or how it is made. Google it if you're curious. Anyway, the result of this technique is that at many points in the film, where characters have been 'rotoscoped', the characters look like a cross between live action people and cartoons, a very weird, displeasing effect. The orcs and Nazgul just look like black blobs with eyes during the scenes where they are rotoscoped. Apart from the rotoscoping, the animation is very incontinuous. Pippin's hair changes colour during the Mines of Moria scene, and characters faces shift around in an ungodly way. The backgrounds are also bad in my opinion. The backgrounds are clearly painted while the characters on them are cartoons which do not look realistic against the backgrounds.Next problem is the pacing. Many times during the film a character will say something and the 'camera' (although there are no cameras when making cartoons you know what I mean) will linger on the characters face for 3 seconds after they've finished talking. 3 seconds of the character just standing there, looking, with nothing special taking place. Also, the 'Flight to the Ford' scene is disastrous. Just a lot of Frodo on a horse pacing back and forth in front of Nazgul who aren't attacking for some reason.I think this film is, however, underrated. After you have seen the Rankin/Bass version of 'The Return of the King', you will see how bad an adaptation of 'Lord of the Rings' can be, and you will appreciate this attempt more, and be able to see that they did an alright job of it.To recap, I DO recommend this to people who have read 'Lord of the Rings', just for the novelty of seeing scenes from the book interpreted by Bakshi. I even recommend people who have not read the books but have seen Jackson's trilogy to watch this, for the same novelty.If you are new to the 'Lord of the Rings' phenomenon, read the books, or at least see Peter Jackson's trilogy. You will not be able to understand this film without some prior knowledge of the story.PS I do not recommend ANYONE to see the Rankin/Bass version of 'Return of the King'. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly concise for a '78 animated film","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was quite surprised at how much this movie contained from the original books. This movie did seem to contain more material from the first book (Fellowship of the Ring) than anything else, however the second book (Two Towers) did contain a lot of battle scene details that could easily be omitted. I was disappointed that it didn't contain the 3rd book. The animation wasn't very convincing, but the available (although primitive) styles that were used helped to give it a more dark and sinister tone. I was also surprised at how many lines and scenes seemed to be taken directly from this movie and used in the new trilogy. I think that anyone who has thoroughly enjoyed the books should consider seeing this version. It should also in no way be compared to the current movies since they were made over 20 years later. "},{"Title":"He once was great...","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember watching this movie back in the early 90's, back before the technology existed for Peter Jackson to do what he did. And for that time, the 1978 cartoon telling of Tolkien's first two books wasn't entirely a bad movie. Of course, that's only if you don't know anything about the books. If the movie was a sole creation unto itself, then things wouldn't be so bad. However, this is a moderate movie based on one of the greatest works of fiction ever created, so problems arise. Since I had never read the books until 97, this movie seemed interesting.After I read the books, however, this whole work of animation and rotoscoping gone mad was revealed to me as horrible. The depth of the characters and huge story just didn't seem to be conveyed as I imagined it. At no point in reading Prof. Tolkien's novel did I see the animated characters from Ralph Bakski's (sorry for misspelling your name, sir) movie. So a film that once was rather decent in my eyes was suddenly crap when I realized it botched the source material. And now, the final nail in the coffin of this flick's decency was the masterpiece of film making accomplished by Peter Jackson and the diligent crew of Weta Workshop. Granted, there was technology available to this production team that simply didn't exist in 1978, however the movie succeeded on a stylist level possible in 1978. For instance, take the look of Boromir. In Jackson's movie, his costume and general style of appearance have been determined after hours of research into the history of Gondor as written by Prof. Tolkien himself. In the 1978 version Boromir is a frickin Viking! He even has a helmet with horns for the love of Pete(r)!In general, it wasn't the lack of technology that made this a bad movie, it was the near infinitely exceeding love of Tolking that the Jackson crew shared for the source material compared to the 78' crew. Not to mention that any fan of the book would know the Bakski crew hadn't done Prof. Tolkien's novel justice, even in 1978. "},{"Title":"An Answer to an Unfair Review","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Now I don't like to pick fights, but my honest opinion is that anybody who compares an (unfinished) animation made on a shoestring budget (by late 70s standards) to a modern multimillion dollar blockbuster is, quite frankly, an idiot. Without even mentioning that one is a film and the other is animation, two completely different mediums.Although this is not the best work of animation of the time, one must consider the vast financial problems it faced, and some of the innovations it made. The failure to mention the excellent voice over should also be noted. Animation in the West nowadays rarely sees actors of such pedigree and pure talent. In fact this voice over is surpassed only by the BBC radio interpretation, but cross media comparisons are far from fair.I loved this as a child, and am fond of it now as an adult. OK it hasn't maintained my full support into adulthood, unlike Miyazaki Sans Laputa, a favorite of mine for virtually my whole life.I would still highly recommend this for people with children who would like to expose them to as little of Disney's grotesque, thinly veiled, propaganda as possible.As for being worse that that dreadfully written, dreadfully animated and dreadfully voiced excuse for an interpretation of The Hobbit, well need I say more.It is one of entertainments odd offerings, seemingly mediocre now, yet still an important landmark in animation.  "},{"Title":"An intriguing story","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A charming and intriguing story about the efforts of a small band of friends who set out to destroy a magic ring and save the world from an army of evil creatures with red eyes.The story begins following some hobbits (half the size of the other characters), but they do seem to get forgotten about towards the end, where it becomes more about the fight between the good guys and hundreds of the bad ones.I loved all of the animation, it's so different to other animated films I've seen.  The bad guys are really evil, and appear very sinister on the screen. There is a LOT of action in the film, and at times it can get confusing, but sit back and watch and you will enjoy it.My only criticism, and I hope this isn't giving too much away, is that it doesn't seem to end well - there is mention that this is only part one, so perhaps there will be a sequel.  I for one will be looking forward to it. "},{"Title":"A review foremost for parents.","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  About this review The reviewer talks alot about himself (paragraph A), then goes on to briefly analyze the movie (paragraph B), concludingly recommending it to children at the aproxm. age of six to nine years (paragraph C). It is his belief that those of older age than nine will probably already have seen the Peter Jackson films, and then there's no reason to bother. For parents of the very young, though, this is an excellent way to let them share some of the Rings hype, without emotionally scarring them with images of blood-crazed Uruk-hai chopping people in half.A BlahblahblahI first saw the animated The Lord of the Rings (LOTR) as a kid about 18 years ago, at the tender age of eight-ish; it was shown one evening in my school's Movie Club, on an old projector. When the end credits rolled over the screen my young life was changed forever.At first, I hadn't planned to go to the school library for a movie that night. I figured the title must refer to something about the Olympics, maybe a documentary about Carl Lewis! When I told my mom I didn't intend to waste a clip on my 5 movies for 20 Kroner coupon on some sports flick, she whole-heartedly convinced me that a) LOTR had nothing to do with 100 meter dashes or hammer throws, and b), that although she had not actually seen the movie, she had read the books when in college, and that she was sure I would love the story.Ah well, fine, anything to please the ol' mom (or thoughts to that effect, 'cause at that age, I probably didn't formulate my inner sentences like that!). I went, absolutely not knowing anything about what I was about to see, not even that it was an animated feature - and not expecting much, in spite of mom's reassurings.When it was over, Star Wars suddenly had a contender in my life. I hurried home and loaned the book from my parents' book shelf - and the rest, as they say, is history. Erm, in *my* life, anyway, and my old Danish teacher in high school would certainly have slaughtered me if I'd ever included such a long personal paragraph in a review. No matter now, it was a defining moment in my life, stirring my imagination in a radical way, and I will always look back on this cartoon, and the circumstances of the first time I saw it, fondly.B About the filmFirst, let me make something clear I cannot picture anyone other than kids truly enjoying this movie - or, of course, to some degree people who saw the film for the first time *when* they were kids. If, however, some adult had been living on the moon for the last couple of years, and had *not* seen Peter Jackson's trilogy, or had *not* read the books, and *never the less* liked adventure and fantasy - then maybe it could actually be a bit of ol' fun watching this flick along with the cubs! Below, I'll try to describe different aspects of the movie, from the top of my head.The drawings/animation this is not Disney, people, but not that bad, either. A feature that some reviewers on this page hate, namely the mixing of drawings with obscure footage of real actors, I find quite appealing. The infamous orcs, for example, are made very spooky by this technique, at least they were in my young eyes. This being said, it really is not particularily well drawn, and sometimes the characters moves around in too cartoonish a way.The design I'm not sure whether Bakshi, the director of this 1978 edition of the story, was trying to probe a bit of refreshingly unrespectful fun at the revered material by Tolkien, or if he just had incredibly bad taste. Anyway, as some would know, almost the entire cast in the story is male (Peter Jackson has added a few more feminine touches in his edition, for which I applaud him), and you see them running around in tights the entire movie, like some weird parody of ballet dancers. This *could* be regarded as a tad gay, and combined with one of the two most important characters, the hobbit Sam, acting a bit like something from TV-show Will and Grace, most adult fans of the books will be irritated, it certainly ticks me - I don't think Tolkien would have approved. Erm, back to the design the rest of the movie design is all right, the important Black Riders, for example, work as spookily as they should. The hobbits, though, are far too cuddly-wuddly and sweet for my taste, and seem clearly directed at kids.Story/script generally, Bakshi cut out the same things as Peter Jackson (The Old Forest, Tom Bombadil, the Barrow Wights), and this works. For people who have read the books, of course, it will seem terribly compressed. Still, unfortunately, the movie ends about half-way through the story, after the Battle of the Hornburg, due to lack of funds, but maybe that isn't so bad after all it certainly made yours truly want to know the end, and the only way to achieve this goal was to get on with it and read the book.The score Lots of cool percussion and eerie horns. Actually, the score is by *far* the best part of the film, I'm sure it would have had many more followers had the movie been successful. Enough said, listen to it on for example Amazon, and judge for yourself.C ConclusionThe story in itself is thrilling, but not quite satisfying for people who have read the book, or rather adults in general. The visual side of the movie is not of the grandiose scale Tolkien requires, but some effects work, like the scary orcs and black riders. Kids age six to about nine or ten will most likely love this film, even if they've read the books. Furthermore, it will allow them to know what their older siblings are excitedly talking about, after having seen the new LOTR movies. Therefore, I gauge it to be a safe bet to buy or rent this flick if you have youngsters of that age. If they're older, sit by them and let them watch Peter Jackson's movies - children of the 90s are hardened, it seems, but it would be irresponsible letting them battle the Balrog, year 2001, without reassuring company at their side! The Balrog, year 1978, looks more like a walking lion, so that shouldn't distress anyone. "},{"Title":"Not Perfect But Still Enjoyable","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I must confess that I bought this movie on DVD in spite of the many negative views posted on this site and I didn't expect it to surpass or even rival the far superior live version directed by Peter Jackson.  Nevertheless, like with his books, I found it difficult to stop watching it until it was completely over.  My main problems with this feature are the rotoscoping techniques used to blend live actors with the animation and the unfortunate abrupt ending.  The animation, in general, was very good sans the aforementioned rotoscoping techniques, which was sometimes painfully difficult to watch.  The abrupt ending is another major downer.  After steadily drawing us into Tolkien's engaging storyline and characters, the directors suddenly pulled the plug on this movie halfway through the storyline, which, unfortunately, was never completed by Bakshi, apparently because of budget constraints.  I knew from viewer comments posted to this site that it ended abruptly and had prepared myself accordingly, but it still didn't stop my yearning to find out what happened next in the story. Fortunately, however, the live action version of The Two Towers is due out at the end of this year and my girlfriend and I own all of the books, so I'm not too devastated by not knowing what happens next seeing as I will be finding out soon enough and it was nice to at least get a preview of things to come.  Flaws aside, the soundtrack to the movie composed by Leonard Rosenman used in the film was very good and the sequences involving the story of the Ring, Frodo's escape from the Ringwraiths, Frodo and Sam's journey through Mordor with Gollum, and the Battle of Helms Deep were very well done.  Interestingly enough, if you listen to the end credits music very carefully, you'll notice that part of the theme is identical to a musical passage that Leonard Rosenman later used in the credits of Star Trek IV The Voyage Home.  Despite its flaws, I thought it was still an enjoyable feature and worth at least a rental by people who are curious about the trilogy and/or fans who need something to whet their appetite until The Two Towers is released later on this year.  "},{"Title":"Evokes fantasy illustration of the seventies","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In this Lord of the Rings adaption, many have gawked at the animation, which seems hokey in relation to today's computer graphics. I noticed, as I paused this movie (presented to me on video) that any single frame makes a perfect 1970's fantasy illustration poster, album cover, or book cover in the tradition of Rodney Mathews, Frank Frazetta, Boris Vallejo, and the Hilderbrandt Brothers. Back then; the escapist imagination wasn't shaped by the look of computer graphics.Despite the criticism of the rotoscoping technique (my wife considers it cheating, because of the tracing process) I think it certainly brought this vision of fantasy illustration to life in a unique way. Notice, that as the characters stand, they shift their weight from side to side in a natural manner, and make convincing hand gestures. This photographic oriented technique worked well for the battle sequences. It convincingly articulated the sword swinging and hacking, in a way that seemed much more realistic and unique, to me, than today's typical action based movies like Tomb Raider and others. In those movies, the editing is so fast and slick, you dont get a good viewing of an occuring action that is being demonstrated.Unlike big Disney productions, there aren't legions of animators credited in this film. In some aspects, the script is better than Peter Jackson's newest adaption. The excessive violence anticipated early eighties film's of swords and sorcery like Excaliber and Conan the Barbarian. Those films had much better scores, that heightened their battle sequences. The real bummer of this movie is the score. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but not bad","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  IMHO, I don't think Warner Brothers are doing any favors for anyone by re-releasing the animated LOTR on VHS & DVD, they are just doing it to cash in on the live action version of LOTR (like when Disney releases a new animated feature, some unknown animation company would release a doggy straight to video version or find an old version & put that on video).But not saying it's a bad attempt to make a film version of that classic book, it does do a good job of getting though the 1st book, but I don't like the animation techniques they use, the normal pen & paper animation looks sharp & spot'on but the colored'in live action orcs, trolls, monsters & hourse-men look revolting, maybe if Ralph Bakshi sticked to normal animation instead, this film would make it to the end of the 2nd book or maybe thought the trilogy with a few short-cuts in the storyline.Today's Lord of The Rings is a smash hit & should not be a reason to bash the animated version, ok sure it's not perfect, but it's pretty good in it's own right. "},{"Title":"A Fair Effort","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A laudable attempt at bringing Tolkien's masterpiece to the screen via the medium of the animated cartoon. A qualified success which finishes abruptly, allegedly because the budget ran out. Tolkien fans were required to wait over 20 years more before big studio megabucks were to produce a live action version. A word of advice read the book first. "},{"Title":"good for kicks","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was fortunate enough to have read the books several times before this movie came out...and when I learned of it I was excited (I was 14 at the time). I recall loving it for some reason, even with it's goofiness and mispronounciations. I saw it again several years ago and thought what was I thinking? (I had since read the books close to a dozen times)....well I was recently compelled to purchase the movie for my collection just because I have such memories from my youth tied to this movie and LOTR. Sure it's cheesy,  they mispronounce names, the elfs are disney-fied, the rotoscoping is awful to watch, the music is lacking, the characters aren't developed well...need I go on? But I believe Bakshi's heart, if not his budget or determination to do it right, were in the right place. I just watched it again last night and got the biggest laughs. If you are a die hard Tolkien purist....leave this one behind, leave all cinematic renditions of his work behind....no one can do the books justice on screen, either animated or live action. But if you can watch it with a light heart go for it...from what it sounds like at least Bakshi introduced some people to the books who may never have found them. "}{"Title":"Not as good as the one I remember.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Most people probably already know the plot of Tolkien's books, but if you don't, and want to see this film, you may not want to read this.You will find spoilers here, don't say I didn't warn you. OK. I remember seeing an animated Lord Of The Rings when I was a kid, so I got a  little excited when I found this DVD.  Unfortunately, this is not the same one. Here comes the big spoiler - THE MOVIE DOESN'T END AT THE END!  Meaning - This movie ends with The Two Towers, not the Return of the King.  I'm still trying to find out why. I mean, how can you end this story without the ring getting thrown into the fires of Mount Doom? That's the single biggest problem with the film, and it is certainly big, isn't it? Otherwise, it's pretty good. I liked the animation, although the live-action effects were disconcerting. The characters all looked pretty much like I imagined they should, but it doesn't seem quite finished, almost like the filmmakers were trying for something a little too ambitious, and not quite reaching it. In the meantime, I'll keep looking for the version I saw years ago. I do remember an animated Frodo getting his animated finger bitten off by animated Gollum. But this just ain't it. "},{"Title":"For you fools who didn't like this!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  An all time classic.  The animation at that time was marvellous!  The story was put together in such a way to fit as much as possible in.  It's just a shame that he ran out of money.  After reading the book, I must admit that the characters are portrayed perfectly.  Jackson's film rework of the book has obviously drawn points from the animated version, as the movements of the characters copies that of the animated version. Points out of ten?  ELEVEN! "},{"Title":"Too much, not enough time","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  They combined the first two books into one movie.  Hard to cover that much info in 2 hours.  If you had not read the book, you would miss a lot and not understand what is going on.  Nice for a refresher, butread the book. "},{"Title":"This is a mediocre attempt at recreating a brilliant story.","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The story of 'The Lord of the Rings is probably the greatest 'good against evil' story of its kind. This version of it is not very good at all. Now the animation is brilliant, especially the technique Bakshi used with drawing over real actors....this  was very innovative at the time. Of course with todays computer generated animation this form has become obsolete, which may explain why Mr. Bakshi neglected to finish the story. Which brings me to the worst part of the whole thing. He does not follow the story very closely and some of the characters are so far apart from their personalities in the book, that any true Tolkien fan will be appalled. Furthermore, he ends the story with the battle of Helms Deep, where Gandalf brings the Ent's hourns , which are walking trees. They do not appear in the movie at all, and since they are the reason the humans win the battle it seems rather short sited to leave them out. This is only about half way through 'The Two Towers, which is the 2nd of three books. The only thing I can say that actually entertained me was Gollum. He steals the show in my opinion. Of course its only an opinion, but is is mine.In closing, let me say this over all this is an interesting cartoon that is very entertaining, but if you are very familiar with the story, it is nothing more than a novelty..sorry Mr. Bakshi. "},{"Title":"Not too shabby...","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I just bought this movie on DVD and watched it for the first time the other night.  I've been a fan of Tolkien's work for about 4 years now, ever since I got out of high school.  I didn't grow up on this movie...perhaps my mother kept me away from it.  It's definitely not for children.  Not that it's bad in a graphic sense, but that the themes would go right over most 10 year olds heads.  Overall, the animation was excellent considering this was made in 1978/1979.  I thought the story followed the book fairly well in a loose sense.  But I am bothered that Bashki didn't just add another 40 minutes or so and tack on the Return of the King parts.  That would've made it the ultimate movie.  I was bothered by it's abrupt end, and then when I heard Return of the King sucked, I was bothered even more.  Too bad it wasn't one great animation film.  It might have garnered a higher vote from me.  I give it a 7.  I can only hope Peter Jackson will do the books justice with the new live action LOTR.  "},{"Title":"A good try","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is not as bad as most people say it is. Yeah, I know there is no ending, but the company didn't have enough money to finish the second half of the movie. Yes, it is an  animated film but it is NOT a movie for kids. The animation is pretty good for a 1978 movie, but I didn't like the live action that was mixed with the animation. In some scenes It didn't look very good (Bree for example). Most of the characters looked very much like I expected them to (except Samwise). The voice-overs were very good, and the movie was very much like the book. The movie would have been better if the second part was finished (it ends at Helm's Deep). If you are a Tolkien fan, I recommend this movie. Until the live action LOTR is released next December, Bakshi's animated film is all we have, and it really isn't that bad. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Wheres the end?","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I just watched the movie and i stayed up all night watching it cause i thought it might be good cause i just read all the books and when it was about 2 hours into it i was like How can this be over in 15 minutes? and when i saw then end i was totally disapointed. so i hope the upcoming trilogy will be good 2 make up for this mess i just saw. I'm not sayin the movie was bad the guys who made it forgot to put in the endiing. "},{"Title":"An abomination? Well, not quite","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, a lot has been written about this movie, emphasizing both its negative and positive points. First of all let me that say while the negative points far outweigh the positive, the movie is not entirely without merit.I am a huge fan of the books, and I suppose I am a self-titled expert on everything Tolkien. I admit, I would love to see every single minute detail from the literary work make its way to the big screen. I could argue that the story is so great there is really no need to change very much at all when it comes to plot and characters in a movie adaptation of the books. I would prefer that the film makers make no changes whatsoever to the storyline, and ultimately I would love it if my own personal interpretation of the books came to life as it were, on the movie screen. But I know that's not going to happen. I also know however, that the great weaknesses of this particular version have very little to do with artistic interpretation on the part of the director. Despite what some have said, the film really fails on its own merits (or lack thereof).First of all, it is blatantly obvious to anyone who is familiar with the story that Bakshi almost certainly never even bothered reading the books. How could he possibly then make any kind of adaptation of them, faithful or not? The plot and character changes are made at random and to no apparent end, and have nothing to do with the requirements of the medium of film or directorial interpretation. How else do you explain intermittent use of Aruman for Saruman, Boromir the Viking, the pantless Aragorn or any other of the hundreds of examples I could bring up?But as bad as these mistakes are, the film simply fails to interest the viewer, whether you or familiar with the books or not. The incredibly dense and rich background narrative of the books is glossed over in a couple of minutes at the beginning, apparently using shadow puppets, leaving the uninitiated wondering what is going on and those familiar with the story just shaking their heads. It is not artistic expression. Its a cost-cutting device. The truly bizarre and featureless backgrounds are even worse, almost totally depriving Middle-Earth of its wonderful and extraordinary scenery. The renditions of most of the characters are almost as bad.Despite this, I do think the movie succeeds in at least presenting a great story that deserves to be told, albeit with many narrative problems, the worst of which is an inexplicable cutting of the story off right in the middle. The animation, though strange, is quite captivating in places if you can get past all the glaring mistakes in the plot. Thus I do own a copy of the movie on VHS, which I actually watch now and then, possibly just because I'm such a die-hard Tolkien fan. But the greatest thing about it is that it increases my anticipation for Peter Jackson's upcoming live-action version in that it would be hard for it to be much worse than Bakshi's.Us Tolkien fans are a strange and demanding lot, and it is certain that no film maker, no matter how talented, can ever satisfy us all. But they should at least try to make a good movie. Bakshi apparently did not do this. In fact, I have no idea what he was trying to do. If he was trying to butcher a wonderful story with uninspired plot editing and weird animation effects, then he succeeded. Advice to Jackson? Stay as close to the original story as possible while living by the rules of film. It won't be an easy task, but if successful I'm sure his efforts will be appreciated by all. The Lord of the Rings is one of the greatest stories ever told, and it deserves to have an honest and worthy portrayal on film.Rating 5.2/10 "},{"Title":"Bakshi goes through the motions","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Man, how long does it take to cross a ford?This film, above many other disappointing cinematic book treatments, is immensely frustrating.  The first time I saw this I came away thinking, Well, at least it was better than the Rankin/Bass version of _The Hobbit_. The joke would soon be on me in that regard, but the fact remains that Bakshi's version of LOTR is, at best, a fairly uninspired rendition.Maybe it's the fact that my attention span has been truncated by decades of MTV and video games, but I think the Rivendell ford scene drags on interminably.  I can't help but wonder how much further through _The Two Towers_ we might have gotten had that little free-form jam session been cut down to less than, say, 30 minutes.  That kind of crap is fine for an experimental effort like Wizards, but not for one of the all-time greatest works of fantasy literature.  Middle Earth is such a rich setting that I can't help but wonder why the animators didn't spend more time drawing, rather than subjecting us to psychedelic light shows and cheap prismatic visuals.And lets all fess up to something Rotoscoping is *not* animation, and Bakshi relies on it way too much (I keep thinking of the whole 'inking-tracing' exchange in Chasing Amy).  It would be one thing if tracing over live footage freed him up to devote more energy to locations, but (with the exception of Moria) this isn't the case.  Even Lothlorien was unspectacular.  It might just as well have been the woods behind my house. With elves added, of course.Bakshi's LOTR is a failure, albeit an ambitious one (I'm still wondering whose idea it was to portray Aragorn as Quanah Parker).  His works, which had a somewhat fresh feel to them in the late 70s, have not aged well at all (check out American Pop some time) and his shtick is definitely better suited to edgier works like Fritz the Cat or Heavy Traffic.  One can't help but feel a sense of irony at the end of the film that, even though a truly faithful representation of Tolkien's trilogy would take 6 - 8 hours, you're just glad this one is over.  "},{"Title":"Oh, well, it would have to do, I guess","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If anybody should try to do an animated LOTR it should be Miyazaki (of Mononoke Hime fame). Bakshi definitely botched the movie trying to compress - actually collapse - the LOTR into a single movie and yet carrying some scenes overly long - like the crossing of the Ford or the Helm's Deep battle for no apparent reason whatsoever. Samwise is plainly an inadequate artwork, fat arthritic individual, seemingly older than Frodo (that one in turn looks like Semitic dwarf not a hobbitt), Gandalf is an allograft from Disney movies... In short, if you want to attract your kids to Tolkien this cartoon just may do the job, but be careful of watching it AFTER you read the book...   "}{"Title":"I own this movie....","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I own this movie and love it.  I saw it when I was a kid and did not understand it.  I wasn't into these kinds of fantasy movies.  Now that the other movies are out, I love watching this one.  There are scenes in this movie that PJ does not have in his movie.  Bouquet of flowers to Bakshi for this talent.  I need to see ROTK by him also. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest achievements in Cinema!","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Summary Fantastic Peace of FilmakingDisney had the rights for years, but did nothing with them. Kubrick tried and failed. John Boorman even built sets, but he fared no better. It would take many years and the genius of Peter Jackson to not only bring it to life, but to also create probably the finest movies ever made.   Yet in 1978, a relatively unknown X-rated animator was able to put Tolkien's classic tale to film. Backed by producer Sault Zantz (THE ENGLISH PATIENT), Ralph Bakshi was able to create an amazingly real and faithful production of THE LORD OF THE RINGS. Despised by Hollywood Mega Studio's, Bakshi was attacked for his use of Rotoscoping (tracing live people for action scenes). While this technique makes Bakshi's Middle Earth a complete delight, his budget was soon pulled and so only half a movie was ever made. Yet what a half it is. Grand in scope, beautifully drawn, and terrifying at every turn, Bakshi will be remembered for this achievement well into the millennium.   "},{"Title":"Too misunderstood","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Read the books first, then see the new movie, then see this, that's the only way you will be able to understand it all. I've read every book from the LOTR trilogy before I saw this, so I understood it better.This movie WAS made 25 years ago, and could be counted as a cult film, so obviously the animation isn't going to be terrific, but I don't think this should be counted as a kid's movie. There are numerous amounts of blood and violence in the movie, especially when Boromir gets hit with 7! arrows.It is a good little film to watch by anyone and should be more appreciated. "},{"Title":"A bit underrated.","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is not fantastic, but is pretty good.  It won't stand up well with the new LotR movies, but that doesn't take anything away from this movie.  The movie is pretty true to the book, although it is VERY  rushed.  Many of the visual effects are rather hokey.This movie would have been better recieved if the second part would have been finished. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Peter Jackson's 2001 version, but not THAT bad either!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I recently rented the animated version of The Lord of the Rings on video after seeing the FANTASTIC 2001 live action version of the film. The Lord of the Rings live action trilogy directed by Peter Jackson will undoubtably be far better than George Lucas' Star Wars prequel trilogy (Episodes 1-3) will ever be as the real fantasy film series of the 21st century!I remember seeing the animated version as a child, and I didn't quite understand the depth of the film at that time. Now that I have read the books, I understand what the whole storyline is all about. To be sure, some of the characters are quite silly, (Samwise Gangee is particularly annoying, almost as much as Jar Jar Binks in Star Wars Episode One, (AWFUL!)) but, I have to say it follows the book rather closely, and it goes into part of book two, The Two Towers. The good things are that the action is somewhat interesting and some of the animation is quite remarkable for it's time. The bad things are that it ends upruptly halfway through The Two Towers without any result of Frodo's quest to destroy the one ring, and the animation looks quite dated compared to today's standards. Overall, not AS bad as many say it is. BUT, the 2001 live action version is the new hallmark of The Lord of the Rings! At least Ralph Bakshi took the script seriously! Peter Jackson has said that the animated version inspired him to read the books, which in turn caused him to create one of the greatest fantasy series ever put on film, so we can at least thank Ralph Bakshi for that matter! I'll take the animated version of Lord of the Rings over the live version of Harry Potter anyday!A 7 out of a scale of 1-10, far LESS violent than the 2001 live action version, but NOWHERE near as good! For diehard fans of the books and film versions of The Lord of the Rings. "},{"Title":"An inconsistent effort.","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched this version of LOTR again after watching the new Fellowship of the Rings movie. I expected to be very disappointed, and found that for over 1 1/2 hours the movie held my interest, and actually kept the focus on the character development of the hobbits in clearer focus than does the new film. Where this movie failed was in the uneven way it tried to tell the stories recorded in The Two Towers. From the moment the last arrow went into Boromir until the end of the movie the quality of animation diminished, the jumping back and forth between the exploits of Sam & Frodo, Merry & Pippin, & the 4 others members of the Fellowship was disjointed and confusing. I think that this will be a difficult challenge for Peter Jackson & the editors of the current movies. They may well need the full time between now & next Christmas to give a film that pulls 3 distinct story lines into one consistent picture. "},{"Title":"ambitious, flaws not as bad as some claim","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Although the Rankin-Bass treatment of The Hobbit is the best rendition of Tolkien I've seen so far (because it successfully communicates the benevolent sense of, say, the pre-WW2 west), Bakshi's effort deserves praise for not sinking into a complete funk, being light as well as serious, as the story requires.  The upcoming efforts with McKellen, etc. may make the mistake of portraying the story as heavy on gore, but we'll have to see. Fortunately, DVD releases of the R-B Hobbit, this Bakshi LOTR and the R-B wrapup Return of the King (companion piece to the earlier TV project of theirs) are probably shipping as you read this; rerelease of all of the above, when added to the trilogy now in progress will give us multiple valid perspectives on a great story. "},{"Title":"Could have been a great film but does not get there","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A magnificent book that is just not portrayed well in this film. The mixture of animation and live actors just does not come off. The film starts well with Bilbos party and the chase from the Black riders ,but then becomes bogged down. Worth watching for free on T.V but not worth buying or renting. "},{"Title":"True to Tolkien's work...","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's been quite some time since I've watched this LOTR.  I am currently hunting for a copy to purchase.  Bakshi's work is quite true to the original work.  The visuals are engrosing and sometimes haunting.Drawbacks?  Occasionally, the movie is confusing or muddled.  There are one or two times where the storyline slows to a crawl.  But, overall -- buy this movie.  It's great for kids, adults and collectors. "},{"Title":"Too bad it ended before it begun!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Brilliant movie. The drawings were just amazing. Too bad it ended before it begun. I´ve waited 21 years for a sequel, but nooooo!!! "}{"Title":"It can't hurt to watch it if you've read the book","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  How could anyone possibly make The Lord of the Rings on the cheap?Ralph Bakshi's method was, at all events, an original one.  He filmed almost all of his movie with live actors in Europe, with no sets or costumes to speak of.  Then he rotoscoped the actors into animation.  That is to say, his animators traced over the photographs, frame by frame, altering where necessary (the contours of Gandalf's face, the precise movement and look of the hobbits), and inventing only as a last resort.  He could then have the effect of using live actors and be free to design his own landscapes, colours schemes, and so on, from scratch.  Possibly this idea was a good one.  Trained and talented character animators are expensive and rare; and even if Bakshi had had a warehouse full of them, it would have been very hard to hit upon the correct manner of drawing and animating Gandalf and Gollum - if such a manner exists.  So I don't fault Bakshi's decision.Did it pay off?  No.  For one thing, the backgrounds are uninspired. Surely the one positive point in favour of Bakshi's method was that it allowed live actors (translated into pen and ink) to be placed in settings that really looked like Middle Earth.  This doesn't happen.  Secondly, although modest demands are placed on the animators, they fail to meet them on those occasions where they're asked to do more than just trace.  Thirdly the story breaks off in mid-battle half way through, and I'm not convinced that Bakshi really knew how he wanted to tell it in the first place.  Bakshi has traced Tolkein's work as soullessly as his animators traced his live actors.Still - perhaps because of all this - the result is inoffensive and a decent enough way of passing a spare hour and a half if you've already read the book (and for heaven's sake, read the book).  It is no harder to read Tolkein than it used to be.  By being better than this or by being worse, Bakshi could have done a great deal more harm.  "},{"Title":"Not good enough.","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'll skip the short overview of the film for two reasons.  Anyone reading this probably already knows what the story is about, and I doubt that I could do the film, let alone the book, justice in a few short lines.  Let me just say that the movie ends somewhere near the middle of The Two Towers. Which, fortunately, is the worst aspect of this movie.I read the Hobbit in the fifth grade.  Shortly afterwards I tackled the Lord of the Rings, and everything else I could find by or about Tolkien.  I consider myself to have a fairly large collection of Tolkien books... in fact, I would guess that I have just about all of them.  My interest has never died out in the 10+ years I have been involved in Middle Earth. Understandably, I was excited to find out that there was an animated adaptation of his books.  I bought a copy as quickly as my local video store could get one and watched it as soon as I got home.  I fell asleep after about two hours (not due to the film) and woke up during the credits.  When I realized that I fell asleep during the Battle of Helms Deep and woke up five minutes letter at the END... I knew that something was missing.  I frantically rewound and found that I was right... Damn!  I knew it was too good to be true.Still... I was completely blown away by most of the animation, and was pretty satisfied with the appearance of most of the characters.  Especially the hobbits... who I was a little worried about.  I was VERY disappointed with Samwise.  He was just a bit feminine.  There have been lots of web pages dedicated to the fact that he was homosexual (which goes to show that a lot of people don't know much about the book) and this movie seems to support that fact.  I was also disappointed that Bakshi decided to leave out Tom Bombadil's character completely.  I have heard that the film ends abruptly due to the fact that Bakshi ran out of money, which is too bad, because it had a lot of promise.  I don't think it's possible for any director to match my vision of Middle Earth on film (or Tolkien's for that matter) but for now, Bakshi is all we have.  I've noticed that there are 3 movies, one for all three books (yeah, yeah, I know... there's six) slated for the year 2000.  I dread to see what actors will do with the part, but enlisting Alan Lee and John Howe as visual designers is a wonderful start. If actors MUST play the parts of Hobbits... lets hope someone has the insight to cast Warwick Davis as SOMEONE. "},{"Title":"Forget the Peter Jackson sh*t - this was the real deal","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Right then Peter Jacksons' vision of Tolkiens epic was surprisingly (for someone who had produced a gruesome low-budget masterpiece like Bad Taste)airie-fairie and aimed squarely at the kiddie market. This 1979 animation on the other hand was a twisted work of dark genius and, animation or not, proved that the ink medium need not be limited to tots. Just like Pink Floyds' The Wall animation is used here to eerie and terrifying effect, and the fact that this project was never finished is a waste of talent and vision. Jacksons crappy yawn-athon gets raved about by geeky little men in Metallica T-shirts while the true broken meisterwork is consigned to the flames of consumer ignorance. What sad times we live in. "},{"Title":"B.D.Kuchera talks about the Lord of the Rings Animated Feature","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm not a critic, I'm just a guy that loves great cinema. If you have a chance to step back from what you know the Lord of the Rings to be through Peter Jackson, check out the animated Bakshi version some twenty-five years before. I saw this film when I was very young, then rediscovered it through Fine Art appreciation. Obviously, like every person on earth, even the aborigine tribes saw Peter Jackson's film, but most have not seen this animated feature.I believe that it's quite important to see this film. Not just because it's another viewpoint on J.R.R.'s tale, but also that the imagery in it was clearly inspirational and influential on Jackson's film. At times, Bakshi's film is almost a storyboard for Jackson's work. Where the animated film lacks and Jackson's story picks up is in the sheer amount of the story that is told. Yes, it really takes 9 hours to do justice to the story, but the animated feature also touches on a level of artistry that the live action doesn't.One of the first things that is striking about the animated feature is the process called rotoscope (a word that's not even in the dictionary). Actors are filmed, then drawn over by animators. The movement of the characters is beautiful, and at times I have to just say wow when it comes to the feeling it gives when watching Fine Art in motion. There are some slow parts certainly, but ultimately, this animated film is just a gem that everyone should see, even if you saw the live action films. It just worth noting that long before Jackson was even a filmmaker, this story was made into this great animated film. Spend some time with it. Cut it some slack. Step back into the seventies and imagine seeing this before CG even existed. Bakshi did a great job. I just wish he had had millions to do it all. But then again, who has fifteen year to animate a nine hour version?B.D.Kuchera "},{"Title":"An ugly insult to Tolkien's work. Burn this sick film!","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  THE LORD OF THE RINGS (1978)**SPOILERS**THE GOOD--Unlike many, I actually enjoyed the score for this flick. In fact, mostly throughout the final scenes of this film I was just txting people on my cell phone and listening to the music because what was happening on-screen was so terribly presented and awfully boring. I liked the Isengard/Mordor themes; Leonard Rosenman did a good job with the dark music and brought a light quality to the Shire scenes as well. Though the lack of music during the scenes in places like Lothlorien was quite frustrating, as Lorien felt like a very musical place in the books, well that's the way I felt anyway.THE BAD--The Lord of the Rings contains some of the most truly awful animation I've ever seen. It starts out as being quite good, with details in the facial expressions of the hobbits and Gandalf during the Shire scenes. But the animation just keeps going down hill and down hill until it hits rock bottom.and then some. It looks so dastardly ugly, and the editing is horrible (Pippin has blonde hair in one scene and brown hair in the next). It looked to me like there was some kind of live action trying to be mixed in here as well, which looks horrible. I could also tell when there was all these disgusting paintings in the background and the characters moving around.it just looks so damn obvious.--Excuse me, the screenwriters, but perhaps you could take into consideration that some people haven't READ the books? I myself have and know the story well, but many times these screenwriters just jump in without explaining anything. The sword of Elendil, what exactly hobbits, elves or in fact any of the characters are, many of the places aren't explained and lots of the characters purposes in the story are never explored. There are so many examples of this and these are only a few flaws in a truly awful script that should never have been picked up by anyone with a brain.--The major flaw I had with the movie is this this to me doesn't feel like a labour of love, a work of art, truly inspired by J.R.R Tolkien's work. The script is bland and copied almost straight from the book (though much is cut down, another fault). There is no development for the characters, who I felt nothing for; all the screenwriter seems to care about is that we know the names of these people. Hardly anyone is given anything interesting to say or do, and I'll repeat once again - THERE IS NO CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT AT ALL! The characters are just there because they are.unlike Peter Jackson's The Fellowship of the Ring where we really care for them, and they are developed to three-dimensional level. Who actually felt anything during the Khazad-Dum scene or during Boromir's death? Not me! None of the characters even seemed to give a crap that two of their beloved companions (not that we'd know they were beloved, because none of them have relationship development AT ALL) have just blatantly DIED, all they care about is where they're going to SLEEP next!--Who actually felt like they were watching Middle Earth? Not me! I felt like I was watching some grotesque painting that a baby had smeared food over, and placed his little toys there (these are the animated characters). There is no magic or anything fascinating about this place; it's just a terrible mess. There is no atmosphere to it, and as I mentioned in my last point - there is no feeling that Ralph Bakshi has been inspired by the books at all!--Oh My God.this movie was so boring that during it I was telling someone a BEDTIME STORY! I felt like I would rather put nails in my a**e than watch anymore of the film, that's how bloody bored I was. I can watch Peter Jackson's trilogy and it seems to fly by in 10 minutes, but when I watched this film (there's only been the once, and there will be no more) it felt like it took 400 thousand years. To get going.--How absolutely terrible were the monster designs in this movie? I think the most entertaining thing about The Lord of the Rings is laughing at these absolutely disgustingly bad designs. Treebeard looks like a carrot with an afro, he's the worst, and when I saw him I was actually speechless at how someone could come up with something so absolutely RIDICULOUS looking. Second worst and close behind is the Balrog, and he looks like a butterfly with a tiger's head. If anyone watches Buffy, remember that demon Jonathan dresses up as in the season 6 episode Life Serial? That's basically what the Balrog looks like. Even the characters look stupid - you can't tell the hobbits apart, Gimli is in fact a dwarf but is the same size as any other human, Aragorn is a pimp, Boromir looks like he's trying to be Lucifer or something, the black riders look like poos or Jawa rejects and the Uruk-Hai look like metal-shed tools.--This was one big BAD idea. If you don't know HOW to do this story, then why on the bloody hell MAKE it in the first place. This is an absolute INSULT to Tolkien's amazing work; I will never be able to forgive Ralph Bakshi for his truly horrendous filming of the story. He should've never even tried in the first place - this incompetent, stupid director will be making the Professor turn in his grave. I hope Bakshi never made anymore movies after this, but I won't bother to look because this director isn't even worth it.RATING1/10 - That's a VERY generous rating, it is SO almost a 0/10. By far the worst animated film I've ever seen. All copies of 1978's The Lord of the Rings should be banned for being such a horrid disgrace to all that is Tolkien.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDChucking it away, and then watching the REAL masterpieces in Peter Jackson's 2001-2003 trilogy. "},{"Title":"An honest (but lengthy) reaction to the film !!!Spoilers!!!","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie during a Tolkien-themed Interim class during my sophomore year of college. I was seated unfortunately close to the screen and my professor chose me to serve as a whipping boy- everyone else was laughing, but they weren't within constant eyesight.Let's get it out of the way the Peter Jackson 'Lord of the Rings' films do owe something to the Bakshi film. In Jackson's version of The Fellowship of the Ring, for instance, the scene in which the Black Riders assault the empty inn beds is almost a complete carbon copy of the scene in Bakshi's film, shot by shot. You could call this plagiarism or homage, depending on your agenda. I'm sure the similarities don't stop there. I'm not going to do any research to find out what they are, because that would imply I have some mote of respect for this film. I'm sure others have outlined the similarities- look around.This movie is a complete train wreck in every sense of the metaphor, and many, many people died in the accident. I've decided to list what I can remember in a more or less chronological fashion- If I've left out anything else that offended me it's because I'm completely overwhelmed, confronted with a wealth of failure (and, at high points, mediocrity).*Due to heavy use of rotoscoping, Gandalf is no longer a gentle, wise wizard but a wildly flailing prophet of doom (whose hat inexplicably changes color once or twice during the course of the film).*Saruman the White is sometimes referred to as 'Aruman' during the film, without explanation. He wears purple and red for some mysterious reason.*Sam is flat out hideous. The portrayal of his friendship with Frodo is strangely childlike and unsatisfying. Yes, hobbits are small like children, but they are NOT children.*Merry and Pippin are never introduced--they simply appear during a scene change with a one-sentence explanation. The film is filled with sloppy editing like this.*Frodo, Sam, Pippin and Merry are singing merrily as they skip through along the road. One of the hobbits procures a lute at least twice as large as he is from behind his back--which was not visible before--and begins strumming in typical fantasy bard fashion as they all break into la-la-las. AWFUL.*Aragorn, apparently, is a Native American dressed in an extremely stereotypical fantasy tunic (no pants), complete with huge, square pilgrim belt buckle. He is arguably the worst swordsman in the entire movie--oftentimes he gets one wobbly swing in before being knocked flat on his ass.*The Black Riders appear more like lepers than menacing instruments of evil. They limp everywhere they go at a painfully slow pace. This is disturbing to be sure, but not frightening.*The scene before the Black Riders attempt to cross the Ford of Bruinen (in which they stare at Frodo, who is on the other side on horseback) goes on forever, during which time the Riders rear their horses in a vaguely threatening manner and... do nothing else. The scene was probably intended to illustrate Frodo's hallucinatory decline as he succumbs to his wound. It turns out to be more plodding than anything else.*Gimli the Dwarf is just as tall as Legolas the Elf. He's a DWARF. There is simply no excuse for that. He also looks like a bastardized David the Gnome. It's a crude but accurate description.*Boromir appears to have pilfered Elmer Fudd's golden Viking armor from that Bugs Bunny opera episode. He looks ridiculous.*Despite the similarity to Tolkien's illustration, the Balrog is howl inducing and the least-threatening villain in the entire film. It looks like someone wearing pink bedroom slippers, and it's barely taller than Gandalf. Purists may prefer this Balrog, but I'll take Jackson's version any day.*The battle scenes are awkward and embarrassing. Almost none of the characters display any level of competency with their armaments. I'm not asking for action-packed scenes like those in Jackson's film, but they ARE supposed to be fighting.*Treebeard makes a very short appearance, and I was sorry he bothered to show up at all. Watch the film, you'll see what I mean.Alright, now for the GOOD parts of the film.*Some of the voice acting is pretty good. It isn't that Aragorn SOUNDS bad, he just looks kind of like the Jolly Green Giant.*Galadriel is somewhat interesting in this portrayal; like Tom Bombadil, she seems immune to the Ring's powers of temptation, and her voice actress isn't horrible either.*Boromir's death isn't as heart wrenching as in Jackson's portrayal of the same scene, but it's still appropriately dramatic (and more true to his death in the book, though I don't believe Jackson made a mistake shooting it the way he did).*As my professor pointed out (between whispered threats), the orcs (mainly at Helm's Deep, if I'm correct) resemble the war-ravaged corpses of soldiers, a political statement that works pretty well if you realize what's being attempted.*While this isn't really a positive point about the film, Bakshi can't be blamed for the majority of the failures in this movie, or so I've been told--the project was on a tight budget, and late in its production he lost creative control to some of the higher-ups (who I'm sure hadn't read the books).Let me be clear I respect Bakshi for even attempting something of this magnitude. I simply have a hard time believing he was happy with the final product. Overall, I cannot in any way recommend this blasphemous adaptation of Tolkien's classic trilogy even for laughs, unless you've already read the books and have your own visualizations of the characters, places and events. I'm sure somebody, somewhere, will pick a copy of this up in confusion; if you do, keep an open mind and glean what good you can from it. "},{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Amazing! Bakshi's vision of Middle Earth surpasses Jackson's in many ways; and if you looking for an adaption the sticks close to the books, watch this! The rotoscoping looks awesome, the use of colour is a real piece of eye candy!! "},{"Title":"a misunderstood work of art","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Very briefly  arguments can be made against this film's choice of aesthetics, but what is unimpeachable is the fact that such choices were made, and made with conviction and talent.  The recent Peter Jackson release was a directorial work of skill; all artistic qualities lied elsewhere (the WETA workshop - costumes, makeup, props, etc. - was fantastic, for example). The Bakshi film is a work of art and clear vision.  Most importantly, Bakshi understood what Peter Jackson chose to ignore  that the LotR trilogy is a work of MOOD and CHARACTER.  Nothing else.  What is the plot? Nothing take a ring and toss it into some lava - nothing more need be known. Action?  Literally, about 3 pages of 300 page Two Towers is devoted to the battles (which, predictably, the new version heavily focuses on). Bakshi's only insurmountable problem was a lack of time and money. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining animation classic","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Over twenty years of time this has been the only movie adaptation of J.R.R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings books. Film has always been rather underrated and only the most fanatic Tolkien freaks have been watching and rewinding it for the last 23 years while waiting for someone to finally shoot the classic tale with real actors. And recently that someone took the shape of director Peter Jackson and as we all know the rest is modern movie history. I've never actually seen this whole version before, only parts of it but yesterday I had to rent the Dvd when I got the chance. I watched it last night and liked what I saw. Peter Jackson has confessed that this animation gave him lots of inspiration when he directed the new trilogy.Now that almost everyone have seen Jackson's film it's pretty interesting to observe how much he has taken visual ideas from this heart-warming old animation classic. Both of these films are obviously based on the same beloved text but there are so many different possibilities to interpret it and transfer it into the screen and there's many similarities between the two versions. Ralph Bakshi's The Lord of the Rings is like a brief collage of the most important parts of Tolkien's work. Peter Jackson told the story of The Fellowship of the Ring in about three hours and he had to still left many exciting parts of the story untold when this one doesn't take even half of the time to get through the main events of the first book. Sadly this enjoyable animation never got a sequel it deserved. This is a brilliant little cult classic and definitely worth a rent. "},{"Title":"Far better than Jackson's uninspired Hollywood adaptation","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Compare Bakshi's LOTR to Peter Jackson's and you realise just how Hollywood, conventional and uninspired Jackson's version is.With Bakshi you get an incredibly strange and surreal aesthetic that fascinates in its uncanniness. This is what fantasy calls for. Middle Earth feels like another world entire. The use of rotoscoping works perfectly here. As a child, I could not have been more scared when seeing the orcs and black riders in real form. Even when the animation of the orcs has a flickering, unfinished nature to it, it works perfectly with the nightmarish tone.The voice work is exceptional. Bakshi's Gandalf is infinitely better than McKellen's kind hearted wizard. Bakshi's Gandalf is stern but gentle in a way that adds so much more complexity. You realise how brilliant Gandalf is but how he is also slightly mad in his brilliance. Similar with Aragorn - John Hurt gives so much more gravitas and wisdom to the role than Mortensen's angsty, pathetic performance. There is more presence in these two characters alone than any of the cast in the Jackson's films. Similar credit goes to Galadriel whose beauty is utterly terrifying but in a far more subtle way than Blanchett's embarrassingly overdone performance. The script should get some credit here - so many of the lines are actually taken directly from the book (in this way the Bakshi version is actually far more loyal to the book).Other characters Legolas - certainly better than Orlando Bloom's wooden performance. Thankfully there is no one liner action banter with Gimili in the Helm's Deep scenes.Gimli - A real character - this guy is no comic reliefHobbits - Not bad but I would concede they are all better in Jackson's version, especially Samwise (Sean Astin).Gollum/Smeagal - Jackson's Gollum feels far more like a cartoon than Bakshi's ironically. Bakshi's Gollum feels like a paranoid drug addict constantly on the edge of an abyss - that scream is terrifying. In Jackson's hands, Gollum is merely 'cute', his eccentricities safely couched in a obvious split personality device (there is no comforting line in Bakshi's)Black riders - far more scary in their twisted body movements, and their strange whining, shrieking and whispering.The voice work is also a large part responsible for the sense of history and other worldliness Middle Earth has. There is gravitas in it. Through them we hear stories of forgotten legends around the campfire and at Rivendell. Fragments of journal entries long lost are read out in hope of some sort of revelation. History here envelops and defines the story as much as it provides the mystery that alienates/fascinates us as viewers. With Jackson's film, history is actually explained too much (through flashback) diluting the mystery and simplifying the world. Bakshi's history is elliptical, unexplained, but far more affective.Better sequences than Jackson's The Black Rider on the road (actually scary and not in broad daylight)The Knife in the Dark scene and the Prancing Pony (far more surreal than Jackson's)Flight to the Ford - the film's best scene, a nightmarish six minutes as opposed to a pathetic two minute scene in Jackson's (with the bland Liv Tyler).Helm's Deep - the blood! the chants! the wolves! Theoden's horn!Boromir's death - in long drawn out silence - all we hear are his blood curdling screams. no lame tragic hero music here. Speaking of which, despite the criticism of Bakshi's soundtrack as overdone (which I strongly disagree with), there are far more contemplative scenes of silence (adding to the strangeness) in Bakshi's version than Jackson's. Finally, I sense a lot of the criticisms of this film have something to do with its 'weird' tone. Many of the reviews simply become criticisms of the animation or what was cut out without fully confronting the film's uniqueness. Jackson has none of the nightmarish vision of Bakshi. His Middle Earth is thoroughly familiar and predictable. I'd also venture that a large part of the positive reception to Jackson's LOTR is mere hype. It would be good to move past this so Bakshi's visionary film gets the recognition it deserves. "}{"Title":"insulting","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  what can i say? anyone who has read The Lord of the Rings is bound to have fallen in love with it and this movie does not in any way do justice to the book.  The voices in this cartoon are sappy and do a terrible job of acting. The whole movie is not worth watching and a terrible disappointment. "},{"Title":"Too terrible to believe - but really funny though. Watch it!","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Preparation (an explanation of the consequences of watching this film) Don't be mislead by the good video cover. This movie is the most rubbish, stupid and laughable piece of poo ever. But if you have even the tiniest slice of a sense of humour, then please, please, please watch it. Anyone who has already seen it must have at some point been on the floor in fits of uncontrollable laughter.The characters, and how funny they are Frodo - extremely camp voice, childish looks, and looks almost exactly the same as merry and pippin. Sam - Really funny, makes me laugh every time, sometimes has a lazy eye, has goofy teeth, a very 70's haircut (like a lot of the others), a HUGE nose and talks with a country accent, but there's one bit where he goes really posh (Me sir? Go and see the elves? Oh my! Oh hooray!) And also has a strong affection for Frodo... to strong. Bilbo - is ugly and has a lazy eye. Gandalf - watch his body language, he alway looks as if he is milking a giant imaginary cow. Saruman - has for some reason had his name changed to Aruman. Strider - is very ugly and looks like a gladiator Legolas - looks like a Barbie princess, and is really camp. Gimli - Although he is a dwarf, he is the same height as the others??? Boromir - is a viking, and is also ugly. The orcs - are... ROTOSCOPED!!!Rotoscoping Rotoscoping in this film is the process of taking perfectly good live-action footage and buggering it up so it looks like all the crappy animation and basically looks really stupid.Stuff to watch out for in the film/goofs 1 - Bilbo's lazy eye. 2 - There's a really cheesy bit where there's four different drawings of the Shire, each in different seasons, and they get played really fast and it looks so stupid. 3 - Merry and Pippin have no purpose at all, and the reason why they have joined is not explained. 4 - When Frodo and Gandalf are talking, just before Gandalf pulls Sam out of the bushes, Frodo has THE MOST STUPID EXPRESSION EVER. I can't explain it, but it's seriously funny. You see his face in this expression twice. 5 - When the innkeeper and Strider are arguing, Strider calls the innkeeper fat, and Frodo thinks this is terribly funny, so watch his face then as well. There are so many more rib-cracking bits in this film, but I can't be bothered to write any more. So watch it as soon as possible!!! "},{"Title":"The Dark Lord Sauron must've made this movie, 'cause it's downright EVIL!","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" OK, I figure, it's only fair to give you a description of both good and bad points of this film. OK, First, I'll give the good points.The Good Well - um, hmm. Gimme a sec here. (thinks for 3 hours) Oh! I have- Oh. Oh, no, wait. No. Hmm. A little big longer, please. (Cricket, cricket, cricket) Got nothing'.The Bad Gonna have to go piece by piece here...Sauron Let's start off with what was supposed to be the big bad villain here. And when I say supposed to be, I mean SUPPOSED to be. We don't really get to see him except in the prologue, and the rest of the time he's only eluded to a few times! The big, bad guy who's supposed to have created the ultimately evil thing is reduced to a background character.Saruman (oh, sorry. That's Aruman) Somehow they convinced the Moses from the Ten Commandments to replace Sauron as the main menace in this cheesy movie. No joke, he looked just like Moses, only his robe didn't have the white and black stripes. His name was also supposed to be changed completely to 'Aruman', but if you listen carefully, there are several instances where you can hear him being called Saruman.The Ringwraiths Hobbling on screen like something from Night of the Living Dead, they did not have the right feel at all. They moaned (literally), and their screeches (if you could call them that) left much to be desired. They also decided to go into a wardrobe change after Bree, but not for the better.Orcs and other not-so-important nasties The orcs are nothing but fat, black vikings complete with the helmets with those horns. If they're not vikings, then all you see are minotaurs, monkeys and misshapen men in burlap cloaks and hoods who work for Aruman. There are no Uruk-hai, only one troll who we only got to see his scaly toe, and a very badly done Watcher in the Water. These orcs are not scary nor evil.Balrog OK, he was supposed to be important, but like everything else, had no evil feel to it. Its mane (which I didn't picture as a lion's mane) had no flames to it, it had no flames anywhere on its body, in fact. It was about the size of a tall man and looked like it was wearing Greg's pants from the Brady Bunch! Gollum A poor excuse for a lab skeleton. His eyes weren't done very well, (they were supposed to be kinda eerie. They weren't) the voice-actor did a bad job, and he wasn't nearly as obsessed by the Ring as he was supposed to be. Actually, it seemed more like he was a reject from an old Dracula movie. All he needed was a Transylvanian accent and more then a couple of strings hanging from his middle.Theoden, Eowyn and Eomer OK, starting off with Theoden. He never got cured from Worntongue's poisoning really, and his will seemed too weak to be the kind of king he was supposed to be. Eowyn and Eomer get small scenes in here, even though at least Eomer was supposed to be very important. Instead, Eomer gets reduced to about ten seconds of screen-time, and Eowyn gets fast-forwarded about twenty years and apparently is pregnant.The Fellowship OK, let's start with Gandalf A ballerina was placed in for this part (he just can't stop twirling around), and he was not really portrayed as very wise. Aragorn They turned him into a Native American who looks his age (87) and who needs a better sword and toupee'. Boromir A viking who stole one of the orcs' helmets, needs pants, and has a rather wimpy horn. Legolas Elf of the Chinese who's reduced from Prince of Mirkwood to Elrond's messenger boy. Gimli Not a dwarf, but instead a short man who needs Aragorn's toupee' and better dialogue. Merry A very stupid, fat hobbit who couldn't take any kind of pressure if he was alone. Pippin Let's just say he was turned into a toddler who couldn't keep his hands off of different hair dyes. Sam No longer the lovable hobbit we were supposed to have, he looks like he's about 67 and acts like he's got a donkey's brains. Frodo Normally my favorite character, they took away his wisdom, courage and acting abilities.The Ring Taken from the most evil item in Middle-earth to a trivial piece of gold that looks like somebody stole it from Theoden's finger. No runes, no nothing. This item was supposed to belonged to Sauron, have corrupted Gollum, and nearly destroy Middle-earth! Instead, Frodo trades it in for a cheap wedding band whose luster is lost when if falls in the Anduin river in the beginning.OK, I'm pretty much done ranting. Bakshi must've been high on something 'cause no one in their right mind would've made such a classic piece of literature into such a catastrophe. Had Tolkien seen this, he would've had a real big cow. And Bakshi still wanted to make his sequel how many years afterward? There's a reason the plug was pulled! In essence, avoid this at all costs. It'll turn your brain to mush. But, if you by some twisted chance of really bad luck happen to find this in your possession, do what Frodo was supposed to do with the Ring THROW IT IN A VOLCANO! You'll enjoy watching it burn more then watching it run. "},{"Title":"This is a cool animated feature!","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This animated feature is no cartoon. I don`t think children will understand and plus there is alot blood and sword fighting. I would not recommend this to a child but to a teenager. I am suprised the the film followed this so close but in this film most of the characters look different. This film is nearly flawless with great action for a animated film and it is never boring. I hope all Lord of the Rings get to see this! "},{"Title":"Movie takes an axe to Tolkien's classic book","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This cheapo animated version of the Lord of the Rings  gallops through the story, cutting whole key sections of the plot to save time, and then peters out halfway through the story anyway.  Maybe the big budget three movie version now in  development will do a better job of putting the classic trilogy on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Good animation, not necessarily so good adaptation.","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Bakshi's The Lord of the Rings was for a long time the only movie adaptation of the book - and that was a great shame. Mostly simply because it's so... abridged. Two hours long, and it covers most of Fellowship of the Ring and The Two Towers - hmm...I remember seeing the animation a long time ago, and thought it was pretty awful. Now, after the Jackson trilogy and all, I finally found it again.I have to say that I still hold my belief from those days This is a great animation. I absolutely love the rotoscoping/live-action animation deal shown in the movie. It actually looks better than I imagined. Okay, some of the scenes were done with two-penny budget and are just painful, but at other times, this thing manages to be beautiful or just plain amazing, or even just stylish.Yet, I'm a nitpicker here. If you want to see a good LotR movie, try the new trilogy. This isn't a good LotR movie. This is a very chaotic mess compared to them. Some of the deviations from the book are just flabbergasting. Dialogue gets weird. Some of the action scenes are just dumbfounding and corny.But I still think it's a good *animation*. If you like awful movies, like I do, or just want to see something that definitely has style over substance, this isn't going to hurt you. Just grab something to eat and beware not to choke on it if you see something really funny. And every fan of the books should also see it, if not just for education, at least as an example of how *not* to do LotR movie adaptation.I was going to hit this harder, but I don't have the heart, I sometimes just love a good effect movie. 7/10 it is... "},{"Title":"Darkly Effective, but somewhat Flawed","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The dark landscapes and nightmarish hordes of orc soldiers charging across the rugged wastes make this film very enjoyable  on an aesthetic level.  However, the film follows the book poorly and omits very many details -too many in fact to keep the film coherent.  Lots of zesty style and odd rotoscope animation guarantee that this will be a cult classic, much like Bakshi's other film Wizards.  Very hard to find, but enjoyable film with a very good musical score.Giuliano Testa "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  the movie is an interesting mixture of techniques. the colours are vivid. the atmosphere is the same as in the book. the story is great. it is a must for fans of j.r.r. tolkien and a terrific opportunity for people who haven't met the world tolkien created. see it if you can. "},{"Title":"Amazing, A must see it.","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all, this movie was made on 1978 and is a cartoon(animation) movie!!. Many users make a terrible mistake, they first watch the movies made by Peter Jackson and then came to criticize this movie for a lack of special effects, etc. Be realistic there is a difference on budget, years and type of movie.This movie was supposed to be the first of a sequel of two movies, but due to budget (I think) they didn't make the second one. Nevertheless, this movie make a good job by showing you a much more obscure and mysterious version of The Lord of The Rings. It's less superficial than Peter Jackson's movie and the appearance of characters are quit different. I must advise that you may get shock for the kind of special effects this movie carry on fighting scenes, but be honest, there wasn't CGI effects on 1978 for an animation film!.It's the typical movie that wasn't good in its time but became a must see it over the time. "},{"Title":"The film has not aged well, certainly not a classic.","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I recently had the opportunity to watch this movie again on cable, a film last seen as a young teenager. I enjoyed the movie as a child, but maturity and an appreciation for film has changed my perspective.Bakshi's LoTR is disjointed at best. The scale of the books is daunting though and I do give this film credit for trying. Peter Jackson was certainly helped in his endeavor by Bakski's attempt, he could see first hand what worked and what failed miserably. Some of the grandest scenes in the books, like Gandalf's confrontation with the Balrog, are rendered so poorly by the animators that I can't help but laugh.Many Tolkien fans have read the books over and over again, it exists as a film in their own heads. My only explanation for a mature Tolkien fan endorsing this film now is that all the gaps and missteps in the movie are being filled in with their own impressions from the book. Banal lines clumsily delivered are only resonating in a viewer because they are straight from the books and trigger a happy recollection.The only saving grace of this film for me are the books and nostalgia, take those away and it falls apart. "}{"Title":"An Experience That Just Keeps Getting Worse Each Time...","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"35 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As an avid Tolkien junkie, I grew up on this film; but even at a young age I could see it for the foul-smelling garbage that it was.Let's see the music is overbearing and painful; the actors used to articulate the characters' movements throw their arms about in a style that can only be described as Dinner Theater (check out Merry when he says, I'm TIRED of looking at my cousins all day!); The Hill in Hobbiton is actually a valley (!); Gandalf tosses the Ring into the fire without bothering to check for an inscription; Sauruman is pronounced Aruman for no apparent reason, but only half the time; dialogue is badly recorded (listen to Frodo when he says that, Merry and Pippin insisted on coming with us as far as Bree.--it sounds like Christopher Guard phoned it in a day before the film's release); the Black Riders limp like lepers, and resemble Darth Vader when unmasked when they ought to be decrepit old men (not to mention the fact that we see them revealed on Weathertop before Frodo even puts on the Ring); Sauruman the White has suddenly become Sauruman the Red and Purple (and don't even ask about his melodious voice); Aragorn has suddenly become Native American (it seems the animators took the whole Man of the West think WAY too literally); Frodo and Sam's relationship almost becomes homosexual on Weathertop before they're interrupted by the Nazgul; the Flight to the Ford is drawn out so long that it becomes sleep-inducing (except for that puzzling moment when someone shouts, Go Back! in a voice that more than resembles a ten-year old boy, and who it's supposed to be is beyond me); Legolas has Florence Henderson's latter-day Brady coif; Rivendell has gone from being a city hidden in a ravine to an architectural nightmare built into a cliff; Boromir is a Viking (so much for the richly-dressed son of the Steward), and carries a sword that looks like it's about to break at any time; Gimli the Dwarf is as tall as Legolas (!); neither Aragorn nor Boromir wear pants; Narsil is never reforged, but we hear Aragorn loudly proclaim that he is the heir of Elendil, despite the fact that Elendil is never mentioned, nor is the breaking of the sword; Gandalf's hat changes color during the Council for no apparent reason (ah! Such magic!); Sting looks identical to the sword Frodo was carrying throughout the first part of the film (and no, neither one glows blue); Boromir, especially outside the doors to Moria, is an utter jerk; the Moria Gate swings inward, making it impossible for the Watcher to close as it is depicted; the Balrog is almost unimaginably embaressing (but, boy, do those fuzzy slippers look great!); the elves of Lothlorien are not only terribly obnoxious, but sing like the world's most polished elementary school choir; we never get the opportunity to see Frodo and Sam's visions in the fountain (though we DO see the Eye of Sauron, which looks like a trippy kaleidoscope screen saver); Galadriel never gives the Fellowship their gifts, which raises the question of how Frodo was planning on getting through Cirith Ungol without that handy little phial; the Argonath appears to have been made of troll dung, melting under the sun; Frodo leaves Invisi-Prints when he flees Boromir; vocal effects from earlier scenes are re-used in Boromir's death sequence (Merry and Pippin's grunts are Frodo flailing before the Moria gate, and Boromir's hysterical screams are the same as the orcs that Merry and Pippin accidentally bump right into); Boromir's arrows pierce his body so deeply that there's no way he could have slid down the tree like that); and then there's the part where--Oh, wow. I'm only halfway through the movie. And boy do my fingers hurt.Get the point? "},{"Title":"Check it out","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a strange film, because it has brilliant moments, as well as some pretty bad ones. It's very uneven. The good The Black Riders, though slightly on the differently abled side, do look very creepy and scary. The scene where they get off the road to hide from the Black Rider is superb. In fact, every single scene involving the Black Riders is superior to the scenes from Peter Jackson's film.The art. The film does have artistic aspirations, and succeeds on many occasions.The emotion. The film will not leave you indifferent. The scenes are loaded with emotion, and you will experience suspense, dread, excitement, terror, and sorrow. In this respect the film also surpasses Peter Jackson's effort.The bad Characters. They look kind of silly. Sam looks like an exceptional individual, Aragorn looks like a weirdo in a skirt, Gimli looks like some hillbilly, and Legolas looks like Bambi. The balrog looks like a plush lion in slippers, the Riders of Rohan also sport skirts, the orcs look like deformed old hags, the wizards have ridiculously long beards... You get the picture. However, Frodo is well designed, and so is Gollum - though he is inferior to the one from Peter Jackson's film.The stupidity. Some of the battle scenes involve really stupid people on both sides, who literally run into the enemy's spears and arrows.The confusion. The film is too short to provide adequate exposition. The lack of closure. Yes, the film covers only half of the book, which is a huge letdown. Makes the effort ultimately pointless.Final verdict definitely worth watching. Even if you dislike the film, chances are you will find the experience worth while. "},{"Title":"Take One Revisited","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's not fair at all to dismiss Ralph Bakshi's animated treatment of Lord Of The Rings for being what it's not, the three-part, 11- plus-hour version we got 25 years later. You have to judge it on its own terms. So let's do that.On its own terms, Lord Of The Rings is a somewhat goopy, occasionally gripping screen handling of the first book and most of the second book from the J. R. R. Tolkien fantasy epic. In it, hobbit Frodo Baggins finds himself the possessor of a powerful magic ring, the key to defeating the growing forces of darkness. Yet the ring can't be used by Frodo in any constructive way. To be of use to him and his good allies, it must be taken to the heart of the enemy, Mordor, and there destroyed.It is altogether evil, Frodo is warned by his wizard friend, Gandalf. It will corrupt and destroy anyone who wears it, until he passes into the world of shadows under the power of Sauron, the Dark Lord of Mordor.Bakshi was an animator of powerful and unique vision, yet there are too many occasions where marrying that vision to Tolkien's story seems to have been too much. Frodo and his fellow hobbits are too cutely designed in animated form, with their big eyes, moptop haircuts, and tendency to cower in each other arms as their trek grows more perilous. The animation relies heavily on rotoscoping, basically filming real actors and then sketching over them. Bringing this off in concert with more fully animated sequences creates a lot of lulls in the action.For an animated film, it sounds great anyway. Leonard Rosenman's sterling score builds up suspense and grandeur, and provides majestic payoffs all the way through to a riveting finale. The voice acting is solid, especially John Hurt's work as Aragon, the hobbits' valiant ally. Bakshi introduces him effectively in a barroom sequence that is the film's high point. Unfortunately, that's over thirty minutes in. Peter Woodthorpe oozes corruption as the most Bakshi-type character in the trilogy, Gollum, while William Squire's Gandalf brings Alec Guinness-like authority and humor to his work.Mordor's dark emissaries, the Ring Wraiths, are effectively rendered, so much so their glowing eyes and grey robes seem to have gone to Bakshi's head. Every orc and balrog in Middle Earth sports a similar look.As the film goes on, the problems of bringing off Tolkien's grand design seem to accumulate. The bigness of Tolkien's vision is reduced to a few obvious actors moving in the foreground while matte paintings of others stand stationary around them. Some of these paintings are quite breathtaking, but Bakshi leans on them too much. Big crowd scenes seem to consist of Rosenman's music playing majestically while the screen presents still images broken up by a flapping pennant or waving spear. In battle, the fully animated figures of the main characters mesh awkwardly with the real-life rotoscoped actors around them.There's also the problem of ending the film with half the story yet to occur. Of course, that's not Bakshi's fault; he was given to believe he'd have another movie to tie up these loose ends. His job here was to give us an appetite for that next chapter, and guided by Tolkien's story he almost does. It just doesn't grab one as a unified vision. This is more of a compromise, a noble one, but a bit of a failure all the same. "},{"Title":"first screen writing credit on lord of the rings (Bakshi version)","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Just to keep the facts straight 1. The screenwriters knew the difference between Saruman and Aruman--that was a higher up decision.2. while some have said Peter Beagle's screenplay based very little on the original draft by . . .  the truth is There were 6 drafts by the original screenwriter, trying everything from 3 films, to 2, to squeezing the entire thing into one film, all at Bakshi's request. While Beagle was brought in because of his greater name recognition, he was both paid less and wrote less than the original author. That's why when the WGAW arbitrates screen authorship, they analyze it line by line and give the first credit to the person who wrote most of the screenplay! Check who got first credit! --ximmer "},{"Title":"Hard to watch with todays standards.","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Lord of the Rings (1978, Dir. Ralph Bakshi) A young Hobbit named Frodo is thrown on an amazing adventure, when he is appointed the job of destroying the one ring which was created by the dark lord Sauron. He is assigned with warriors including Gandelf, Aragorn and Boromir. It's not going to be an easy journey for the Fellowship of the Ring, on the ultimate quest to rid Middle-Earth of all evil.The original 'The Lord of the Rings' animated adventure was created in an interesting way. It was sort of a mixture of detailed animation and live action. This is really the only interesting piece of this movie. Unfortunately, the movie only includes the first two stories, and does not include the third story of the trilogy. Compared to today's storytelling and the look of the amazing Peter Jackson's versions of the novels, 'The Lord of the Rings' is a difficult film to watch if your used to todays blockbusters, and with the long running time, it drags on a lot.My Precious. My Precious. - Gollum (Peter Woodthorpe) "},{"Title":"Visually, very interesting, but not a great film overall","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" For those who do not already know, this film is a (mostly) animated version of The Fellowship of The Ring and The Two Towers. A second film installment to cover The Return of The King was intended, but never created, due to lack of funding or loss in interest or something along those lines.From solely a visual standpoint, this film is amazing to look at. The blending of live action with animation is really quite impressive. The rotoscoped animation adds a great amount of depth to the characters simply through their motions, simple slights of hand that would have otherwise been left out by the average animators. The ring wraiths are particularly creepy, both in animations and live action. Also, the voice acting is great.While watching the movie, I kept getting the impression that in order to enjoy this, the makers of the film intended for the audience to be be somewhat stoned. There are a number of scenes where the background is just a swirling mass of lights and colors, and there are a few times when there is what I assume to be fog/mist passing in the front of the screen that it is obviously smoke from a cigarette/joint/incense/something. Just something I happened to notice. Watching this, naturally after seeing Peter Jackson's films, it's obvious to see that Jackson has also watched this film. Several scenes, particularly from the Fellowship of The Ring portion of the film, are almost shot-to-shot the same between the two films. I noticed this the most in Bilbo's birthday party, the road to and inside the White Pony, and Frodo's race to Rivendale from Weathertop. Much of what Jackson kept in and edited out of the movie from the book was influenced heavily by this film.Sadly, however, that's where most of the positives end in this film. There are a few (not many, just a few) points that REALLY detract from the overall movie Sam looks (and acts) as if he has downs syndrome; Aragorn looks like an Indian; Gimli is just as tall as Legolas, Legolas's eyes make him look like an Aryan Asian; and Boromir is apparently a viking. Oh, and due to some of the movie's higher-ups thinking Sauroman and Sauron sound too similar, Sauroman's name is SOMETIMES shortened to Auroman. Really though, those are the only problems I have with the movie, however they are so prominent in the film that it's hard to overlook them.(Note Although it is not by the same people and has a very different look and feel, if you are interested there are animated versions of both The Hobbit and The Return of The King, but they have a much more family friendly feel than this film does.) "},{"Title":"Take it all in context...","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Watched it last night with my son (we've read the books) - reading these reviews the polarization is interesting. You either like or hate this movie.My advice would be to not bother with this movie unless you are already a Tolkien fan. You will be unimpressed unless you have invested the time to read and comprehend the books first. In fact - you might even been turned off to LoTR if the only exposure you ever got to it was this movie.That said - I found this film interesting from the viewpoint of how it chose to represent the different events as the story went along. I enjoyed the animation but the live action parts I could have done without. I'm not expecting 21st century CGI here - but it looked to me that as they ran out of money to make the film, they relied more on the live action scenes to fill the gaps. The Orcs looked especially bad - not because how they were rendered, but the actors that were hired to wear the rubber masks and potato sacks had no realistic movement at all. I pictured the director ordering them to just jump around or something as they filmed - makes no sense.For some reason - this movie reminded me of Heavy Metal (1981) which, oddly, I don't think I've seen since 1981.My impressions- Animationed parts are OK, some parts appear painstakingly done but are unimpressive by todays standards (not unlike _2001 a Space Odysey_). Many of the live action scenes (particularly the battles with Orcs) should be edited out - they have little value. Some battle scenes are difficult to watch because they are so poorly done.- Helms Deep portion of the film was done (IMHO) poorly.- Film ended (ran out of money?) before Isengard / Orthanc, which I thought was one of the best parts of the second book.- I was really disappointed with the renditions of Aragorn (who looked like an Indian, not that there's anything wrong with that), and Boromir who resembled some type of Viking. Sam Gamgee was made to look like a buffoon, but at least his character was (incorrectly) developed. Aragorn and Boromir also sported these silly outfits that it was really hard to get past.- Treebeard looks like a Saturday morning cartoon and pretty much the entire sequence of how they came across him and the conference with the ents was skipped. At least that part wasn't live action (actors in tree outfits interacting with cartoon hobbits would have been real painful to watch).- Saruman was red (wtf?)If someone out there with a decently equipped Mac should take this film and re-edit it, I'm sure they could make great improvements.So - rent it if you are into Tolkien and remember that it was made at a time when the awful effects were impressive.  "},{"Title":"Visual similarity did it influence Peter Jackson?","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I first read The Lord of the Rings in 1964--just prior to its first appearance in paperback--and formed my own mental visualization of the book.  I've seen the new Peter Jackson Fellowship of the Ring--and just recently, for the first time, the Ralph Bakshi cartoon.I think the Peter Jackson movie is great.  It did not, of course, match either my mental imagery or my mental _structuring_ of the story.  But great, and worthy, nevertheless.  The Bakshi cartoon is... well, let's say it's MUCH less bad than I thought it would be.  Good enough to be sorry it was never finished.The part that really interested me though, is that Bakshi cartoon seemed to me to have, let's say a very similar _storyboard_ to the Peter Jackson version.  The pacing, the visualization, the sense of which incidents to stress and which to omit seemed very similar.  Perhaps this is just coincidence; perhaps there are only so many ways to compress a very long, complex, rich, literary story into much shorter, cinematic language.But I wonder... I think it's interesting that both adaptors completely omitted the visit to Tom Bombadil, which to me has always been a particularly cherished part of the story, and that both of them compressed Faramir and Boromir into a single character (Boromir).I'm not suggesting anything that I'd call stealing, but I do wonder quite seriously whether Peter Jackson was influenced by the Ralph Bakshi version.  "},{"Title":"Worth a look for Tolkein fans...","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For those who have read the books and are fans of Middle Earth, this film is worth a look just to see Bashki's interpretation. But if you have NOT read the books I suggest that you AVOID THIS MOVIE. For if you see this movie without any prior experience of TLOTR, you will wonder what all the fuss is about. READ THE BOOKS and you will understand. Or for those without patience, seeing Peter Jackson's films will probably be a safe bet... "},{"Title":"Good attempt at such a giant task","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Firstly i consider my self to be a huge Tolkien fan, and a huge movie fan. Having watched this movie more than thirty times i'd say i know it pretty well and i absolutely adore it.  It is the only LOTR movie yet and i treasure it. Now ok it does end in the middle of the Two Towers witch dissapointed me but the rest of the animation made up for the loss. I felt the characters were portrayed well, except of course Sam Gamgee, who is not gay as made out. Any real Tolkien fan should know this. An all round enjoyable experience, especcially to LOTR fans.CAN'T WAIT FOR MORE LOTR MOVIES!!!!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"This movie deserves to be finished","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, for those of you that will bash this movie because it is not EXACTLY like the book, show me any movie that is!  Heck, even a book based off of the movie is often better then the original movie is itself.  So get off your high horse, and try to enjoy this (or any other movie) on it's own merits.As far as the rotoscope work...  look at when it was made.  In 1978, there was no Disney making animated movies.  We had Rankin-Bass and Filmation.  If you want an idea how those might have been, look up Happily Ever After by Filmation or The King And I by Rankin-Bass.  Even my children hated Happily Ever After when they first saw it.  And how often do 4 year old's do that?Don Bluth was just getting his own studio together.  And for those of us that remember when the movie came out, Rotoscope was looking to be the next major evolution in animation (Tron changed all of that, even though it's true vision of computer animation was a tad premature).  And while movies like Wizards, Heavy Metal, LOTR, and American Pop are dated by their rotoscope look, at the time it was seen as very advanced and futureistic.And it is sadly true, the movie was cut short because of funds.  The vision originally was to film the entire story, then edit and release the first half.  While the first half was in the theatre, they would edit together the second half.  But because of cost over-runs and other problems, this never happened.  The first half became an orphan, and was never finished.Of those that said it was dull, or slow, remember the pace of the original work.  LOTR is *NOT* fast paced.  If anything, Mr. Bakshi should be accused of being to close to the actual book itself.One last point... it is only recently with the new CGI special effects that a live-action version of this movie is even possible.  It it had been tried fully live-action in 1978, we would have had monsters that looked like a combination of the Star Trek TV show and Dragonslayer movie.  This is not an attack on either that movie or the TV show, but simply a comment of the ability of FX in that day and age. "},{"Title":"Quality Ring Wraiths","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The second half of this film is a mess and is abruptly put out of its misery after Helm's Deep but there are great moments in the first half. Most importantly, the Black Riders are scary! I like the nightmarish otherworld Frodo enters when he puts on the Ring; the wraiths' surprise - and their leader's pig-like grunt of recognition - when they spot him on Weathertop; and their patient but relentless advance, clanking their ancient armour with menace...Unfortunately, most of the rest is poor and often looks cheap. However, John Hurt deserves recognition for his perfect Aragorn. "},{"Title":"not that bad","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched this movie yesterday and although half is missing and there are some strange edits, it was still enjoyable. Especially the animations and real life acting mix was brilliant. Much better than the current computerized animations. It gave it all a nice and good feeling. "},{"Title":"Film is supposed to be art. Films aren't supposed to a copy of the book it's based on.And Thank God.","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The most terrible thing about this film is not the film itself, rather it is the attitude of certain moviegoers who seem to view this film for five minutes and then say...I don't like it because they left stuff from the book, out... or I don't like it because I've read the book and it's not like the book at all.... What a ridiculous attitiude. Film that is based on other media, like books, is supposed to be artistic adaptations...the interpretation of the director. In this respect, Bakshi's Lord of the Rings is a great film, the animation groundbreaking (live action rotoscoping, and such..), and, because FILM IS ART, is not meant to be a true realization of Tolkien's vision, but rather a stylized exploration and introduction to the major themes in Tolkien's trilogy. Usually the transfer of ideas from one media to another requires making adaptations based on artistic license.  I, too, have read Tolkien's novels, but when I saw this film without projecting my own expectation of what this film should be, I realized this was a stunning film and a brilliant realisation of Tolkien's world. When Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings comes out, you can bet self titled Tolkien scholars will point out what was in and what was taken out of the novels. People actually think that Stephen King's The Shining was a better film then Kubrick's The Shining only because the former was more like the book.. When will people stop comparing a film, one kind of media, to a book, a completley different kind of media?  "},{"Title":"On par with Dune","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It would probably be more correct to say that Dune is on par with Lord of the Rings, but...  By this, I mean that it is a brilliant novel which has been so poorly adapted that it's hardly recognizable as the same story. Things are overly compressed, characters represented in terrible fashion, and worst of all, no sense of scope.  I never thought I could be bored by the battle of Helm's Deep!  It took all of my will power to keep from fast forwarding through the whole thing.  Lord of the Rings just further cemented my opinion that rotoscoping is possibly the worst form of animation ever invented.  "},{"Title":"don't wait around for Part Two","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ralph Bakshi's animated version of the classic fantasy appeared at the crest of the mid-70s Tolkien craze and, if nothing else, probably signaled the end of the revival. Making the film was no doubt a labor of love, but watching it would have to be even more of one. Bakshi's Reader's Digest condensation covers roughly half the trilogy, but the abbreviated plot will be virtually incomprehensible to anyone not already confessing a weakness for the wizards, elves and hobbits of Middle Earth. Perhaps it could only have failed die-hard Tolkien fans were disappointed, everyone else was simply confused, and Bakshi never find the time or money to complete a sequel. The only remaining point of interest is the director's sometimes clever animation technique, much of which was actually accomplished through the laborsaving process of rotoscoping (i.e. tracing the motions of) live actors, mostly during the murky battle scenes. "},{"Title":"Not great, but not bad - but the score is terrible!","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Not going to go into detail here about the rotoscoping, animation, backgrounds, changes to the story etc. because it's all been done before. The film is flawed, yes, but only because the ambitions of the director far exceed the capabilities of animation technology at the time and the budget for the film. If he'd tried making it now, assuming the Jackson trilogy hadn't been made, it would be hailed as a masterpiece.What I will complain about is the annoyingly perky marching-band music that pipes up continuously throughout the film. It makes it seem like the Fellowship are on a countryside ramble before taking a picnic in the woods instead of going on a perilous quest that could result in the end of the world as they know it! Great voice acting though, especially Gollum - I always chuckle when I hear his reaction to Sam's accusations of 'sneaking'! A pity that we never got to see a sequel. "},{"Title":"I liked it as well...","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I thought the cartoon one was very good but I'm one for color and brightness, I loved how it was live action underneath drawings. The Nazguls are cool and I'm looking for the image of the Balrog. He's cool in the movie so I wanted to see the cartoon one again. Just was looking to refresh my mind some. I first saw it when I was 7 or so and I liked it right off. But I never have seen RoTK in the animated version. I am trying to compare the two movies and I was hoping to see this one once more to make up my own mind. I do notice a lot of similarities to both and the graphics on the 2 movies are excellent. I don't have a problem w/ either one. I thought they followed the story very well. Tami L. Cook "},{"Title":"A Great Animation for it's time","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I watched the movie when it came out in 1978 and it was awesome. Anyone who says that it is inferior should first check out the other movies and animations of its time. Sometimes people tend to forget that we have come a long way since then and if you try to compare it with todays films, it's like comparing a rotary telephone to a state-of-the-art cellphone (If you still know what a rotary phone is!!!)J. R. Tolkien's rendition of this masterpiece is brilliant. What it took Millions of dollars to produce the trilogy was squeezed into one animation. "},{"Title":"C-3P0 is the voice of Legolas!","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Overlong, uneven, sometimes even unemotional but not completely uninteresting attempt at capturing the story of JRR Tolkien's Lord of the Rings. Nowhere nearly as good as Peter Jackson's films, but there are a few odes to this animated attempt in Jackson's work. We should not completely dismiss it though, as Tolkien's work is very difficult to translate, and in some ways these folk might have adhered more to the books than Jackson. The animation, while ugly in some places, actually manages to create its own bizarre, unique atmosphere that draws you and keeps you hooked. What else can be said of animation that blends animation with real people? But one thing I'd like to know is why aren't Aragorn or Boromir wearing any pants? And why is Boromir a viking? C-3P0, by the way, Anthony Daniels, is the voice of Legolas.  "}{"Title":"zombie Nazgul, elven Caesar and communist Saruman","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I bought this movie out of sheer curiosity, and I can't say it was needless. I think this is something everyone who has seen Peter Jackson's LotR movies and didn't like them should see.I have read some of the other comments and it seems that no-one liked the way they just used real people instead of drawing them. I on the other hand would have preferred them to make all the characters like that, instead of using that stupid style on the most important ones. It looks like a blend of Disney and avantgarde now! Very awkward.I suspect that Peter Jackson went through this movie very carefully before making his own, because there are certain things, that are very familiar - the way Hobbits hide from the Nazgul, Eomer's banishing, etc.I liked Frodo's hallucination when he was chased by the Nazgul, I liked the orcs and the Nazgul, but only as long as they stayed in the saddle. When they got off and started limping, I felt I was going to die laughing. Maybe the filmmakers understood the idea of Nazgul being undead too literally and turned them into zombies?The main characters all look horrible. Merry an Pippin are 10-year old children, Frodo has got a horrifying smile which I suppose was meant to show his unquenchable spirit. Sam is even shorter than all the other Hobbits and more than anything reminds a pear. Gandalf should get some serious therapy, because he seems to suffer from a grave psychosomatic problem. Pointing fingers and grimacing can, of course, be also efficient  in fighting against Sauron - taking up a journey into the very heart of the evil realm seems like an escape from the maniac. Elrond looks like Julius Caesar, his appearance in the movie is rather symbolical, as he doesn't in fact do anything important. Humans wear short tunics - not the costume to survive in the wild. Aragorn is an Indian and Boromir a Viking. Gimli is somehow as tall as the humans and Legolas looks like a standard fairy-tale prince. Arwen seems never to have existed, which makes Aragorn's story of Luthien and Beren rather pointless. Theodred is also gone, instead Eomer and Eowyn are Theoden's children. Oh yeah, one more thing Saruman, though still called the White, is in fact Red. Was that a hint aimed at the URSS? "},{"Title":"Misunderstood (Yes, my Precious)","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've read many comments on how good and bad this film adaption was, especially compared to the current film adaption by New Line Cinema.My humble advice to you is simple.  See the different versions, and decide for yourself.  Just keep an open mind, and pay attention to the STORY, not the effects or whatever.  The best thing to really do is READ the book. If you do that, and decide what you like for yourself, I think even Tolkien would appreciated the films.All told, 9/10 of the people who complain about the animated 1978 adaption weren't out of diapers or even born at the time. They complain about the quality of effects, because they were weaned on 80-90's cinema.  They weren't there in the '70s when computer animation were nonexistent, and the visual effects of the original version Star Wars were stunning.They have to keep in mind that the animation was done by hand - every single cell - no computers.  In order to do that, you adopt character designs that are not complex, easy to animate, and that  for the audience can identify. Do a couple million hand painted cells, and you will get the idea. Whither not not the animation is good or bad, the simple fact is that the story is solid, and stands well on its own merits.Now comparatively speaking, Jackson either blatantly plagiarized or was heavily influenced by this adaption.  It's only logical observation, not a criticism.  As a director, he looked at all previous efforts in his work to adapt the novels as best as possible.No adaption, no matter how carefully made, will ever be close to the source material - hence the word, adaption.The simple fact is that the animated film is much closer to the original work than Jackson will ever be.  The reason for Jackson's diversion the desire and preference of the masses.For example, Arwen is hardly present in the Lord of the Rings. She is NOT, was NEVER a central character.  She makes a cameo appearance in the novel, at the start of the Quest and then at the end when she must choose her mortality and love - nothing more.  Her presence is more felt than seen, as Aragorn moves toward his destiny as the King. It is the love and hope that she represents to him that is more tangible than her actual presence.Jackson placed her in the film as a leading lady, not only to please the female audience, but to reflect the way our society has changed.  For those of you who may take exception to this or looking for female characters with a definite presence read the novels.  Galadriel, and Eowyn are fantastically described, vivid characters who stand out.  If you want to understand Arwen, you infer her character from the Appendices, and the Silmarilion.There is a lot more to be said on the differences and the criticism. Indeed, there is enough to fill a book, several in fact.  I'm sure some other writer with nothing better to do will make a small fortune nitpicking all of these old bones over like a vulture.The hope is that the movie will generate an interest in reading the book itself.  If it's important to you to know the whole story, read the book. After all, IT was voted the most beloved book of the last century - NOT the movie adaptions.Thanks for reading. ) "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzz","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Having read all the books several times, I was ready for a cinematic version when I entered the theater during the film's initial release.It represents a landmark in that it was the only movie in which I ever fell asleep during the showing. Several years later, I tried watching it again on TV. I fell asleep.Is there something about the rotoscope process that promotes somnolence in certain people, much like the Japanese cartoons that cause children to go into epileptic-like seizures?From what I recall when I was merely drowsy, there was none of the riveting characterization that made the books so riveting, only vague cartoonish representations of the characters I loved.The real question is why Hollywood would entrust the film translation of a literary classic to the director of Fritz the Cat? Stick with Peter Jackson's version. "},{"Title":"Great developments in animation","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Over the years, I have heard many people lambaste Ralph Bakshi for producing this film; however, I would counter that they were quite short sighted. This film laid groundwork for developments in animation both by demonstrating how to do things wrong and how to do things right.  It is an amazing contrast in both directions, but considering that this film was produced in the 1970s, the advances that it brought forth were quite remarkable.  The work utilized by Bakshi here can be seen in higher resolution in his film Fire and Ice co-produced with renowned artist Frank Frazetta.With the recent release of Peter Jackson's epic production of The Fellowship of the Ring and The Two Towers I have had to marvel that Bakshi and Beagle were on the money in their attempts to tailor these marvelous books, which are a writers Herculean task to convert into a script.  The same direction was used by both companies when viewing what was noted to be essential to telling the crux of the story without being bogged down in fascinating, enjoyable details that would have made for a plodding adventure tale as stimulating as documentary.  Examples are the exclusion of Tom Bombadil, the combination of the Barrow Wights with the Dark Riders, and the combination of Glorfindel with another elf in the story.Many have complained that Bakshi halted the film at the conclusion of the Battle of Helms Deep.  Little do they know that this was a complaint of Bakshiâ?Ts as well.  It is reported that he did not wish to release this film as it was seen because it was unfinished.  The dark unfinished blatant rotoscoping of various aspects of the film and premature ending of the film were a result of budget.  The film production lost its funding, and those who had contributed demanded that the film be released.  Financial laws ruled, and an artist was disappointed with what he had to bring to the public.  I commend Bakshi for bravely taking his lumps for the drawbacks of this film.  I am, however, very disappointed with the fans who do not recognize the accomplishments that he gave them.A definitive contrast is Jackson's choice to portray Gollum/Smeagol as being an obvious split personality compared with Bakshi's portrayal of him as corrupt addict with schizophrenic qualities.Peter Jackson commented that he had seen the Bakshi film as a child.  It was one of his first exposures to the books.  Would his present marvel of the Lord of the Rings in film be available if Bakshi had not made this film? I can see the influence and thank them both for commendable efforts. Neither had it easy in either of their areas of expertise, and both produced great works.I would rate this film as a B.  Fine voice performances are given by a number of core of actors who would later set their mark in other films (most notably John Hurt).I would rate this film as a C+.  I would give it a B if Bakshi had not made the poor choice of animating Aragorn in a fashion that resembles Tonto from the Lone Ranger.  The costuming was somewhat typical and unimaginative (most notably the Elves) but did frequently have much in common with the Hildebrandt visualizations of Middle Earth.  The music score is not one of my favorites, and a very similar one can be heard in Bakshi's Fire and Ice film produced a few years later.  "},{"Title":"Good try but falls apart","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an animated version of the Lord of the Rings from the Fellowship of the Ring to half way through the Two Towers. It solves the problem of ending a film on a flat by ending with the victory at Helms Deep.The animation starts nicely but the producers never satisfactorily solved the problem of animating thousands of orcs and riders using 1970s technology and resorted to animating (badly) over live action footage. In some ways it works well, in others it looks weird.The film is quite good fun, and it's a shame that the second one (finishing the tale) wasn't made, but it's not a patch on the new versions and it'll remain a sad little sidenote in Tolkien mythology. "},{"Title":"A FIRST ATTEMPT AT A GREAT NOVEL","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ralph Bakshi's animated version of the Lord of the Rings was the first attempt to make a movie out of the great trilogy-- the Lord of the Rings. Forgetting the fact that the movie only covers about one and a half of the books (Fellowship of the Ring and half of The Two Towers), which was extremely disappointing, the movie was still quite poor.  First off, the animation of the characters was pretty good, but the backgrounds were very ugly and low quality and the real live actions scenes with actors were very poorly chosen and done.  As for character development, this was also quite quick.  You really don't commiserate or bond with any of the characters. For example, I always loved both wizards, Gandalf and Saruman, but in this movie they were very non-engaging and not likeable.  When Gandalf falls into darkness  or when Saruman and Gandalf fight there is no sadness, tension, anything.  A lot of times I felt I was watching a care-free cartoon, instead of a serious, deep adventure; this was another great disappointment -- because I almost always get engaged with movies or at least with some characters.  Furthermore, the scenes were very choppy with poor transitions.  One second the fellowship escapes the Mines of Moria and the next second (literally) they are speaking with Galadriel.  While at the same time other scenes just drag on and on, like when the orcs are running with Merry and Pippin or when the Nazgul chase Frodo to Rivendell's forde. This combination of bad choices make this version of the Lord of the Rings very unsatisfying.  If you are a Tolkien fan, you should see this movie just to see it -- even though it is not in itself worth it.  I am just happy that Peter Jackson came out with his far superior version, which I would suggest that everyone and anyone should see (and almost always enjoy).  "},{"Title":"not as bad as all that","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Warning! Minor spoilers for both this version and the live action!An interesting note I saw on my DVD that producer Saul Zaentz is listed as an executive producer on the live action LOTR. (I don't see that confirmed here on IMDB.)I am surprised by how similar the two films look. I don't think it's just the result of coming from the same source material. The hobbits hiding from the Nazgul under a tree root, the attack at Bree, the boats of Lothlorien, the monuments of the kings of Gondor and the fact that the Old Forest and Bombadil were cut out of both pictures indicates to me that someone on the live action was giving consideration to this animated rendition.You'll get plenty of opinions about what's wrong with the animated version on this comment page. Some I agree with. I'd rather like to point out the few places I think this surpasses the live action.1)I don't mind the shambling Nazgul. It doesn't make them any less scary in my mind and I think in general they're much more spirit-like and potentially scary in the animated version (the film doesn't always reach the potential, but it's there. Esp. in the Bree attack scene). The live action film's ability to make this fantastic world realistic via CGI works great for stuff like the Balrog, but less well for the more human looking Nazgul. When we're not looking at them through Frodo's eyes, they're just guys in black sheets. I like the red eyes and fading in and out spiritness in the animated version.2)The Orcs in the animated version don't suck as bad as some on this page seem to believe. I thought they were wonderfully dark and spooky. The red eyes and tongues...the sackcloth and weird teeth. They worked for me. Same problem here in the live action as with the Nazgul...it's wonderful to see Orcs rendered true to life...it's terrible to see Orcs rendered true to life. (live action low point for me is the What news from Mordor? orc...high point is the Uruk-hai Aragorn slays at the end.)3)I'm glad the animated action kept Merry and Pippin's motivation more in line with the book. Although the live action makes a successful choice to turn them into comic relief (a choice that will pay off in clarity in the next two films), I like the original characters and I'm happy the animated version tried to hold onto them a little better. Peter Jackson did get a great movie moment, however, when he changed Pippin's actions near the guard well in Moria. Thrilling!Before I sign off I will give the live action it's due. It's a far superior adaption that will get people excited about both Tolkein and filmmaking, and probably as good a job as you can do turning one medium (the books) into another (the film). Tolkein fans shouldn't be afraid of this version, however. Steel yourself against the abrupt and incomplete ending and enjoy. "},{"Title":"I don't hate Ralph Bakshi","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all, I don't hat Ralph Bakshi, I like that he accomplished what he did, I just think he should have put more effort into this movie, as it seems very slack.I've seen the Peter Jackson version (and it's absolutely fabulous), and some scenes are very familiar, so he did help with visually creating Lord of the Rings there are however many flaws in this movie, I can't list all of them, but this will be guidelines to themPronunciation - (K\S)elleborn (S)auraman; Animation - Orcs, People at the Prancing Pony; Lack of full plot lines - Aragorn's Sword, the Ring inscription,WHY they need to destroy the ring; Interperation of Characters - Aragorn's Mini - Skirt, Gimli's Height, Boromir's Helmet;Overall, this movie is good, but definitely not perfect. Rent it and Form your own opinions "},{"Title":"Could of been better.","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One thing i can say about this movie is well long, VERY LONG! I actually recently purchased this movie a couple of months ago seeing that there was a new version coming out. I was happy to find that it was made in 1978 because The 70's (even though i never lived in them) is actually one of my favourite decades, especially for the music! when i watched this movie the story was actually very good at the start but then after about 50 mins it started to get very boring and repetitive. i will admitt the animation did impress me! it was nothing i had ever seen before and was well pretty cool to see. but the movie honestly could of been a bit better, it could of had alot more talking and story to it than just 15 to 20 minute scenes that just had wierd fighting. then for the last 5 or 10 minutes the movie picked up and got good again but ended unexpectedly. in my opinion i thought it was EXTREMELY long. i know its 13 minutes over 2 hours and that is still long for a cartoon but since it was boring for  most of the movie, it made it seem like it was 4 hours long!!!! but overall it is an okay film i guess and i will watch it again on one of those nothing to do days. i will see the new one and i hope it is better! "},{"Title":"Good, but not good enough.","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  l have recently watched this film for the first time in over ten years.  I am a great fan of animated films and, not having a great memory of this one, decided that it was time to buy it on DVD.  I haven't read any of J.R.Tolkiens novels, so with regards to Lord of the Rings, this film is all I have to go by.  Enough of the background.  As far as animated films go, this one is a good attempt, but due to the lack of finances, it ends abruptly, and this left me in shock.  The first thing I noticed about the film, were the expressions made by some of the characters, especially the hobbits.  They are very life-like, which is a rareity in animation.  For me, the rotoscope techniques just don't work.  The orks looked like actors in silly costumes (Funny that!) and the live action footage is merely coloured in for a large part of the film.  Why not just make a live action version!  Eventually, it only detracts from the beautiful story line.  That said, I quite enjoyed this film, but there's no ignoring the fact that it ends too soon.  For those of you who are true Tolkien fans, I suggest you steer clear.  However, if you enjoy animated films, and your expectations aren't too great, then this is an enjoyable film. "}{"Title":"Not as good as the book, but a good effort. Nice animation, and good interpretation of the characters.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is no masterpiece, and it's not finished, but it had good overall and certainly not an embarrassment to LOTR. It's not a bad way to burn 2 hours. I look forward to the movies that are coming out over the next few years that will continue where this movie stopped. The animation is certainly interesting, and creates a good atmosphere for the movie. 8/10 "},{"Title":"How can a person be both impressed and disgusted?","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not sure exactly how to rate this, being stuck between two opinions. I'm a brand new addition to the Lord of the Rings circle, as I just finished reading the trilogy this past weekend - can you believe it, 23, and never read the books 'til now? So Tolkien drew me in and made me want more, so I've been frantically searching for additional material; I'd heard about this film, and was told to see it once, even though it was bad. So I rented it... and my feelings are ambivalent.I'm incredibly impressed with the script. Some Tolkien purists may take issue with not including every single page, but I've had many favorite books translated to the screen, and not one has been this true to the original text, save maybe The Last Unicorn - ironically, by Peter S. Beagle, who translated this into script form as well. (Every Tom Clancy book I've read has been hacked apart to make its corresponding movie.) You can't include every syllable of a four hundred page novel into a script (or in this case, two novels) so look to include what's most important. These people did an impressive job at staying true to the spirit of the books while cutting out the lesser parts so it had a decent running time.That said, I am none too happy with the visuals. How can anyone take such an impressive script and then make it into something like this film? As a graduate with a production degree and an interest in animation, I look critically at works like this, and I've never seen such a chop job. The animation itself was too focused on simulating live action by making exaggerated facial expressions, hand gestures and sweeps of body movement; I've never thought it possible to make an animated character drastically overact before, but this film accomplished it with more than one character (particularly Gandalf). I prefer the Rankin/Bass version of Return of the King in its actual visual representation of the characters (though, ironically, I prefer the storyline of this one, the R/B version has *way* too many songs in it), but that's all subjective, because no movie will please all viewers on how specific characters look. The behind-the-screen live action at the very beginning of the film looked like a one-shot take; all the acting was flat and listless. The rotoscoping was extremely distracting throughout most of the film, especially when animation and rotoscope came together. It proves that you've got to decide just animate it all or make it live action.I was most irritated with where the production ended, though I've heard it's because they ran out of money (query then why put out an unfinished product?). The script was so promising I was willing to forgive the visuals just to see where the end was taken, but I got cut off somewhere near where the second book, The Two Towers, finishes, with a sloppy attempt to make the Battle of Helm's Deep the end of the film. That won't satisfy most Tolkien fans, because the real quest didn't end there (and let's face it, most of the people who rent or buy this by now know something of the original).All in all, this film is worth a rent or two, maybe even becoming an addition to the collection of a die-hard Tolkien buff. It's not as bad as I heard it was - well, at least the script wasn't. If I have one wish for the trilogy currently in production, it's that they do as true of an adaption for the script. I'll pray that the rest falls into place, because I already am impressed with the casting choices and visuals I've seen so far, and I'm chomping at the bit for it. "},{"Title":"Unfinished Rings","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A previous commenter said he had heard that Bakshi had not finished Lord of the Rings because of lack of money.  This could have been true.  If so, it wasn't the only reason. The TV network CBS had rights to the last of the three books (Why the rights to these books were sold separately, I don't know.)  CBS refused to sell its rights to Bakshi.  Bakshi decided to do the film anyways and end it at the best place possible and continue to negotiate for the rights. After the release, CBS continued to refuse to sell their rights. In fact, they decided to release their own animated For TV program on the last book.  Done by the same people who did the TV animation of The Hobbit.  These were cheaply animated programs by Rankin/Bass.  I had hoped CBS would soon sell their rights afterwards after making a mockery of the last book, but they didn't.  As far as I know, they still own the rights. I agree with the previous comments about the film.  Though, I know Bakshi was torn over what parts of the book to leave out because of concerns over the length of the film.  The trilogy just has too much in it to get everything into three films, let alone one. I always hold onto this absurd notion that some day, Ralph Bakshi will get to finish his dream of completing the trilogy  (Wizards was his Test Run to doing Lord of the Rings.) With today's film making capabilities, it could be very interesting... As long as they don't do a Starship Troopers to it!  Let's hope these books get some decent film work done on them sometime... How about a decent PC adventure too..  "},{"Title":"Crib Death","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember going to see the movie in the summer of '78 with my parents, and being pretty into it at the time. Of course, I was seven at the time.Right before the Jackson movies came out, my wife and I rented this movie since she had never seen it and I was feeling nostalgic.Ralph Bakshi ran out of money about mid-way through the animation process for this movie, and was forced to drastically cut corners on this production. Since this movie was done primarily with rotoscoping, the animation technique for people on a budget, this is saying something. Much of this movie is animation only in the very loosest sense of the word. There are some scenes which are very obviously just people standing in front of a screen, with maybe some animation effects superimposed on top of them.Because of budget constraints, the movie -- already a compression of The Fellowship of the Rings and part of The Two Towers -- was pared down even more. What you get is sort of like a film-strip version of the Cliff Notes of the books.Its not all bad, though, the animation brings a warmth to it, that I found lacking in the Jackson movies. Its nice to imagine what it could have been like with decent funding.This movie is also noteworthy for having the sequel which never came. Several years later, a half-hearted half-hour long TV special was aired, which was meant to wrap things up. All I will say about that is that it was a musical. "},{"Title":"Give Me A Break","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" First things first. If you are a small child who has no understanding of the huge changes animated film has undergone in the last quarter-century, don't see this film. If you have no appreciation for the historical evolution of film adaptations of Tolkien's works, don't see this film. If you can't handle a film not created in an era where push-button special effects and computer graphics can erase any blemish from any director's vision and work, then for God's sake don't see this film. If you're too busy memorizing the names of Peter Jackson's film crew for your next fan club meeting, you probably don't have the time or the energy to see this film.This is neither a great film nor is it a terrible film. It represents what, in 1978, one film director imagined Tolkien's world should look like. It represents what film producers were, in 1978, prepared to pay to see an adaptation of this kind committed to film. And it represents a necessary steppingstone on the way to the Jackson films. In 1978 animation was the only way such a film could be made, and yet a fairly revolutionary process of converting live-action footage to animation was employed by film creator Ralph Bakshi to make it as realistic, and as far-divorced from Disney-style films, as possible. The result is by turns imaginative, inspiring, surprising, and highly artful.The film roughly corresponds to the first half of Tolkien's trilogy. Visual content owes much to the Hildebrandt brothers and European fantasy art of the period. Subjects are lovingly and respectfully treated, and the sexual edginess of previous Bakshi offerings Wizards and Fritz the Cat are abandoned here. The director instead focuses on melding his live-action and drawn animation into a coherent whole, while attempting to present his characters as endearing and as individualistic and as believable as he can. Hobbits are presented as naive and largely helpless, Men as flawed and corruptible, Elves as annoyingly perfect and beatific, and Dwarfs as members of the supporting cast. Aragorn is perhaps more credible as a Ranger than as a King; however, his transformation is not part of this film, as it was not really part of Tolkien's 'Fellowship' and 'Two Towers'. The numerous peoples and creatures of Mordor are mostly grotesque humanoids with surrealist cranial and facial features, but again, the focus is on the main characters and the Fellowship. Gandalf perhaps owes the most to Bakshi's previous films, and is somewhat as much a sleight-of-hand artist as he is a magician. His climactic return to the Ring War as a robed berserker on horseback, however, is an undeniably powerful and indelible image of Good Kicking Evil's Ass. Just ask Mr. Jackson et al.The true wonder of Bakshi's film is how many of his scenes are redone in the Jackson films; in fact Bakshi's work is adapted almost as often as Tolkien's.I enjoyed this film in 1978 and I think it still looks good today. It is unfortunate that the box-office dictated whether or not there would be a sequel. I believe the Bakshi film would be much better treated today if it were allowed to be finished. "},{"Title":"The first true to the book version, well done.","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm surprised to read that some don't appreciate this version of LOTR. I have waited 30 or more years to see movie versions of some of my favorite books, and I've often been disappointed. Starship Troopers was a great book, that could have been a great movie, but they turned it into a cheeky piece of junk. Several other movies were similar. The animated version of Lord of the Rings was one of the first book movies that stuck to the dialogue, the feel, and the story line, and even the voices were as I had imagined them. I found Gandalf to be exactly as I had imagined him. Saruman, Frodo, Sam, Gimli, et al, all fit the images I had of the characters.Was it as good as the Peter Jackson version? Of course not. Jackson was nearly perfect. Other than the fact that every time I saw Sam I thought Rudy, I couldn't really find any fault with any of the three Jackson movies. I looked forward to them for years, and I was not disappointed. This isn't the same. You have to remember that it's a 20 year old flick. It's like watching Forbidden Planet after growing up watching movies like Star Wars Episode II Attack of the Clones. You can't compare the two. It's unfair to the movie that is 20 years old.Don't go into this expecting an Oscar award winning type movie, but if you are looking for an entertaining, legitimate, visually appealing, book-true, hour and a half look at Lord of the Rings, you'll enjoy this.  "},{"Title":" Not an absolute mess nor Bakshi's fault.","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Unfocused yet fair animation attempt by Ralph Bakshi to adapt the first two installments of J.R.R. Tolkien's The Lord of The Rings trilogy.What Bakshi initially tried to do here by taking a big gamble in doing an adaptation of all three books into one movie - that he deserve some respect for that choice.  Unfortunately, one of the problems with the movie is the script isn't clear where to go even it tries so hard to be faithful to its' original source, which is key.As for the actors who supply their voices to the characters here, only Aragorn (John Hurt who seems right for the part) seems likable at best.The other parts of the movie that did work reasonably well is the scenery and the appearence of the Ringwraiths and Orcs.If there were two key moments that had to be redone - one is the battle at Helm's Deep and especially the stand that Gandalf makes a stand against the Balrog at the bridge of Khazad-dum, in which both scenes are rushed and lack the conviction.This movie isn't an absolute mess nor Bakshi's fault.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely fantastic for its time","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When this movie came out, it was state of the art, gritty and the first major motion picture based on a Tolkien book. Granted, it was state of the art like audio cassettes were around the same time; but with high quality rotoscoping throughout, it was pure eye candy for animation enthusiasts. Additionally, it had great acting by the actors who were rotoscoped and it had a really catchy soundtrack that I can't help but hum to this day. The biggest complaint consistently throughout the years is that the film only covered the first two books. Many also criticized some of the scenes because it seemed like Bakshi was on acid when he designed those scenes.... Overall, the film is terrific but I would take off half a star for stylistic inconsistency and my own gripe that it was never followed up with a sequel to conclude the story. "},{"Title":"Seriously.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The most terrible movie I've ever seen.  Ever. Just the Tron-imation alone was enough to make it terrible.  Add a viking Boromir and all the Men in skirts and Speedos and you get one big pile of garbage.  And why do they keep saying Aruman instead of Saruman? "},{"Title":"Ralph Bakishi has got it all so so wrong","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ralph Bakishi's vision on Lord of the Rings is terribly flawed. In fact, he has only captured half the vision that was so heartily encompassed in JRR Tolkien's classic. I believe that if you're going to make a movie from a book, then for heaven's sake, either put the whole thing in it, or don't do it at all! It was laughable to see the movie ending at Helms Deep. Hurray, we won the battle against Saruman. What about Sauron? More importantly, what about the Ring? The animations were reasonable in the first hour or so, but as the film went on, the quality seemed to die down quick, as if a bunch of cheap assed animators took over and deliberately tried to bring the film down to it's knees, it was just asking for it. The voice acting was lousy. It just lacked all the character from the books. It was uninspiring and cheap. Overall, this is nothing compared to Peter Jackson's masterpiece.And why on earth does Saruman look like Santa Clause!?! "}{"Title":"oh lordy!!","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this when it first came out back in '78 and I remember being fairly bored. Seeing it now I can understand why, although it's not as bad as some people say. The plot is fairly easy to follow but it lacks interesting characters and excitement. The animation has varying styles, some of which works better than others. I wasn't bored until thelast 15 minutes when there's mostly battle scenes which aren't veryinvolving. Also it doesn't really end as there was going to be another film to continue the story which was never made. Leonard Rosenman'swonderful rousing and complex score is probably the best thing about the film. (5/10) "},{"Title":"just plain wrong","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  (Minor Spoilers)This movie has very few features to redeem itself. I'm sorry to all you Ralph Bakshi fans out there, but this is not the superior celluloid version. And yes, I saw it before Peter Jackson's version, and I've read almost anything by Tolkein that has been issued in print since I was born, and many before than.To anyone who thinks this is superior Why does Saruman look look like Santa? Why is the voice acting so poorly matched to the animation? (To quote Anthony Daniels I didn't even know Legolas was Blonde.) Why do the Ringwraiths move  like lepers? They barely register as a threat in this movie.The fight scenes are perhaps the most ridiculous of all. We see the Balrog, which can fly, fall down a pit. We see gargantuan battles between about five orcs and ten men. The point of rotoscoping the battles is surely to achieve more than you could with traditional animation. The only thing it achieves here is to make them look fantastically stupid. The fate of Middle-Earth lies in the hands of about twenty-five people. Boromir fights on his own for a fair old while, with no reference at all to why he should fight on, after betraying Frodo. I know this is obvious to a fan of the books, but not to someone watching for the first time.Oh, and just to be petty, Aragorn looks like he drinks wine from the very cheapest German supermarket. "},{"Title":"Was I right, or was I right?","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In 1999, I wroteBy being better or by being worse, Bakshi could have done a lot more harm.Peter Jackson's version is either a great deal better or a great deal worse than Bakshi's (the view that it's neither is untenable).  It's undeniably flashier, easier on some eyes (but harder on mine), and ... oh, I don't know, I suppose there are a few trivial virtues I haven't thought of.  Bakshi has the better script, gets the mood right most of the time, and has a superior musical score.But while Bakshi was and remains guiltless, Jackson has blood on his hands.  He has murdered Tolkein's book.  Bakshi left open the possibility that the book was a great work of literature (which it is).  Jackson has convinced people that if you read the books you'll get, in literary form, the kind of thing he's served up on screen - and he's even convinced people who had already read the books and ought to have known better, which means he's made it much harder for I don't know how many millions of people to appreciate the books for what they are.  As a film, Bakshi's effort is mediocre, but it won't prevent you from understanding Tolkein's novel a fable about absolute power corrupting absolutely, a solidly grounded adventure story, a valuable and moving reminder of the beauty of the natural world, a meditation on loss and death.  Bakshi's mediocre film gets little of this across but at least he doesn't rule any of it out. "},{"Title":"Messy Piece Of Work","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"       I was fortunately introduced to JRR Tolkien's books as a child and when news of a live-action version in the works I was quite excited, because I had remembered watching this version several years ago. After seeing the new Rings in the theatres(twice), I picked up the original to refresh my memory. I was aghast.      Perhaps the film would have worked out better if it were completely animated or completely rotoscoped instead of the mixing and switching and stuff. That made it impossible to appreciate what was happening when a horde of rotoscoped Orcs charged at some fake-looking cartoon Hobbits. Also, the producers should have paced themselves by making the two-hour film devoted entirely to The Fellowship of the Ring. By including part of The Two Towers the movie ended abruptly and absurdly unresolved.       I must also take this chance to knock Ralph Bakshi for what was some pretty bad directing. I understand it was hard to control both an animated and a live-action crew, but he brought it on himself. The movie's action scenes, especially towards the end, are jumbled and confused, as if Bakshi simply told the Orc actors to run around swinging your arms. It's very frustrating to see such a marvelous book and 1/2 to be blasted into mediocre oblivion. One final note--those Orc masks look unintentionally hilarious. 1-10  Overall-3.5 Direction-2 Writing-8 Animation-6 Music Score-6  "},{"Title":"Ugh. Not much good to say about this...","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The only passably decent element of this confusing, ugly, disjointed mess was Gollum. Both the vocal performance and the animation was pretty good. I think they spent all the money on making sure he was right and just hired a bunch of blind 4-year-olds to do the rest. I could go into detail but suffice it to say there just isn't much here for fans to appreciate. It is reasonably consistent with the books, but if you haven't read them, wait for Peter Jackson's live-action film.  "},{"Title":"This movie killed my interest in Lord of the Rings","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie on cable sometime in the early 1980's.  It was awful - boring, confusing, pointless, plotless.  The movie was a mishmash of characters without any real plot or direction.  The animation was enough to give a seven year old a headache.  As a result, I never had any interest in reading The Hobbitt The Lord of the Rings or any thing else by Tollkein.  Whenever a friend recommended The Hobbitt - all the I could think of was this movie that could not even entertain a child.Perhaps if the live action version is halfway decent, then I may actually attempt to read the books. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a complete waste of time. The animation was really pathetic, Sam looked more like a girl if you ask me! I first saw it when I was 11. Strangely enough, I actually liked it. Then the person we borrowed it from asked for it to be returned. Two years later I re-read LOTR and decided to see the film, so I rented it. I ended up switching it off sometime around Bree, I think. And the music is terrible.  They should have hired John Williams.  Do NOT see this film, I can only hope that Jackson's version will be much better.And why does Wormtounge look like a Jawa straight out of Star Wars? "},{"Title":"Fans and non fans alike will hate this film","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you're a fan of Tolkien's classic novel, Bakshi's animated version will anger you with its blatant misinterpretations of the author's world and its bizarre way of compressing the story.  If you're a Tolkien neophyte or just a casual viewer, Bakshi's sloppy narrative technique will confuse the heck out of you.  Even the animation is sub-par, falling back into cheap rotoscoping techniques and bright cells on top of dark backgrounds.  Oh, and did I mention the film isn't even complete?  It halts suddenly in the middle of book three/book four (the two books happen simultaneously in the novel).  This would have been more forgivable (although never completely forgivable) if the movie had been honestly advertised as the first part of the story, but the poster art and ads lead you to believe that this movie presents the entirety of The Lord of Rings.  It's a shameful deception and the capstone of a wretched adaptation of a great book.  Thankfully, Peter Jackson's new version is on its way to mend the damage. "},{"Title":"Appalling.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The WORST transition from book to film ever, anywhere in the universe. Absolutely appalling.  One of the best books becomes the worst 'films'.What did we do to deserve this?  Technical advances in cartoons aside, why did they not burn the film before releasing it? "},{"Title":"Awful!!","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I normally don't even bother commenting on movies I dislike,but this can be an exception.Because this movie is bad...I mean really BAD!! I made the mistake of buying the Ralph Bakshi LOTR on DVD earlier this year,being very curious and despite several warnings from other Tolkien/LotR fans I still decided I have to see it.A big mistake.I think I remembered seeing it once as a child,years ago when I knew nothing about Lord of the Rings,but I didn't remember much about it(no wonder why!!It stinks!)and wanted to refresh my memory and see for myself if it really was as bad as people were saying. I wont get into any kind of detailed bashing of this film here,others have already made long and intense analysis of all the things where this film went horribly wrong....but one of the most annoying things is that they didn't even get the names right!! Peter Jackson and his crew and actors went into great detail to make the world of Tolkien as believable and real as possible.That included the language and the names that Tolkien had created. In this movie Celeborn is pronounced Seleborn,Moria is Muria,Saruman is Aruman(sometimes)Grima is Graima and so on,and so on...So any sensible,and I know now that I wasn't really thinking straight when I wanted to buy this movie,Lord of the Rings/Tolkien fan should AVOID this movie at all costs!It is simply appalling to look at...but if you are a masochist or don't really care much for Tolkien anyway then this film can provide some nice unintentional laughs...especially the way that they did Sam here. All I can say is Thank God for Peter Jackson,Philippa Boyens and Fran Walsh!!  "}{"Title":"Makes Peter Jackson look good","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched this movie with a friend of mine, him being a LOTR fan and me, well, not so much of a fan (I loathed the recent trilogy). But after this one, we agreed crap as you don't see very often.This movie tells the tale of the first two Tolkien books (Fellowship and The Two Towers) in such a boring and silly way, it's beyond belief. The animations are ugly (watch the hands of several characters being all over the place, and what the heck is wrong with Sam?) and takes way too much time on some unimportant parts, then rushes through many important ones.I would advise against anyone to see this, in particular if you weren't a big fan of the books/movies anyway...2/10.  "},{"Title":"A valient effort, but turgid in its conception","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I suppose that these days this film suffers from the direct comparison to the trillogy of films offered by Peter Jackson, although Jackson himself has sighted this film as one of his most important influences. Like Jackson, this was my first exposure to Tolkien, with the exception of a strange yet interresting map that my step-father had drawn which addorned our drawing room wall. From my childhood I remember this film as fantasmagorical, and ground breaking, and yet now I find it turgid and pedestrian in its conception. Fustrating also in that it relays only half the story - I understand that the production company ran out of money to complete the project which was a shame as the result of a finnished story may have given greater validity to what now appears, and indeed is only  half done. The Balrog of Khazed-Dum is the greatest disapointment! - The animators could have really gone to town (Is not paint and ink inexpensive?) as the did for Jackson, but instead we are treated to a rather cuddly looking winged lion of far from dramatic importance (He is supposed to kill Gandalf after all). The voice charecterisations are on the whole commendable, with the likes of John Hurt in their number (Aragorn). Special mention must be given to Peter Woodthorpe who plays Gollum brilliantly both here, and later in the excellent and highly recomendable BBC Radio dramatisation.A valient effort, but dated now, and turgid in its conception. "},{"Title":"This movie is a masterpiece","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This old animated adaptation of 'The Lord of the Rings' is a true masterpiece. It stay closer to the books than Peter Jackson's newer effort and moreover it successfully paints and differentiates the races and cultures of Middle Earth; something which Jackson's movies fail to accomplish. Comparing it to awful animated movies like 'The Hobbit' and 'The Return of the King' would be like placing the art of Craig Mullins next to that of a 2 year old kid. A damn shame that the project was not properly funded so Bakshi could have finished it.  "},{"Title":"Substandard, and with nothing to do with Peter Jackson","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In reading the numerous comments posted for this 1978 original attempt at adapting Tolkien's masterpiece, several truths become clear. First, many of the people reviewing were not even alive in 1978, and many are excusing Ralph Bakshi without knowing much about this innovative animator.I will do my best not to take the easy road, the theme of comparison and trashing the adaptation.1) Ralph Bakshi had made a name for himself in the mid-seventies. Fritz the Cat was effective because it was animation strictly for adults to enjoy, like a private pleasure, and it was pretty well made. Wizards was a good balance of simplicity, animation, and adult story telling. Nevertheless, it was memorable. Think Heavy Metal and you will get an idea what a treat it was for Wizards to come out. We were getting something no one else would give us adult themed animation.Expectations were understandably high in the mid-70's when Bakshi announced that he was helming this project.2) The adaptation was trying to be as close to the original as possible. Peter S. Beagle was adapting the books, and he loved the LotR. Bakshi had to make this film sell.He couldn't go too full in budget, he didn't have the resources of Disney, and he was trying to crank out this movie in time to take advantage of the resurgence in adult minded sci-fi/fantasy that was sweeping the U.S. then.He never had a chance.Bakshi was so out of his league in this undertaking that it simply is not funny. It would have taken real planning to meticulously render the details of the world of Tolkien, but Bakshi's strength was in urbania and economizing animation techniques. He needed a disciplined staff and he needed to be a disciplined director, and that just never happened. You can see evidence that SOME attempt was made to give the story similarity to the book, making the art design so ludicrous and abusing rotoscoping and miscasting voices turned this movie into the grand disappointment of 1978.And fans were not expecting the film to end so abruptly and implausibly. Bakshi just couldn't get his mitts on the rights to The Return of the King so he essentially called it a day.The film DOES demonstrate Bakshi's limitations. Just watch Cool World or American Pop to see where his strengths really lie. He's a good animator, but he's not a great one. His imagination was not up to the scope of the LotR story. And it makes this film a laughable part of his CV. I remember having high hopes for Bakshi's film, but I saw a marked devolution in the quality of the story and animation by the middle of this movie. It was like Bakshi said, Hell, I can't do this any better, so I'm going to just finish this #$*er.Don't forget that Dungeons and Dragons, fantasy roleplaying, board gaming, and fantasy art were inspired to try harder from this film. So, even as Gollum was bad, he had a part in destroying the Ring. And as lousy as this attempt was, it led to better things for lovers of this genre. "},{"Title":"Bakshi Comes Up Short","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ralph Bakshi's animated version of The Lord of the Rings is not an animated masterpiece.  The mixture of animation techniques gives the movie a disorganized look, using rotoscoping and photocopy animation.  The shadow play meant to serve as the prologue looks even less convincing.  Characters such as the Orcs and the Balrog just look like actors wearing silly costumes.  If this movie were live action, it would look like a low-budget, B-grade sword-and-sorcery epic.  It looks even more ridiculous when you compare it to Peter Jackson's wizardry!  The only character that was animated well was Treebeard.  I can only wonder how the many fans of J.R.R. Tolkien reacted to this movie, which sadly could not do the legendary author justice. "},{"Title":"Sneaking! What a shame this was never completed.","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Forget the big budget. This animation introduced me to this classic tale of good & evil. I loved Gollum best of all & he's just as good here as in the modern adaptation. The voice is perfect. My favourite member of the fellowship is Pippin. His youth, curiosity & bravery are charmingly captured. Frodo & Sam display close affection and the Ringwraiths are truely menacing. The remaining cast also come over well. Arwen's absence did no harm to the main thread since her role in events was largely minimal. The music which I purchased recently on CD is atmospheric, especially the jolly Hobbit theme & the sinister Nazgul accompaniment. The animation style helped convey the otherworldliness of the villains, although it does appear odd in places. The events move swiftly, unlike in the recent version. The only scene I didn't enjoy was Helm's Deep. Battle scenes aren't that interesting for me though so no blame to the makers. They managed to include most of my favourite scenes from the book without tampering with them. It wasn't over-long like the live action Fellowship (6/10) and I would have been ready to watch the next installment. Alas, this was never to be, but this does not diminish the achievement. Although I loved The Two Towers (8/10) almost as much, this original film will always be the best. 9/10 Precious. "},{"Title":"They took a terrific story and turned it into a kid's cartoon.","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have been a huge fan of Tolkien's work since the early 70's, and I saw this movie when it hit the theatres around 25 years ago. I remember being terribly disappointed at the time. They turned a wonderful, complex story into a childish cartoon comic. Tolkien fans, don't waste your time on this -- go buy the new version! "},{"Title":"By far the greatest movie ever made.","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lord of The Rings is by far the greatest of all movies. I think Rankin/Bass have outdone themselves on this movie. I would recommend it to any one. The animation is superb. If you liked the Hobbit you will love Lord of The Rings. I just love the way the story gives background on the characters. I rate this movie a 10. "},{"Title":"Clumsy, dull, and laughable","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If there had been any doubt in my mind that Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings trilogy was a remarkable achievement of film-making, this tepid animated version of J.R.R. Tolkien's fantasy classic (or rather, the first two parts of said classic) would have erased it. This Lord of the Rings gets it all wrong in as many ways as Jackson got it right, and the result is an overlong, underbaked epic that tests even the most determined patience.There are few by now who don't know the story--little hobbit gets evil ring and has to toss it in a huge volcano to save the world--which is a good thing, since the screenplay tends to throw plot points and scenes together at random. Looking through the credits, I find that one of the writers was none other than Peter S. Beagle. Peter, what happened? You not only wrote The Last Unicorn, one of the best fantasy books ever written, but you also converted it into an animated film as touching and beautiful as this one is bland and dreary. Did you panic on being asked to whittle down Tolkien's lengthy prose while still maintaining a sense of dramatic flow and coherency, or were you simply too distracted with other projects to even try? Then there's the animation, which is devoid of any sense of wonder, fear, or basic charm. There's no grandeur or glory, nothing to fire the imagination with its vision of Middle-Earth. It should be noted that although all the characters are rotoscoped (live actors used as models, which the animators draw over), the style of the film is not consistent. The main players look like cartoon characters most of the time, while the extras look like live-action actors (occasionally in gorilla masks) who've been roughly sketched over. Everyone flails their arms and leaps about in a ridiculous manner (sometimes in complete contrast to the emotional content of the scene), as if the live actors were afraid the animators weren't getting enough work. Fight scenes are particularly ludicrous, as it's obvious that much of the killing just involves one actor slapping another with the edge of his sword. Three of the characters--Gandalf, (S)Aruman, and Theodin--look so much alike as to make no difference. Legolas is cross-eyed, Boromir looks like a Viking, and the few female characters all have over-large eyes that look drenched in mascara. The voice acting is pretty bland, and inconsistent to boot--Tolkien was a linguist among other things, and was very specific about the pronunciation of Middle-Earth tongues. Bashki was nowhere near as specific. It has been already pointed out how the evil wizard is referred to as both Saruman and Aruman, but in both cases the characters can't seem to decide if the last syllable is pronounced like the word man or like the first syllable of Montana. The film ends abruptly, as if everyone involved suddenly gave up. Since it took three tries before I could actually sit through the entire movie, I can understand how they felt. "},{"Title":"HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!!","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  ****Spoilers****This film holds the joint title in my books as simultaneously the worst but also the funniest film I have ever seen.  Not only completely incomprehensible, it is also appallingly made, edited and ended.Firstly, the prologue was a mess (but a hilarious one at that).  Shot badly against a livid red background, it changes the plot right from the start, telling us that the Last Alliance actually failed. Also notable for containing the bizarre line, Sauron *learned* the craft of Ringmaking.  Hmmmm.....The Hobbit dwellings in the Shire look like they have been made out of toadstools or something, and our introduction to Hobbits themselves is less than impressive.  Sam, as has been mentioned before, looks like a human tomato, and has the intelligence and voice to match.  However, it is Gandalf who is the most noticeable character.  With huge locks of hair and a staff that looks like a bizarre stalactite or something similar, he invites ridicule from the start.  This effect is increased with his ballet in Bag-End, first pirouetting and then hugging himself.  (I would like to note that by this point in the film I was choking with laughter, tears streaming down my cheeks.)One facet of bad editing that gave me unending joy was the changing of Saruman to Aruman.  This would have been acceptable (just) but the film makers made it a comic gem by neglecting to change the name throughout the entire script - the resulting confusion can safely be left to the imagination.Also, the Black Riders deserve a mention.  Swathed in dirty beige cloaks and with a walk like they have never been introduced to their legs before, they are another serious part of the book that has unwittingly been reduced to farce.Aragorn in his short skirt is introduced, and there then follows a seemingly endless sequence involving Frodo on a White Horse attempting to throw off the Beige Riders.  This sequence lasts at least 10 minutes, and is almost totally incomprehensible, but of course risible at the same time.The Council of Elrond is reduced to 3 minutes, and serves no apparent purpose except to introduce Boromir, brilliantly attired in a Viking helmet and another short skirt.The Mines of Moria was a high point for me.  My favourite part of the books and the 2001 film, Bakshi managed to reduce it to weepingly funny and also weepingly bad at the same time.  Apart from the Orcs' gushing LUMINOUS PINK blood, there was the cave troll (which, correct me if I'm wrong, was just an orc played in slow motion) AND there was the endlessly hilarious Balrog - a lion's head put onto a human's body wearing big boots and with paper wings.  This whole sequence put me into life-endangering histerics.From here on in the shock of the first half of the film subsides and it becomes incredibly boring, with some interesting unwitting comedy thrown in.  From Helm's Deep, assaulted by ball lightning hurled from Orthanc, we get Frodo and Sam, now in the company of Gollum.  This is perhaps the only character where the voice truly *makes* the character - so what do they do but get a high pitched nasal voice to play it.  The highlight of the second half however was Treebeard, who defies description, but I'll try - imagine a potato with feet and hair like broccoli and arms like carrots; there, you've just imagined a creature less laughable than Bakshi's totally bizarre creation.Of course, the end is also a highlight.  With music in a totally different mood to what is happening on screen, the narrator informs you that just because an army of orcs has been defeated....all evil is gone from Middle Earth.  This is not only totally false (The Ring, (S)Aruman and Sauron are all still in existence) it simultaneously leaves three plot-lines hanging unresolved.This film is undoubtedly awful - completely at odds to Tolkien's work, and badly made anyway - but all the same it is very entertaining.  If you want to spend two hours crying with laughter I would unreservedly recommend this film.  Everything that could be wrong with this film is wrong, but it has claimed a special spot in my video collection as funniest film I own.    "}{"Title":"A flawed masterpiece.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have a confession to make, I have watched this movie over 300 times since the early 80's, usually in the company of my brother(it was he who introduced me to it after his form teacher at school showed it repeatly to the class) or friends. Now does this movie stand up to repeated viewing? Ok the animation can veer from 1978 state of the art to decidely dodgey, there are gapping holes in the plot, it has a very abrupt ending and a few other niggles, but the these can been seen as resulting from a desperatly small budget which criminally robbed the director of at least finishing the task he set himself. The good points of this movie far overtake the bad, it has excellent atmospheric music, fine voice talent, good character animation, some moody backgrounds, tight directing and a real feel for the world of Tolkien. Peter Jackson may have made the nearest thing to a perfect film inteperation of The lord of the rings that we will ever see, but the 1978 version should not be overlooked or dismissed out of hand, it has a place in film history.  "},{"Title":"As or more faithful than Peter Jackson's","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For better or for worse, these are the characters I envision when I read the Lord of the Rings books (with the exception of Gollum who is superior in the Rankin and Bass films). The re-release of this film and the R&B Hobbit and ROTK is a welcome trip back to my childhood. The Bakshi film is quite true to the story, and even when it included lines I thought couldn't have been in the books, after checking up, lo and behold, there they were. No doubt the 1970s hair and fashion sense strikes one as a little odd nowadays but I think they capture the sort of counterculture flavor that helped propel this trilogy into the stratosphere during the 1960s. The love that Ralph Bakshi has for Tolkien's work is absolutely evident throughout, and the animation/rotoscoping techniques generally give the film a dark, edgy, urgent feeling that, after all, matches the perilous and dangerous quest the characters undergo in the story. "},{"Title":"Man, those Orcs must have great dental plans!","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Here it is, folks.  It is NOT the _Lord of the Rings_ I remember from college, it is the long lost World's Longest Episode of He-Man.I have to wonder, after this mess and Cool World, why Ralph Bakshi was so hot.  You have to wonder about a mindset that skips over the forming of the Fellowship and the Hobbits' harrowing encounters with Gollum, yet gives Frodo an approximately twenty minute long hallucination when the Ringwraiths are chasing him.The best thing I can say about this movie?  The current _Lord of the Rings_ movies are going to look like Citizen Kane in comparison, no matter what!  It gets a three only for parody value and the unintentional hilarity of the Great Final Battle between a bunch of photocopies and a bunch of extras from an amateur production of Planet of the Apes. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't let all the negative comments get to you.  This movie was quite good, and I have been a Tolkien fan for nearly 10 years. There is no way a movie can compare to a book!  A movie is simply the director's interpretation of the story.  A lot of people don't share the same view of the story.  Also it would be impossible to use every scene from the book in the movie.  This version covers all of The Fellowship of the Ring and half of The Two Towers and is 130 minutes long.  so to cover the whole trilogy the movie would have to be 260 minutes and that is without all the scenes. So it is IMPOSSIBLE TO COVER EVERYTHING FROM THE BOOK!!  In conclusion, this movie was made well and does do justice to Tolkiens books. "},{"Title":"Faithful to the book and interesting animation.","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This Peter S. Beagle adapatation of the Tolkein book stays remarkably faithful to the original story and characters - unlike the 2001 movie.  It has wonderful music, superb voice acting, and a great soundtrack.  If there is any problem with the movie, it lies in the strange ending.  Still it is incredible how they compiled two books into under two hours.Bakshi's original style of animation may bother some audiences.  Many people have complained about the colored-over film look, but I find it creates very spooky Nazgul and orcs. Also for an interesting comparison, watch this movie directly before the 2001 movie.  Note the direct steals made in the scenes with the Black Rider on the road and when a group of them attack at the Prancing Pony.  This movie may have not made much of a mark on worldwide community, but it certainly has lent itself well to the making of the newer version - which, while it is a great movie, does nothing to maintain the atmosphere or original plot designs of the novels. "},{"Title":"Oh my how could you even watch this!","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm sorry but this film is so badly done I not sure how anyone could like it. That is however my opinion and not meant to insult those who saw something in this film that I never did. IMO Bakshi's animation is sloppy and badly done. Boromir looks like some tacky sterotype opera singing Viking. They get names wrong and just make some scenes so slopily that it is unwatchable! I was only 12 when I saw this in the theaters and I was very easy to please and yet even I wanted to walk out in disgust! I'm NOT a huge Tolkien fan so it wasn't the story changes that mattered to me so much as just the general confusion, lack of key plot points and just ridiculously bad animation! Bakshi can do better..look at Cool World or Wizards for example but this film is just sooo cheap and horrible in all aspects! Blech....thank god we now have the marvelous Peter Jackson film to make this film completely disapear forever. "},{"Title":"Just for kids, not for hardcore fans (unless you like to laugh) and antiquated","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I actually saw this in the movie theater when I was a kid. At the time, I thought it was fantastic. Of course when I was a kid I thought Hanna Barbara and Speed Racer animation was kick ass too. Now I think Hanna Barbara is only worth it for the sound effects and the only thing I like about Speed Racer is the Racer X song Big Black did back in '84.My parents were, still are, Tolkien fans. In fact, my Mom read the Hobbit and the Fellowship to me when I was a kid before bedtime everynight for who knows how long in my younger years. I re-read both later when I was older (about 10 or so). In between those times I saw this movie. When we went to the theater, we all agreed that it was entertaining. I don't believe that any of us expected the full blown story to come across the screen considering the detail and scope of the books. It inspired me to read the books myself after we talked about it. So much is left out. And after seeing this movie as an adult, I see that there is much room for improvement.Great portions of the story are so badly interpreted or just plain missing in this version. I get the feeling that no one working on this movie ever read the books from beginning to end. It is sad that such a wonderful myth was so poorly adapted. Nonetheless, if I had not seen the movie I would probably never have read the books on my own later in life. At least some credit has to be given in the attempt, albeit a lame one.Now that we have a modernized, much more detailed version of the stories, I don't think this version has much room left to stand to represent anything. It was nice that someone had the vision to make a try at animating the adventure but it would have been nicer if those who worked on it held it closer to their hearts and allowed the passion to seep through to the orchestration of the storytelling. At least if they had shown some dedication to the original work, maybe it could have been better accepted.I suppose I could rant for some time about the poor quality of animation and the heavy use of low-end rotoscoping. I have always loved animation and I know it takes a highly dedicated team to create such works that Disney has over the years. Bakshi probably did not have the resources available to create a Disney-like, Tolkien world. I think there wasn't enough cohesion in the group who made this version to carry the project to completion and have a semblance of continuity. If you look at a few of the animation sequences by themselves, there is some stunning work but this alas is not enough in my opinion to grant any exception in the judgement of the entire composition.If you have kids and they just can't get enough cartoons in their lives, this is at least worth renting for them. I would stay away if you've read the books and are a dyed in the wool Tolkienite. "},{"Title":"Utter garbage!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Being a fan of J.R.R. Tolkien it came as a bit of a suprise to me when one day I logged on to IMDB to find the exact release date for the Fellowship of the Ring and found there had been an animated film made in the seventies. I had seen The Return of the King (laughable at best) but had not even heard of this one.  I now know why.  Without hesitation I placed my order for it and within a few days had this absolute drivel.Like the feature film this cartoon leaves out many things (Tom Bombadil, The Old Forest etc.) but whereas the Fellowship is three hours long and steps a bit into Two Towers, this weighs in at less then two hours and brings us nearly to Return of the King.  What's worse is the artistic liberties taken with it.  Ralph Bakshi apparently thought Frodo and Sam too boring and so gives the impression that they are lovers, Rivendell is just an inconvenient stop, as a matter of fact EVERYWHERE is an inconvenient stop in his attempt to melt down a twelve hundred page story into a four hour movie.  With the exception of Gandalf, the characters lack any substance and do not develop the slightest.  The Hobbits are all terrified children with no sense of what they have gotten themselves into and no courage at all. Sam shows none of the loyalty towards Frodo as he does in the novel, his paternal devotion is gone replaced by a different kind of love and all that goes along with that.  Frodo is basically ignorant of what he has gotten himself into, a complete 180 from the book where he wishes to go it alone so as to put no one else in the danger he knows he will face.  Even after Sam and Frodo set off by themselves one gets the impression they think it will just be a walk in the park to Mount Doom.  Merry and Pippen might as well join Fatty in not being in the story.  Aragorn is Superman knowing everything and fearing nothing, Peter Jackson's Aragorn is much more complete.  As for Boromir, Legolas, and Gimli it seems as though they were simply a nusance which had to included to appease the fans.  Gollum plays an infinitely more prominent role then any of the three.As bad as the butchering of the story was it was nearly equaled by the animation.  Some people may enjoy the combination of animation with live action animation (drawing over filmed events), I don't it doesn't work.  I can only assume it was used to heighten the fear of the Ringwraiths, but it accomplishes the exact opposite.  They do not appear to be part of the picture, comically floating through the frames destroying the illusion of the movie.  Aside from that the rest of the animation was pretty awful as well.  The elves seem to be awaiting thier turns for their moneyshot, the Hobbits look like midgets, and the general movement of the characters is herky-jerky at best.  It is no surprise to find out the studio balked at the idea of making the rest of the story.  After one viewing I had given it away to someone who in turn also gave it away.  Don't waste your time with this garbage Peter Jackson's version, though flawed, is well worth the money. This wasn't worth the price of postage.  "},{"Title":"Avoid this version like the plague; see The 2001 version instead","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  LOTR had potential as an animated feature; too bad Bakshi screwed it up royally.  First of all, the animation is crap.  Bakshi must have been on some highly potent hallucinogens when making this film because a lot of the backrounds look that way.  The practice of drawing upon live actors just looks crappy, especially when mixed in with the animated actors.  And let's face it, Middle earth never looked this bad.Second, the movie ends abruptly at about the twin towers segment.  Hey, if you are going to put out a movie, then finish the damn thing rather than just leave the ending lagging.  Even if Bakshi ran out of money, he should have had more ethics and shelved the film until he could complete it.  Then again, this is from the guy who made Fritz the Cat (which, interestingly, was more impressive despite its OK animation).Third, no character development.  Any animated feature, including Disney films have some character development, and this film has none of it.  The characters are as 2 dimensional as they are on film.Peter Jackson had done infinitely more justice to Tolkien's masterpiece with his first film alone, which is able to stand on its own.  If you have to see LOTR on film, then go see Peter Jackson's version.  This (animated) version belongs in the bowels of the cutting room floor and should never have been released.  God knows why some of you guys gave it a rating above 5! "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There really isn't any other word for this film.  Having seen it when I was very, very young, it scared, thrilled, excited and challenged me in very basic ways.  More importantly, it inspired me to read the book (when I was eight) which I completely adore.  I was recently over the moon to see the film was being released here in the UK (until now it was only very occasionally shown on TV) and I bought it for myself on DVD.  It was still as dark and enchanting as I found it in my youth.This film is priceless, mainly because it was never finished.  It has given the piece character, and I hope it also will be remembered long after Peter Jackson has finished his own wanderings in Middle Earth. "}{"Title":"Not deserving of the Lord of the Rings title","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I found this movie by IMDB. My sister and I are very obsessed with Lord of the Rings, and when we found this and read some of the comments that people have posted on the site, we knew we had to rent it. When we did, all through the movie, we couldn't stop laughing! This is a horrible, yet hysterically funny movie that you should never take seriously and only rent if you want a big guffaw.Sauron Why does he have 3 foot long horns atop his head? And why is his name pronounced sore-on? Perhaps the horns needed to be placed on his helmet because he apparently hides behind a giant translucent red screen!Elves & Men What's the difference? You can't see their ears behind their haystack hair! Oh, yeah, the difference is that the Elves have a glow about them that isn't just metaphorical as Tolkien described it in his books. That and Elves wear togas whereas Men wear miniskirts.Ringwraiths These scary BROWN riders hobble very convincingly and groan most hideously.  They also look like someone's been messing with their medicine. Even after a few centuries of riding, they still can't control their horses! They still can't make their horses do more than shift around irritably, the same result as if a fly had landed on the horses' hindquarters. Their attire seems to consist of some sort of brown rags, and a helmet from a reject Viking movie. Fortunately for us, they fall into the pea-soup green Bruinen River.Gollum Gollum's eyes look like 2 very large, green Christmas Tree bulbs jammed into his head. Gollum's self looks like a robot made out of compressed garbage.Bilbo Can someone say Humpty Dumpty?Frodo Frodo is actually pretty well done in this movie, and he isn't that bad, considering that he gets way to comfortable with Sam at Wethertop. If he had a few decent lines of dialogue and some character development, he wouldn't be that bad.Sam One of my favorite characters in LOTR has been turned into a potato-nosed, 4-toothed gardener that doesn't even get introduced in the movie, just gets plucked unceremoniously from a bush in the middle of the night (sani-can?). Somewhat resembling a summer squash, or an overipe gourd, Sam seems to waddle about in a state of perpetual confusion. His rubber face lends itself into the most peculiar expressions, from that of a nauseated clown to that of a slightly stoned hobo. My favorite body gesture happens after the dramatic moment when Frodo says, the Ring is so heavy Sam, when Sam whistles and shuffles about flapping his arms like a fat pigeon that has just had its wings clipped.Gandalf Who transformed Gandalf the Grey into Gandalf the Blue? Why is his beard 6 feet long? Doesn't he collapse under it all? We see him seemingly imprisoned on the top of Isengard. Why doesn't he just do a Rupunzel and let all his hair down the bottom? Maybe Radagast would come and rescue him. Although I don't know who would be friends with this melodramatic doomsayer. Plus his staff looks like someone attached a kidney to the end of it.Srider/Aragorn AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA! NOT THE MINISKIRTS!!!!! This Native American imposter trying to be Aragorn looks like an old codger that is permanently sitting on a porcupine.Merry & Pippin They don't get the chance to say much in this movie because it gets cut halfway in the middle of the second book, but from what they do say, they are pretty well played out. If it weren't for their lack of dialogue, they could actually do something in this movie. But maybe it's good that they don't talk much since all the characters who do get a lot of screen time end up being noisy, wildly gesticulating buffoons.Boromir Love that horn-call! Speaking of horns, why are there some on his helmet? His helmet is adorned with two antler-sized spikes that he could use as weapons to just head-butt the orcs. Plus he seems to have a fondness for Karate, which is unfortunate because he apparently doesn't have much on under his fluffy tunic.Gimli There are 3 things wrong with this character 1. He could compete with Legolas in height instead of kills.2. He is bald. 3. Hi ho, hi ho.Legolas When I saw him, I thought at first that they had made Arwen blond! Then, however, Aragorn shouted, Legolas!, and I laughed so loud it woke my mom up from her nap. (I was covering my mouth with my hand, and a blanket, too.) Later on, you will see more signs of his masculinity his curly bow, and well-permed toupee.(S)-Aruman Ok, is he Saruman, Aruman, Santa, or all of these? If he was to be Saruman or Aruman, then you would have to add on the Red to the end of one of these names. About his voice, I have one word HA! It sounded like Sleeping Beauty's Maleficent with a very bad headcold. All that I can infer from his 5 minutes on screen is that his character is trying to prove that his fireworks are better than Gandalf's.Treebeard Dr. Seuss, eat your heart out!That's the end of this, I hope you enjoyed it )LOTRLOVR61990 "},{"Title":"Well worth a look for a half-done adaptation","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Everyone knows of the cultural phenomenon that is Lord Of The Rings through either the book or the trilogy of films done by Peter Jackson. So I found this adaptation which not many people know about and in my opinion this movie does have enough to worth people coming back to it despite it only being a half done adaptation.So in case you don't know the story. Frodo is a hobbit who comes across a ring of great power that is made for a man of great evil and turns almost anyone who comes across it into insane addicts. Frodo somehow can resist the ring and a wise wizard named Gandalf decides for him and his friends to go the the Elven council to decide to throw the ring into the fire and must face the terrors that Middle-Earth has between Frodo's home and the Mountain.I may compare this movie to the Jackson films but if you've seen Fellowship Of The Ring and The Two Towers, the comparisons are inevitable. I think a big problem this movie had is that it becomes a little bit too reliant on exposition. It isn't as bad as every line we say will contain a form of exposition but some things are told instead of shown and sometimes both at the same time which in my opinion we do not need to be told.If there is one other complaint and yes, I may be seen as nitpicking when I say this too is the animation style... I know, This isn't Disney but seeing The Orcs and the Ring Wraiths side by side I could barely tell the difference between them, the Hobbits all look similar and the knights at Helms Deep... Was there a method of cloning in Middle Earth? Seriously every soldier looks the same. Again, it seems like nitpicking but it just takes away from the story. Oh and BTW, just as a side-note the Balrog in this movie is awful.In terms of what I liked, well a complaint I raised with Fellowship is that Frodo was less of a Luke Skywalker-style protagonist and more of a damsel in distress. Here, that is gone. I mean he gets stabbed and he does go to Rivendale but he fights back even after getting stabbed and he wasn't taken away by Arwen (who isn't in this movie). It just seems like he's the better person to follow then the one in the first movie. And before the fans of the Jackson movies have a heart attack, he did get better across the other 2 movies.The atmosphere and action of this movie is nailed right on the head. The scene where the Orcs are marching towards Helms Deep is probably one of the most atmospheric scenes I have seen in a fantasy movie. With the action, it feels a little more realistic - like when you see someone is stabbed you feel the impact of them getting stabbed. Although the action does have it's weak points like in the battle of Helms Deep the soldiers don't take cover when the Orcs are firing arrows at them. With that said if you're a fan of atmospheric movies then this does have some good scenes in it which alone make this worth checking out.Oh and this might be me nitpicking but I'm going to say it anyway. The voice acting, except maybe John Hurt and a few others just doesn't feel right. Maybe because with the Jackson movies Ian McKellen, Andy Serkis and a few others nail their performances hearing Gollum, Gandalf, Saruman and some of the others sound like how they do in the movie just feels wrong. Don't get me wrong they do throw in solid performances but you just can't compare with the performances that got the characters seemingly perfect for the roles (I say seemingly because I never read Lord Of The Rings). Oh and by the way, Samwise is probably the most useless, annoying side-character (in this movie) since Jar-Jar.So I think that while the Jackson movies are inevitably better this does have some things well worth checking out. I've heard that it's either loved or hated by fans and considering these side-by side there is a lot to suggest either opinion. Me personally, I'm somewhere in-between. There are things to complain about but when this movie gets it right, it really gets it right. "},{"Title":"Hobbits","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This ten-line requirement is annoying. I only have one comment about the film. Bilbo Baggins was certainly small, but hobbits were not children. And should not have been played by children. So, in my opinion The casting was quite foolish. The books were/are wonderful. The film was not. Bilbo Baggins may have been short; But he was NOT a child. Cerainly the little people in Judy Garland's film were not played by kids; so there are plenty of midget and small actor's that could have played the hobbits. In any case, The Lord of the Rings is a wonderful book! I'm sorry that I was disappointed in the film production. "},{"Title":"A curiosity, no more","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I haven't seen this movie in a while, so I'm afraid I can't be very specific about details... It did have some interesting points. Ralph Bakshi's attempt at an animated adaptation of J.R.R Tolkien's masterpiece was a very ambitious project, so ambitious in fact that it went bankrupt at some point during the production. Therefore, not only does it stop abruptly somewhere around the middle of the second book of the trilogy (with sort of a shade of a hint of a sequel that was never made), the film itself seems less than finished. It seems that some characters were animated while others were filmed, but whether or not it's intentional is hard to say. The whole thing seems shabbily made and undone, especially the Orcs and the Nazgul. Another problem, of course, is the huge gaps in the plot. Bakshi was in a rush to finish this movie, and he somehow hoped to cram a book and a half in little more than two hours (the new trilogy by Peter Jackson does it in about twice that time.) Far too many important bits were left out (and I don't refer only to Tom Bombadil, which, I think, was lovely in the book but would look silly in a movie.) And of course, the ending, which is completely sudden and out of place. I'm not even sure if Bakshi originally intended to end the film there, or if he even had any idea where he's going to end it.The characters... well, most of them were okay. The hobbits don't look so bad (except for the gay Sam. Did you know that the producers of the new trilogy originally wanted to make Sam a woman so there would be a feminine lead character?) If you're a Tolkien fanatic (like me), watch this movie (though I'm not too sure about buying it. What special features does the DVD version have, anyway?) But know in advance that you're not going to watch a real 'Lord Of The Rings Movie' but not much more than a historical curiosity, which probably looks not much better than the 60s version would have had the Beatles carried on with their plan (I actually think a psychedelic LOTR could have been quite cool. The idea was to cast George as Gandalf, Paul as Frodo, Ringo as Sam and John as Gollum.) If you didn't read the book or didn't like it much or don't like animation films or don't want to see a half-finished movie... stay away. "},{"Title":"Pales in Comparison to the New Trilogy","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I might have given this movie a higher rating before Peter Jackson's trilogy came out, but seeing the two of them side by side there is simply no comparison. The pace of this movie is rushed, many important scenes from the book are left out, and there is little character development. The animation is a strange mixture of traditional cartoon drawings and live action scenes that were painted over, which I found distracting. And the most disappointing thing about this movie is that it breaks off in the middle of the story and was never finished. There are some good points- the battle scenes are exciting to watch, and the dialogue follows the book pretty much to the letter. Watch this one if you're in a hurry and can't spend 10 hours watching the new trilogy. But if you haven't read the book you'll probably be confused, because there is a lot missing from this version. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very good...yet not (read to see wot i mean)","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I bought this film for £5....and I watched it the following night. I had seen FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING earlier on x-mas eve and was now in the Tolkien fanatic stage. I have always been aware of LOTR and to a degree liked it, but never fully read the book. So i read the book, watched all three films...read the book again...and after finishing the entire lot off with buying RETURN OF THE KING extended DVD, it's now finished...so i watched this version of the film again!Now what I like about the filmHas very good animation at the start, and the voice of John Hurt for Aragorn which i thought was fantastic. I think the director had a lot of love for the story and it certainly shows in how much detail is put on screen.Bad thingsAnimation goes crap when they mix it with real life. Some of the drawings can vary between detailed and amazing, to plain and silly (compare the likes of Gollum and Aragorn)...and what was with the balrog?? (looked like a lion with butterfly wings) also the fact that it never finished!!!!Overall i did enjoy this film a lot...and i'm glad i watched it....but although it has a lot of bad qualities...it's still very entertaining.7/10 "},{"Title":"A C- movie.","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When it first started I thought it would be pretty good. There was some animation, But then after Frodo's twenty minute seizure-inducing encounter with the ringwraiths my stomach began to churn. The movie was jam-packed with terrible mistakes. First of all since when is Boromir a viking? Secondly why is the Balrog 2 feet taller than Gandalf? Gimli is at times taller than Legolas and then at other times shorter than the hobbits. The biggest flaw is the orcs being played by actual actors. I thought it was a great idea, but watching a cartoon Aragorn battle a human actor. Too unbelievable! On the plus side very good voice acting. My personal rating would have to be two out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Not too great but can't be dismissed","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As a kid I never much liked this one, but it kind of grew on me as I got older, especially in highschool after I read the books. This cartoon is certainly not for kids. In fact it's not entirely a cartoon, as Bakshi used his trademark rotoscoping to blend live action with the cartoons. As a child I tended to prefer Rankin/Bass Return of the King, which almost completes what was left unfinished in this story (but the two movies together unfortunately still manage to leave out the second half of the two towers). It had been a long time since I saw this movie, but after being blown away by Peter Jackson's live action masterpiece, I decided to revisit this adaptation.Although nowhere's near as good as the 2001 release, this movie cannot be dismissed. I was amazed at how loyal to the book this one was as compared to the new movie. In fact, although Bakshi cut more things out and made one or two changes, his adaptation is much more loyal to the book than Jackson's. This mainly lies in the actual script of the movie, which I thought was very well done. The score in the movie was also very good, and though not quite a good comparison to the score in Jackson's film, it is quite catchy and thematic.The main weakness of this film is that it was left incomplete. And I'm not talking about the incomplete story, since most of the rest of the story is told in Return of the King (which came out 2 years later). Besides, I prefer an incomplete telling of lotr in 2 and a half hours over an attempt to smush the whole 1200 pages into a 2 and a half hour film. I'm talking about the incomplete animation. You will notice that most of the animation in the first half of the movie actually looks quite good, even some of the rotoscoping parts, but the last half just looks weak, and rather rushed. It looks as though they had given up, and just tried to quickly animate what they could and use low budget live action for the rest. I understand that they ran out of money for this film half way through and it looks it. The balrog looks pathetic, the battle of Helms Deep looks horribly rushed, and I couldn't help bawling out laughing when Gandalf rides in chopping off heads in slow motion. In fact, all the slow motion parts look quite wacky. It was reminiscent of Bakshi's other film, Fire and Ice, but much worse.Also, Sam's character is ruined in this story (he is much cooler in Rankin/Bass Return of the King). One thing that bothered me was how Legolas came out to meet them instead of Glorfindel. Legolas would not know the way to Rivendell so well, since he was a green elf from mirkwood, and not a high elf of Rivendell. He would not yet even be summoned to Rivendell until the ring was there. Jackson's use of Arwen in this role, though still not true to the book, made a lot more sense, and managed to strengthen her role which was rather small in the book.It also annoyed me how Saruman was called Aruman half of the time, and did I meantion how horribly animated and voiced Sam was? Still, everything else is actually quite loyal to the book. In fact nearly every line is straight out of the book, unlike Jackson's version in which most of the dialogue was rewritten. And Bailin's journey into Moria is better explained in this adaptation, the explanation in Jackson's version is inaccurate, and confusing. Still, Jackson's movie is the better film, but I wouldn't be so quick to dismiss this one. It ain't for kids, but fans of the book may want to see this one for a truer, though butchered, adaption. "},{"Title":"A good try","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, we all know that the Peter Jackson lord of the rings is a classic! and masterpiece of film making. Thats why i decided not to do a review of it and repeat what has been said again and again about how good it is.However, lets give this film a little recognition. After all its good in its own right.Like the Peter Jackson film, its very close to the book and the annimation is very colorful and bright. The characters all look great (Except the ringwraiths look a little bit naff), however, whereas the live film goes into huge detail (It goes on for nearly three hours), this one seams to cut out a few details so that it can all be fit in two hours. The story ends during the battle in the second book. That is the weakest part of the film as it should sound wicked, but it is so slow and boring that it makes you fall asleep. disapointing.Still the characters are all good (John Hurt as Aragorn especially), and in a way its sad they never made the sequel. All in all, a very good effort, but sadly overshadowed by the Peter Jackson version masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Good, but it could of been way better","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ralph Bakshi's The Lord of the Rings is adapted from the first book in the trilogy of books that tolkien wrote, and it also has half of the second book. It is animated, but uses a technique called rotoscoping, which is drawing the animation over the top of live action footage. You can clearly see the live action is some scenes, such as Bree. Bakshi obviously wanted a unique look to the movie, but it ended giving a uniquely bad look. It was made back in the 70's and of course compares to todays standard, the movie is technically pretty bad. The sound isn't so great and the pictures quality (besides the rotoscoping problems) could definetly be better.Now I've said my technical problems, now onto the story adaptation. I'm not going to complain about things taken out of the story. Tom Bombadil was of course a sensible deletion. He wasn't important to the story, it would have made more important parts have to be taken out or rushed even more, and his singing all the time wouldn't have been very cinematic. The gripe I have is the heart of the story. Characters in this film have little,if none, heart. Gandalf in the books, and in the new Peter Jackson movie, has a heart. He cares greatly for the hobbits and has a wonderful twinkle in his eye. But is this movie, he has a rather edgey, almost scary personality. He talks to Frodo in Bag end almost as though he's glad Frodo's life is at risk. At the Council of Elrond, he evils yells, pounds the table and pushes Bilbo into his seat. Where's the heart? Adapting both Fellowship, and half of Towers into a two and a half hour movie, causes the story to considerably be cut. The Council of Elrond, which is the longest chapter in all the books, passes by in far too short of time to even be considered important to the story. All the scenes are rushed and pass by as though Bakshi was bored with every scene and wanted to move onto the next as quickly as he could. A lot of the interesting parts of the story aren't even told. The inscriptions on the Ring are never seen, Galadriel almost comes across as a ditsy, rather un-serious woman, and Saruman is sometimes called Aruman and sometimes called Saruman! Bakshi obivously made a mistake when he decided to throw in half of Two Towers on the end of Fellowship. Luckily Peter Jackson didn't fall to the same trap.I did see this movie after I saw Peter Jackson's movie. I knew that it was made in 1978 and was animated. I actually continued to enjoy this movie as a telling of the story, even though it was a thoroughly bad adaptation. Any thing that is about Lord of the Rings has to be good in some way. For people who haven't read the books, it's a good introduction to the world of Middle Earth, but you have to realize  theres a lot of information missing. Watch the new Peter Jackons films to get more of the story.Over all, this movie is good, but bad. I like it, but not even close to the same level I enjoy the new New Line Cinema films on. If you like old animated films with a good story (could be way better)then pick this movie up.  "}{"Title":"could be better","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i have all the books written by tolkien,and can`t wait for the movies to appear,on the large sceen.the animated version was very good but there seem to be many parts of the books missing.there was an interview with christopher lee who is taking the part of saruman when i heard he was in the movie i was hoping he would be taking the part of gandalf (one can only wait and see what the quality will be) "},{"Title":"A huge injustice","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was quite simply atrocious. The depiction of the characters was bad. The hobbits feet were not hairy enough. The worst aspect though is that it was not the whole of Tolkien's monumental fantasy as the title would suggest. This came as both a let down and a relief.Bakshi created the brilliant Wizards as a prelude to this and on this basis the expectation for this film should have been high. It seriously underperforms Wizards and my only advice to people for this film is stay away from it. "},{"Title":"Best Animated comedy I've ever seen. . .","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Let me start from the top. . .The animation? Ugly, sloppy, and cheap. The backgrounds looked like hastily drawn scribbles. The characters shift strangely every five seconds perhaps because of the (lack of) technology/skill used to draw them. And then there's the rotoscoping that looks so very bad. Words cannot describe how awful it looks. The acting? Middle-earth is plagued by giant cows and the fellowship is out to milk 'em! Especially Gandalf! The characters just can't get through a scene without waving their hands around dramatically.Everything else in the movie as bad or worse. There is a reason I gave this two stars however. It's a pretty good laugh when you're in the right mood. I was actually crying because I was laughing so hard at the ridiculousness of it all. It's might be one of the best comedies I've ever seen, that is, if it was supposed to be a comedy.Anyway, watch this for a good laugh, and then put in Peter Jackson's version. It'll be like going from cinematic hell to heaven. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"I was a kid at the time and I still hated it","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" and even then, with my meagre knowledge of film technique, I could still see gaping flaws in it. Let's run the gamut, shall we First, the rotoscoping. It is horribly done. They might has well been trucking actual live footage, making the film into some bastardized version of Pete's Dragon, seeing as the animated characters look NOTHING like the rotoscope, and are even lit under different lighting. Note Aragorn standing on top of Helm's Deep next to a random soldier. Aragorn is lit from behind, while the guy next to him is plunged into deep shadow and lit from both sides. It's incredibly jarring. Not to mention the fact that the Balrog, so wonderfully conceived in the new movie, is a man in a lion suit wearing bunny slippers and butterfly wings.Secondly, the animation is incredibly bland. We barely get any close-ups of the characters' faces, and when we do, their facial movements are so limited that it's better to see them from far away, as at least we can pretend that they have expressions. The designs are incredibly lackluster, Aragorn is wearing a modified He-Man outfit with a shirt, Boromir is a tacky Viking also wearing a modified He-Man outfit, and Legolas looks remarkably like C3PO, which is somewhat understandable as the same actor provided both voices.The voices are nothing to write home about, except maybe for Gandalf. Legolas has a nice voice but he doesn't have much to say, and while John Hurt is a brilliant actor, his scratchy voice does not fit Aragorn's design at all (not that the design was brilliant to begin with). Gollum, by contrast, sounds like a normal person. To top it all, none of the characters had a personality to speak of, and spoke their lines with little conviction.The color scheme is what really hurt this movie, in my opinion--the screen was always ugly. The major colors used were red, black, grey and brown, in varying shades. I had no idea all of Middle Earth was a wasteland! The water isn't even blue! There is no green grass anywhere! And then in Lothlorien, BOOM everything is blue! (I think Jackson took a swipe at that.) It's a very depressing thing to look at, the colors are all washed out and there's little contrast between them.The only things I can recall enjoying in this film were the ringwraiths (when they were first introduced; the rotoscoping hadn't been overplayed yet), the fact that Gimli was a short but lanky dude (with no personality), and the ending fight sequence, which had lots of blood and Gandalf killing people.The Rankin-Bass sequel was just as bad, and suffered the same icky color schemes, but at least it had a proper-sounding Gollum. "},{"Title":"I love Lord of the Rings, but this is sad.","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" At the DVD rental store, I would ALWAYS come across this movie and disregard it,not thinking that it actually had to do with THE Lord of the Rings. On my Lord of the Rings DVD, I heard about it, and set out to watch it. How I regretted it! A horrible adaptation of Lord of the Rings. BAD graphics and too much bad rotoscoping! Here's a list I found online which is very accurate http//www.jerrythefrogproductions.com/LOTRAnimatedVsLiveAction.html The characters are badly animated! 90% of the Fellowship of the Rings is covered, 30% of The Two Towers is covered, and then- THE END!! Where's Return of the King? IT'S NOT THERE!!! The Battle of Helms Deep ends, Gandalf throws his sword into the air and- Fade out!! The End! What-? How-? But- Return of the King? Where is it? Gone! Two hours of my life I can never get back. Watch Peter Jacksons adaptations. Yes, they're longer. But it's SO worth it! "},{"Title":"Silly little cartoon/movie, but influential","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am writing this comment after recently reading the books and then watching the Lord of the Rings movie trilogy. Imagine how silly a cartoon from 1978 must feel like. Old Disney like animation, but with really ugly people, actor shadows and film manipulation in order to make it look like animation where battles were concerned, silly facial expressions.However, it seemed to me that a lot of the LOTR movie was inspired from the animation. Some scenes were copied exactly the same way and the same passages of the book that did not appear here did not appear in the movie, also. It kinda felt like someone reused the same script for LOTR, only removing a lot of the narrator and using more special effects. Oh, and Liv Tyler )I was a year old when this animation was made. I can't quite remember what the standard was back then ) It must be innovative design and technique, as it mingles animation and film, but in the same time I cannot call it a watchable result. It smells of old and it can't reach a modern audience anymore. "},{"Title":"i am so glad p. Jackson made a new version","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" i wont exactly recommend u 2 watch this movie. terrible acting. when gandalf was 'fighting' the balrog, he didn't shout, you CANNOT pass. instead, he said rather flatly, u cannot pass. and what is with legolas? when i first saw him, i thought it was a girl riding past. yuck. aragorn looks like some native American, boromir looks like a viking, gimli looks like the dwarfs from Disney's snow white. most of all, i was disappointed at the way they didn't show haldir and his bros leading them into lothlorien. the way they did the battle at helm's deep was a bit messy. and i think they should have used brighter colors. i couldn't tell who was who in the beginning. also, i couldn't tell the hobbits' apart. save for Sam. they gave him a dumb look tha separated him from the rest. the orcs? they have these white fangs sticking out of their mouths. it made them look like Dracula's assistant.still, i will give this show 5/10 for the good effort. "},{"Title":"Bad animation","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's amazing to me that anyone could think the animation in this movie was anything but awful. I remember walking out of the theatre in 1978 thinking, Hanna Barbera may have killed animation, but Ralph Bakshi just hammered the coffin shut.There are so many scenes that are just a static background with a small part that actually involves movement.As for the rotoscoping -- maybe if he had actually used footage of live actors, it might have been redeeming. But all of the rotoscoped scenes that I can remember were stolen directly from Sergei Eisenstein's propaganda masterpiece, Alexander Nevsky. I say stolen because at no point in the film does he give any credit for it.Cheap, cheap, cheap - that's *my* view of the film's groundbreaking animation.  "},{"Title":"Oh, hooraaaaaaaaay!","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie causes more unintentional laughter than anything else I've ever seen. Really, if you are a Tolkien fan, rent it just to laugh at it with your friends. I won't be the millionth person to rip apart its flaws... all I will say is that the movie (for me, anyway) lost major points for turning my favorite character, Sam, into a bumbling idiot. Shame, shame... 3/10 "},{"Title":"Lost the spirit of the real Lord of the Rings","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a very fan of a Tolkien books and when I watched the movie I  felt so disappointed because the characters didn't respect the spirit that each have in Tolkien's stories. - The hobbits seems to be stupids, specially Sam. - Aragorn. Somebody had a confusion about the look of the man who will reign Gondor. Aragorn don't wear rich clothes but he is a prince and there´s no doubt about it. The character never get the duality between the knight and the ranger. - Dwarfs -I don´t need to tell this- are not little and deform people. - The mix of people and cartoon is confuse and it´s doesn´t add anything new. I think that only cartoons would been better.  "}{"Title":"Not bad, it just isn't Lord of the Rings","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  *Spoiler* First of all, I have to admit that when I first saw this film I was appalled. Ralph Bakshi not only went against the late Tolkien's wishes by a making an animated feature, he also went right off of the book. Take the fellowship Aragorn is dressed in a light green tunic that looks like a skirt and is a seriously ugly beggar (even Gollum is more handsome). John Hurt does his best as Aragorn but is hopelessly miscast. Boromir has been horribly transformed by Bakshi, gone is the sullen, dark-haired charactor of the book only to be replaced by a gruff, ruddy Viking who complains a lot. Legolas is cock-eyed with buck-teeth and a mullet. Saruman looks like Father Christmas. And for some stupid reason, Bakshi has chosen to make Gimli the Dwarf the tallest person in the fellowship! Finally, poor old Sam has been given the homosexual treatment. That said, the film isn't too bad; Gandalf, Gollum, the ringwraiths, Orcs and the battle at the end are quite pleasing aesthetically, but the biggest criticism that can be laid against this feature is that it never once convinces you that you are watching the Lord of the Rings. Too many changes have been made to characters, landscapes and name-pronunciation to make it mimic Tolkien's masterpiece effectively. Watch it if you will, but don't expect the book.  "},{"Title":"A brave but doomed attempt","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There seems to be only two types of reviews of this film on the net. Those who hate it and curse Ralph Bakshis name and those love it and call it work of genious. I'm inclined to be in the middle. I'am forced to agree with most of the criticisms of this film (e.g.the cruel cutting of the story, badly rotoscoped charecters, over acting etc...) But dispite this I still love this film. The rotoscoping (when done properly)adds an eerie lifelike dimension to the charecters and the final battle scene at the end of the film is fantastic. The surrealistic scenes when the nineriders chase Frodo are stylish and well executed and the musical score... magic. Sadly the bad points outweight film but if you can bring yourself to ignore them it is a great film.(No doubt I'll be lynched by an angry mob of people who hate this film after writing this review, ah well, such is life) "},{"Title":"Funny for all the wrong reasons.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to say that this movie pretty much made a mockery of the book. They made Sam into a joke, the black riders sound like Yoda, and all the characters movie like they are dancing ballet. Frodo walks through the whole thing looking pretty happy instead of being terrified and hopeless. Oh yes and Aragorn is wearing a mini skirt.On the plus side, they did try to stay true to the book and some of the animation is neat. However, I would have to be pretty hard up for entertainment before watching that again.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people say but now redundant.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In the late 1970s when I was eight years old my father took me to the local cinema and I saw this version of the Lord of the Rings. I had read the Hobbit, but this film conveyed to me the far more epic scope of Lord of the Rings. Inspired by this film I asked for, and received, as one of my Christmas presents Tolkiens astounding master piece. But for this film I may never have read the book so I do regard the movie with some affection.The artwork in this film is, in my opinion, actually rather good. The Mines of Moria scene is very well executed. It has suspense and the battle scene is suprisingly intense. But the film very sketchy version of the book - and leaves far more out then perhaps was wise. It's biggest critical crime at the time was it's lack of an ending. Somehow Peter Jackson has got away with this in his modern version as his film was marketed as the first part of a series, the 1978 version was not! A decision apparently made by the film company and not the unfairly scapegoated creator of the film. That said the 1978 movie now pales into insignificance compared to the recently released live action version of the Fellowship of the Ring. Though I have heard Peter Jackson talk about the 1978 version of Lord of the Rings quite favourably - because, just like me, he saw this movie and was then inspired to read the books, which he adored. But unlike me Peter Jackson went onto to create a cinematic master piece from the book he loved. So it's not just me but also a large number of movie goers who owe this film a debt of gratitude.         "},{"Title":"What an Insult to Tolkien","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lord of the Rings is the best book ever writtin, and I could not stand watching even an hour of this movie. It Insulted the very way Tolkien wrote with cheesy looking Characters and Shocking ending! The first 2 minutes was the indication that this film was Bad. The New improved Peter Jackson Film is much better in fact its WONDERFUL!The friendship Between Frodo and Sam was left out, and IF the Director didnt know-There is a 3rd part which you happened to leave out. Dont waste your time with this movie, cose I know that making it was a waste of time.As far as facts go, WHAT happened to-CURLY hair?? Frodo looks like Harry potter!!! The way they rushed the film was bad and i wont comment on the lack of effects!So Go see the new Version, at least Peter Jackson Read the book before plunging into a movie quest! If Tolkien saw this he'd sue!  "},{"Title":"DO NOT WATCH THIS if you haven't seen the new movie","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you haven't seen the live-action LORD OF THE RINGS, please do yourself a big favor and do not watch this movie. One, it will spoil the new movie for you and two, it will spoil half of THE TWO TOWERS, which is where the animated version ends. It tries cram THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING and half of THE TWO TOWERS into one two hour movie. And it sadly does not work. If you thought Sean Astin played an annoying Samwise in the live version, you are going to want to kill the animated one who acts extremely feminine throughout the whole movie..maybe....oh never mind..This animated version bastardizes the great stories told by J.R.R. Tolkein. I can't believe Ralph Bashaki, the director, is griping at Peter Jackson, the director of the new movie. Peter Jackson has created a far superior picture. Don't even waste your time on the animated version. Head out to your local theatre and see the live action movie. Far superior. "},{"Title":"A Travesty With Good Intentions...","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While this version of 'The Lord of the Rings' was horrible, it could have been much worse. Ralph Bakshi approached the script with genuine love and affection, and had his authority undermined by the studio execs. He always meant to complete the epic, but was unable to do so. Also though, he prevented a much more horrible version to come to screen, a live-action movie that would have condensed all three books into a two-hour movie, an idea originally presented by Jonathan Boorman, who shamefully tried to merchandise the product. If that version was made, it would no doubt have spelled death for Peter Jackson's current version (I have seen it, and it is without a doubt, the best movie of the year). Bakshi tried, he failed, but at least he tried to respect Tolkien's vision. "},{"Title":"Bored with the rings","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was ten when I originally saw this film in theaters.  At the time, I thought it was very good.  Recently I watched the film again.  Sadly, this is a very uneven moment.  However, uneven may also be the way to describe Bakshi himself.  Some of his films are excellent, while others are horrid.LORD OF THE RINGS falls right in the middle.  Bakshi uses rotoscoping a lot in many of his films, but it is excessive here.  For the most part, he doesn't even animate over the live action footage.  He just colors it.  It is a constant distraction.  Bakshi uses this technique much better in FIRE AND ICE.I found this film flat out boring.  While the non-roto animation was fine, there was nothing visually of interest in the film.  The TV film THE HOBBIT is a much better representation of J.R.R. Tolkien's work.  It is highly entertaining. "},{"Title":"This sucks the big one.","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The motion picture version of the Tolkien tale of two Hobbits out to save Middle Earth by destroying the now powerfully evil ring in the mouth of Mount Doom.  However, this is nothing like Rankim and Bass Hobbit or Return Of The King.  This is a grim, badly animated story that is not suitable for children (unless you like having them cry their little eyes out)  I don't want to bore you but this is a rotten, terrible and sucky movie.  "},{"Title":"What the heck is going on in this cartoon.","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've tried to read the lord of the rings but things always seem to arise when I'm hardly into the fellowship of the ring causing me to abandon it.  I read the hobbit back when I was 12 and I remember my father reading the Hobbit to me when I was around 6.  I really enjoyed the Hobbit and will probably enjoy the Lord of the Rings if I ever get around to reading it.  But if the lord of the ring novel is like the movie I'm not so sure.  First of all this movie is easy to tell that Ralph Bakshi due to the fact that some of the animation techniques where similar to other movies he's done such as Wizards.  I have no problem with that.  The problems I found where the fact that I just couldn't keep my attention on the screen.  I constantly found myself drifting elsewhere while watching this.  Which is one reason I had a hard time following this, and I'm not going to go and watch it again before I return it to the video store today.  I also found that practically all the hobbits looked the same except for Sam and Bilbo making it difficult to figure out who is who only figuring out by different hair colour.  One of the things I did like about this where the environments that characters walked through.  They were dark and forbidding as if telling the characters to keep away.  I also liked the dark riders (I think that was what they were called).  As they hobbled along when they weren't on their horses.  But over all I didn't enjoy this movie that much.  It also seemed to end before it should have and it's very noticeable leaving many loose ends.My rating 4 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"After 15 years I saw Bakshi's LotR again","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  And, boy, was that ever a waste of 25$! It wasn't because they got all the voices wrong, nor the seemingly lack of pants in middle earth, nor ARUMAN the red, Boromir the viking, crappy looking Balrog, Gimli being just as tall as Legolas/Glorfindel, nor the horrible fighting scenes with SINGING orcs. No, the worst part was that so many things were cut and shortened. I mean, they could have stayed a bit longer than just one minute in Lorien. I didn't even see one Mallorn there. Gimli and Legolas didn't even play their game at Helms deep. At least Peter Jackson is making a GOOD version, though no movie could ever be as brilliant as the trilogy. "},{"Title":"They just didn't get it","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I LOVE Tolkien's book but NOT this movie.  First it's too dark (I mean, the colours on screen). Tolkien's book has darkness, sure, but it is also full of scenes with clear light and fresh colours - blue, white, green, gold.  You'd never guess that from this film, which is almost unrelievedly MUDDY and contains not one visual lovely enough to demand the pause button.  Second only the hobbits looked anything like Tolkien's descriptions.  Galadriel and Eowyn weren't believably beautiful.   Treebeard had no dignity at all.  Third, direction all the actors waved their hands around aimlessly while talking.  It drove me mad to watch them, besides being way out of character for people like Aragorn and Galadriel who are aristocrats and very centred.  Fourth forgettable music.  Fifth certain things were inexcusably gotten wrong (e.g. Tolkien TELLS us what the Wraiths looked like to Frodo - pale kings in grey robes with steel helms and white faces - not black monsters from a cheap horror flick; and why put Saruman the WHITE in a RED robe and call him Aruman?)  Sixth some things were badly handled e.g. the Rivendell Ford scene, jazzed up with meaningless action, and the Helms Deep battle - why omit the Huorns? wasn't Tolkien's walking wood cinematic enough?  Since they included Treebeard they should have put in the Huorns.  I could say more, but the details noted seem to me to flag a fundamental lack of understanding a failure or a refusal to grasp Tolkien's vision or to entirely trust his storytelling.  Instead of restraint and clarity - overkill and confusion.  Nothing in this film added anything to my understanding of the book. I know movie versions of classics that are illuminating and enjoyable even if not  faithful in the strict sense - but this isn't one of them. I won't be watching it again, ever.  "},{"Title":"Storyboard in search of a movie (or three)","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this some time after its original release&#133;I think. Since I remembered little or nothing about it, I can't have been too impressed. I recently had a chance to see it again, and I'm even less impressed.They say Peter S. Beagle wrote the screenplay. If so, somebody took every second or third page of his script and threw the rest away. Some omissions are justifiable (the entire Old Forest/Bombadil/Barrow-Downs sequence, which is interesting in its own right but a major digression from the main storyline). Some aren't - who the heck are Sam, Merry and Pippin, and why do they want to accompany Frodo into the unknown? For that matter, who ARE most of these people/characters and why should we care about them?Some scenes are included that have no relevance and no payoff - Aragorn narrating the story of Beren and Luthien, which falls flat because we are neither told nor shown that it is an uncomfortable parallel to his own situation. (Instead we get Sam making goo-goo eyes at Frodo, which causes knowledgeable readers to go WTF?) Some scenes are wretchedly paced and edited - most infamously the Ford of Rivendell sequence, which is excessively repetitive. We really only need to hear the Ringwraiths say Come back, to Mordor we will take you ONCE, not THREE times, and the whole chase drags on far too long with far too little interest.Too much is simply thrown away. We never do get told or shown that the stone table in Moria where Gandalf finds the book of the Dwarf colony's tragic fate, is in fact the tomb of Balin. We never really do get to know Treebeard, let alone the other Ents or the Huorns. And not nearly enough is made of the siege ladders at Helm's Deep - they're there, they're used, they're hardly noticeable. They are not focused on long enough to give (especially American) viewers the cold chills that kick in when the connection is made to the Alamo. (Weird that a Kiwi director didn't miss that point, and an American one DID!)Many reviewers have harped on the characterization of Gandalf and Sam and S/Aruman and others - my personal pet peeve is Bakshi's treatment of Galadriel, who acts more like Glinda the Good, right down to laughingly dismissing what ought by rights to be a genuinely sinister moment. (In the book, she IS strongly tempted - and has a hard time resisting.)Sooner or later I have to get around to saying something about the visuals. I'd rather not. The film should have been all-traditional or all-experimental, not the jarring mish-mash that it is. The color palette starts out relatively normal, but gets uglier and muddier as the movie rolls on (and the budget gets cut, and cut, and cut again). That's bad enough. But the character designs! It's hard to go wrong with Gandalf - everyone knows what he looks like. Saruman shouldn't be, but is, a carbon copy in red rather than blue (both colors are wrong - Gandalf is The Grey, Saruman The White). Frodo, Merry, and Pippin look way too much alike, and all of them switch wigs between scenes. Sam is a Mr. Potato Head with hairy feet. Boromir - GMAFB! THAT is a representative of an ancient and still strong, if declining, empire? No, no, no, no, NO! He's NOT a refugee from a third-rate Conan sequel! And worst of all, ugly ersatz-Conan Aragorn! GACK! There are three make or break roles in any version of the Lord of the Ring. Frodo is one. Gandalf is another. Aragorn is the third. This is a break.The one point on which Bakshi's version betters Jackson's is, in fact, Frodo - Bakshi allows him his courage and his overt defiance. (It's understandable why he has to become a special-delivery package in a live-action film - too hard to fake the size difference between a horse and a hobbit - but he could still have been allowed his moment at the Ford.)On the whole, Bakshi's version is less a movie in itself than a storyboard for an unfinished movie. And, sure enough, about twenty years later someone used the storyboard and improved on it. "},{"Title":"Completely flipping terrible","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This was, by far, the worst adaptation of a book I have ever seen. I honestly wanted to torture Ralph Bakshi to death after watching this. Not only does it completely miss out most of the important events in the books, it also doesn't even finish! Not to mention the fact that what it does cover, it royally buggers up.As for what's wrong... well, I'd be here all day if I listed all that was wrong. The main thing that ruins it for me is the complete lack of characterisation, plus the way that Tolkien's characters are ruined. Like Gandalf for example; in this movie, he appears as a boring prophet of doom. Sam is a complete moron, who inexplicably hides in bushes. Saruman (or Aruman; they give him two names for some unknown reason) isn't in the least bit intimidating. Boromir wears a frighteningly short skirt, as do a lot of the male characters; why, I have no idea.In conclusion, only watch this movie if a) you've never read the books or ever watched the vastly superior movie trilogy or b) you've recently smoked some herbal cigarettes. Cuz otherwise, there is no way you could possibly enjoy it. And if you're, like me, a Tolkien fan, you may too be thinking homicidal thoughts aimed at anyone who had a hand in bringing this travesty to life. "},{"Title":"One of the most magical movies ever created...","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Bakshi's version of Lord Of the Rings, though sadly not completed, had something that Peter Jackson's did not have nearly as much of...MAGIC.The Bakshi version enveloped you in deep accents, smoky backdrops, and desperate cries from amazing veteran actors.I have watched this film dozens of times and the mood it creates never ceases to amaze. Listen to the narrator in the prologue as he tells of the history of the ring and Gollum. That alone is so much more poignant and emotional than 99% of the acting,and I use the term loosely for Liv Tyler and Sean Astin, etc., in the Jackson films.(Which I did like, by the way, I just didn't love those films)John Hurt is great as Aragorn, as are the other voices, and the animation, though extraordinarily trippy, creates a dark foreboding mood.One of the most important differences between the films as well, is that in the Bakshi version Gandalf is portrayed as wise, cunning, and almost having an incredible influence and hand in all of the actions of Middle Earth. The Gandalf in the Jackson films, though played by an excellent actor in Ian Mckellan was cast as a dottering old man who bumped into things and did not have the foresight and all encompassing breadth of vision that the Bakshi Gandalf did.Also, the Balrog in the Bakshi and Jackson versions serves as a microcosm of why the Bakshi version works on a more mystical level. In the Jackson version, the Balrog looks like a CGI ridden, no personality, bull faced, not realistic thing from a Godzilla movie. The one in the Bakshi version, though not as done with effects, has much more of a depth of character, and it exists as a realistic villain rather than Gigan, Mothra, etc.The score in the Bakshi version is infinitely superior to the Enyaesque stylings of Jackson. I mean, when you are watching the Bakshi version the score sways and segways the film, whereas the feeling during the Jackson films is; okay I am sitting in a theater watching this,and now they are playing Enya over it.All in all, despite the MANY things Jackson got right, and the many things he got wrong, the Bakshi version succeeds where the Jackson version does not in the most important and, in the end, vital way. It has MAGIC. "},{"Title":"In time it will usurp Jacksons installment!!!","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  At the end of the day, when all is said and done, as the sun sets, the smoke clears and the dust settles. What shall remain............... Ralph Bakashi's Lord of the Rings.Now i've done my Power Speech its time to back it up and justify. I am aware of the importance to explain why it is a great movie as apposed to why it better than Jacksons Lord-of-the-Rings-for-idiots. But seeing as IL' Pete is topping best ever film lists with his LOTR I feel Tolkeins beckoning from the grave and am gonna do it anyhow.OK, so, lots of you must be thinking 'no way would I want to watch the animated version instead of the rubber-nosed goblin/midgets jumping around a CGI landscape in the Summer Blockbuster version'. Of course you wouldn't and thats why you've got a couple of tickets in your pocket to watch Garfield.The 1978 version is dark, the voices are stern and driving to their characters. The feel of realism is strong with the mixture of animation and live shooting. The book is all about atmosphere and thats why Tolkien thought it'd be a great idea spending chapters explaining a tree or a bit of a rock next to a bit of a tree. So Jacksons shows us 10 mins footage of New Zealand. Nice one, twat! Here Jackson excellently wastes my money and my time. In an ideal world he would have made the film shorter, in a perfect world he would be pea farmer.The elemental beauty Bakashi's masterpiece is the music, its grainy and shadowed view of Middle Earth and the fact i near wet myself at everything that moves out of Mordor. But what stands out for me is that it is unfinished. And as much as i love the film i like it even more because of that.Matt8/10  "},{"Title":"OMG, I couldn't stop laughing!!!!","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  OMG, this is the funniest thing I have ever seen!!! The voice's are poor, the animations bad, they cut half the story out, and I somehow don't think that Santa was in Lord of the Rings!(oh wait, that's Sauroman!) Also, could someone please tell me, how come every time someone mentions the word 'love' Frodo and Sam look at each other?? Still, this movie is a must see for all Lord of the Rings fans, except, don't exspect the people around you to keep a straght face while watching!! "},{"Title":"The original masterpiece","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This afternoon, I saw lord of the rings again after almost 20 years> I saw Peter Jacksons works and this afternoon I learnd that Jackson saw this movie at least a dozen times>He just copied a lot of scenes from Ralphs masterpiece. He really did a great job, and I mean , RALPH! "},{"Title":"So incredibly awful and ugly it's hilarious..","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I bought the DVD because I thought that it would be a decent way to get eased into the Lord of the Rings world some more. Boy was I wrong. It had crappy animation--note the beginning--HUMAN shadows? It was god-awful, HORRIBLE! I don't recommend it unless-no, I just don't recommend it AT ALL. Despite oh, well it had good animation for it's time...blah,blah.. Let's point out The Last Unicorn, made around the same time--MUCH better animation. Or maybe even The Care Bears, generally around the same time, and again, MUCH better animation. This was an insult to everything in the Tolkien. But, there were it's funny points, not that any of it was supposed to be. The face expressions were hilarious, Frodo and Sam *touched* each other, and Aragorn wore a skirt. Aragorn-someone I do not like, was made an old Indian in a skirt, and his voice sounds like he smoked-ALOT. That wasn't even that funny, I don't hate him THAT much! Legolas--..he had bucked teeth. BUCKED FREAKING TEETH. I hate the animator. I really do. The actors didn't really act, they just said things. Example- Galadriels whole speech, she just SAID things! No voice change, not even a change in the animation. Awful. The hobbits all looked alike, except for Sam, who they decided to make the ugly Quasimodo look alike. The fighting scenes were so awful it was funny, and--shudder Boromir was a viking, who got stabbed, alot. Elrond--DEAR GOD,WHAT THE HECK DID THEY DO TO ELROND? He looks Greek for gosh sake! GREEK! HE'S AN ELF! *ELF*. The Ringwraiths--Ack, ack, ACK!sigh All in all, it was awful, don't waste your money on it. Thank god for Peter Jackson instead, and see the new live-action one.  "},{"Title":"Are you kidding me?","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was awful, terrible, grotesque - and any other negative adjective you can think of that describes dank, ugly and stupid things colliding in the dark.People keep hanging compliments on the works Bakshi has left behind and I can't understand why. The best parts of Fritz the Cat and American Pop (two of his earlier films) were the music - which he had nothing to do with. The voice acting was passable in Fritz and was just plain forgettable in Pop, but my god did it absolutely suck in TLOR. Not as bad as a vintage episode of Gigantor or Speed Racer mind you, but as far as even TRYING to make an effort in putting some emotional content into the scenes between Frodo and Gandolf, the actors FAIL.The battle sequences looked like they were home movies colored with crayons by the Bakshi kids and the Balrog made as much impact as Meet Wally Sparks. Don't know what Meet Wally Sparks is? Well, that's the only movie that decided to open the same day as The Phantom Menace.Not to be completely negative, they did make Aragorn sound like he smoked seventeen packs of cigarettes a day, thanks to the vocal talents of John Hurt. And Frodo came off as some limp-wristed member of the Shire's production of La Cage a Faux - especially in the scene where he threatens all nine ring wraiths. Not that there's anything wrong with that, but I just don't remember having that vibe when reading Tolkien's text.Well, okay, I have to admit I liked some of the ways the film dealt with the black riders, and for as long as the Balrog was on camera I had a glimmer of hope the film wouldn't be a total wash, but that's about it.Avoid this film at all cost, unless you're one of those people who just can't pass up an ugly, rotoscoped car wreck. "}{"Title":"A poor attempt at animating a great work.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Bashki should be congratulated for attempting to convert one of the great works of English fiction into a movie, and then slapped silly for this attempt. The animation was poor, the characters looked ridiculous, the music was overwhelmingly blaring, and the film was a ramshackle blitz through the first book and a half of Tolkien's masterpiece. I can still remember my sheer disappointment and loathing for the movie when I first saw it. Now I realize that any attempt to convert a book into a movie is bound to fail in many ways, simply because of the medium, but this movie, regardless of the source of the story, is just plain pathetic. Bashki is capable of much more. "},{"Title":"Just a rubbish adaption","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's actually very shocking when you read people writing about how they think this garbage is better than Peter Jackson't wonderful films (which are the best films ever made). These idiots are normally fans of the books (which bore many of their readers), and they can't seem to grasp all the great things that Peter Jackson has done to make the LOTR appeal to most of us, and because of Peter Jackson the LOTR does appeal to most of us in this day and age. As for this ridiculous animated adaption don't bother it's a complete waste of your time. Boring, crap animation, and poorly delivered in most respects. It just seems like a rubbish cartoon that goes on for far too long. "},{"Title":"The horror ...the horror ...","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was one of the worst movies that I've seen . Notice that I don't say one of the worst animated movies ,but one of the worst movies ever made ! See this movie it's like see all your family be killed in front of you . I read The Lord of the Rings  trilogy of books when I was a kid . And I loved the movies of Peter Jackson .But this abomination lacks of any beauty or inspiring element of the books . Instead of that ,we have a ugly and poorly made trash that isn't even well animated . First of all ,the technique of draw over real people don't make it more realistic ,it just make it more expensive . And what's the big deal ? It doesn't look better than any Saturday cartoon .The hyper active characters that constantly are moving from one side to other (even if there is no real reason for that ) lack of personality  we have Aragorn ,the old and pant-less , native American .We have Sam who is a completely and useless retarded .We have Gimli ,the human ,becuase it seems that Bakshi ignores that the book clearly says that he is dwarf . And we have all the orcs and other monsters that in this movie aren't even animated .Those monsters aren't terrifying ,they just look stupid .I mean ,it's obvious that are men with a disguise . Also ,the animated and the real action character don't go very well together . The dialogs it's inane and dull . The narration it's poor and full of mistakes and plot holes . By last ,this movie don't have an ending , and it let many things floating in the air . I guess that my review was too gentle describing how bad is this atrocity . I don't know in what the hell the people behind it were thinking , but I guess that they must be on drugs or something like that . This crap should have never seen the light of day ! It sucks! It deserves less than zero ,but 1 it's the lowest score in IMDb . "},{"Title":"So much work yet so laughably bad...","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm a big fan of artsy movies, if they are done well. Nothing sucks more than watching pretty colours for two hours and then be told you're too dumb to get the point. Movies like 2001, Waking Life, Lola Rennt, Triplets of Belleville, and what looks to be a really cool movie, upcoming the Fountain, have all used animation in one way or another to give the movie another level.Problem is, those movies had a level beneath the gimmick. This movie has not.The obvious gimmick here is the rotoscoping; a pain-staking and detailed process where you paint every single frame with a cartoon layer. While it sometimes is useful as effects(in the pre-CGI era, lasers and ray-shields and whatnot were always painted) it does not work for characters. Some motions are too small, some too big, anyway the eye notices.Some parts of the movie they haven't really bothered with the rotoscoping. They've just shot the scene and painted it brown. It looks like a crappy camera filter(no doubt you achieve the same effect with modern video editing programs in minutes) and is really distracting. Eyes bob up and down, pupils swell and diminish, characters sometimes twitch visibly.Beneath it's shoddy technique, which still took ages and thus has some merit, the story is ridiculous. If you haven't read the book(and partially memorized it) you will have no idea what's going on. Why do they leave? Why do they come? How did they win? Who is that? Wasn't his name Saruman a little while ago? Why did it end so fast? Acting is pretty awful as well. Voices are droning and Peter Woodthorpe's pathetic attempt at Gollum is depressing. Even John Hurt sounds like a droning sleepwalker(and he's Aragorn!) There is no reason to watch this movie, unless you're a bad movie fan. Lord of the Rings does very well for ripping, and is quite monumental in its failures. "},{"Title":"Worst animated film of all time","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was absolutely stunned upon reading Elle Jay's comments saying this film was excellent and will long be remembered after Peter Jackson's trilogy.I can only attribute this to the fact that Elle Jay was very young when first watching this film, and subsequently received blunt force trauma to the head on multiple occasions.This film is dreadful to the point where I was praying for some head trauma myself. The animation is poor (even for the 70's), the voices are unleavened, the characters are poorly drawn, the story is muddled and the traveling/fight sequences are awful.If you need any additional evidence to avoid this film, consider the fact that this garbage was never finished (for reasons obvious to anyone unfortunate to have seen it).If you want the best LOTR experience, read the books. If you want to see the best LOTR films, watch Jackson's multi-academy-award winning trilogy. If you want to be told you have bad taste in films, email me that you're planning on watching this puke, and I will promptly inform you of such. "},{"Title":"Awful. Just awful.","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I cannot warn people enough from watching this movie. I don't say this often, but it's a real disaster area. Bakshi sadly did not bother to explain anything, so only people who have actually read the book will know what's going on. People who haven't will not get anything.But even the hardcore Ringnuts who can dream the story are not served by this stinker. First of all, why is Boromir dressed like a Viking? I remembered him coming from the South, not the North. Also, Bakshi decided to change the name Saruman to Aruman, because he thought the former would look too much like Sauron and people would get confused. Only, Bakshi uses both Aruman and Saruman, which is ten times more confusing than the original name could ever be. But my biggest gripe has to be milking the giant cow. This acting term means using gestures that are inappropriately big. And Bakshi loves doing that! When Gandalf explains about the Ring, he uses gestures that would suit a clown, but not a wizard.This one's a pure stinker, people. Seriously, watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"A painful atrocity of a movie","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There is honestly nothing good I can think of to say about this movie. The animation style used for the main characters was drastically different for the ones used for everyone else.  The movements were bizarre - from a wildly gesticulating Gandalf, to Nazgul who limp sideways like Igor.  The storyline was often baffling,even to fans of the books (the scene where the Nazgul chase Frodo to the ford made me wonder if I was hallucinating).The worst part of the movie by far, though, was Sam.  Tolkein's Sam was a brave and loyal Hobbit, without whose help Frodo could never have succeeded. Bakshi's Sam is a useless, pointless buffoon who serves no useful purpose whatsoever.  He also looks nothing like the rest of the Hobbits - he doesn't even look like the same species!On the whole, I found this movie to be boring and indecipherable, and bearing only a passing resemblance to Tolkein's masterpiece.  If I had seen this first, there is no way I would have read the books.If you value your sanity, Do Not Watch This Movie! "},{"Title":"An ugly bore","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My memory was very kind to this godawful film.  I had seen it only once before, on its initial theatrical release when I was thirteen years old.  Watching it again last night, and after having read the books and seen Peter Jackson's far superior telling, I was mortified by how truly awful the movie is; every element seems calculated for maximum irksomeness. First, the animation and art direction Rotoscoping in and of itself is not a bad thing, but it often feels as if we are watching a live-action film intercut with a Saturday morning cartoon.  The Balrog is laughable; the battle of Helm's Deep looks like three guys on ramparts getting shot by arrows.  The Orcs are simply fat men in dime-store gorilla masks, black riders limp around like second-rate Lon Chaney impersonators... animation frees the filmmaker to show anything at all that can be drawn, so all I can figure is that Bakshi and his crew had very small imaginations. The script is equally dreadful The characters are two-dimensional, simply doing things without the context that lets us understand them as people.  The pacing lurches along, dropping large chunks of exposition in between flat action sequences.  Frodo deciding whether or not to listen to the Ringwraiths at the ford of Rivendell and Orcs running across Rohan are two sequences that go on far too long.  Boring dialogue was at least lifted partially from the books, but is undone by the voice actors, who seem to be afraid to truly inhabit their characters and the world they live in. I could go on, but there's no point; just pretend like this movie was never made and be sure to dash off a thank-you note to Peter Jackson; someone got it right. "},{"Title":"It has no style","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I watched the animated version of The Lord of the Rings, I knew this was going to be inferior to Peter Jackson's mammoth masterpiece.  What I didn't know was HOW inferior it was.  The movie starts with a lot of promising animation.  By the end, so much rotoscoping is done that it looks like a cheap high school play recorded on a 8mm camera with overexposed film.There is no visual style, everything is all straightforward.  Not only does this ruin any suspense, but it makes it boring adventure much faster.  Ralph Bakshi's 'talent' fails so many times that he makes Don Bluth look like Walt Disney.  Just about everything is unimpressive, even the battle of Helm's Deep.Overall, forget this.  It is entirely not worth your time.  The only real merit is more explaining goes into some of the plot, but not much.  1.5 out of 5 stars.  See the Rankin/Bass version of The Hobbit instead, or, better yet, wait for The Return of the King. "},{"Title":"This movie was AWFUL! But HILARIOUS!","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay... this movie is the absolutely worst movie I have ever seen, without a doubt. But it's the funniest movie I've ever seen too! I couldn't breathe from laughing so hard! The so called black riders were brown in this movie and couldn't walk or alone really ride a horse. Sam was missing a LOT of teeth and looked and sounded like an idiot flapping his arms about. The scene where Saruman and Gandalf fight one another at Isengard looked like they were floating on top of the tower or something shooting fire works at each other. The Balrog looked like an ape with wings and Gandalf didn't fall off the bridge, he jumped off. Rivendell looked like an old shack made out of wood. And when Frodo shows Bilbo the ring Bilbo looks like he's kind of dancing in a way flapping his arms this way and that while Frodo looks like he's about to punch him. Legolas is crossed eyed and looks like a girl. Aragorn is wearing a mini skirt. Boromir is wearing horns. Gollum just looks weird. Gandalf's beard is too long and I'm surprised he's not tripping over it. Saruman just has WAY to much hair and looks like a puffed up Santa Clause. Galadrial looked like a Barbie doll. The orcs looked kind of like bulls wearing newspapers or something I really can't describe. Treebeard looks VERY awkward. I could just go on and on. This movie is not to be taken seriously and is good to watch if you want to laugh your head off! So enjoy it just for how funny it is. "}{"Title":"Worst, the worst! Bakshi should have dropped this bomb..","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm sorry but I don't care how many people want to say Peter Jackson's stole scenes from this film? What! Umm no the scenes people refer to are so well described in the BOOK, you know that thing Tolkien wrote, that of course they look alike. Get a grip here folks this film is awful! I saw it when I was a kid when it first opened in San Francisco and the first thing I thought was how can anybody SEE anything in this film? It is only when you have Gandalf or Legolas that there is any light on the film to see by. I do have to say I enjoyed Gollum, but that is IT. This film was horrible and there comes a time when a director if he is forced to cut corners and deliver an inferior product, like this film certainly is, that he should just BAIL. I just laughed so hard when I saw Boromir and he looked like a silly cartoon Viking with loin cloth and horned helm, what a joke! Sorry folks but you could never change my mind, until Jackson made his films the only way to really enjoy Tolkien was to READ the books.I do say that the Rankin & Bass Hobbit and Return of the King though are better than Bakshi's film, not much, but definitly better! "},{"Title":"Tolkien must still be turning in his grave. (","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A HUGE Tolkien fan, I was breathless with anticipation to see this movie when it was released in 1978. To say that I was appalled is putting it mildly. A rambling plot, the roto characters looked distinctly odd, especially the elves. But the absolute kicker was Gandalf tossing Glamdring into the air at the end of the Battle of Helm's Deep and stating And evil was vanquished from Middle Earth FOREVER!!!Say WHAT???!!!!!This movie is an abomination. "},{"Title":"a heart-warming comparison for Tolkien fans","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was about 8 years old and, though I didn't really catch on to the plot, I thought it great. Then I read Lord of the Rings and found it even better. True, the Balrog is rather weak, Treebeard could have looked better and Gandalf killing orcs at the end is somewhat strange, but otherwise it goes according to the book. The dialogues are the main thing and they are true to Tolkien. A lot is left out, but you can't fit that much writing into 2 and a half hours of film. Anyway, after seeing the new Lord of the Rings (part I and II), directed by the briliant Peter Jackson, I watched it again and found it even better and a welcome medicine for the new dazzler. Peter Jackson is a stuck up fool who thinks he's a better writer and dialogist then Tolkien and he has completely ruined a hugely expensive and promising project. I will leave you with one word out of many to contemplate in the old and the new film Gimli.  "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you have seen this movie you know it keeps more to the book than the one that came up on the theaters last year, not to say the other one is bad, I love that one to, but if you want to read the book I suggest to look at this one first. That is all I had to say! "},{"Title":"Good for a laugh","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Some people like this movie, others detest it. Having seen it after the Peter Jackson version, my opinion is probably a little more harsh than it would have been had I not seen it first.To me, the fact that this movie ends half way through the Two Towers isn't that important. Other things, however, are. Hobbtion looks like it should be in some Disney movie with all the sparkly water etc. and the relationship between Frodo and Sam is made out to be MORE than just friendship. Gandalf's staff looks like a stick with a potato on the end, and the ringwraiths (dressed in what look like really dirty beige sheets) have gimpy legs that drag on the ground. In the shadow world, the ringwraiths look like bad robots that would belong better in Star Wars, and are not remotely scary to me. Aragorn looks like a seedy American Indian in a minidress and Narsil is 'broken' terribly (the top is just chopped off - when he holds it up it is laughable!). Boromir looks like a bad viking in a fluffy miniskirt, Gimli looks as though he should be off hi-ho'ing it with the seven dwarves, and Elrond seems to be trying to imitate Julius Caesar. Saruman/Aruman is dressed in red, and his staff is nearly as bad as Gandalf's. Treebeard is a walking carrot and the Orcs are just abominable.As far as this movie goes, it's good for a laugh. If there were no other versions of this movie made I would be cursing Ralph Bakshi and all his rotoscoping, but instead there are better things to watch if you want to see the REAL Lord of the Rings. "},{"Title":"Tolkien would have been horrified.","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ralph Bakshi was one of the first directors to create dark imagery through animation. Then he unleashed his dark cartoon onto one of the greatest works of English literature, corrupting its image in the public eye and founding a new genre of dark fantasy of which The Lord of the Rings should not be but is sometimes included.  This movie is very dark and disturbing. Even the music sounds evil to me.  This movie has none of the majestic or light qualities that made the book great.  It is like a horror movie in that dark imagery consistently dominates the mood.  Anyone who likes this movie probably likes horror.  I was recently disappointed to hear that the director of the new Lord of The Rings movies has done mostly horror movies, but even he agreed that this version was bad.  Tolkien would have never seen this movie released in his life-time.   "},{"Title":"Lord of the Poorly Animated","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This Ralph Bakshi take on Lord of the Rings presents us with a barely coherent story, poorly done from every aspect. The music is awful, the voice acting wooden, and the animation sub-par even for Backshi's standards. Using a technique called Rotoscoping, human actors were filmed, and animators then traced the live action movement, frame by frame. This allowed Bakshi to use fewer animators, and the resulting poor quality of the animation helped make it a critical and financial flop.Additionally, the film ended after the battle of Helm's Deep, but before Sam, Frodo and Gollum traverse the Dead Marshes. As a commerical flop, it prevented Bakshi from creating a planned sequel. At the time, he blamed the soundtrack as the primary reason for the film's critical failure. When Peter Jackson's movies on the Lord of the Rings trilogy came out, Bakshi made sure to capitalize on the sensation by protesting loudly about not being asked for his creative input, and rumors of lawsuits flew around.Bakshi decided to rename Saruman to Aruman for the movie, but only half the time. The rest of the time they go back to calling him Saruman. Bizarre little things like this crop up the whole movie. Anyone familiar with either the movies of the books will most likely watch this and cringe in terror.This is not a movie for watching, it is a movie for laying down avoiding. "},{"Title":"Captured The Full Emotion of Middle Earth...  in an era partly gone, but partly very timeless","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the film that began my endless quest for _more_ tales of Middle Earth... In what began as a less expensive, less time consuming, and less theatrical story-telling, this film none-the-less; fully provides all the elements needed to stimulate every human sensation. Even in this being an animated version, you experience no sense of loss due to the lack of human characters... the skill of the film crew from top to bottom added with the superb voice/character dubs, creates a realism missing in most movies, animated or real. The only problem is it's a genuine _shame_ that those who brought us this movie classic, could/did not produce and release the conclusion to one of Hollywood's and mostly honorable, J.R.R. Tolkien's greatest efforts in story-telling. "},{"Title":"Newer or the older?","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If I'd have to choose between the new Lord Of The Rings part.I and the original. I would say that the older is way better than the new one. I'm not one of those people who says that originals are always better, I'm just saying that the old one more unique than the new and it catches the feelings of the book waaaaaaaaaay better than the new thanks to the brilliant blend of animation and real life actors. As the new movie got all the special effects easily because of computers, the director didn't really had a chance to show his full creativity. Plus the computer made effects sometimes are too flashy (the big fireworks bang at the beginning for example). The 1978 version had this mood that is bleaker and genuine because it relied completely on the plot. Actors too were convincing. Perhaps most importantly it showed real ingenuity. This film shouldn't be forgotten as some vintage junk. Even though the newer version is good, it's not a classic and therefore not really worthy of consideration for being the film equivalent for the first book. "},{"Title":"A failed project re-released on the hype of the new version","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I bought this DVD following the current promotion of the latest blockbuster version about to be released. Seeing the front cover I presumed it depicted the quality of the cartoon art to be expected but I was extremely disappointed. I actually find myself disgusted at the film company re-releasing this dated film on the back of the new movie. I have even seen it repackaged with a different flashier cover. I feel that will lead people to be mislead into buying it thinking it is a new version.The blackriders (amongst others) are created using footage of human actors and their horses that have been partly drawn over and then had the cartoon characters and landscape added after - making them not at all scary. The two dimensional (and by today's standards, childishly presented) characters have a limited expressive range normally only attributed to Roger Moore. The film is not assisted by the very average sound effects and the musical score do not manage to create any of the atmosphere expected if you had ever read the book. Tolkein's rich descriptive prose against the final output of the film is like having bread and water after sitting in front of a succulent and aromatic feast. If you are serious about films then you may choose to watch this to help understand how the use of real footage with animation has developed otherwise I would recommend leaving it on the shelf. "}{"Title":"Yeah, right... whatever, Ralph.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hmmm. It looks like I'm over my head this time when writing an online movie comment is concerned. I've been given a long-distance request from a friend and fellow artist in the animation industry to share my opinions concerning Bakshi's version of The Lord of The Rings, yet I'm finding that to be no easy task.It's no secret that this film is a mess. In fact, it is such a thorough mess that I hope it didn't turn dozens out there off from ever attempting to read Tolkien's epic classic. That it is so sloppy is a fact known by pretty much everyone in the field. But even so, I'm at a loss in trying to figure out how to word my opinions on this ridiculousness.Slash it to ribbons, Craig! I was encouraged. But the truth is that there's so much to point out here that it would probably fill a book. It's that atrocious. Attempting to point out this film's endless weak points can't possible be called slashing... in this case, it's more like dicing.Where to begin?I guess I'll start off by pointing out the obvious bit that everybody out there has probably heard by now--yes, it is true that the movie is incomplete. It stops somewhere midway through The Two Towers without any warning and the credits roll.Probably the biggest difficulty with this film is its presumptuousness--it assumes that you know the books already and goes from there. And, as always, Bakshi takes dozens of inexplicable liberties all over the place, changing locales, situations and lopping off important details at will.No wait... let me re-word that. It's *only one* of the many difficulties here.Let me simplify it so this comment doesn't end up being a mile long everything lousy you've heard negative about this movie is true, especially the notorious (and genuinely hilarious) web page portion dedicated to ripping it up on the internet's The Tolkien Sarcasm Page. It's a lousy waste of time, a mistake, a rip-off of your hard-earned cash. It is so many dreadful things that all of the negative adjectives in the English language combined together cannot possibly describe it's horrific insulting of the original books.All I have to say is, I thanks the heavens above that Jackson's new live action trilogy is really doing the story such justice!In the meantime, if you feel you *must* watch an animated version of Tolkien's work, I heartly recommend Ranklin-Bass's The Hobbit and The Return of The King. They don't boast the greatest animation in the world and can sometimes feel a tad cleaned-up for their television airings, but they do go pretty faithfully hand-in-hand with the books and are obviously labours of love (the art design in particular really does Tolkien's work justice, as the backgrounds and all appear to be based on the original cover illustrations that once graced the books).In the meantime--and ESPECIALLY if you are a Tolkien admirer--SKIP THIS FILM AT ALL COSTS! "},{"Title":"Sigh.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I first watched this animated film a long time ago when I was in sixth grade (I have since had the...opportunity...to see it again).  I had not yet read Tolkien's books. After seeing this film, I almost didn't want to.  The only reason I still DID was to find out if they were this bad.  (Thankfully, the books are excellent, and I'm very glad I read them.) I am not going to comment on the animation or drawing or colors (except in regards to how characters act or are portrayed), because generally I don't comment on those even if they're bad unless I don't have much else to talk about.  Special effects and the like do not alone a movie make, nor do they alone a movie destroy. ;-) Besides, this one has plenty of other stuff to destroy it. First, condensing the Fellowship of the Ring and half of The Two Towers into one film was a bad idea.  Even the recent live action version, doing only one book, had to cut a lot of stuff.  This cut a lot more, and in worse places.  The opening is blazed through with cuts from scene to scene so sudden I couldn't follow what was going on even after I'd read the books (Several times.  I love Tolkien.). Gandalf seems very...creepy, which is very strange, because I've always taken him as a somewhat friendly, if a bit mysterious, type.  He waves his arms at every single opportunity, which is...uh...odd.  (Not an animation problem, a portrayal problem.)  In the book, I cried at his fall.  In this...it's kind of an eh. Aragorn, as well, is far too mysterious...the first scene with him is alright as far as that goes, but the hobbits are supposed to be friends with him after a little while, and that never happens.  He's also the world's worst swordsman--and not because of bad animation, because better fighting is shown throughout the film.  He just screws up every time he draws his sword. Boromir.  Don't even get me started on Boromir.  How did they get the idea he was a Viking?  I think they were really trying to hammer home the point that he was going to do something bad, too, because he's consistently nasty and mean throughout the movie, while in the book he really seems like a nice enough guy up until he snaps, and right afterwards he pretty much goes back to being a decent guy.  In the book, I cried when he died (and still do, each time I read it).  In this...I just didn't really have any reaction. It wasn't that I hated him or anything, I just didn't really care. Legolas.  Legolas seems decent enough to me. Gimli.  Nothing too terribly wrong, really...but for the fact that he's as tall as everyone else.  Uh...does the word dwarf suggest anything to you? Hobbits.  Seem pretty much fine, except for Sam.  Sam is 1) Ugly, 2) Stupid, 3) Clumsy and 4) Homosexual.  None of these four are suggested by the books. Gollum.  Gollum is a noise he makes in his throat in his lines, guys, not a word.  Kind of a trouble swallowing sort of thing.  Listen to Tolkien reading The Hobbit if you're having trouble figuring that out. With most monsters, my only comments would be on the way they were drawn, so I'll restrain myself.  The Black Riders, however, should not have been limping like old horror movie zombies.  These guys are supposed to be frightening.  They seem almost comical. The acting is awful.  Just plain awful.  No emotion is shown at any point of the film, in any fashion.  Saruman is pronounced Aruman, which I wouldn't have a problem with...except that they only do it some of the time, like they couldn't decide.  Just flip a coin if you're having trouble, guys. With problems like these, it shouldn't really come as a surprise that the film simply doesn't involve the watcher in the plot at all.  I tried. Believe me, I tried to care about any of the characters, but I couldn't. In only one scene--the Helm's Deep battle--was I getting slightly pulled into things, and even then, it was broken up every time I saw Aragorn's awful swordsmanship. This movie is a terrible interpretation of Tolkien's works, and I'm very glad the crew was unable to complete the destruction with the second part of The Two Towers and The Return of the King.  If I'd seen those I'm pretty sure I would never have read Tolkien, and thus I would have missed out on quite possibly the best books I have ever read in my life.  Somehow, the makers of this film managed to take something that good and turn it into one of the most awful cinematic experiences of my life. "},{"Title":"horrible acting and way to dramatic","Date":"29 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In my opinion this movie is horrible compared to the Peter Jackson version. they start off the movie with horrible play acting in the beginning where you don't even see the actors or actresses faces. even though I haven't finished the movie yet I can tell that the battles will not be epic enough and the dialogue will be overplayed. also from my knowledge of the books and the games based off the books Gandalf didn't even know about the ring being in the shire until after Bilbo disappeared on his birthday. if the rings is so evil why is Gandalf acting so calm in the cartoon and same as Frodo. Ian Mckellan was the best portrayal of gandalf because he actually responded to the situations on how they should be. the only reason why I didn't do a lower score is because that would just be plain mean to the people who at least tried to come up with something so soon after the book was written with limited resources. "},{"Title":"Any adaptation is merely another's take on the original work","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, firstly, this film ends abruptly because it is only based on the FIRST TWO NOVELS of the LOTR trilogy. Ralph Bakshi wanted to make a sequel, adapting the Return of the King, but for budgetary or whatever reasons was never able to.And Saruman was changed to Aruman because some bright spark of a producer decided audiences were too dumb to figure out that Saruman wasn't Sauron...what a moron.And let us also not forget that any film adaptation is merely another person's take on the original novel, as it was with Peter Jackson years later. Although better by far than this film, the new LOTR Trilogy is not all that faithful to the novels either. Entire characters and subplots were left out, other events were changed around in time and/or content to fit with the timing/pacing of the film etc etc. In a nutshell, I actually think THIS film was more faithful to Tolkien's works than the later live action films. Also, a lot of scenes in PJ's Fellowship resemble scenes in this film. At certain times it really seemed like I was just watching an edited-for-kids, cartoon version of the Peter Jackson films. I'm not saying he plagiarised, but maybe was inspired by this film. I really think the latter live action movies fit more with the role-playing-dungeons and dragons geeks' image of what the LOTR should look like, rather than Tolkien's original imagined world.All that said, I really enjoyed the first half of this film. It was a nice animated adventure tale, with a good deal of suspense and some nicely realised imagery, especially quaint little Hobbiton and the town of Bree, as well as the dark riders. Minus the glowing red eyes, they were pretty intimidating, twisted little dark lumps of men.It is once we get to the Helm's Deep siege that this film utterly falls apart. The rotoscoping, which was okay up to this, becomes a crazy mish-mash of old stock footage and guys in bad masks waving clubs. It's cut together like a weird music video...no one scene really seems to logically precede another, and about 5 minutes before the end of the movie we see Frodo and Sam on Mordor's doorstep, about to plunge in with the ring...and then we cut back to Gandalf obliterating the orcs and the film ends...would have been confusing to fans at the time, since there is no to be continued or anything...it's just left there.Anyway, a passable little film to stick on in the afternoon before you watch the Peter Jackson trilogy, but as an adventure in itself, sadly it falls a bit short. Good on Bakshi for giving it a go though, it could have been awful, but as it is, it's just okay. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'll be polite. This film isn't just bad. It's SUPERBAD. And, before anyone thinks that it's because I'm a purist or whatever to the books, let me stop you there. I've only read The Hobbit and The Fellowship, and I just can't get through the rest. They're very dense books, detailed is another adjective I'd use to describe them. But, frankly, I couldn't care less what gets left out. I really couldn't. This film is bad on a technical level, with horrible rotoscoping special effects, and there are lots of goofs pertaining to that. You'll notice, near the end of the film, one of the characters is running, and the actor trips. They decided to trace over that as well, and just leave it in there. And that's just one of many. There are scenes where it switches from night to day on a whim, scenes where it appears they just gave up on rotoscoping the actors completely, and just filmed them (and badly there, I might add as well). There are scenes where logic is thrown out the window, as well as physics. It's just a bad film on all counts.And the voices and ways the characters are portrayed are just annoying as well. Whereas I was moved by Sean Astin's portrayal of Samwise in Peter Jackson's films as a loyal friend, Sam is here a sort of idiot man-child, with buck teeth. Gandalf is just an asshole to everyone, and the only redeeming actor on the whole that I can see here is John Hurt as the (horribly drawn) Aragorn.A strike out. Why, Bakshi, why? "},{"Title":"An overshadowed film","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film is always going to be compared to Peter Jacksons recent trilogy, which is unfair because this film is decent enough in its own right. The film starts off well with interesting characters and an intriguing story. It's towards the end where the the film is at its lowest. There are new characters that have no relevance at all except from appearing in Tolkiens book The Lord of the Rings which this film is based on. The end also feels extremely rushed and was uninspiring compared to the rest of the film. The book is in 3 parts - The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and the Return of the King. This films events continue to the end of the Two Towers (although the Two Towers is extremely watered down compared to the book). This film would have worked much better had it finished at the end of part 1 as everything after it is tedious and boring. The films soundtracks is one of its main strong points with some good fantasy tunes. The voice-acting is good in places, but with some characters (like the orcs) it is very difficult to hear what is being said. If you by this film before watching the new trilogy you'd probably enjoy it more, as I was constantly thinking about how the two films compared. If your a large fan of Lord of the Rings than buy it. Otherwise its just another mediocre film. "},{"Title":"a sincere failure","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Watching this again recently, I found it heartwarming to see the way they sincerely tried to bring the book to the screen, even if the shoestring budget and hammy actors meant inevitable failure. By any objective measure this was a disaster, but I found it easy to imagination how good a Lord of the Rings movie could be if someone was to make one sincerely - and with the money to employ the most talented artists and script writers. Unfortunately, thanks to Jackson, that will not be possible for a long time.Watching this movie left me with the impression that with any sort of budget at all, then this story simply couldn't be stuffed up. Fantasy just provides so many opportunities for making an interesting film. There were many moments in this film that were potentially more interesting than the way that Peter Jackson did it, although of course you always have to use your imagination due to the poor execution. The way they tried to show the wraith world from Frodo's point of view for example. Or the way that Galadriel showed Sam what was happening back home for another.Another thing I really appreciated in this version - the silent moments. There were moments when dialog was spoken with no background music against a still back-drop. Compare that to the grandiose swooping camera of the Jackson films, and the intrusive score which seemed designed to stress how each and every scene was the most poignant and powerful scene we had ever watched. Jackson's films were full of their own importance, this was quieter and a lot more modest.Jackson and co hit this with more than US$270 million dollars in production costs, at least $90 million dollars more for marketing, a massive tax break from the NZ government, and also gained massive savings from filming in NZ not the USA. However, despite the marketing claims, the intention to be faithful was never there. This is well documented. Philippa Boyens said as much in an interview, when she said they deliberately didn't re-read the books before writing the script.  Jackson also stated that they originally intended to make a fantasy film along the lines of the lord of the rings, and that the one he really wanted to do was Return of the King, because it had a lot of battles but no character development.In contrast, this film tried to be more true. Of course a lot of things were wrong, the acting was awful and pretty much sunk everything, and the pace was too fast. Naturally they cut a lot, and adapted other scenes, and for this they deserve credit. While Jackson added a lot of action scenes that served no plot purpose, Bakshi cut book scenes which did nothing to advance the plot anyway. There's actually a curious similarity between the structure of the Jackson and Bakshi films near the beginning - in that they both deviate from the original books in the same way - although of course some of this could be coincidence.This was not a good film, but the potential was there. Bakshi said in  an interview to the Onion AV club that only animation could do the lord of the rings justice. His version didn't work, but he might have been right. "},{"Title":"sad but true","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In retrospective it is sad to note, that Bakshi's half of the Lord of the Rings will most probably remain the only somewhat decent adaptation to film, of John Ronald Reuel Tolkien's work, that I will live to see. On one hand, the techniques (rotoscopy etc.) used are interesting, and definitely give the movie a flavor of it's own. Yet at points perhaps the director falls to the pitfalls of an era, in this perhaps it is the psychedelizations of some scenes (For Bruinen has that particularly nasty scent of 70's, yet it somehow the scene works). Still, this, not the new PJ live-action movies, is the true film version of LotR. While PJ's movie could be best described as a movie loosely based on the plot of, and happening in the world created by JRR Tolkien, the Bakshi movie at least stays true to the book, and most importantly it does not add anything. The most horrible failing of PJ's movies is in the horror of a splatter director thinking he can tell Tolkien's story better than Tolkien itself (I can just imagine Tolkien rolling in his grave when a splatter-comedy director rewrites scenes of a saga that Tolkien used several decades to perfect). This pitfall Bakshi avoided, and though such should not deserve any special mention, in light of the new movies perhaps it is appropriate to do so. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'd like to apologise in advance to those who revere this movie. I, for one, hated it. The movie is a JOKE. I have read the books every year since I was ten. The animation was horrible - only rotoscoping, and poorly rotoscoped at that. Eowyn looks fat, and like she's forty. Galadriel acts like a silly school girl. RAINBOWS shoot out of Nenya, for goodness sake. The movie is only a list of highlights in Tolkien's plot, and there's nothing really there to hold it together. And what I hate most, everyone makes these huge overdramatic sweeping gestures. I could go on and on, but they only let me have 1000 words here.  "},{"Title":"What was he thinking","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched Peter Jackson version of Lord of the Rings when I was half way through reading the Two Towers and I thought it was absolutely brilliant.At this time the animated version of the Lord of the Rings was released on DvD but I told myself that I will finish reading the Two Towers and Return of Kings before watching it (as I thought it showed the whole of the trilogy).So when I did finish the trilogy I went and brought the DvD, which was a stupid idea because it was absolutely rubbish.I was acturly bored 20 minutes in to it which was really strange because I love the book and I am shooked that the maker of this film could of even thought of fitting at least 1 and a half of the books in to a 2 hour 8 minute film.None of the characters had any emotions when they were talking and they seemed to be reading it of a page, even my favourite character who is Gandalf did not seem interesting at all.  The animation was the only okay in parts of the film except for the orks (they looked awful) and Aragorn and Sam face.I don't know way this film was released because there was not even a proper ending, but maybe it was good that the maker ran out of money because the film couldn't of got any better. I just hope that nobody judges the books by this film.3/10    "}{"Title":"NAZGUL!!!!","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, ok, okYes the new version is out. Yes it is STUNNING! This animated classic will never measure up (and rightly so...animation vs live action are completly different mediums) BUT!!!!!some elements of Bashki's animated gem are definetly done much better  (and you wonder why some of Jackson's scenes are almost identical) I will not list them all, but here are a couple to compare...THE NAZGUL!!! will always win in the animated version. Their forever demanding desire for the ring , their HUNGER for it is depicted with utmost precision. The scene at the side of the road, with the hobbits hiding, is SO IMPRESSIVE! The Nazgul is sooo determined to get that ring..he SMELLS it, he salivates for it, like a juicy steak he wishes to devour it once again...God that scene scares me! Ditto for the scene at the Inn where the Nazgul are slicing up the bedsheets..so overpowered by the desire to get the ring they dont notice their folley. It takes the lead Nazgul to show them all (by pulling back the tattered sheet) how bady they have failed...and ohh the pain of failure...that gut wrentching scream they bellow will chill you to the bone!!!I also like the tentacled creature at the gates of the mines, the way he slams the doors shut after them..it like he's saying..i will not persue you, as i know that what you will find in those mines scares even me!! And of course Borimere...The arrows at the end..Only death can stop his desire to rid the world of these evil Orcs, and a dozen arrows it takes to bring him down. (Not like the 3 in the New Version , although big ones) He is more the leader of men in this one , not like the leader of sissy's as in the Jackson version.All in all this was once the benchmark, and has some great stuff in it...screw the quality of animation..its about the quality of IMAGINATION, and this has enough to drown in.Rent it, watch it..then watch it again ) "},{"Title":"Long, very long...for nothing.","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Well, my first memory of this movie is watching it with my dad. I had quite enjoyed reading The Hobbit at school, so I was excited to see what would happen next.So we settle down and watched. And watched. And watched.When the movie was done, I turned to my dad and asked, That's it?And he said, I don't know.Needless to say we were both disappointed. I thought most of the characters were horribly animated. Why was Boromir a Viking? Why did Aragorn wear a dress? (Yes, it's a tunic, I know.) Sam is one of my favorite characters, and definitely one of the real heroes; here he was portrayed as an idiot. That made me mad.And the Orcs and the Balrog. Just...wow. Terrible.***Spoilers, I Guess*** What was the point of going through the first two books and leaving it at that? With no ending? Odd...~*~*~*~ I did give this movie another shot when I was a bit older, after watching The Two Towers, to remind myself of what happens before that. Well...it reminded me. In a very boring manner.So my opinion is that this movie was badly animated, terribly boring, incredibly long, and ultimately pointless to watch due to **Spoiler**. "},{"Title":"Never laughed so hard in my life","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  (Warning minor spoilers)When I first saw this movie, I borrowed it from the local library and watched it at my house with two friends and my brother for 'movie night'.  We never stopped laughing.  This positively the worst film I have ever seen but that was the best part about it...it was so horrible that it was beyond even being ridiculously hilarious.Everything about this movie was done horribly.  The world of Middle-earth is so ugly it makes you cringe.  The voices are really bad, the animation is dumb.  There were two things about the movie, though, that will never leave my mind for the as long as live...Orcs/the Riders of Rohan it looked like a slash between colonial battles and Red Rover.  Send one guy over, gets killed, send another over, gets killed again, so on.The Orcs marching on Helms Deep not only are they singing in tune (amazingly) with a choir complete with baritones, tenors, altos and sopranos, but they also have their very own marching band!  If you look closely you can see French horns.As a movie to be taken seriously-0/100 As a movie you can sit around with your friends and laugh at to no extent-9/10 "},{"Title":"Not a faithful adaptation of a beloved novel","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Let me tell you how totally flawed this animated LOTR is. Peter Jackson's LOTR trilogy is a beautiful masterpiece while this animated version is an insult to be called LOTR. It is not a faithful adaptation of a beloved novel and below are the reasons why I think this animated movie is so flawed. Spoiler Alert!1) At the beginning when the narrator is telling the story of the forging of the great rings we never get to see what Sauron looked like before or after the ring was cut down from his hand. All we get to see is a tall man wearing big horns on his head like a devil or something. Never once we get to see the Eye of Sauron which is the main villain in the books but it doesn't seem that important in this animated version of LOTR. We are never shown what Sauron's strong-hold of Barad-dur looks like?2) When the narrator says that the dark lord learned the art of ring making after all the other rings were forged is completely wrong. Sauron taught the men and the dwarfs the art of forging the rings and that's why he was able to capture their rings so quickly. 3) Did anyone notice how Frodo dances when Gandalf first arrives at Bag End? It is just too damn funny and so unlike the Frodo from the books. Gandalf, Gandalf, oh, it's been so long. 4) In the book Gandalf is unsure if Bilbo's ring is the one ring and that's why he throws it in the fire to see if any markings show up on it. In this movie he throws the ring in the fire but right after that he tells Frodo that it is the evil ring of Sauron without first taking it out of the fire and look for the markings to be certain. So, why did Gandalf put the ring in the fire if he was sure it was the evil ring of Sauron? Besides they never showed what the markings on the ring looked like. 5) I really hated the way Sam is portrayed in this movie. Not only he was fat and ugly but stupid and scared too. I wonder why Frodo bothered to take him on this perilous journey. 6) Aragorn looked like an unattractive, old Native American in a skirt and without pants. He wasn't properly dressed up for a ranger who had to spend months in the wild hiding from the servants of the dark lord. I can't believe a beautiful elf like Arwen could fall in love with that ugly old man. 7) Gandalf was portrayed as an angry old wizard instead of a wise and a friendly character and he just couldn't stop moving his hands the whole time. Did anyone notice how Gandalf pointed his finger at Sam right before he went to Isengard to seek the council of Saruman? It must have really scared poor Sam.8) I now understand why Rosie Cotton was never introduced in this animated version as being Sam's love interest since the director wanted to show that Frodo and Sam were more than just friends. You can see those hints through out the movie especially when they are at Weather top and Aragorn is telling the love story of Beren and Luthien and when he finishes the story you can see how lovingly Frodo and Sam looked at each other like they were lovers or something which is quite contrary to the books. Besides, what was the point of telling that story if they weren't going to tell us anything about Aragorn and Arwen's love story.9) We never get to see the beauty of Lothlorien and why it was called heaven on Middle Earth. I thought Galadriel was pretty but she didn't look like as one of the wisest and the most beautiful queen of elves in all of Middle Earth. The mirror of Galadriel looked like a kaleidoscope. 10) When Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas are chasing after the orcs who took Merry and Pippin pay close attention to Aragorn. He actually falls on the ground for a second before he stands up and starts running again. I guess the film makers forgot to edit that part.11) When Aragon, Legolas and Gimli go into the Fangorn Forest they are reunited with Gandalf and then they all go to Edoras or should I say Adoras since that's the way it's pronounced in this film. What made me laugh was that Aragorn pronounced it as Andoras. What I don't understand is where did they get those horses if they never met up with the Riders of Rohan or did Gandalf brought two spare horses with him? Sadly, there was no mention or introduction of Shadow fax (the lord of all horses). 12) At the end of the movie after the battle of Helms Deep is over the narrator says the dark forces of evil were cast out of the Middle Earth forever which is incorrect. So, what about the battle of Minas Tirith and the last battle in front of the Black Gates. What about the corsair ships and the Paths of the Dead? I understand they weren't going to make a sequel of this movie but come on, how can they make some one believe that Helms Deep was the last battle fought to save the Middle Earth especially since all the villains are still alive. Most importantly the Eye of Sauron is still alive since the one-ring hasn't been cast down into Mount Doom yet. What about Saruman, the Nazgul and especially the Witch king of Angmar? They are all still alive so how can they say that Middle Earth was rid of all evil forces. "},{"Title":"How does this even pass for animation?","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I cannot even begin to explain how lackluster this movie is. After viewing this, many questions came to mind, but first and foremost was this Did they just color over live-action for the battle sequences? I mean, it has to be the single worst execution of a technique ever used in the history of animation. This movie is just plain ugly. Viewing a trash heap writhing with maggots is more appealing to the eyes than watching this film. Worse than this, the action and voice acting, both rather clunky and sterile, combine to form a completely emotionless telling of the tale. Your ninety-year-old grandmother could offer a more riveting reading of the tale than this film. Do your self a favor Stick to Peter Jackson or the books, and disavow all knowledge of an animated version.  "},{"Title":"What the hell?","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After seeing films like Final Fantasy or The Secret Of NIMH, or even TV series such as The Simpsons I often wondered why animation used to have a reputation as being strictly for children. I need not wonder anymore. To be perfectly frank, Ralph Bakshi's attempt at The Lord Of The Rings looks as if it was made by children for very small children. One almost envisions a studio where a Children Of The Corn trip is happening.It becomes clear in the first five minutes that exposition is definitely not Ralph Bakshi's strong point. Not only does he fail to properly explain the story, he fails utterly to make his explanations make sense. Like Stanley Kubrick's version of The Shining, one has no way of understanding what is going on if they haven't read the novel. And this is where it all falls down - if you're not going to tell the story that is in the novel, then why bother making the film at all? That's strike number one.Strike number two is that the animated sequences are very poor indeed. The Lord Of The Rings is a story that depends on subtlety and grace in a lot of places, and everyone who has continued illustration past the primary school stage knows that subtle, minor gestures are far harder to represent than large, sweeping movements, but they are also a million times as effective in getting one's point across. Unfortunately, Bakshi's animators never learned this much, and the entire cast just cannot sit still. When Gandalf is half-explaining what is so damned important about the One Ring, just watching him wave his hands around in the air is exhausting enough. And what on earth is with the staffs Gandalf and (S)aruman have in this film? One looks like a giant blob of dog poop that was stretched at the bottom, the other looks like an elongated giant chess piece. Don't even get me started on Legolas. He should have been renamed Horse-Face.Strike three is the rotoscoping. The rotoscoped Orcs and Ringwraiths in particular look far more Tolkien-esque than anything else in the film (faint praise because they still look more like something from an afternoon cartoon from the 1980s), but they do not fit in at all with the environment. I suppose they could make some small amount of sense if you took enough acid, but we really shouldn't need to.Strike four comes out early in the script, but I saved it for last because a lot of people defending this film claim it is more faithful to Tolkien's novel than is the current trilogy of films being made. It isn't. Bakshi cannot even get the story of how the Rings were made, and who by, right. When the Council Of Elrond arrives at its decision to send a company to throw the Ring into the Cracks Of Doom, no explanation is given at all as to why this must be done. I mean none whatsoever. One could easily infer that this decision was a whim on Elrond's part, but again, the novel takes the time to explain in great detail why this is necessary. The 2001 production of Fellowship invests about fifteen to twenty minutes in the Council Of Elrond. A wise investment, because this one scene lays out the entire framework on which the rest of the story is based. Bakshi covers it in three minutes flat. And this is where many a Ringnut's complaints about Bakshi's version comes from. It isn't that the quality of the animations and effects is generally quite poor, or that most every character has to milk at least one giant cow when delivering an explanation, it's that Bakshi obviously felt that presenting the actual story on the screen was too much trouble, and just half-doing everything is perfectly okay. It would be twenty-four years before Jackson would repeat this mistake in The Two Towers, but even he invests enough exposition to make the viewer care about what he does present on the screen.Put simply, this film is a real tragedy of errors, and it could not be more obvious that the whole thing was slapped together to make a fast buck, rather than out of any respect for Tolkien's work. Voting a 1 for this mess is being too kind to it. It also proves beyond a doubt that commercialism had brought Hollywood down into the doldrums long before the blockbuster era began. "},{"Title":"I've no idea what to say.","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The plotJ.R.R.Tolkien's classic novel becomes an annoyance in this animated adaption. It tells of young Frodo Baggins being told to go with a powerful ring to somewhere to destroy it.The ViewThe movie doesn't really take its time in an attempt to get as much of Tolkien's mammoth novel into a couple of hours.  The animation tries to do something new and frankly doesn't work to the disadvantage. Credit can be given to the amount of effort put in, but the film can bore and son you'll find yourself wanting to send this movie back to somewhere away from yourself. ** "},{"Title":"Poor. More like the Smurfs than a good adaptation of the book.","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Naturally after seeing the modern take on the trilogy, like thousands of others, I decided to see the Bakshi version at my goodness it doesn't come close. The Colour in this film is absolutely awful, even for 1978, and it was a very dull film to watch. Rivendell looked very dull especially. The orcs had no colour at all and weren't just horrible to look at in a villain way, but also the fact they didn't look cartoon, they looked like some guys dressed in dirty clothes whereas the heroes, who looked very strange (apart from Gandalf) too, were cartoon. The story was rushed and had no emotion like when Boromir died.Your kids will be bored, you will regret spending money on it, just do not waste any money on it. Opt for the newer trilogy which are already classics in their own right. "},{"Title":"More of a mood piece, really.","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, so we're rushed through a series of scenes that only make sense to hard core Tolkien fans, who then wonder why so much was left out and why it was so rushed in the first place. Truth is, you can't tell half of the LOTR in the two odd hour time frame they worked with. Hell, Peter Jackson didn't get it all in eleven odd hours of three extended movies. But when I don't have 11 hours to spend watching Mr. Jackson's brilliant (if heavily modified) trek through middle earth, I usually just slap my old LOTR tape into my VHS and enjoy Bakshi's cool depiction of the orcs, nazgul, Saruman, Gandalf, battle at Helm's Deep, etc as best as I'm able and wonder what the animated ROTK would have been like if Bakshi, rather than Jules-Bass, had been allowed to do it. Plus I was practically born and raised on this (I saw it in the theaters when it first came out when I was 5 years old. It was also my first ever VHS movie rental) and much of how I pictured Tolkien's world to be was influenced by this film right up until the release of Fellowship in 2002. As such, this is a mood piece for me; something I watch when I want to recapture memories from my childhood. On the other hand, why don't these guys wear armor? Why does the balrog look like a jet black lion with butter fly wings? Why is the introduction little more than black silhouettes on a red background? I mean, check out the way Jackson does Sauron or the Balrog. Those are the sexiest things I've ever seen on the big screen. Here, they just look ridiculous. Oh well, still a short, quick dose of Tolkien when I don't have the patience to read the books or sit through the Jackson films.Rating 6 "},{"Title":"Good, but not great.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If someone is going to do ANY of the Ring Trillogy, they had darn well do them right, and complete.While this is a fine attempt, and the ending is cut short for reasons beyond the control of Ralph Bakshi, it could have been better. And by better, I mean complete every character, each scene as written in the novels, should make their appearance.But, while incomplete, this is still highly entertaining. The characters appeared much like I imagined they would while reading the novels. Perfection in this cause, or the persuit of perfection, would have paid off immensely. Pity we didn't get to see that.  "}{"Title":"Doesn't come even close to Jackson's masterpiece","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have read a comment by Kristian Eisenwald, and i cannot leave so much bullshit unchallenged, excuse my choice of words.Ian McKellen's Gandalf in the other hand, is simply just too boring. He looks too human, sounds too human, acts too human and wears no hat or wields no sword. Did you even care to watch Jackson's movie? Ian McKellen had both a shiny magic sword, and the most wizardy hat i could think of. Apart from this his acting was easily on par with his constantly gesturing, animated counterpart from bakshis version.And it must be noted, that while I'm sad to say this, the great Christopher Lee didn't bring Saruman alive. Fraser Kerr in this movie did, even with a very limited screen time and lines. Are you serious? Saruman (or Aruman <.<) looked like a sneering Santa Clause with way too much bushy white hair, and a rather strange accent. I was not impressed, and i seriously doubt your ability to judge if you liked this. Before I move completely to visual aspects of the movie, it must be mentioned that the voice acting and the general presenation of the Orcs are also superior to Jackson's pretendeous bad guys. They jumped like silly little girls, because boromir yelled a bit, they stopped dead in their tracks, because Aragorn demanded it. I have never seen monsters behave so cowardly. Their faces were more or less unrecognizable, a writhing mass of black with silly red eyes and Dracula teeth. The Balrog and the cave troll were caricatures of the descriptions in the book. The Nazghul were barely able to move properly on foot, shambling worse than the Zombies in generic Horrormovies, and didn't seem really determined to catch Frodo when he was riding towards Rivendell. They just stood around, riding in circles, blathering come back, come back, endured a ridiculous little speech by a Hobbit with a knife, and then rode into their doom.For a 30 year old movie, this was OK, but please spare us with nostalgic nonsense. "},{"Title":"I want to give this film a negative star","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Why does 1 have to be the lowest rating? I loved the books. I loved the movies by Peter Jackson. I even thought the Hobbit movie had a bit of quirky charm. But then I saw this one. It is a soul-eating experience from start to finish.The movie starts with shadow-fighting, which is, for those of you who don't know, very weird. Not only that but SLOW MOTION shadow-fighting! Then it goes to the Shire, where a badly animated Gandalf holding a staff with what looks like a kidney at the top is visiting Bilbo's 111th birthday party. This is some of the worst animation I've ever seen, by the way. Bilbo disappears, as does Gandalf. Then the narrator says, 17 years passed, and we are shown as the seasons change at a rapid pace of all 17 of these years. Then Gandalf comes back, twirling and chanting about the ring, Frodo spinning around him. Maybe Bakshi wanted to make a musical. From there, the overeager hobbits are chased out of their homes by Ringwraiths whose eyes change color from red to blue. Sometimes Gandalf's kidney staff also changes from brown to red from time to time. From here the movie goes downhill in epic scale.I've read a good review of this movie which describes all of its sad aspects in great detail on another site, and I don't want to retrace their steps, so I'll stop writing. Now I have a bad taste in my mouth. "},{"Title":"The budget didn't extend to Saruman the White so they got Aruman the Pink instead.","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Also known as The Unintentional Comedy of the Ring.Honestly - I have nothing against old films. I quiet respect that we're spoiled these days by great and ever improving special effects that they just didn't have back then. There's nothing wrong with that, and there are many films from before 1990 that I love.But this adaptation of The Lord of the Rings is just a case of couldn't be bothered.The rotoscoping is the first point of complaint as it just looks plain awful - how much more effort would it have been to draw all those orcs if they were going to colour over the live action anyway? The all animated characters like Gandalf and the hobbits show that the animators employed didn't lack the talent or enthusiasm so I don't get the point of the rotoscoping at all.To anyone who's read the books I needn't mention all the stuff they randomly left out - sure, you have to leave stuff out in every film adaptation, but if the rest of the film is that bad you just don't get away with it. I won't bitch about that though, it's just another fact that makes this film less great than Tolkien's work deserves.What bothers me the most is the abrupt and completely random ending right after the battle of Helm's Deep. And so the evil forces were driven from Middle Earth forever with the help of the friends of Frodo. Apart from making it sound like a Disney film entitled The Adventures of Frodo in which Aragorn, Gandalf, etc. are mere sidekicks, it's entirely untrue. If they were going to make Return of the King as well for it to work as a sequel, why did they make the ending of Lord of the Rings (which by then is supposed to be The Two Towers, but nevermind...) sound like it WAS actually the ending? It sounds like they've expected us to lose the plot halfway through - entirely possible, but I HAVE watched it several times, and even if I hadn't, it was random the first time I saw it.Then there are the errors and inconsistencies, of which there are plenty, but I'm sure someone else has listed them. I'll only mention the one that bugs me the most and just shows how little effort must have gone into the production of this film - Saruman and Aruman?! If you look at the trivia here on IMDb it states that halfway through production, the makers thought Saruman and Sauron sounded too alike and thus they referred to The White Wizard as Aruman. (Nevermind that he isn't the White Wizard to start with as he's wearing RED in every scene he appears in.) But in the beginning they still call him Saruman. If they were so desperate to make such a moronic change at all, how much effort would it have been to re-record any scene that Saruman was referred to by his proper name in to replace it with Aruman?! Well, this mistake, like the rest of the film, makes for a nice joke between myself and my significant other anyway. Hence the subject line.I would recommend this film to Tolkien nerds like myself who, apart from being interested in seeing some shots that look like they inspired Peter Jackson, are out for unintentional comedy. Because while this film fails at a lot, I'm still very glad I have it, as it never ceases to amuse me. "},{"Title":"Ralph Bakshi's The Lord of the Rings Because Violating Tolkien's Fans is fun!","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" To put my thoughts in a nutshell this film stinks to high heaven. Low production values, poor continuity, sloppy pacing, over-condensed plot, horrible characterization, sometimes manageable, sometimes horrible casting, and the fact that its actually only half-animated make up what's wrong with this film. If Director Ralph Bakshi wasn't even able to afford to make his animated feature...animated! He probably shouldn't even have bothered! While several of the scenes are word for word from the book, they are soullessly done. A story should have a soul, if you will, and this film lacked anything of the sort. Which is a huge part of the problem with it. The original books, on the other hand...well, they almost overflowed with the stuff. The author, the esteemed Oxford Professor, J.R.R. Tolkien, spent about twelve years of his life writing them, using a typewriter. He seamlessly spun together a beautiful fabric of a story, using his craftsmanship, his devotion and his love for his work. This brought us The Lord of the Rings. Ralph Bakshi merely took the materials he already had and just slapped them on screen with very little care. After looking through the movie, piece by piece, the two biggest mistakes that Ralph Bakshi made are definitely evident.Biggest Mistake #One He tried to do it for too little budget, $8 million. What he was able to do with that little amount is impressive, though, I will admit. On the other hand, being impressive of such a small amount of money, and actually making something that actually is impressive, in and of itself, are two different things. He definitely needed about twice the budget that he had just to get the film fully animated, and even more than that if he wanted to add a little style to the animation. Biggest Mistake #Two He tried to fit the entirety of the first two books (about 730 pages total, and in small print) into one two hour and fifteen minute film. This forced drastic cuts all throughout it, especially in the Two Towers section, also at which point he'd run out budget for animation for the most part (filming at high contrast and using rotoscoping does not make animation). He was also forced to sacrifice personality and development for most of the characters. All this led up to a sudden end, in which the narrator announced to be continued. The film was not officially titled The Lord of the Rings-Part One, and nothing even hinted that this was merely a part of the story. It is merely titled The Lord of the Rings, which directly implies that the entire story should have been told in this film. They advertised it that way, and they've kept it that way. In another review, the reviewer who wrote up Ralph Bakshi's The Lord of the Ring, Part One A Critique on the Tolkien Sarcasm Page said, I'm surprised there weren't any lawsuits. Film Rating 3/10 "},{"Title":"It isn't bad. But neither is it that good.","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the original animated version of Tolkien's works and it isn't bad. But neither is it that good.For a start, there's the animation technique called rotoscoping. Basically using live actors then animating over the footage to get the cartoon-like image. This works well for the most part but there are some bits, like when there are lots of orcs on screen at once, where it looks horribly bad and rushed.As for the characters, they are all well-done, with the exception of Sam, who looks and acts like a complete imbecile, with a horribly exaggerated accent to match.The saving grace of this movie, though, is Gollum, or rather, Peter Woodthorpe, who voiced the character. For many years afterwards it tickled at my brain that I had heard this Gollum-voice before and finally I figured it out. Peter also did a voice for the English translation of the cult Japanese show Monkey, giving voice to the character of Pigsy. The voice is pretty much identical. Anyway, his Gollum performance has always stuck with me since and will be the benchmark against which I judge Andy Serkis' version in the Two Towers (which I have not yet seen).All in all a pretty good attempt, given the limitations of film technology available at the time. "},{"Title":"Worst. Aninmated Movie. Ever.","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is probably one of the worst animated movies I have ever seen in my life. The elves are exposed 4 f-stops brighter than everyone else and whenever they appear, Bambi music plays. The worst scene is when the Rides of Rohan come out and are surrounded by Orcs, yet triumphant music plays still. Who are they going for?? Towards the end of the movie, I was thinking that they better wrap everything up pretty quick in 2 minutes, and the voice over says That concludes part one of the Lord of the Rings. That's all well and good, except THEY NEVER MADE PART TWO! Nor did they tell us before hand that there was going to be two parts. I could have been cutting my self for the duration of the movie instead and I would have had more fun. "},{"Title":"I am right, and those that disagree are wrong","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I know that scores of others have said what I'm about to say, but I don't care.  Animation is supposed to be able to do more than live action on a similar budget.  I doubt that Fantasia could have been done in live action in 1940.  That being said, the animation in Bakshi's LOTR does not compare to the classic (like them or not; Tolkien did not) Disney films of the 30s-50s, nor to live action movies of the time.  Star Wars came out the previous year, and Empire was only a year or two away.Yes, I know this LOTR was low budget, but so was Star Wars ($11 mil). Heck, Star Wars cost only a quarter of what was spent to make the 1963 Liz Taylor Cleopatra.  HECK, Bakshi's LOTR had $8 million to spend.  That's right, it cost almost as much as Star Wars and E.T. to make, and it looks like CRAP.  Look, you can like some of the character designs (I HATE THEM), but you must agree that the film itself is ugly, and way too dark.  Not just that, but the backgrounds and artwork is terrible, dark, uninspired, and NOT beautiful, ever.  An extremely low budget piece of work (like a video game) can be breathtakingly beautiful due solely to the artwork. Much of the emotional impact of LOTR lies in the relationship between Frodo and Sam.  When Sam looks and moves like he does here, there can be no emotional attachment to him.  I mean, Lord in Heaven what the heck was Bakshi thinking???  Sam is a gardener, and of a lower class than Frodo.  He is not mentally handicapped.  He's NOT.  Oh man, I'm letting the anger get the better of me. *takes deep breath* It's obvious that Peter Beagle didn't quite study LOTR hard enough before writing the screenplay.  To condense a work into film, an extremely deep and intricate knowledge of the work is required.  Then you can properly decide what to cut out, and what elements mean and how they must be used to keep the spirit of the work intact.  Peter Beagle did not do this.  Also, how many people do YOU know that are LOTR geeks and know how to pronounce words like Iluvatar and Arwen Undomiel.?  I know a few (and am one), and can't imagine that Bakshi couldn't find any who would be willing to spend about fifteen minutes telling the voice director how stuff is pronounced. Heck, how many LOTR geeks would have done it for free just to be involved with the movie? *deep breath*Bottom line this movie is terrible.  TERRIBLE.  I can't understand how people like it, especially those that like it better than the Peter Jackson film.  The Nazgul-in-Bree scene is better in Bakshi???  Both scenes are basically the same, except one overuses the lame silhouette-on-red trick and one actually uses good cinematic techniques.  Am I being unfair?  Immature? I think the craptacular crapulent crapulosity of this film speaks for itself.  *cups hand to ear*If the author tells you how something is pronounced in the back of the book, then you MUST pronounce it right. - Christopher Lee, the best Aruman there ever was. "},{"Title":"All is not well in the Shire","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've seen webpages dedicated simply to putting this film down. Yet after being totally blown away by the spectacular work of Peter Jackson and his talented cast and crew, I decided to go against the warnings of these wise viewers and see this film.It was a disaster. It made all of Tolkien's work into a laughingstock.  Why do I say that? Because I laughed my way through the entire 133 minutes of the movie.There were many moments when I wanted to cry a river, however. The movie jumped from scene to scene so fast, it often left me questioning why Bakshi even bothered to make the film. To get the true essence of Tolkien, one must move slowly with the progression of the storyline, with GRACE...one thing this film apparently thought of as unnecessary. The characters lacked life, lacked personality... In Jackson's film, I was upset at the death of Boromir; in this film, I nearly fell asleep while watching it. Bakshi didn't know a darn thing about drama, it seems. Whenever there was a part that called for hysterics, the characters did not show it. And the BALROG...don't even get me started on how much of a JOKE that thing was. The Ringwraiths--same thing applies. Everything that was SUPPOSED to be scary or serious was funny. And the coloring of the film was awful...everything was in some shade of gray, black, green, or brown. After a half an hour, it was an eye sore.Also, the relationships between many of the characters were not explored in depth and often left me with questions in my head (and not just about Bakshi's sanity) -- i.e. Sam's relationship with Frodo. The cartoon animation dubbed over the live action looked terrible -- it made the animated characters stand out like pink elephants, and the orc scenes looked like some poor film cut from a 1930s horror flick. Tolkien seemed to paint Aragorn as a handsome character in the movie...yet in this, he looks like an ugly native American in a miniskirt. Gandalf comes off not as the grandfatherly figure he was, but as some distant, cold prophet of doom.To its benefit, Bakshi's disaster of a film did explain some things that happened which Peter Jackson did not, and it *did* have its degree of cuteness. But that hardly makes up for the errors. After seeing this film, I wanted to run back to theatres to see the superior version again--my eyes have been soiled!  See this if you want a laugh, or if you're very curious. Or better yet, see this if you want to make your first seeing of Jackson's 'Fellowship' even more enjoyable than it already is. My score *1.5 out of 5* "},{"Title":"Yes, it's THAT bad","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this just yesterday and could find hardly a redeeming feature of the entire film. I will forever be mystified by comments extolling its greatness - I just can't even begin to understand it.  It's far worse than I remembered and worse than it's been described.  How in the HECK can this film garner an average voter rating of 6.0???  Preposterous.  Even Ralph Bakshi doesn't pretend to be proud of this film.Why are people defending this movie based on how much could have been included?  Why is it the viewers' problem that they ran out of budget? The film was advertised as The Lord of the Rings, not Lord of the Rings Part 1. There was no indication that this film would be the first of two films.Anyway, the main issue isn't how faithful the movie is to the book but how incredibly awful the pacing is.  How ridiculous the rotoscoped animation looks juxtaposed with high-contrast live-action footage (and how flat the rotoscoping looks in the first place).  How Aragorn appears as an aging Native American with no pants and Boromir with outlandish horned helm. How Gimli the dwarf is as tall as a man.  How stupid the hobbits look with their muffin shaped hair and fey mannerisms and how all of them are indistinguishable except Sam who looks an undersized, overfed troll that can't bend its knees.  How Gandalf, Saruman and the Black Riders (who, for some reason are wearing BROWN robes) all have pronounced limps (WHY???). And a whole host of other crap.Whatever redeeming features this film have are totally unintentional and hilarious such as the Balrog which resembles a lion from a Warner Bros cartoon with big butterfly wings.  And the water-creature that closes the door after the Fellowship.It's not really the film I should have a problem with - after all, it's been bashed to death repeatedly and is far too easy a target -  but those who claim this film is anything more than a failure; for some reason, that irks me.Whatever criticisms I may have about Peter Jackson's film, I don't think I'll ever have the heart to voice them again after seeing this debacle.  "},{"Title":"It is not possible to adequately express the utter badness of this film","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was awful.  It completely failed to convey the story, the charm, the depth, or the emotional content of the books.  It dropped key scenes, compressed others, tore others out of their proper contexts, and mangled the rest.  The animation varied in quality from exquisite to miserable with nothing in between.  It perpetrated a vast fraud on the Tolkien-reading, moviegoing public because the promotional material never mentioned that only half the story was to be given.  If a copy of this film somehow came into my possession, I would rip it to shreds, chop it with an axe and dance upon the pieces, howling imprecations all the while, before consigning the remnant to the flames.  An extraordinary work of literature, which informed my youth, molded my ideals, inspired my sense of aesthetics, and comforted me in distress, has been distorted into a thing of ugliness and loathing.  I despise it. "}{"Title":"Tolkein Never Wanted This To Happen...","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" J.R.R. Tolkein wrote an absolutely amazing series of novels, and this film really makes them look poultry. I suppose that if I had seen this film before the new trilogy I may have liked it, but it does not compare to Peter Jackson's masterpieces.I read the novels before I saw any of the films, and was amazed at the amount of missing detail in the original cartoon. The movie finishes after Helms Deep, missing out the entire ending. It only lasts two hours and I found myself wanting to stop watching throughout! The animation is poor (compared to modern standards) and the characters and poorly displayed (for example Saruman the White wears a red robe, and the Balrog is only 7 foot tall).Stay away from this film! Maybe watch it once, make your decision and leave it there! I wouldn't pay any more than five £/$/&#128; for it!!! "},{"Title":"Aragorn wears a miniskirt","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a travesty to the genius of Lord of the Rings Aragorn wears a miniskirt and Boromir is a viking.  The hobbits frolick and Gollum is English, what the hell!  I think JRR Tolkien must be rolling over in his grave knowing that people have watched this movie.  Not cool, not cool at all! "},{"Title":"This movie SUCKS!!!!!!!","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The 1978 Lord of the Rings is the worst movie that we have ever seen in our entire lives. Just reading the back cover makes us want to throw up. We feel very strongly that this movie is an INSULT to Tolkein's incredible work, even though it is more true to small scenes in the book, it does not capture the main essence and mood of Tolkein's world. The characters are so inaccurately shown that we re-named them as what we think they are. Our dancing friend, as we like to call Gandalf in this horrid movie is an abomination to the creative, sharp-tongued wizard that Tolkien described. Whereas Gandalf in Peter Jackson's version is almost pinpoint the Gandalf described in his books. In the 1978 version Gandalf over gestures everything and it looks like he's dancing constantly! Chief sitting duck or Aragorn as he clearly is an Indian in the 1978 is completely demented./ Whereas Jackson cast Viggo Mortensen who is much hotter. Chief sitting duck is an insult to Viggo Mortensen's good looks. Angry fish or Bilbo is shown as a shaky demented fish like creature when he sees the ring. Whereas Jackson does a very good job with Ian Holm looking possessed with special effects. Galadriel is completely inaccurately shown. Instead of a mysterious, wise elf, she is portrayed a Cinderella type character that makes us gag. Geometric Green figure, or Sauron as he is shown in the 1978 version in the Mirror, was the absolute worst part of this movie. Instead of a fire-lidded(book-quoted) Eye that sees all, it is a geometric figure that is a pure insult to Tolkein's amazing work. Moria is a hollowed out hole in the ground, Instead of the splendor that made the dwarfs pride swell. This 1978 Moria would make the dwarfs want to live in LothLorien(quoted from the book as a dwarf's worst fear). The Uruk-hai were vampires with green glowing teeth that were most likely purchased at Costco, or some other low-quality budget store. They were mostly shadows, and green screen, which was Extremely vexing as opposed to the amazing, creepy, powerful Uruk-hai in Peter Jackson's movie. The theme of this movie is lost the intensity of the journey that the Fellowship endured. This movie made it seem like a happy play-date. Such as in Lorien, after Gandalf dies they are all playing and picking flowers, which does not capture the horror of losing a friend, as J.R.R. Tolkien intended it, as he wrote that part in the trenches of World War I, after losing his best friend. The animation was an abomination to the incredible live-action version. This resembles a bad You-tube video. In Jackson's version not only are the characters incredibly developed in traits but also from how they are in the book. Many of the actors actually took the book and walked around the set reading their traits from the book to insure that they were playing the characters described in Tolkein's work not only Jackson's interpretation of it. When Jackson's version of the Lord of the Rings came out many people forgot that the STUPID one existed. Which was a very good thing for all those Tolkein fans who did not have to suffer the complete insult to their hero. In conclusion the only thing that we can say about this movie is it is Abominable, excruciatingly painful to watch,appalling in a bad way, dreadful, ghastly, hideous, horrendous, repulsive, revolting, terrible, unbearable, unspeakable, vile, lurid in almost every single aspect of the movie. IN conclusion WE HATE THIS MOVIE, J. R. R. TOLKEIN IS OUR HERO, AND HE WOULD BE SADI TO SEE HIS INCREDIBLE WOPRK MADE INTO SOMETHING THIS HORRIBLE. "},{"Title":"Comic Gold!!!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh, let's face it folks.  Especially from the jaded post-nineties point of view, this movie is bad in nearly every way a movie can aspire to be bad... oh, there are a few redeemable qualites.  Not many, but a few.Firstly I want to know what Monsieur Bakshi was thinking when he decided rotoscoping would be a good idea. It wasn't, and as the film progresses the rotoscoping gets to be more and more irritating.  The beginning of the movie, done completely in sillouhettes, had me in stitches.  The only part of that that isn't hilariously awful is the part with Sméagol and Déagol in the river.  Then it moves on, and there are certain quirky moments that makes you wonder what the filmmakers were thinking.  (The seasons changing that resembles a strobe light, that awkward pause where Gandalf stands and points at Frodo for a good ten seconds, et cetera).Most of the characters, as opposed to Peter Jacksons BRILLIANT (don't care what anyone says) version, have no personality.  Gandalf is simply a prophet of doom, Aragorn is a mysterious Indian who looks angry a lot, and of course Boromir has a silly looking horn helm and no pants on.  Frodo isn't so bad, even if he is a little too tall to be inconspicous (yes I know Tolkien says he's taller than most, but he's still too tall!)  Sam apparently is the result of Mrs. Gamgee having consumed too much crack, or perhaps simple mental retardation. Either way, it makes Sean Astin (Sam Gamgee in Peter Jackson's version) seem like a God among actors.  Gollum is mostly alright (excepting the parts in which he sounds like a child molester what with his niiiice maaaaaster rowr!)  And there are lots of pointless inclusions. Why include Treebeard if he's not going to do anything?  Why show broken Narsil if it isn't going to be reforged?  Et Cetera.  Either way, it's only worth seeing if you go into it not expecting to be impressed.  Otherwise, it's hilarious. "}]