[{"Title":"Dom's Finest Moment, One of Burt's Finest Too","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was, without a doubt, the most hilariously comic performance that the brilliant Dom DeLuise had on film. When, in the midst of a depressed woe is me rant, he looks up and asks Do you think we'll ever switch to the metric system?, well, it just don't get no funnier than that. His botched suicide attempts, as well as his eagerly wanting to help Burt with HIS suicide, oh heck, just go rent it yourself! You'll love it.Burt was brilliant too. He holds a thin line between wanting to die and wanting to live that is believable. It's a real shame that this movie often gets me blank stares when I tell others about it. More people know about Four Weddings and a Funeral (a movie so horrid that I still refuse to watch another Andie McDowell flick) than this quiet classic. (sigh) "},{"Title":"The living End....","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Death is serious business, no doubt.  No moreso than the people who come in contact with it.  In fact, is there ANYTHING funny about dying?If you're Burt Reynolds and you find out you only have a few months left to live, then YES.  And the evidence is in one of his maiden directing efforts, The End.As a terminally-ill man, Reynolds practically drives himself crazy trying to get his life in order and end it at the same time.  However, he has to deal with an inattentive ex-wife (Woodward), flaky parents (Loy and O'Brien), an even-flakier girlfriend (Field), an overly-mature daughter (MacNicol), a dense lawyer (Steinberg), a novice priest (Benson) and a schizophrenic mental patient (DeLuise) who wants to help Reynolds reach his end goal in the worst way.The topic is morbid, to be sure, but there are indeed (dark) laughs here.  Reynolds' hand never falters and he makes the most of every scene he's in as a man who's at the end of his rope (literally, in one case) and can find no solace even in chasing down a funeral procession to find out what the guy in the hearse died of.To say that DeLuise steals the movie isn't enough; he steals it, runs for the border, makes a clean getaway and never looks back.  There is more bad taste to be had when we discover his character is Polish and Dom then rattles off a few bad Polish jokes to Reynolds.  Kids can be cruel, Reynolds consoles.  What kids, DeLuise responds, I heard these from my parents!  How inspiringly nasty.  My one favorite scene has to be where Dom tries to help Burt jump out of the bell tower in the mental institution he is incarcerated in (You're right it's not high enough!).  It's great and there's a lot more scenes like that, sprinkled throughout.For some of us, though, it's hard to laugh at suicide, let alone death.  But the morbid, gallows humor here doesn't celebrate death like a lot of bigger-budget movies do - this is a movie about life, living and doing everything you can while you have the chance.  And THAT is really what The End is about - not the end but everything you do before the end gets here.  And in that respect, Burt succeeds.Eight stars and a golden noose for The End - the movie that'll make you love life...and think twice about coming near Dom DeLuise with a Polish joke.  Ever. "},{"Title":"Touching yet hilarious, a highly original black comedy","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  THE END should be, and one day will be, reappraised and acknowledged as the classic it is. The premise isn't great for a comedy - a dying man reordering his life in light of his impending demise - so that it works at all is a credit to Burt Reynolds as both director and star. The balance of tragedy and humour is perfect throughout, particularly in Burt's various suicide attempts, and it was a masterstroke casting Dom DeLuise as the amiable lunatic so keen on helping him die. The final reel is one of the funniest in movie history, and Frank Sinatra's My Way has never been put to better use in a film. Doctors should lend this film to patients when they inform them of terminal illness - death has never been so much fun.  "},{"Title":"That's All there is","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For a guy diagnosed with a terminal disease, Burt Reynolds sure pumped a lot of life into this film. This is the ultimate in black comedies, a man is told he's got a little over a year to live. We would all react in different ways. Burt Reynolds gets this cheerful bit of news and goes immediately berserk and starts acting all kinds of crazy. Of course everyone around him sees him differently. Wife Joanne Woodward, girl friend Sally Field, parents Pat O'Brien and Myrna Loy. Burt pushes all their buttons except O'Brien who seems oblivious to all.Reynolds always had a marvelous gift for comedy that in his prime period of the seventies was utilized rather well. His career seemed to go in the same path as Tom Selleck's, I think they could have played a lot of each other's parts.Of course it was nice to see two veterans of old Hollywood, Myrna Loy and Pat O'Brien in support. They never disappoint.My favorites though are Strother Martin as the officious head of a mental institution where Reynolds gets committed after some bizarrely unsuccessful suicide attempts and Dom DeLuise as another patient there.DeLuise when he gets going approaches Robin Williams kind of zaniness and he was working on all cylinders in this film. He's ready to offer all kinds of help to Burt to fulfill his mission. "},{"Title":"Oh yeah, another one of Burt's good 70s hits...","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Everyone remembers this one, esp the scene at the loony bin window where Dom Delouise is hellbent of finishing Burt off, Burt has second thoughts about plummetting to his death, and so on. That alone is great. Kirsty McNichols was also very good too. (I was too young when I saw it to appreciate the presence of Myrna Loy and Joanne Woodward, and so I do look forwards to seeing it again in fact)I also can remember seeing David Steinberg doing his whacked out shrink routine-'Get off of me!', etc. too. He is kinda forgotten now but a funny guy nonetheless.So yeah, I do recommend this to anyone who wants to see an underrated Reynolds flick, it really is pretty good.*** "},{"Title":"Burt's show but Dom steals it","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The End is a black comedy that should have been even darker. Had it been I think it would have been regarded as a classic. Burt Reynolds stars as a man who finds out he's dying and decides he's going to kill himself. After a lackluster start where Burt sees his parents, his daughter, etc., he goes into action. And that's when the film buckles down and takes control for the last half.After a failed suicide attempt Burt is placed in a mental hospital where he meets fellow patient Dom DeLuise, who is as nutty as a loon. Dom decides to help Burt fulfill his dream of suicide and the laughs keep coming. Dom is so good in this film that we really miss him every time he's off screen. Burt is good in the film and has a classic moment at the end when delivers an impassioned soliloquy to God. That is worth the price of admission (or video rental), if you see it in its un-cut form. "},{"Title":"END-less","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not very good. Just because a movie deals with death in a supposedly funny manner, does not make it a black comedy. It would have to be a lot bleaker and MUCH MUCH MUCH funnier than THE END. It seems to want to be better than it is with Burt Reynolds trying mightily to be shockingly funny as a dying man with a death wish, but the movie is simply a waste of a lot of talent. People like Joanne Woodward, Sally Field, Robby Benson(!), and others pop up to act appalled at Reynolds predicament and his plan to knock himself off. Dom DeLuise (who has been very funny for Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder in a few films) is the wacky mental patient tasked with helping Reynolds. Someone told him that shrieking a lot and donning wild hair equals funny. It doesn't! Reynolds clearly thought of himself as a capable comic actor and from time to time (THE LONGEST YARD, SEMI-TOUGH), he succeeded, but mostly his comedies were lame-brained train wrecks that managed to make tons of money...where THE END falls is anyone's guess. Also with Pat O'Brien and Myrna Loy! "},{"Title":"Burt's best and most unappreciated.","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Up there with Groundhog Day for philoso-comedy. Carl Reiner makes every second count. Dom is desperately lovable. Sally shows she can act. And Burt is at his understated best. Unfortunately for Burt, he was 25 years too early with this now timely reflection on death and dying -- boomers did not want to be worried about death in 1978. Now that we are beginning to realize that we too are mortal, this movie should get the appreciation it deserves. Those of you who are turned off by movies dealing with ethical and personal dilemmas won't like this movie. You would think that with all the attention paid to the ethics of extending life and assisted suicide that this movie would be required viewing for the right AND left. I am convinced the Burt will be remembered because of this movie. Death be not proud. "},{"Title":"A shallow life versus The End","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an extremely funny movie. The humor is timeless; easily transcending it's 1970's origin. Burt Reynolds plays Sonny Lawson, a divorced and shady real estate salesman. The movie opens with Sonny being told he has a fatal blood disease and a two month to one year life expectancy.The humorous tone of the film is set early in the exchange between Sonny and his doctor, played wonderfully dryly by Norman Fell. Sonny is, to put it mildly, shallow. Not exactly evil and certainly not good, Sonny is an aging hedonist whose only truly valuable contribution to life is his daughter Julie. Still, even with all the limitations of his character, Sonny tries to get around The End. The bulk of the movie involves Sonny's attempts to weasel out of his inevitable End. Burt Reynolds plays Sonny with just the right blend of whine and bravado. The results are hilarious. Characters come and go throughout the movie. All of them are as shallow as Sonny and hence cannot be of any help. Robbie Benson is hilarious as Father Dave and Sally Field is wonderful as the free spirit or as we say now 'new age' love interest. A truly exceptional performance however comes from Burt's co-star Dom DeLuise. I think that Dom deserved an academy nomination for his brilliant performance as the psychiatric patient Marlon Borunki. His character is a blend of gentle self deprecating humor and maniacal danger and he is the man to watch in every scene he's in. His instant changing of mood, voice and emotion is simply brilliant. There are some movies which provide a catch-phrase that you can use in real life. I never did relate too much to Arnie's I'll Be Back line but one which has made it into my personal use is Dom's rather strangled version of I Understand. Watch 'The End' and you too will understand. "},{"Title":"Burt's friend is a lawyer and Jewish so he knows about pain...","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a seriously black comedy which, although it contains a fair bit of slapstick, also features some of the most subtle comedic touches I've seen in a film. Little things which may be missed on a first or casual viewing can delight a dedicated fan of 70s comedy.I've been a fan of this film since I came across it by accident as a teenager and now as I approach forty, it hasn't lost any of its delights for me and I was lucky enough to pick up an old second hand copy of the video so I can sit back and watch it if I'm ever in need of a good laugh.Do yourself a favour and watch this film. "}{"Title":"A black comedy about death - it so very nearly works but, ultimately, doesn't pull through.","Date":"22 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Undeterred by his largely mediocre directorial debut in Gator, Burt Reynolds once again plants his behind in the director's chair for The End, a dark comedy about terminal illness and death. As in the case of Gator, here we have a film which fails to fulfil its potential &#x96; sure, it rises to a few comic highlights and features a pretty good performance from Reynolds himself, but overall the film is tediously drawn-out and can't seem to make up its mind what it wants to be.Young, good-looking Wendell 'Sonny' Lawson (Burt Reynolds) learns that he has a toxic blood syndrome and will soon die. Taking the most negative estimates of his remaining life expectancy for fact, he believes he will be gone within three months. Sonny visits his hot young girlfriend (Sally Field) for one final tender interlude (or a pity f@ck as he phrases it); he visits his odd-couple parents, his ex-wife, his estranged daughter. He even attempts to attend a confession at church, only to end up seeing a novice priest who envies his hell-raising lifestyle rather than helping him to clear his conscience with God. Ultimately, Sonny decides to commit suicide&#x85; but his attempt to do so is unsuccessful and he ends up in a lunatic asylum where he befriends schizophrenic Marlon Borunki (Dom DeLuise). Marlon helps Sonny time and again to end his life, each attempt becoming more farcical and over-the-top than the one before. Could t be that Sonny doesn't really want to end his life after all? The first half of the movie is better than the second, with some philosophical black comedy concerning the preciousness of life and the inevitability of death. Several scenes are painfully unspooled during this first half, but at least in these early scenes the film seems to have a sense of its own morbid fascination. The second half descends into uneven and ill-fitting slapstick, with DeLuise mugging away madly as Reynolds' comrade-in-lunacy. DeLuise is OK in the role but the entire second section seems strangely unconnected to the first half, creating a jarring swing in mood and style from which the film never truly recovers. The notion that 'death is funny' as a cinematic theme is a strange beast which needs to be handled with an expert touch to have any chance of working. In this case, it nearly works but ultimately doesn't quite pull it off. The End is a near-miss&#x85; but a miss nonetheless. "},{"Title":"I Never Had My Own Dog. . . The Note; I forgot the Note.","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Burt Reynolds' film The End delights me. From beginning to end, the movie charmed me with one set piece after another with relentless gifted performances emerging as the protagonist Wendell Sony Lawson encounters one person after another discounting him and his impending end. The pace seems a tad slow, but that does not diminish the flow of the story. Nothing interferes with that flow.The silliness here works. I think that in some ways Dom Deluise almost overwhelm the second half of the film, but for most viewers his performance seems to make the movie and I suppose it does. I love the confession that Sonny tries to make early in the movie to the unfocused youthful priest played by Robby Benson. The telephone call to an indifference suicide hot line is also lovely, along with the sour milk used to down sleeping pills.I very much liked the score and the editing. Nine migth be tad high, but I do like this film. "},{"Title":"A Comedy or Serious Drama?  That's The End's Problem","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With the talents of Burt Reynolds and Dom Deluise, most people would expect The End to be hysterically funny, as it has often been referred to as an under-rated Black Comedy. The problem is The End is only funny in spots. Other times it tries to be a serious drama. The plot basically has Burt Reynolds, a real-estate executive, diagnosed with a terminal blood disease. He is told that he has less than a year to live, that the range could be as short as three months. Desperate, Burt decides to contemplate ways to commit suicide. After a failed attempt, he lands in a psycho-ward, where a patient (Dom Deluise) tries to help him achieve his death wish. At the film's conclusion, Burt decides that life is worth living after all, but his deranged inmate and friend is still trying to kill him in a memorable ocean-side scene as the credits roll.Another issue is that Burt's character, Sonny, never fully develops into someone really likable or funny, which is a shame, because Reynolds really tries to make the character work. While there are some chuckles from one-liners, a lot of the times, Sonny's moods are very bipolar, often in the same scene. One minute he says something funny, and thirty seconds later he's moping around feeling sorry for himself.Dom Deluise also tries very hard to be comical, but again, he is only funny in spurts. The best scene in the movie is with Burt and he on the tower trying to carry out Burt's death wish! I think that is the funniest part of the movie. However, most of the time, both protagonists seem forced in their dialog. Burt's fake crying is so obvious when he is depressed in this movie, that Sonny often becomes more annoying than comical.I agree with another user who said that The End tries to be more than it is. However, the premise of the movie is uncertain where it wants to take the viewer. The first half is more serious than funny, and the second half is more funny than serious, but the movie just doesn't come together very well. I put the film just slightly above average at a six for the great Tower Scene and the song, Another Fine Mess, which is good. However, this movie is not as good as it could have been. "},{"Title":"The End","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Burt Reynolds stars as a man who is terminally ill. He doesn't want to go through the pain of dying so he decides to takes his own life, problem is, he is afraid to.Reynolds' made the most out of a weak story plot and script. His performance was of high quality and was backed by a good well talented supporting cast. Reynolds' usual pal, Dom plays a crazy lunatic that truly wants to help his buddy with his goal of doing himself in, but as the movie moves along Reynolds has second thoughts.Many good talented actors in this movie, with a better script this may have been Reynolds best outing since, Smokey and the Bandit. "},{"Title":"What do you mean The End?","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There's more to life than just ending it, just because you are terminally ill. For Wendell(Burt Reynolds) he just want to die fast and not be in so much pain. We all know that suicide is a act of selfishness when that person wants to rid himself off the Earth. That really brings more pain than ease to others. Every time when Wendell tries to get rid of himself, those plans are intervened by something else. He tries to OD(Overdose) on some pills, the milk he drinks has soured. He gets committed to an asylum the suicide attempts there are thwarted, after he meets another mental patient who happens to be more off than himself. Marlon(Dom DeLuise, 1933-2009) is so unhappy with himself, he bungled all tempts to help put Wendell out of his misery. Wendell on the other hand decided to see what he is doing to himself and just live life the way it is despite his condition of health. If I was terminal, I would enjoy myself everyday, until the end of time. A very funny movie with a touch of serious in the mix. Enjoy it! R.I.P., Dom Deluise! 3 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Dom DeLuise is GOD!","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Burt Reynolds throws himself in front of and behind the camera in this 1978 gem of a comedy. Not the best comedy that year, but far from the worse. Reynolds may have bit off more than he could chew by directing and acting all in one, but the final product was funny enough for cinemas. Still, without Dom DeLuise, this movie would be far from watchable. It is DeLuise that saves this movie. At sometimes dark, The End mixes mild comedy which delivers this Woody Allen (who wrote the original script) type story. DeLuise is nothing but brilliant as the lovable, yet crazy friend of Reynolds. This movie is nothing but fun. Not the best movie, but a nice story with an interesting cast of characters. "},{"Title":"Do you like life?","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Then at all costs avoid this movie. I wasn't surprised to see this Burt Reynolds vehicle was directed by auteur Burt Reynolds it takes a particular kind of vanity project to stink this badly. The fact that both he and costar Dom Deluise continued to thrive in Hollywood after this stinker is proof either of their prodigious personal charisma or the profound unjustness of the universe. Flatly lit and shot like a sitcom. Drastically unfunny. Perhaps if edited down to 10 or 15 minutes this would have made a merry jaunt, but as it is the story moves like glue. Peppered with casual racism. I saw this for free and still wanted a refund. The bright side is that compared to 'The End,' other movies seem just that much better. Also, Mr. Reynolds wears some nice-looking tracksuits. "},{"Title":"Man has deadly disease and cries over spilled milk","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film has a 35 year-old sensibility that is as dead as a stump today. We all know that comedy doesn't last, and this one does not at all stand the test of time. The film is a series of disjointed, contrived scenes with a very thin narrative stringing them along. The main character receives a terminal diagnosis and is so bummed out that he wants to kill himself - one knows it's not going to happen from the moment Burt offers up a hysterical crying fit that sounds like a hyena. Burt Reynolds can't act and can't direct. Its boring, plodding pace makes it almost soporific, although the only spark is Dom DeLuise. Yes, I wanted to see Sally and Strother and Dom and others, but gave up and fast-forwarded to their scenes to catch glimpses of them. You will have a better time staring at an aquarium than spending any time with this one. "},{"Title":"Not bad not good","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Funny in a dark sort of way.  I like the ending, and Burt Reynolds is funny in a sick way.  This film is dated, and looks very 70's.  The material is older, but still has some laughs.  I caught about a quarter of it, after not seeing it for 10 years, and found it ok, but it depend what mood I am in when I watch it.  I would watch it again on TBS but probably chanel surf at the same time. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Only DeLuise Saves This Whine-Fest","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Man, I remember really laughing at this when I saw it in the theaters. But, a look at it again 20 years later on tape was another disappointment. I found that with a lot of 1970s films.The story still had some decent humor but too much of it contains Burt Reynolds whining and whining about his impending death. It really can grate on you after awhile. Only after Dom DeLuise enters the film, about halfway through, does the movie take off and become comedic. In fact, his are the only funny scenes. The story's dark humor that may not appeal to everyone. Doing this review and looking at the cast of characters shocked me. I only remember Reynolds and DeLuise. I can't believe that the likes of Joanne Woodward, Pat O'Brien, Strother Martin, Myrna Loy, Robby Benson, Kristy McNichol, Norman Fell and Carl Reiner also were in this. Burt's girl, Sally Field, was here, too, but that's not a surprise. I am sorry to see these classic-era stars in an R rated movie. It goes to show you they would have done the same back in the '40s, if allowed.The story is kind of ironic, though, and maybe I should give this movie another look. I had just gotten into a discussion with several friends about suicide, several of us commenting whether we would consider that as opposed to suffering with a painful, long-term and fatal illness. That's the predicament Reynolds' character finds himself in, in this story. The thing is - and who can't relate to this? - he's too chicken to kill himself! Ha ha. Still, it's DeLuise that will make most people laugh at this film. Reynolds' ego gets in the way of his performance. I wonder if Dr. Kevorkian found this film funny? "}{"Title":"We're Riding For The Final Round-Up","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw THE END on the NBC network around 1980, and thought it was a very funny and yet very touching black comedy about dealing with the end of life. It became one of my favorites. But back in those days, movies were still being heavily edited for television, something I wasn't aware of.A couple of years after that, I got to see the original theatrical version on cable, and I was shocked! It seemed like a completely different film; the original film was filled with foul language, crude sexual jokes about orgasms and other functions, and other unnecessary excesses. I was very disappointed.This is the textbook example of just how much difference TV editing can make for a film. It is also an example of how editing can sometimes IMPROVE a movie. Unfortunately, since video, DVD and cable are king now, it is only the unedited theatrical release that is available to viewers. That is a shame, but I still have fond memories of the hilarious and touching comedy I saw on TV so many years ago.On an unrelated trivia note, when Burt Reynolds published his memoirs a few years ago, he contended that veteran character actor Sam Jaffe had a small role. Apparently this scene ended up on the cutting room floor. Too bad. "},{"Title":"Silly","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was young when I saw this film..and haven't seen it since so I can tell you at the time I saw it..this was the funniest film ever made to me. It was silly.You have to be a three stooges-type comedy fan to have affection toward this film. Being young helps too. This is a non-calorie, non-filling type of film...fun for fun sake. And silly. But it was the 70's and Burt Reynodls-Dom Deluise-Sally Field trio had a few films dealing with silly 70's comedy. Silly, not good.This is what I remember...A very handsome (and self-centered, at least to me) man finds out he has a short time to live. Instead of letting nature take its course, he tried to speed up the process. Now of course this doesn't sound funny. And if something like this was made today, I can imagine the protests (although it sounds ripe for Ben Stiller or the Farley Brothers!)...but it was done as silly as possible to soften the idea. And once again I say, this was silly.The one part that had me in stitches is when Sonny wakes up to the wonderful, calming, sweet and serene chirping of birds after one of his attempts. yes, it's silly, but if you're in the right frame of mindless silliness, this will have you laugh heartily as well.If you like slapstick-silly of the 70's, then this film will be for you. "},{"Title":"Hit and Miss Comedy","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Some great scenes and imaginative ideas hold interest for the first half of the movie, but once Dom De Luise takes over, ironic satire is dwarfed by outrageous slapstick, and what remains is a feast for those who wish to see a 1970's updating of The Three Stooges, but the satirical dark humor of the first half is then rendered meaningless, except for one inspired bit near the very end of the film.  If you don't mind a lot of slapstick, you should find this very amusing. "},{"Title":"Aggressively obnoxious","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Divorced dad finds out he has an incurable disease; he decides to kill himself before his illness lands him in a hospital ward. What with girlfriend Sally Field acting like a ditz, Father Robby Benson annoyingly clicking his priest's collar against his teeth, mental patient Dom DeLuise overacting like crazy and normally-sane Joanne Woodard playing a nagging harpy, it's no wonder Burt Reynolds wants to die. Trouble is, he directed this sloppy black comedy, which veers wildly from morbid jokes and slapstick to curious seriousness. Kristy McNichol emerges unscathed playing Burt's trusting daughter, though the rest get stuck portraying caricatures, and the handling makes them ugly and pushy. The End is tiresomely ego-driven and incompetent. It made me itch. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Burt Reynold is not without some talents. He's not a bad actor and he certainly has a certain screen presence. However, it is movies like this, I believe, as well as Gator (also directed by him) that diluted whatever wide appeal he had and put him in the has been category for a long time. I am glad, BTW, that he has found some good parts in recent years to showcase his talent.The End is just not funny. It's tedious and silly. The dialog is dumb. I was hoping for a redeeming quality in the form of a supposedly stellar cast. What a disappointment.Skip it. "}]