[{"Title":"Not great movie but I earned a bit letting them kill me off.","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I am a bit embarrassed to admit I was in this movie. A bit, but, hey I had fun filming & was paid pretty well. Actually I was several scenes. I was a student at Fort Lewis majoring in Theater. Our troupe was invited to audition to be paid extras. It was spring break & I was earning money for my upcoming wedding. Not bad pay for a college student.The snow and cold was real. It snowed the whole time we did any outdoor scenes. A fun mess when you add shredded plastic, Styrofoam boulders, and huge wind fans.I lived in the area for quite a while & I too find this movie funny. I love the scene when Rock Hudson walks over to a window and states when he saw that mountain he knew he had to live there. That mountain is nowhere near Durango. As for the avalanche, well lets just say it is very hard for an avalanche to travel up mountain. But this one did to start at Tammeron and end up wiping out Purgatory mountain (now known as Durango mountain). Very funny stuff if you are from the area.In the original credits Fort Lewis College Theater Department was listed but I see we are not here. As I was the only member to stick around during th break to work on the movie I must say I am disappointed but not surprised.One of the premieres were held in Durango. I was not as pleased with the final product as I was when we filmed. We never saw the whole script so the movie was very different from what we were told. But all in all a good time and a not as bad as it could have been film. Wish I could say I went on to better movies but I went on to be a full time mommy and wife.If you ever lived in the area it is a fun watch. You will see bloopers in things others will never notice. "},{"Title":"Why Mia? WHHYYYY!","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I love disaster films, even the bad ones, but this one is completely horrible. From the acting to the special effects this one is crap. The script is laughable and the whole affair is absolutely boring. The Avalanche doesn't happen till around the hour mark and all we get till then is totally blinding boredom. Mia and Rock barely have anything to do (god knows why they actually did the movie), Robert Forester is hot but the character is bland, and Jeanette Nolan is under used in the only entertaining role in the flick. The rest of the cast are forgettable and not all that all-star. The action is contrived and special effects are for the most part low-budget 70's-ish.This movie would make a great sleep aid. It's bad, not enjoyably bad, just bad. It's bland and pointless. Skip if at all possible. "},{"Title":"Rock Hudson and ski-resort dwellers get buried in styrofoam blocks!","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  AVALANCHE is definitely one of the weaker entries into the 'disaster' genre that populated the 70's and early 80's. A cast of fading actors and the who's that? of Hollywood headline this atrocious production that delivers more laughs than anything.Following the formula of its preceding disaster foes, AVALANCHE combines interwoven plot-lines involving love affairs and the disaster itself. Thrown into this sorry melange are Rock Hudson, Robert Forster, Mia Farrow and 50's silver screen star, Jeanette Nolan.In AVALANCHE, Rock Hudson is David Shelby - a well-meaning but extremely foolish ski-resort owner who has ignored all warnings from environmentalists in building a new ski-resort while removing all the trees in the process which spells the perfect recipe for disaster. Robert Forster is the environmentalist who warns Hudson that removing all the trees from the mountain will result in causing deadly avalanches. Mia Farrow is Hudson's ex-wife, new love interest to Forster and Jeanette Nolan is Hudson's flighty mother who likes nothing more than a Bloody Mary to sip on every five minutes.Also thrown into this sordid tale are further cardboard cut-out characters including a champion skiier who is hell-bent on bedding as many women as he can before the screen credits go up and his jilted lover (wonderfully portrayed by Cathy Paine) who hams it up in a campy performance that involves her threatening to slice his cheating 'ass' with a butter knife before having a cup of milk thrown onto her as she falls to the floor screaming hysterically.Rock Hudson in his early 50's (his first foray into the 'disaster' genre) appears like a disheveled modern-day version of William Shatner. Spending precious minutes on-screen wearing nothing but turtle-necks and begging Mia Farrow to 'come back' to him, he looks quite ridiculous in a role that was intended for someone in their 30's as Mia Farrow is only about 33 years old at the time this movie was made. Much like EARTHQUAKE where Charlton Heston was courting a young Genevieve Bujold and THE CASSANDRA CROSSING where Ava Gardner was shagging a youthful Martin Sheen, the love affair in this movie is quite unbelievable.Robert Forster, fresh off his canceled television stint in the short-lived 1974 NAKIA, proves a credible character as an environmentalist who foresees the inevitable disaster, yet cannot convince a soul to believe or listen to him. As a result, the second plot line enters and we see him and Mia Farrow sharing a love scene together. Jeanette Nolan in all of her faded beauty, spends most of her screen time either getting drunk on a Bloody Mary or hamming it up as the 'ever-loving mother' who travels everywhere with her gay companion.The setting is Hudson's ski resort. Everyone is there for the grand opening which also includes some ridiculous mini Winter-Olympics festivities which has several hundred people either cross-country skiing, down-hill skiing, ski-dooing or watching the skating events and of course, what better day would there be to have a disaster than on this particular day?The biggest laughs here of course is the disaster itself. In reality, there is nothing the slightest bit amusing about an avalanche, but while watching this movie, you can't for a second take it seriously. A huge snow wedge hangs over the resort, loosely hanging on a snow-capped mountain that is broken off once a small charter plane crashes into it. Once the avalanche starts, the laughter begins. Stock footage of avalanches are spliced onto the film (you can tell by the grainy imagery and the totally different mountain ranges). The snow itself is nothing more than a smoke-machine adjusted to 'fast forward' and huge blocks of styrofoam that are hurled through the air and bounce off the victims as they try to run away.One particular hilarious scene involves a skater who is still spinning pirouettes on the ice as the avalanche engulfs her and the crowd (like she couldn't hear or see the avalanche coming until it was about one foot away from her?). Another hilarious scene would involve a 'gas' explosion inside the resort that is nothing more than a 'puff of smoke' that sends one chef flying backwards into some shelves and an unlucky female that goes sliding along a counter while knocking off bowls of food onto the floor. But the one scene that really killed me was seeing the 'animated sparks' that flash from the broken gear box that controls the ski-lift. We actually get to see this twice during a climatic scene involving a man and a child dangling from a broken ski-life. Here, rescue workers scramble to rescue the child using a safety net below, yet the man that is left dangling spends about three minutes complaining that he cannot 'let go' and when he finally does (as a result of getting electrocuted), his lifeless body misses the safety net anyway!Furthermore, back in town as the ambulances and rescue workers are dispatched from their outposts, it just goes to show that if the avalanche didn't kill you, then these silly fools just might. In a totally ridiculous scene, ambulances and fire trucks spin out of control as they skid across the icy roads, causing serious fender-benders and sending one poor by-stander into a store-front window in a shower of shattering glass.Unfortunately, the person who I felt sorry for the most was Jeanette Nolan. Once she gets trapped inside the hotel resort with her 'companion', it takes her no longer than five minutes to go into hysterics and play the We're all going to die! card as she digs at the snow with a chair. Then she starts to lose her mind as she plays the We go back a long way... card with her companion as she strikes the keys of a busted up grand piano, warbling a few notes of a song long forgotten. On top of that, she passes out just as Hudson and Forster make their way into the resort from the outside. After she has been resuscitated and placed into the back of an ambulance, she and Mia Farrow are driven to the hospital by some suicidal maniac who insists on doing wheelies on black ice and devastated terrain that results in the ambulance crashing through a bridge and into a chasm, Farrow managing to fall out of the car in time but leaving Nolan and the driver to meet a fiery death as the car explodes at the bottom of the chasm.The climatic and grand finale scene of the film involves Mia Farrow hanging off the broken bridge railing and Hudson and Forster coming to her rescue. And when the day finally rolls to its end, Hudson and Farrow toast to the past events with a bottle of Champagne!!! Timeless!If you want to see a scene involving Jeanette Nolan doing her best 'Saturday Night Fever' impression on the dance floor, then this is the movie for you. If you want to see a pandemonium scene involving screaming victims getting hailed with styrofoam blocks, then this is the movie for you. However, if you want to see a half-decent disaster movie, then AVALANCHE is not the movie for you. The only thing that really separates AVALANCHE from the rest of the disaster entries are the few nude scenes that are thrown in involving a woman baring her breasts and buttocks in a 'steamy' pool scene that really does nothing much for the movie itself.This has got to be one of the stupidest movies that I have ever seen!My rating - 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Typical 70s disaster entry","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Hey, someone had to die of a little snow in the 70s..it was bound to happen.  If whatever hack made this hadn't bothered, Irwin Allen would have..but to give credit where credit is due, Allen would have cast this better.  Even if the movie stunk to high heaven (hello, 'The Swarm'), at least there were enough stars to keep you from falling asleep.Also to give credit where it is due, there is some really beautiful cinematography, especially in outdoor shots of Mia Farrow swimming and another scene of a skier trying to outdistance an avalanche is shot very well.  However, once the cast starts talking, the groans can begin.  Rock Hudson and Mia Farrow seem like they wouldn't even converse at a cocktail party; they are from different cinematic solar systems and should not have been paired here at all, even if they are a divorced couple.  Robert Forster is semi-interesting as an predictable love interest for Mia and an ecologist who can predict the entire movie in his first scenes if only the screenplay had allowed him.Impatient action fans - tune in one hour after it started to see the extras get killed.  Before that is alot of drama, and after that is the rescue, and that's all, folks.  "},{"Title":"The Snow Is Snowing, The Wind Is Blowing, And They Won't Weather The Storm","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I was surprised to see that Avalanche was produced by Roger Corman of all people. I would think that even the skimpy budget that this film had by Irwin Allen standards was not something Roger Corman was used to dealing with. Corman didn't spend it on big name guest stars for sure. His stars are Rock Hudson and Mia Farrow. Hudson is the Donald Trump like owner of a big state of the art ski lodge which is hosting that weekend some winter sporting events. He's been told like William Holden in The Towering Inferno that the lodge is in a bad place and the snow looks like it's about to come a tumbling down.Tumble down it did during a storm when a plane crashes into the top of a mountain. The Avalanche starts and it buries the whole cast in that white stuff. This is a disaster film made on the cheap, some winter sports footage mixed with real avalanche footage and some cheesy special effects by seventies standards to bind it together. The plot such as it is, is almost non-existent, the characters are never developed in the slightest, so you don't really care about them.I guess the lesson to be learned from Avalanche is for Roger Corman not to try to be Irwin Allen. "},{"Title":"Hudson and cast choke on plastic snow and a bad script.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Checking in rather late, though not at the tail end, in the 1970's disaster movie cycle, this Roger Corman cheapie is only entertaining in fits and starts. Hudson (looking ragged and drunk at times) has just built a huge winter paradise in the mountains of Colorado. His ex-wife (Farrow) comes to the opening, for old times sake, while employee Forster foresees danger in the snow caps. Hudson's mother (Nolan, in a white fright wig) wines and dines with abandon. There are also trite and annoying plot threads about a studly skier, a TV show host (Primus) and his unfaithful wife and a nervous ice skater. Aside from having less than stunning production values, the film's main problem is that it takes an hour for the title event to occur and then races through all the resultant carnage with choppy editing and distorted timing. The viewer must endure a shabby, clichéd script and some bad acting while waiting for the Styrofoam chunks and plastic snow to may their way down the hill. Hudson is bad. He barks and yells inappropriately when he isn't wooden. Farrow looks idiotic much of the time and is completely mismatched with Hudson. (She learned nothing from this experience as she was soon to film the disastrous Hurricane, another career killer. Thankfully, for her, Woody Allen was just around the corner!) Forster actually outshines the others with his charm and conviction in a thankless part. Nolan shamelessly hams up her role in a desperate attempt to add life to the often dull proceedings. She is funny, but not always in the way intended. Primus had worked for Corman before, so he should have known what he was in for. On the plus side, there are a few hooty lines of dialogue and some unintentionally hilarious, overwrought, emotional scenes among the lesser players. Also, a few of the ice and snow effects and destruction scenes are solid (most, however, are shoddy.) One hilarious scene has a skater spinning obliviously while snow encompasses her. In another, folks digging a hole out of an enclosed lodge keep knocking against the rubber snow so that it springs back! Then there's the rescue workers who, after witnessing an electrocution, allow the victim to fall onto the ground instead of into their net, which is right under him! There's also an ambulance door that apparently flies open simply by leaning against it. One distinction This has to be the only 1970's disaster film that has nudity. Hudson (in a bid to reinforce his heterosexual image?) has a secretary that walks around his chalet naked! If the film had spent a half hour getting to know the people and an hour rescuing them (instead of the opposite), it might have been more entertaining. The way it stands, viewers wind up not really liking the characters and can barely keep up with the rescues! "},{"Title":"A.K.A. Buried Beneath White Styrofoam Boulders!!!","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Hey, I don't know why folks are being so unkind to this modern American classic. It's a Roger Corman production, after all! I mean, it doesn't pretend to be a statement of man's inhumanity to man, like The Towering Inferno or The Poseidon Adventure does. I found this to be an unpretentious, atmospheric (late 70s Mork & Mindy down vests, shaggy disco hair), and efficient disaster pic. No enormous cast of moneygrubbing hasbeen actors weighting it down-- just a bunch of bearded ski instructors and feathered-hair ski bunnies to bury beneath mountains of styrofoam boulders. Plus, it's a brisk 90 minutes. I liked the wintery atmosphere and could swear I spotted Eric Heiden having a drink at the bar. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Bury it in the snow","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Roger Corman's cheapo entry in the disaster movie sweepstakes. It has not aged well. Hard headed land developer Rock Hudson builds a ski resort at the foot of not so stable mountain. Environmentalist Robert Forster tries to stop him. When there's an avalanche, shown via some dim special effects, a lot of people are trampled, buried in snow and asphyxiated. Hudson yells nearly every line of dialog in what is perhaps his worst performance. Forster looks tired (or bored) and Mia Farrow (as Hudson's ex-wife) is simply out of place in this type of movie. Jeanette Nolan, who once played opposite Orson Welles in MACBETH, is featured as Hudson's free-spirited mother. Barry Primus is cast as a talk show host! Directed, very blandly, by former actor Corey Allen. Lewis Teague did some of the second unit work. "},{"Title":"Ski away from this avalanche of ineptitude","Date":"16 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Dreadful, horrendous, awful and terrible are all words that don't even begin to describe how bad this movie is. Rock and Mia, about as mismatched a pair of costars as could be imagined; he towers over her and they share no chemistry whatsoever, would make more sense as father and daughter than ex-spouses but that is the least of this picture's problems. Some of the cast try to maintain their dignity and soldier on while being faced with stupid words to speak and idiotic situations to react to. Nonsensical happenings, bad special effects and rotten direction all add up to a textbook example of why the disaster epics ran out of steam shortly after the release of this dog. "},{"Title":"Not exactly PR for Durango, CO","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I lived in Durango, CO when they filmed this movie. This makes it all that much funnier. You cannot take this movie seriously.The avalanche is actually fan blown styrofoam. Half the mountains pictured in the movie, don't actually exist.If you are a Durango resident, watch this movie for kicks. If not, don't even bother, you're better off watching the weeds grow.This is a perfect movie for Mystery Science Theater 3000. "}{"Title":"Disaster Film, 70's Style -- On Ice!","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Fun and entertaining low-budget disaster epic produced by the king of low-budget, Roger Corman (His style Light, and get away...). Obviously made on the heels of disaster blockbusters like The Poseidon Adventure, The Towering Inferno, and Earthquake, Avalanche is a pretty standard disaster film -- it gathers a large number of broadly portrayed characters to a location, then proceeds to put them into deadly peril. But since this is Corman, we don't have the big-name cast here -- the biggest name is Rock Hudson, not exactly Heston or Newman, but you work with what you got. The special effects are cheap but effective -- they may be double exposures, stock footage, and Styrofoam blocks but the editing is tight and the shots are generally well composed. The acting is middle of the road, TV melodrama kinda stuff, but wholly serviceable for the genre. Plus, at about 90 minutes, it doesn't ever drag on -- Corman's efficiency at work. And watch for a scene involving a pot of soup which is downright hilarious.This film really deserves a 6, but it made me smile, and was original enough (there's not that many disaster films out there about avalanches, after all!) for me to grant that extra point. If you like disaster films, then check out Avalanche. "},{"Title":"Mediocre disaster effort.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  New World Pictures added additional scenes to a Japanese disaster movie, and released Tidal Wave. Then they released a documentary on disasters titled, Catastrophe. New World Pictures was ready to add its own disaster movie to the genre in 1978. That movie was Avalanche, and the cast included Rock Hudson, Mia Farrow, Robert Forster, and Jeanette Nolan. Possible SPOILERS ahead Rock Hudson plays David Shelby, the owner of a new resort hosting festivities, and winter sporting competitions. Mia Farrow's character is his ex-wife, Caroline Brace, coming for a visit. He wants them to get back together again, but she is unsure. Caroline finds the company of Robert Forster's character appealing, and a love triangle develops. Disaster strikes when an avalanche hits the resort, ski slopes, and ice skating arena. Avalanche suffers from its low budget. Some interior scenes are very darkly lit. Most of the avalanche special effects looked unconvincing; especially the blue screen avalanche effects. Stock footage of avalanches are unconvincingly added to try to spruce things up. There are even times when the snow flakes look fake. The script offers several silly instances of drama before the avalanche strikes, and some of the dialogue is dreadful. The ending is absurd with Rock Hudson and Mia Farrow having a champagne toast after his mother (Jeanette Nolan), and many other people have died from the disaster. The film presents characters in danger, but doesn't really create suspense. Rock Hudson's character is mostly unappealing, because he's constantly angry and shouting at people through the course of the story's first day. Most of the acting is passable, but there are some minor characters (the television crew, the secretary, etc.) that are badly acted. Robert Forester does a fine performance. Rock Hudson seemed to overact a bit. The score is effective in giving the film an isolated feeling. Avalanche is not a terrible film; it's more mediocre, but I don't think too many people would enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Let it snow, let it snow, let it &#x85; storm!","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I'm an avid fan-boy of 1970's disaster movies. Not so much because they're intense and captivating since, quite frankly they're not, but actually just because they're so exaggeratedly clichéd and kitschy. You can easily summarize ALL the 70's disaster movies ever made with one and the same synopsis, only the nature of the disaster differs. It can be a fire, flood, volcanic eruption, virus, shipwreck or &#x96; like in this case &#x96; an avalanche! The main difference between this film and the majority of classic titles (such as The Towering Inferno and The Poseidon Adventure) lies in the budget. Usually Irwin Allen produced this sort of stuff and he had plenty of money to spare. Avalanche, on the other hand, is a Roger Corman production and he's mostly (in)famous for delivering cheap and extremely low-budgeted cult films. A half-decent disaster movie is simply impossible to accomplish without a bit of budget, and this clearly shows in Avalanche. The special effects are pitiable, with whole bunches of people getting buried underneath thick and oddly shaped boulders of Styrofoam. But, aside from the budgetary restrictions, Avalanche does live up to four out of five essential disaster movie trademarks. #1 there needs to be at least one major star and a long list of secondary stars. Rock Hudson and Mia Farrow were big names around the time, but the supportive cast is a bit disappointing. I assume that Roger Corman spent all his actors' budget on the aforementioned two names and Robert Forster. #2 The characters are usually split into two camps with completely opposite ideals and/or initiatives. Why, yes! Although the righteous camp is extremely small this time. Rock Hudson is the owner of a fancy winter sport resort in Colorado and he keeps on expanding the area to lure more tourists. Robert Forster is the tree-hugging reporter who endlessly warns him that the expansion needs to stop otherwise there will be avalanches. #3 regardless what type of disaster we're dealing with, variants of the exact same perilous situations are always applicable. Too true, we have people that are buried alive, trapped in ski lifts, crushed or dead in gas explosions. #4 always remember that, when the situation appears to be at it worst, it can and will still get even worse! That's another true cliché of the disaster film! In Avalanche, for example, there's a sequence in which an ambulance transporting people who narrowly escaped dead already, crashes into a ravine! Only for die-hard disaster movie fanatics. "},{"Title":"Avalanche is a very poorly written and acted film with no substance.","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Though Rock Hudson is my favorite actor, his acting in this film is very amateurish and highly unbelievable.  Mia Farrow's performance is also wooden and I have seen better acting in school plays by grammar school students. Of course, the fact that other than a fake avalanche, there is no substance or story line that I could perceive to this film.  The only good actor was Robert Forster and he also had the best script.  I couldn't believe it was made in 1978 because I felt it probably was one of the training films made by new actors and actresses in order to develop their craft for Mia and Rock.  I wouldn't view it again. "},{"Title":"Typical '70s Disaster Movie Ripoff","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" The 1970s were full of these type of movies. This minor disaster movie took me back to those times. It's far from a disaster classic, but you know I kind of enjoyed the little movie. It was kind of campy. Sub par acting for the most part. Rock Hudson is way over the top in most of the movie, at least until the avalanche. Mia Farrow didn't do it for me, seemed kind of wooden. Forester had the best lines and acted them out pretty decently as the Environmentalist trying to tell Rock about the dangers of possible avalanche. I gave the movie a 6 rating, which might be a bit high, but as I said I kind of got a kick out of the thing. If you were around in the '70s you might want to take a look at this you're you're bored with not much to do. Minor recommendation. "},{"Title":"A Natural Comedy!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so bad that I had to run out and buy my own copy before it vanishes from the planet. Everyone should enjoy the pain that is avalanche. But, amongst the painful plot and characters, you are treated to some very memorable scenes that make this film worth owning. Name another movie that has unstable snow and acid milk. Instead of being sad when characters meet their doom, you cheer with glee as their burning car falls into a deep ravine.   "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  This is sure one of the best catastrophic movies I have ever seen. This film teaches us , using dramatic scenes and realistic moments, that if the man disturbs the nature, this one will be revenged soon. Claustrophobic and very good the scene of the ambulance that falls in the ravine, must be signed in a movie-making handbook!!  "},{"Title":"Worst Movie of All Time","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Avalanche is, quite simply, the WORST movie I've ever seen.The plot is dreadful, the script horrendous, the acting pathetic.I remember quite clearly that the patterns on the wall of the cinema were more interesting to look at than this piece of trash. "},{"Title":"A lesser entry in the 1970s disaster film cycle, to be sure, but I enjoyed it.","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Rock Hudson is entrepreneur David Shelby in this production, legendary independent filmmaker Roger Cormans' (belated) contribution to the cycle of disaster films in the 1970s. David doesn't want to let anything stand in the way of his dreams, and he's also still hung up on his younger, estranged ex-wife Caroline Brace (Mia Farrow). David owns & operates a thriving ski resort, and makes the fateful move of deciding to clear some trees from the mountain. Know it all photographer Nick Thorne (Robert Forster) is aware that this is unwise, but his warnings fall on deaf ears. This, of course, paves the way for the event of the title to eventually take place.Yes, the script to this one (by actor turned director Corey Allen and Claude Pola) is uninspired, and one does grow impatient getting through the not terribly interesting stories of the characters. Yes, the acting in Avalanche is not so hot, but the actors & characters remain reasonably likable. There are no real villains here; some of the people may make questionable decisions, but there were very few characters that this viewer wanted to die horribly. The photography by Pierre-William Glenn of the wintry landscapes *is* first rate, and may provide some sustenance for viewers who are otherwise bored with the movie. The music by William Kraft also serves its purpose.If one is able to get through the opening half of Avalanche, they might find the resulting mayhem watchable. The avalanche action is mostly stock footage combined with original footage handled by the very capable, under rated director Lewis Teague, and the action scenes are pretty decent, even if the special effects aren't always up to snuff.There are some fine actors in this thing, even if they're not utilized all that well. Jeanette Nolan plays Davids' lively mother, Rick Moses the conceited star skier Bruce Scott, Steve Franken the perpetually worried looking Henry McDade, Barry Primus the nice guy sportscaster Mark Elliott, and Antony Carbone is Leo the coach.Avalanche may, in the end, be more for completists of this short lived genre than fans, but it's not totally without entertainment value.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"God's styrofoam hand punishes spoilt high society by trapping it in a snow-whirlpool!","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" AVALANCHE is a little gem, all-stars disaster movie that closes a fortunate decade about the genre and that belongs to my childhood. In the beginning, the plot concentrates most on the characters but You can feel the tension growing up as the danger moves closer. As the temperature starts freezing, Mr. Shelby (HUDSON) opens his icy resort to you (watchers) and to his spoilt and restless guests, including his ex-wife Caroline (Mia Farrow).Before the avalanche begins, you are overwhelmed by an atmosphere made of passionate triangles, betrayals,building trade corruption,unrestrained fun... All this seems to be a short holiday from the city and the family life taken by an hedonistic society. You can breathe all the spirit of a winter vacation in the late '70es (SPOILER ALERT) 'til GOD - a little plane without fuel- crashes on the crest of a Colorado mountain and starts the avalanche...to punish all this mess a self-obsessed athlete, a too much self-confidence landlord, an old too much drinking woman and so on...I really like this movie even if some characters and story lines are predictable. I found Mia Farrow and Robert Forster very believable, also as a couple.Farrow brings a welcomed humble and meek touch all over the movie and she's very sweet. I like very much the scene shoot-ed near the window during the snowstorm, when Forster joins her and they embrace each other. And I find very impressive the soundtrack you can hear when the blocks of snow fall down and down. Hudson overacts in the beginning but slows down as the tragedy becomes more concrete. I'll always remember the snow whirlpool sweeping away the ice skaters and the ambulance exploding under Miss Farrow's feet. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Enjoyable 70's disaster opus done in highly economical Roger Corman drive-in style","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Roger Corman might have been a tad late when it came to jumping on the 70's disaster flick bandwagon, but what this item lacks in fancy large scale scope it more than compensates for with a deliciously tacky surplus of cheap'n'cheerful exploitation cinema thrills.Loud and huffy millionaire David Shelby (broadly essayed with blustery brio by Rock Hudson) is on the verge of opening his posh new ski resort in the Colorado mountains. Crusading environmentalist photographer Nick Thorne (a solid and engaging performance by the ever-reliable Robert Forster) tries to warn Shelby about the threat of a possible avalanche to no avail. Among the guests attending the gala event are Shelby's estranged wife Caroline (a winningly warm portrayal by a radiant Mia Farrow) and Shelby's sassy fireplug mother Florence (Jeanette Nolan, who brings plenty of delightful spark to her role).Director Corey Allen, who also co-wrote the compact script with Claude Pola, keeps the familiar, yet still engrossing and entertaining story moving along at a brisk pace, makes neat use of the breathtaking rocky and wintry landscape, and pulls out all the hysterically absurd and exciting stops once the titular catastrophe occurs. And boy does this baby kick into priceless kitschy overdrive when that happens Cocky champion skier Bruce Scott (hunky Rick Moses) tries (and fails) to outrace the avalanche, a pretty figure skater gets taken out while in the middle of her swirling routine, and a sexy neurotic gal (foxy brunette Cathey Paine) winds up buying it just as she's about to commit suicide by overdosing on pills. Barry Primus acquits himself well as smooth reporter Mark Elliott. Steven Franken also contributes a sound turn as uptight book keeper Henry McDade. The (far from) special effects are hilariously hokey The massive chunks of snow are clearly made out of Styrofoam and the poorly matted in snow has an odd bluish hue in several scenes. A wild sequence depicting a snow mobile race in which the participants play dirty rates as a definite sidesplitting highlight; the fact that the folks in charge of rescuing any survivors prove to be even more dangerous than the avalanche supplies additional unintentional belly laughs. Both William Kraft's lively score and Pierre-William Glenn's crisp cinematography are up to par. As a yummy extra plus, there's even a decent sprinkling of tasty gratuitous female nudity. A real campy hoot and a half. "},{"Title":"Teenage Helen Hunt Spotted","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Avalanche is worth watching if you allow yourself to look past the mediocre acting.  It's a fun tragic event movie with lovely scenery.A cute, teenage Helen Hunt can be seen in this movie asking skier 'Bruce Scott' for his autograph.This movie also reminds me why Mia Farrow's acting jobs have always been limited.  All the same, it's fun to watch. "},{"Title":"funny, funny ending","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I remember seeing this on T.V. in the early '80's, and even though I was still kind of young, I thought it was awful. Rock Hudson should really have been more selective of the scripts he accepted. some of his films are really good, and others like embryo and this piece of drek should have been left to the next generation of actors.now for the scene that I thought was the funniest of the whole movie. it happens at the very end as the camera is pulling away and the screen starts to fade to black. If I remember the scene correctly, a group of people are still in either a wrecked hotel or a cave and some guys wife has just been declared dead. as the camera pulls back you can clearly see the dead woman stand up and walk off set. "},{"Title":"cheesey fun","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Rock Hudson can't quite come out but Mia Farrow does look appropiately drugged as wishy washy love interest. Bland cast goes thru Styrofoam motions as big fake white cardboard rocks crush the extras amidst falling instant mashed potato flakes. A few cheap buildings are smashed, characters look more tired than scared and someone falls hysterically off a trapped ski lift... In a frantic attempt to save her own hide, Mia leaps from an ambulance on a black iced highway, only seconds before it goes BOOM off a nearby ravine. Gee whiz, they never showed stuff like this on Rescue 9-11. "},{"Title":"Too Cheap and Silly","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Avalanche (1978) ** (out of 4) Rather cheap disaster film has Rock Hudson playing a tycoon who builds a state-of-the-art ski resort even though some warn him that danger could strike. At the opening a photographer (Robert Forster) tries to warn the tycoon once again before taking his ex-wife (Mia Farrow) to bed. Sure enough, the next day an avalanche takes place. This was produced by Roger Corman and I must admit that I was a little shocked to see his name attached to a disaster film. It's clear he stuck to his guns and didn't spend too much money on special effects but it's also clear that everyone involved seems to have wished they were somewhere else. This is a really, really bad movie that is thankfully bad enough to where bad movie lovers will find a few things to be entertained by. I guess we could start with the performances since the majority of them are embarrassingly bad. Just check out the first scene where we see Hudson and look at how badly overacting he is. None of his performance gets better as it's clear he was just picking up a paycheck. Farrow also sleepwalks through her role and Jeanette Nolan gets the part of the elderly woman who tries to give the film a few laughs. Cathy Paine is rather embarrassing as a jilted lover. Other actors fail in cardboard character roles but at least Forster comes off fairly good in his brief, supporting part. The biggest disaster in this disaster flick are the special effects. Corman apparently wanted to skip the majority of the special effects and just buy up stock footage from real avalanches but this is so incredibly silly that it's obvious when this footage comes up. It never makes much sense in terms of what's going on with the avalanche because the footage, when mixed together, seems extremely out of place and the bad editing doesn't help cover this up. When the real effects are used it just seems like fake pieces of ice being thrown around as people scream. One of the dumbest scenes happens with a woman is skiing on some ice as people all around her are screaming and getting crushed yet she never notices. We even get an ultra-cheap explosion where people are so fakely thrown back and into various objects. All of these supposed dramatic moments just contain one laugh after another. I guess the most shocking thing is that this PG-rated film contains several nude scenes including one with a female going full frontal. Fans of the disaster genre will probably want to watch this just so they can say they've seen it all but this is a very bad movie. It's not nearly as awful as WHEN TIME RAN OUT... but it's still pretty bad. Thankfully, it's bad enough and campy enough to get several laughs. "}]