[{"Title":"A must to see for anyone who liked THE OMEN.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"39 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This sequel to THE OMEN is a fun film.  It continues the story of the anti-Christ Damien into his teenage years and his years in military school. Now adopted into the family of his father's brother, an unsuspecting Damien is unwittingly at the centre of a plot to bring Satan's son to the threshold of power.  Everyone around him is at risk as the secret of Damien's birth is under threat of exposure by forces emerging from around the world - and at the root of this threat are the mad depictions painted on an ancient wall that reveal the very face of evil.Jonathon Scott-Taylor gives a commanding and creepy performance as the ultimate misfit son.  Looking particularly significant in his military outfit, Scott-Taylor captures - as much as the script allows him - the torment of self-discovery as the truth of his existence is revealed to him. The script could have demanded more from such a fascinating scenario, and tried to make Damien more of a Miltonic Satanic Hero, but the film chooses to go for as much shock value whenever it can.  Mysterious and violent accidents - linked by the ever-present shadow of a raven of death - dominate this movie from beginning to end.  The scene involving an ill-fated lady on a deserted country road is one of its most grotesque.  As death and destruction mount, Damien goes from self-possessed orphan to self-recognized supreme power in the span of two hours.William Holden and Lee Grant play Damien's surrogate parents, Richard and Ann Thorn.  They are not really allowed to display their incredible talents in this film, but Holden does fine trying to duplicate Peck's memorable performance in the original. Grant does what she can with this supporting role, but has a great moment in the film that proves worthy to wait for. The always wonderful Sylvia Sidney makes a memorable appearance as one of Damien's greatest thorns - the troublemaking menace Aunt Marion. And the ending is a bit of a shock if you watch the film closely, particularly if you listen to the exposition early on in the film about The Whore of Babylon.Another highlight is Jerry Goldsmith's title score - empowering, commanding and downright evil, the opening score is one of my favorites.Although not as creepy as the first film, DAMIEN OMEN II has its moments, and is worth seeing for anyone who likes to have a fun time with all this biblical stuff.   "},{"Title":"Damien hits puberty.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you liked the first installment, you probably will like Damien-Omen II. It still has the creepiness involved in the first movie and the theme of good vs. evil.  But like the first Omen movie, it is quite predictable. Some of the kill scenes are good though, especially the elevator scene.Take a shot and rent this one.  Just don't expect to see a classic. "},{"Title":"She pollutes the air with her craziness","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" She pollutes the air with her craziness, gotta love that line near the film's beginning. DamienOmen II is an ambitious and entertaining sequel to the classic Omen. This film is an almost perfect stepping stone in the Omen trilogy, focusing on Damien Thorn becoming a teenager. The film obviously lacks the fresh originality of the first film but it still deserves credit for maintaining a sense of dread and menace when somebody crosses the young Damien Thorn. The death scenes are both chilling and creative and the film's trademark score is brilliant. As far as sequels go, Omen II is a solid effort, leading the pathway clearly open for the third chapter. In terms of comparison Omen II doesn't surpass the original but if you enjoyed the Omen then DamienOmen II shouldn't disappoint. "},{"Title":"An excellent sequel to the Omen","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Beginning again with the mad dash of Bugenhagen(Leo McKern) through the Haifa port under the very fitting theme of Jerry Goldsmith, this film contains all of the chills of the original as Damien learns about who he really is. It has one thing that I particularly liked that moment of indecision,when Damien, in a mirror of Jesus asks himself, why is it me. The moment when whatever innocence is in him is finally lost. William Holden and Lee Grant are excellent as his aunt and uncle, and there are several actors who cement their acting careers in the parts they play in this film. I am referring to Robert Foxworth for one, and Lance Henrickson for another. Silvia Sydney is one of of her last roles as Aunt Marion (smelling of Lilac or lavender) and the one really weak role was Nicholas Pryor as the director of the Thorn Museum. I am truly sorry for those people who did not care for this film, as it is head and shoulders above most of the Anti-Christ movies made. If you liked the first one this is a must see. "},{"Title":"A good sequel","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well, it wasn't great, but I have to admit that the second Omen was pretty good and in some ways just necessary. Necessary, I mean because this story is of course not finished. Before seeing The Hills have Eyes on Friday night, they had trailers, and one was *shudder* a remake to the Omen. Another one, another remake! Oh, well, this just isn't going to stop. So, anyways, I saw The Omen last year and figured I should finish the trilogy. I am curious and frankly, a bit creeped out that the new Omen is being released on 06-06-2006, 666, get it?The story itself is pretty good actually, now that Damien has been under the care of his aunt and uncle, strange things are happening again. It seems like anyone who is getting to close to finding out the truth about Damien is getting killed in some freak accident. This is a very good sequel that should be given a second chance.6/10 "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as good as the original but surprisingly entertaining","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm an avid fan of the original Omen. I think it was everything that The Exorcist is made out to be by fans and critics all over the world thrilling, intriguing and incredibly creepy. With it's apocalyptic open ending a second part could only take away from the original's ending.The truth is, Damien Omen II is by no means as bad as it could have been. Sure, the excitement and the perfect structure of the original aren't there. Basically, this plays out like an early ancestor of the Final Destination-franchise. Characters become aware of who Damien is and from this point on we know they're doomed and anticipate their gruesome death. Most of all the movie is muddled with bad character development. Lance Henriksen's character, for instance, is never elaborated on. It doesn't make him any more mysterious, it just feels incomplete.A good portion of the movie is spent with nothing much going on except for a few people dying around Damien while he just keeps on living a completely normal life unaware of who he his. Then, all of a sudden everything happens way too quickly. Damien finds out about his destiny and immediately accepts it. The same goes for his father, who is infuriated at first when someone suggests that his son might be Satan's spawn, only to accept that fact shortly afterwards. The final climax and ending arrive just as quickly leaving you wondering why the whole thing was so unbalanced.Still, as long as it's running Damien Omen II doesn't fail to entertain. Like every Omen-movie up to and including The Final Conflict this one has this nice 70's UK-flair that you can get lost in for a few hours on homey evenings in front of the television. It may not be enough to make the series go down in history as one of the best, but these movies are all very watchable in one sitting, making this one of the most coherent franchises of the horror genre. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable sequel","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" DamienOmen 2 is a very enjoyable sequel to The Omen in my opinion the first is better but i did enjoy this also. This film was released in 1978 2 years after the first and it tells the story of Damien the Anti-Christ who is now age 12 he is starting to understand his duty in the line of Satan whilst a strange crow eliminates any people who know his real identity and are seen enemies in the eyes of Satan. This film is not the best in the Omen series but it is a very watchable film, it isn't a film that will bore you to death and it isn't a film that will keep you on the end of your seat for 100 minutes but i do recommend it to the people who are interested in these films it is a clever entry in the omen franchise ***/***** "},{"Title":"Near-worthy sequel to a horror masterpiece","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The original Omen left itself wide open for a sequel, and even though I personally don't think it particularly needed one; I have to say that this second part, to my surprise, is actually very good! Don Taylor's sequel, of course, has nothing on Richard Donner's original; and even though the film often gets too convoluted and is more than a little bit silly, The Omen II follows on from the original nicely and is an overall worthy sequel. For the sequel, the action has expectedly moved to America; and the film delivers more of the uncompromising gore that helped to round off the original as an all round horror masterpiece. Logically, the film picks up the story of Damien seven years after his father, Robert Thawn, tried to kill him under mysterious circumstances. The film starts off with the revelation that Damien Thawn is the antichrist, and from there we follow him as he joins military school, comes under the guidance of one of Satan's disciples and violently disposes of anyone who stands a chance of discovering his real identity! Jonathan Scott-Taylor is the actor given the honour of portraying the son of the devil this time around, and it has to be said that he does a really good job with it; even though the actor has hardly been seen since. William Holden is no Gregory Peck, but he does well in the older lead actor role; and he receives good backup from Lee Grant in the role of his wife. The cast is rounded off by cult stars Nicholas Pryor and Lance Henriksen. The plot pacing can be a little hard to follow, and not all the plot threads (the ones involving Thawn Industries in particular) are able to come through properly. However, director Don Taylor combats this by adding in an over the top and gory murder sequence every time the plot looks like it's going downhill. Here we have people burning to death, freezing to death, having their eyes plucked out and - of course - being cut in half in an elevator! The film just about carries off a mysterious religious tone throughout, and I was pleased that the film didn't get bogged down with theories surrounding Damien. The film ends with a nice little twist, before once again leaving the series open for a sequel - which, of course, it got three years later. The Omen II isn't a classic or must see; but it's a nice sequel. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really liked this sequel and some good gory deaths in this movie.I love scene where the women is attack by the crows one of best scenes in the movie. which i could not leave out, The others deaths are good too not as gory as the first movie but these deaths scenes did have some great atmosphere.This not as scary of as good as The 1st Omen movies, This acting in this movie was really good.It stared of really well and start with it but near the end and the ending for me just felt a little flat for me, i could have had better ending. It's a really good movie "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Superb Sequel","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" That lovable little rapscallion from The Omen has returned to raise more Hell in Damien Omen II. No longer a toddler, Damien is closing in on his 13th birthday. While most pre-teens must cope with puberty and the confusion that accompanies it, Damien (portrayed by Jonathan Scott-Taylor) is more pre-occupied with his destiny, which is that of the son of the Satan, The Anti-Christ. He is now living with his Uncle and attends a military academy where he is quick to put his peers in his place and is encouraged by a sketchy teacher (the one and only Lance Henriksen!) who encourages him to read a passage in the Bible that tells him all he needs to know about himself. If only every teenager were given such guidance!The film faced an uphill battle when its original director, Mike Hodges, was swapped out for Don Taylor, but thankfully, the end results aren't as compromised as one would expect. On the contrary, Damien The Omen II is a rather solid companion piece to the Richard Donner original, with death scenes that are every bit as ground-breaking for their time and still shocking today (all about the crow pecking out the eyeballs) and a great cast that includes William Holden, Lee Grant and Elizabeth Shepard. Scott-Taylor seems born to have played Damien, managing the dynamics of being a sympathetic character turned a bone-chilling menace quite effectively. The film may rush a bit to its ending, which is perhaps its only flaw, but on the whole, it's a worthy follow-up that is almost every bit as mean and memorable as its predecessor. "}{"Title":"All Time Classic!!","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Some movies affect me in a way that defies rational judgment. I've seen some reviews here and elsewhere that bring up legitimate gripes, but I simply don't care. I love this movie and that's all that matters, it is high on my list of all-time favorites and I still often watch it once a year during winter, much like The Shining and other classics. The mood is appropriately foreboding throughout, and I've never seen another actor in my life that could so perfectly portray Damien as Jonathan Scott-Taylor---he was BORN to play Damien!! This is one of the first truly creepy movies I saw as a kid. It's fascinating to see the opulence in which Damien is raised and how he still feels empty in spite of it, knowing he is part of something bigger that hasn't been revealed. This is especially well conveyed in the lake house scenes where everyone is happy for Damien's brother's birthday on what should have been an ideal vacation as enjoyed by a privileged class, yet Damien knows something is......wrong. He still feels only emptiness, loneliness. I also enjoyed the sense of sheer dread in the elevator scene and the cackling raven in the roadside scene. You absolutely MUST watch the original Omen movie before this one, it is essential to the storyline and even better than this superior film. Unfortunately, Omen III totally dropped the ball and left a hideous black mark on the series. It's a shame someone couldn't have done a better job of completing the trilogy, perhaps someone will eventually....but not through excessive CGI, through mood and clever writing, as seen in the first two films.Highly recommended! Make sure to watch The Omen first... "},{"Title":"Predictable, But Good Sequel!","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Damien-Omen II picks up with Damien now being sent to live with his Aunt, Uncle, and cousin, in Chicago where he attends military school, and discovers who he is. Johnathon-Scott-Taylor is excellent as 13-year old Damien Thorn. There are some good suspenseful scares along the way, but instead of Rottweiler dogs foreshadowing that something evil is soon to happen, we get some menacing crows.Injuries and deaths occur in several different places; one to a reporter on a deserted highway, a man who falls through the ice while playing hockey on a frozen lake, a chemical plant, and a hospital doctor who gets graphically electrocuted by a suddenly malfunctioning elevator. The predictability is exactly what the audience would expect. Those who get too close to Damian in discovering who he is or anger him in any way usually suffer serious consequences, that most often involve death.Despite its predictability, the second Omen movie works because of young Johnathon Scott-Taylor's portrayal of Damien. There is a calmness within his character that gradually builds to anger when Damien is provoked or questioned. But Damien also sends a message that he feels bad after he has killed or hurt someone, and even worse, because he can't do anything about it. This is where Omen II is the only area where it is better than the original Omen. In the original Omen, Harvey Stephens played Damian amazingly well. However, because of his age, didn't really talk or converse his feelings about why he killed or hurt others. In Omen II, after Damian discovers who he is, he runs through the trees as if trying to escape the horror inside of him. You can feel the emotional impact, Why Me???! Why Me???! he cries.Being a teenager gives Damien more groundwork to explore his identity. I would have liked him to further discover his background. Adding additional dimensions to the why? element of Damien's personality would have made the film better. Unfortunately, the downside is that after the Why Me? Why Me? scene, nothing is answered, and Omen II goes back to Damien killing people who get in his way, without the substance that the movie could have had.The acting of Johnathon Scott-Taylor is very good, and there are enough suspenseful moments to make Damien-Omen II, better than most sequels of the horror era. "},{"Title":"An excellent sequel and Jonathan Scott-Taylor was the best Damien","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have to say that as fan of horror movies (whether they be new or old), I loved this sequel. I remember watching they original and being very intrigued.When I recently heard about the sequel, though it's very old, I jumped on the opportunity to watch this. Now, I'm only fourteen, but I just loved this movie (and Jonathan Scott-Taylor). This is definitely a movie that I'm going to record on video to watch again, and again. On to the movie itself. It was very well acted and had good graphics for it's time. People rag on some of the death scenes, but I have to say that I was impressed with what they had. Maybe Joanne's death was a little silly, but I liked that you could even have a little bit of a laugh. I thought all of the characters were well acted, and that Jonathan Scott-Taylor was, in my opinion and a decent amount of others, the best Damien to hit the screen. With his eyes and black hair, he really set the feel of being the Antichrist. He was really, really good. The thing that I loved was how Jon made you almost feel bad for Damien. Like, when he killed Mark and then let out a strangled yell. There were even tears. It was especially heart-wrenching that Damien didn't even know he was the Antichrist until half-way through the movie. It was so sad when he screamed at the top of his lungs why it had to be him that was born of the devil and a jackal. Overall, it was a strong movie and I highly recommend it to people who enjoyed the first film, have an open mind and aren't to hard on things like this. Afterall people, it's just a movie. It's mean't to be fun and enjoyable. Just relax and be a little less RAWR!, 'kay? ^ ^~Haley~ "},{"Title":"A very good sequel.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Damien returns after his parents are killed in the original to live with his uncle, while he continues his reign of terror over man. Holden and Grant are good, the score remains very effective, it features great effects, and it has plenty of chills and memorable scenes. Not as good as the first one, but one heck of a sequel. Rating 8 out of 10. Followed by many more sequels, but they are all inferior. Stick with the first two. "},{"Title":"Okay Sequel...","Date":"24 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Damien Omen II is a sequel that continues where the original Omen left. It's by no means in the same league as the original but still offers some good moments here and there. The acting is solid, William Holden is awesome, the kills are good and the score by Jerry Goldsmith is excellent. The script and direction is a letdown but it could have been much worse.The acting isn't as good as the original Omen. William Holden and Lance Hendriksen are awesome as always but the rest of the cast fail to impress in any way. None of them are bad, but the material doesn't give them anything juicy to do. Holden and Hendriksen can do great even when the script sucks but that can't be said about other actors.Script is where Damien Omen II falls flat. 2/3 of the film are just recycled material from the original Omen, almost beat for beat. The setup and the way plot goes is almost the same. The only difference is the fact that Damien is older and can start to understand who he is, but , sadly, he is beyond underdeveloped and all the possibilities for interesting character study are lost. It just looked like producers wanted this film to be more like first Omen and made the writer cut the psychological character heavy stuff out. If they went for character study and mixed it with satanist horror, Damien Omen II would have been a great horror film that would rival the original or, even Exorcist. But what we have here is fairly decent and entertaining but hardly memorable.Direction by Don Taylor is nothing you would write home about. Not terrible and not very good. When you look at his filmography, you will see that he has done a lot of TV work and it explains the very TV movie feeling Damien Omen II brings. It's not as cinematic or interesting as original but by no means bad. Just looks fairly bland, but few with a director with a certain visual touch, this film could have looked great. The score by Jerry Goldsmith is cool and moody as always. It's not as memorable as the previous film but still manages to bring the creepy satanic feel up.Damien Omen II is bland and has markings of a great sequel. But like many other horror sequels, this film just reminds us how great the original film was. It's hardly the worst sequel out there and it's no Exorcist II The Heretic but you can hardly call anything but okay. If you liked the original and want to see how they continue the story, it's worth checking out for William Holden alone. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Damien Omen 2 follows the story of young Damien who is now thirteen years old and still unaware of his unholy destiny. After the events of The Omen, Damien has moved in with his uncle Richard(who owns his own museum) and his aunt Ann. Damien is good friends with his cousin Mark and the two of them are like brothers. Only great Aunt Marion seems to think there is something wrong with Damien and asks Richard to separate the two boys at the risk of writing them out of her will. That same night Marion suspiciously dies of a heart attack when a crow appears outside her window. Strange things begin to occur around Damien again as a journalist tries to warn Mr. Thorn of the events, but is killed in a gruesome death. As the death toll continues to rise, agents of Satan have begun to appear again in Damien's life and they begin to watch over him as he is about to discover his true potential.This film is not as good as the original Omen. It does have a few creative death scenes and the music by Jerry Goldsmith is still top notch, but the story seems more like a repeat of the first story. We already know Damien is the Antichrist, so when Richard finally discovers all the suspense is gone. If you liked the first film and would like to continue the series, then you should see the film. But I believe only fans of the first film will like this movie and even then most of them won't hold it in the high regards of the original Omen. Damien Omen 2 is by no means a bad film, but it isn't a great film either. Overall, I give it a 6.5 out of 10 leaning towards a 6. "},{"Title":"The boy must die...","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The original Omen was awesomely creepy fast moving and well made thriller about a married couple who adopt a boy who happens to be the son of Satan. Thats pretty much all you need to know about the first film to enjoy this one and all that is made clear pretty early on in the film. Damien Omen II is an enjoyable sequel doing pretty much what its supposed to, going deeper into the character of Damien and continuing where the first film ended its also creepy and atmospheric like the first one and very well made with good acting and special effects (even though they are used sparingly which probably just enhances the effect). It drags on a bit from time to time but is generally an easy watch and also quite thrilling at times(mostly due to the great soundtrack). The movie's biggest faults are the length of almost 2 hours and the fact that it lacks the originality and surprise of the first omen.I'd recommend this to horror fans even if you haven't seen the first Omen. "},{"Title":"The Antichrist Redefined","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In 1976 we were introduced to Damien Thorn in the chilling The Omen written by David Seltzer. Now we see how Damien comes of age in the sequel Damien Omen II, a sequel that does what many have trouble doing. Matching the originalIt has been eight years since we have seen Damien Thorn, now the Antichrist is thirteen(or twelve depending on some summaries) and comes to realize his purpose(the role is now played by Jonathan-Scott Taylor). He is now living with Richard Thorn(William Holden) brother of Robert Thorn, Damien's father his wife Ann Thorn(Lee Grant) and their son, Mark Thorn(Lucas Donet). He and mark go to a Military School, that their fathers attended. All the while people who try to Reveal Damien's true identity die mysterious deaths. Will Richard learn the truth and kill Damien or will Damien escape death yet again?the sequel was released in 1978 with many mixed reviews from the fan base. I saw it on DVD and can't be more pleased. The cast choices are superb William Holden picks up where Gregory Peck left off as the Patriarch with a dark responsibility. Johnathan-Scott takes a hard role and makes it almost almost tragic and lovable. One of my favorite scene's is where Damien finally figures out who he is. It gave me chills. Lee Grant does a superbly believable in a role that is trick and i applaud her for it.The only real qualms I have with the film are continuity errors, such as we see him with the president at the end of the first film where did this other family come from? Why is his accent English, i mean i wouldn't think that the kid had time to actually be imprinted with that he was living with an American family after all, there are also some color issues but then again that is personal choice and something that doesn't majorly detract from the films over all pleasantness in my eye.If you liked the Omen you will like Damien this actually had me on the edge of my seat and crept out at the end "},{"Title":"Not the original, but still a good followup to The Omen.","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie was a rather good sequel to the original Omen movie. While some movies do not really warrant or need sequels the Omen kind of did. Let's face it, most of us were probably kind of curious to see how little Damien was doing after his near death at the hands of his father, a death that most of us were kind of pulling for. Well seems Damien is now in some sort of military school and he is just doing fine, and he is also even more evil than before. Still, one can not help getting the feeling that this movie is not all that much different than the one that came before it. Which is why I gave this movie a six rather than something higher. Just seems like for the most part it is kind of the same movie with a couple of different deaths and Damien taking more of a step forward in causing them. Still it has some good moments, my favorite being the guy that gets trapped under the ice, that scene is rather frightening and disturbing. Other scenes here and there are good too, and one more theatrical sequel would follow and a television one and a remake, but I never saw any of the others. Just these first two and these two were actually pretty good horror movies. "},{"Title":"Lacking in some areas, but otherwise an entertaining and well made sequel","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Evil never dies. This rings true in the horror genre, which is proved over and over again with the increasing number of sequels, prequels, remakes, and spin-offs of the classics. The 1976 horror hit 'The Omen' left the door wide open for part 2 and that's exactly what the studio and producer Harvey Bernhard had in mind. Two years later we were graced with this film. Featuring a new director, technically two because the first was replaced, cast, location, and writer, 'Damien Omen II' had a lot to live up to. It turned out to be not as good as it's predecessor, but it's a respectable and highly entertaining effort none-the-less.Pros Excellent work by the cast. So beautifully photographed. Powerful and chilling score. Fast-paced. Nice locations. Jaw-dropping death scenes. Also some cool set pieces. Does a pretty good job of expanding the mythology and developing the character of Damien. Some creepy imagery.Cons Not much of a plot this time and like a lot of other horror sequels the filmmakers try to make up for that with a bigger body count and more blood and gore. Lacks real scares and the dark atmosphere of the original. Ending is a big letdown after all that came before and sort of feels rushed.Final thoughts Sequel is basically a polished popcorn movie with an A-list cast. That doesn't mean it's not still worth a look for genre buffs and fans of the first film. Just don't expect something in the same league as that film and enjoy the ride.My rating 3.5/5 "}{"Title":"Damien pt. 2","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This one picks up pretty much where the last movie left off. This time William Holden is in the lead as Richard Thorn's brother. This time Damien is a teenager, and in military school. The devil bird is back,, sort of like a scene from Hitchcock's the birds,, where the bird attacks the lady and pokes her eyes out. What's missing though is the devil dog's, hopefully they'll be back for the third installation of this film,, Boogenhagen is back in this one,, although short lived. I think in this one Holden's character takes too long to figure out what is going on, before he has a chance to even kill Damien,, his brother Richard seemed to figure it out long before he did,, i think this one, is adequate, but kinda disappointing after the first one,, Lance Henricksen has a role in this one as the military instructor , but seems pretty wooden in his acting. "},{"Title":"uneven direction between the two","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" it seems to me that original director Micheal Hodges would have been the best choice throughout the entire film. the spooky prolouge was true evidence of that; The eeiry ancient middle eastern city; the underground toumbs; and of course that chilling shot of the young antichrists face on the wall. Fast forward 7 years later and you have a 12 year old Damien walkin tall looking sharp AND evil through bonfire flames flickering in the foreground. the mansion his new parents(his uncle,Robert Thorns brother,and his 2nd wife Ann)has is stately and beautiful. The first1\2 hour of this film has everybit of the style,elegance,and foreboding of the first film directed by the great Richard Donnar. After that it just by the numbers killings by Satan,his minions,then eventually Damien himself. Don Taylor who took over at this point directed with no style or subtley and had a pedestrian B-movie feel to it. Overall a quality sequel, but would have had the same evil flavour of its great original with Hodges at the helm throughout. Creative differences probably between Hodges and producer Harhey Bernhard was the reason for the change,but it is a shame. would have been an awesome sequel with same script but same directer(Hodges)with more fluid stylish and creepy tone. Another GREAT score by the late Jerry Goldsmith "},{"Title":"An strong sequel is well acted and a few surprises.","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Seven years later... Damien (Jonathan Scott-Taylor) is 12 years old is now living with his uncle Richard Thorn (William Holden), his wife (Lee Grant) and their son (Lucas Donat). When Damien has discover his high I.Q. and his origins. Damien is now using his evil power to get himself everything he needs to be powerful. He using his demonic powers, which he kills those people who anger him or in his way.Directed by Don Taylor (Escape from the Planet of the Apes, The Final Countdown, The Island of Dr. Moreau 1977) made an entertaining sequel to the original but less effective. Probably the most memorable moments in the sequel is the creative death sequences. The film had problems during filming, since Mike Hodges (Croupier, Flash Gordon, I'll Sleep When I'm Dead) was the original director of the second film. Which he was fired during production for taking too much time with set-up shots and creative differences. Although some of Hodges' scenes were kept in the final cut.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an good-Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound. DVD has an interesting commentary track by the producerHarvey Bernhard (The Beast Within, The Goonies, The Lost Boys) and moderated by DVD producerJ.M. Kenny. DVD also the original theatrical trailers and trailer for the first and third film. Although despite certain flaws, the second film is certainly well acted and it has another great score by the late Oscar-WinnerJerry Goldsmith (Alien, Explorers, Total Recall). Screenplay by Stanley Mann (Conan The Destroyer, The Collector, Firestarter) and the original directorHodges. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"a pretty good remake","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" to me The Omen was one of the best movies I ever saw and although I never knew it was a remake I still thought it was a pretty frightening movie and when I found out that Damien Thorn's life is still continued I was really anxious to see what will happen to him. This movie wasen't one of the best sequels but it was pretty good. I didn't like it because it was kinda cheesy. Another thing was that most of the victims just die instantly when you first see them basically and one of them you don't know why he died in the first place which kind of confused me. If you have no access to this movie just watch the trailer, it tells the whole thing basically. "},{"Title":"The first time was only a warning.","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" My Take Not as creepy as the first, but still quite memorable for its neat quality kills. I really loved The Omen, so I continued on and watched the sequel to continue the story. The sequel was great. It matches the eerie tone of its predecessor. Although not as great as the original, this would still be refereed to me as a classic in the genre.This sequel concerns the life of a now teenage Damien Thorn (Jonathan Scott-Taylor)seven years after the events in the first film. He is now adopted by uncle Richard Thorn(William Holden) and aunt Ann Thorn(Lee Grant)but also widely feared to be the son of The Devil. The deaths in this sequel are similarly gruesome and sudden like that in the original. The best death would be that of Elizabeth Shepperd in the highway.Jerry Goldsmith's famous themes and new music benefits well to create tension.Excellent film to watch back-to-back with its predecessor.Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Satan's son moves into adolescence with a bang!","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Damien - Omen II takes place seven years or so after the events of the first film, with the teenage Damien Thorne (Jonathan Scott-Taylor), unaware of his unholy beginnings, living with with his enormously wealthy uncle and aunt Richard and Ann (William Holden and Lee Grant). Mysterious deaths begin to occur around Damien and his true nature is revealed, through the help of devilish aides Robert Foxworth (Paul) and Lance Henriksen (Sargeant Neff), as well as others that learn the truth, Sylvia Sydney (Aunt Marian), Nicholas Pryor (Dr. Warren), Elizabeth Sheppard (Joan Hart), and Lucas Donat (Mark), only too late.This film pulls out all the stops with each death more horrific than the last. One character dies from fright, another has her eyes pecked out and is run over by a semi-truck, a third dies during a friendly game of ice hockey on a frozen lake, while a fourth takes an unfortunate ride in an elevator.Jerry Goldsmith takes his Oscar-winning music from the first film and ups it a notch or two, creating a score that shouts to the hills that the anti-Christ is here. All in all, Damien II Omen II, though not quite as good as the first, is a well-made and smartly-acted film.It is a worthy sequel and holds its own. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I saw this film yesterday , In my opinion it is a worthy sequel to the omen . Picking up from where the story left off last time . Damien is slowly made aware of his true purpose on earth and who he really is. John Scott-Taylor done an excellent performance as the son of the evil one (why he quit acting i don't know ???) Lee Grant also took a good stab at the performance however not as creepy as Billie Whitelaw's and William Holden also gave a solid performance but not as good as Gregory Peck's . Instead of being high on atmosphere and creepy-ness like the first film , Omen 2 mostly relies on being suspenseful and tries to built up a bit of tension and pulls it off nicely in some areas with a good body count and some gruesome kills . However it does have a few silly flaws in it that can be rather ridiculous to believe which can make the film a little confusing . Top that off with a little bit of a twist towards the last closing seconds of the film and an ending which speaks for it-self and you have a good film that any horror movie fan would want to check out . I still got a chill down my spine when i saw Damiens face in wall so it still hits the spot to some extent . I have not seen the final conflict yet but i am looking forward to checking it out as i would see what becomes of the fate of the anti-Christ , i heard it did not get that many good reviews but each to their own ! "},{"Title":"Damien","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 'Damien'is a a fair sequel to the first Omen, but somehow redundant. It's almost the same story, but with less action and more not-so-interesting dialogues. Damien's behavior changes from an extreme to another at one point in the movie, which is a bit unrealistic. The plot is exactly the same as in the first Omen, except in that one Damien knows who he is and what is happening. There is a lot of things that are left unexplained, and a lot of details who seem to be there for nothing. A lot of scenes focus on the Thorne industry, but in the end, nothing really happens to it. There is some entertaining scenes, but all in all, it is kind of disappointing. "},{"Title":"Not as good as original, but entertaining","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As I said before, it's not as good as the original one, but is good for entertain you for a little while. There are some boring moments, but it's still good. As always, Jerry Goldsmith's work was terrific. The song of the main title is one of my favorites. I'm a fan of The Omen Trilogy, and I comment that is the most weak of the three movies. There are some facts of the movie that anyone can discover them at the beginning, for example, anyone can discover that the General Neff (Damien's patoon's boss) is a disciple of Satan that comes to Earth to protect Damien.I give this film a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Damien Omen II","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I loved this movie! I think people should give it a break! This movie is just as enjoyable as The Omen. It deals with Damien growing up and finding who he is and what his destiny in life will be. I like the fact that this movie revolves around biblical prophecies. The Book of Revelations. It tries to explain something that is going to happen. It also revolves around the rise of the Antichrist. Obviously that will not happen until Omen III The Final Conflict. Still very enjoyable. Jonathan-Scott Taylor did a very good job taking on his role as Damien. I give this movie a 10 out of 10. Forget what other people have said. I recommend for anyone to watch it. You will enjoy it. "}{"Title":"A worthy & well made sequel.","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" DAMIEN THORN is now older, 12 years to be exact & still where ever he goes death & destruction are sure to follow. Protected by a mysterious black crow that picks off all who dare try to reveal his secret identity to his Uncle, whom is the brother of Damien's father in the original film, whom also tried, but failed to kill Damien in the climax of that film. This time however, Damien discovers who is father really is & what he himself is, a discovery which he dosen't like very much at first, but then starts to accept later on & decides to pick off those he does not like!. Although this sequel lacks the creepy gritty feel of the original, it is still marginally entertaining & should please horror fans. The kills are pretty gruesome & the acting is also good. Followed by a sequel entitled, THE FINAL CONFLICT ***1/2 (stars) "},{"Title":"Amazing sequel, very scary","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is a turning point in the omen trilogy.I found this film one of the scariest movies in the genre, and I've seen the exorcist. It does a very good job picking up where the last film left off. Once again Jerry Goldsmith did a good job on the chilling, Oscar-winning score. Seven years have passed since the death of Damien's parents, and he is being raised by his aunt and uncle and goes to military school. He is eventually told about his destiny and is willing to fulfill it. The performance by William Holden is decent, however it doesn't quite match the caliber by Gregory Peck in the first film. The ending was great and the performance by Jonathan Scott-Taylor was very good. SPOILER The scene that I found scary was with Joan Hart when she was attacked by the crow, along with the elevator scene, and the ice scene. Overall, the movie was pretty good and I highly recommend it along with the entire trilogy.  "},{"Title":"This is a classic","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  if you have not seen this movie, I would suggest that you see it as soon as you can---especially if you are into occult type stuff.  PS...Not all Damien's are evil...for I have a friend named Damien and he is the sweetest guy... "},{"Title":"Awesome sequel to an awesome movie!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie last night for the first time!  I must say it is a pretty creepy film.  It is a better movie than the first one and it is more creepy.  In this one Damien begins to use his powers for his purpose.  That was pretty interesting since he wasn't that powerful in the first one.  The music in it is pretty creepy which adds to the fact that overall it is a pretty creepy film!  A true horror classic which any true horror fan should not be without! "},{"Title":"This sequel stands up.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This sequel stands up.Don Taylor directs competently from a decent script.The movie is well photographed,Jerry Goldsmith contributes another great score.Jonathan Scott-Taylor is excellent at Damien,conveying especially well Damien's difficulty in dealing with his identity.William Holden and Lee Grant are rock solid as the leads. Two actors who would go on to successful career turned in good early performances as Damien's protectorsRobert Foxworth as the evil businessman Paul Buher and Lance Henriksen as the sinister Sergeant Neff.There are also good performances by two old prosLew Ayres as the honorable company president Bill Atherton and Sylvia Sidney as Aunt Marion ,who senses something wrong in Damien but can get no one to listen to her because of her apocalyptically bitchy personality.MINOR SPOILERSI liked several scenes in particularLew Ayres' drowning scene,the elevator scene with Meschach Taylor,and especially the climax.where Richard Thorn saysThe boy has got to die! Give me the daggers!,and suddenly Ann shoutsHere are your daggers,Richard! and plunges them into his chest,screaming for Damien,who then causes the boiler to explode,incinerating them.Well done. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A good sequel movie","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It's been awhile since' i've seen the movie so  i'm not going to say much. This movie had a lot more murders. Damien, now a thirteen years old, moves in with his rich relatives. Nobody knows that  he is the anti-christ till people start dying. I guess you don't want to p*** him off "},{"Title":"The Eyes Have It!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The most remarkable accomplishment on this film is the director's ability to capture the look of shock in various character's eyes.I like this movie very much, and I don't find it the least bit funny.  Damien Omen 2 is a worthy companion piece to the original that inspired it.  True, the plot structures, events and symbolism are similar between these two films, and, I think, 'Damien' is superior in many respects. Director Taylor does a commendable job here, considering, especially, how many people have bad-mouthed him in the past.  Ray Berwick, the same guy who trained the animals in Hitchcock's The Birds, does a fine job with the (total of 6) Ravens used in 'Damien' (A warning to all nosey Paparazzi Watch the skies!).  The singular avian attack sequence is my favorite, using slow-mo snippets interspersed with reg.-speed footage so that we can get all the grisly, human damage details. Spectacular miniature model of the Israel archeaological dig (hint hint) which occurs during film's opening sequence.The actor playing Dr. Kane (Mesach Taylor) eventually played 'Anthony' on television's comedy series Designing Women.Jerry Goldsmith is back for the soundtrack (with its characteristic 'Oh-whack!,' frog-like chants), sounding more urgent and intimidating in its sped up tempo.Enough said.  See this horror film; it is vastly underrated! "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Damien is now a teenager living with his aunt and uncle (Lee Grant & William Holden) however after the sudden death of close family members and other various people they begin to suspect what he truly is. Not as effective or shocking as the original, but still pretty disturbing and scary. The effects are top notch, especially the bird scene on the highway, the production design is still impressive, the direction flawless, the cast exceptional, the editing tight, and the score is still award worthy. The ice hockey scene is especially memorable.Rated R; Extreme Graphic Violence & Profanity. "},{"Title":"A fine sequel.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Two years after The Omen hit big with audiences and critics alike, little Damien Thorn returned to the big screen again, this time older and more aware of his true identity. While not a perfect sequel, it is above average compared to most horror movie sequels. We follow Damien on the verge of becoming a teenager, as forces around him begin to make way for his foretold rise to power, and the pieces of the puzzle begin to fall into place. The Thorn family is portrayed with excellency once again here, as we see Damien's interactions with his aunt and uncle and cousin Mark. The story flows along nicely, which is a strong point this sequel has. Despite moments of dull, slow pacing, it manages to keep you interested. The movie almost plays like a coming-of-age story rather than a horror movie. Damien is just beginning to uncover his destiny, learning more about his place in the world and what's to come. A good deal of time is spent on the Thorn family business, giving us a taste of what's to come for young Damien. The idea that the antichrist is the nephew of a rich and powerful businessman, attending a wealthy academy is somewhat creepy. One thing that seems to have no basis in the film, however, is the fact that everyone sees Damien as somewhat of a bad seed. Where this notion came about is beyond me, because at no point in the film is Damien uncontrollable or anything resembling a problem child. In fact, he carries on quite calmly, delivering his dialogue with a tranquil oddity that hints that something is a little off with him. Lacking the stylish direction of its predecessor, the film still manages to unfold the tale of Damien's self-realization and acceptance of destiny very well. A few odd deaths come every so often, to those who suspect Damien's true nature, and don't really serve the plot much purpose. One thing that makes the film great, though, is the lack of a villain. Never in the film is Damien portrayed as an absolutely evil and malevolent force. In fact, we somewhat feel for him and what he's going through. Damien isn't the one killing people here (at least not in the first hour) and he's not acting out violently, going on killing sprees for the hell of it. This film does well to portray the purity of evil, and the fact that it can reside in the embodiment of a boy. Despite a few over-the-top deaths, this film carries on what The Omen did by not over-milking the story with upside down crosses and images of demons or gargoyles. It's all very realistic and manages to scare us with what we don't see. Watch this film to see Damien slowly succumbing to his fate, and see by the end of the film how it changes him. While not a superbly crafted film, it's well above average for a horror sequel and carries on the legacy of Damien Thorn perfectly. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I don't know why this is rated R.There is very little blood unlike part one.This movie has little language(Part one didn't have much ethier).This is where Damien finds out that he is the antichrist.This movie also demands a sequel for the story does not end at two. "}{"Title":"An Enjoyable Sequel","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Omen is a superb horror film (stop reading now if you disagree).  This sequel lacks the tension and artistry of the first film, but I rate it as a good sequel that entertains.  It is well directed, edited, cast, and acted (mostly), which is more than can be said for most films of this genre. Jonathan Scott-Taylor plays the young Damien Thorn (yet another example of an English actor required to fill evil boots), a cheeky performance that at times asks for sympathy with the devil.  The plot lacks originality but it doesn't spoil some interesting opportunities either.  Though a sense of evil or doom doesn't build (few horror films manage this anyway), the pace keeps the story going, with some memorable disposals of goodie characters.It seems many reviewers are disappointed by this film - while I agree that it is no masterpiece, I've watched it several times since its release and enjoyed every viewing.  I can't say the same for Omen's III and IV.  This reminds me of the Planet of The Apes series of films - The first films being masterpieces, the first sequels (Damien, Beneath...) being underrated, and the rest being forgettable.7/10 (a good film in a weak genre) "},{"Title":"This hottie has a mean streak","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *** out of *****.This has to be one of the best Omen sequels ever.A now 13-year-old(and MAJORILY hot)Damien Thorn is living with his billionaire uncle in Chicago along with his aunt and cousin,though they do send both of the boys to a military academy. This time,the story center's a little more on Damien(in the first entry,you're always wandering what happened to the moppet)and how he finds out that he's the spawn of the devil. Now,it was a good movie and all and a sequel is rarely ever good,but when Damien finds the ominous birthmark he sure accepted the truth quickly,while in reality,some people might have a hard time trying to cope. But what really get's me is that the series didn't have a sequel that had a female version of Jesus in it.It would've been quite funny and entertaining for Damien to find out that the girl he loved was actually there to stop him.Now THAT would be what I call suspense and entertainment! Rated R for gore,violence,Jeckyl and Hyde transformations,and profanity. "},{"Title":"As good as the original","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There have been so many sequels that never should have been made, given the unique premise of the original (eg Speed 2).  Damien Omen II, every bit as good as The Omen, is a happy (well...) exception to this rule. (Omen III and IV, on the other hand, are poor retreads of the first two.) "},{"Title":"If only most sequels were this good. There's not a minute of the film that isn't watchable.The end result is an effort that'll satisfy fans of Richard Donner's original","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" David Seltzer, who wrote the first film's screenplay, was asked by the producers to write the second. Seltzer refused as he had no interest in writing sequels. Years later, Seltzer commented that had he written the story for the second Omen, he would have set it the day after the first movie, with Damien a child living in The White House. With Seltzer turning down Omen II, producer Harvey Bernhard duly outlined the story himself, and Stanley Mann was hired to write the screenplay.After Bernhard had finished writing the story outline and was given the green light to start the production, the first person he contacted was Jerry Goldsmith because of the composer's busy schedule. Bernhard also felt that Goldsmith's music for The Omen was the highest point of that movie, and that without Goldsmith's music, the sequel would not be successful. Goldsmith's Omen II score uses similar motifs to his original Omen score, but for the most part, Goldsmith avoided re-using the same musical cues. In fact, the first movie's famous Ave Satani theme is used only partially, just before the closing credits begin. Goldsmith composed a largely different main title theme for Omen II, albeit one that utilises Latin phrases as Ave Satani had done. Goldsmith's Omen II score allows eerie choral effects and unusual electronic sound designs to take precedence over the piano and Gothic chanting.Richard Donner, director of the first Omen movie, was not available to direct the second, as he was busy working on Superman. British film director Mike Hodges was hired to helm the movie. During production, the producers believed that Hodges' methods were too slow, and so they fired him and replaced him with Don Taylor, who had a reputation for finishing films on time and under budget. However, the few scenes Hodges directed (some of the footage at the factory and at the military academy, all of the early archaeology scenes, and the dinner where Aunt Marion shows her concern about Damien) remained in the completed film, for which Hodges retains a story credit. In recent interviews, Hodges has commented sanguinely on his experiences working on Omen II.Academy Award-winning veteran actor William Holden was the original choice to star as Robert Thorn in the first Omen, but turned it down as he did not want to star in a picture about the devil. Gregory Peck was selected as his replacement. The Omen went on to become a huge hit and Holden made sure he did not turn down the part of protagonist Richard Thorn in the sequel. Lee Grant, another Oscar-winner, was a fan of the first Omen and accepted enthusiastically the role of female protagonist-later-turncoat Ann Thorn.Ray Berwick (1914&#x96;1990) trained and handled the crows used for several scenes in the film. Live birds and a crow-puppet were used for the attack on photojournalist Joan Hart. Berwick also trained the avian actors in Alfred Hitchcock's The Birds (1963).This more-than-competent sequel to The Omen raises some interesting questions about the nature of free will can the Antichrist deny his birthright? Jerry Goldsmith who won an Oscar for his work on the first film in the series contributes another marvellously foreboding score. As the teenage Damien, Jonathan Scott-Taylor works wonders with the role "},{"Title":"Classic sequel","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Blockbuster sequel to the 1976 smash horror hit has the anti-Christ now 13 and living with wealthy relatives beginning to understand his ungodly mission while plotting to take control of his uncles billion dollar business empire with the help of satanic minions, meanwhile anyone attempting to unravel the secrets of his sinister past meets with a chilling freak accidental death. Has a first rate cast headed by Oscar winners William Holden and Lee Grant and they are perfect , but newcomer Jonathan Scott Taylor gives a superb performance as Damien that you think he was born to play this role.The real stars however are the spectacular death sequences which hold up to this day.Production values are solid and Jerry Goldsmith who won an Oscar for the original delivers an even more powerful and spine tingling score. Time has proved it to be arguably one of the best sequels of it's genre and a great follow up to its classic predecessor. "},{"Title":"A Strong Sequel, No Doubt","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Damien Thorn (Jonathan Scott-Taylor) is now a teenager, but does not know he is evil. What will he do when he finds out who he is? Can he accept it, can he reject it? William Holden brings the star power that Gregory Peck brought to the first one, just as the crow has now replaced the rottweiler. The film is full of analogues. Oh, and even Lance Henriksen shows up! And we cannot overlook the glorious music of Jerry Goldsmith.This was supposed to be developed with producer Harvey Bernhard's best friend Richard Donner, but he ended up getting Superman around this time Some of the beauty of the film is that the beginning was shot in an actual castle from the Crusades with an actual escape tunnel. Other scenes were filmed in Wisconsin (Eagle River, Lake Geneva, Delafield) and Illinois (Lake Forest, Chicago). When filming in Eagle River, they stayed at the home of a teamster who was murdered about three months later for his involvement with Jimmy Hoffa.The scene under the ice was completely real the man was really under the ice and had to swim for thirty or forty feet. Incredible, but true.producer and story writer Harvey Bernhard's commentary tells about the film's creation, and chronicles his dislike of the film's original director, Mike Hodges, and his preference for Don Taylor, the man who took over. Bernhard also believes it is not possible to believe in God but not the devil... his reasoning is questionable. "},{"Title":"Much Better Than Most Admit","Date":"26 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As much as I enjoyed the original Omen I saw Damien when I was basically the same age as the main character and loved the film. So for years I figured I probably just related to the character's going through changes as he edges towards adulthood. His changes being much more drastic of course. I recently re watched this film and discovered it was more than childhood that made me enjoy this film. It truly tries to bring a more even-handed story. There is much more characterization in this film. You actually get to feel sorry for the character of Damien and yet it doesn't lose its thriller aspects.Its a shame it was so put down when it was released because the film in ways bests the original and in others won't be able to touch it.Go in with an open mind and you will find yourself truly enjoying this amazing film for what it is. "},{"Title":"This one is classic!","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Several years after the mysterious events that claimed the life of the U.S. Ambassador and his wife, the now teen aged and militarily enrolled Damien Thorne is slowly being made aware of his unholy heritage and horrific destiny. Woe is he (including anyone in Damien's adoptive family and his classmates) who suspects the truth or gets in his way. While not as unrelentingly frightening as its blockbuster predecessor, this more-than-competent sequel to The Omen raises some interesting questions about the nature of free will (can the Antichrist deny his birthright?) before falling into a gory series of increasingly outlandish deaths, the best of which is a terrifyingly protracted scene beneath the ice of a frozen lake. Jerry Goldsmith (who won an Oscar for his work on the first film in the series) contributes another marvelously foreboding score. "},{"Title":"Second installment  in Omen series , and again with horrible killings","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This sequel to huge successful Richard Donner film centres on the rebirth of the anti-Christ personified in Damien(Jonathan Scott Taylor). The film starts in Israel when a priest(Leo McKern)along with an archaeologist(Ian Hendry) discover a dark secret. Chicago, seven years later, now the grown-up demon-child with the mark 666 and adopted by fostered parents, the magnate Thorn(William Holden, Lee Grant).He finds along with his brother in a military academy with a tutor-officer(Lance Henriksen). The young boy seems to be around when inexplicable deaths happen guided by terrible demonic forces, including rid various interfering adults with the objective for world domination. Damien is poised for ruling devil over earth helped by underlings(Robert Foxworth, Lance Henriksen) and around by his unsuspecting kin.This following packs suspense, thriller and grisly terror with creepy killings. The chief excitement lies in watching what new and amazing can be dreamt by the believable special effects. Damien seem to dispatch new weird killing every few minutes of film.Sensationalistic terror pieces when happen murders, like the crow, ice lagoon(the best), train and elevator with gore and decapitations included.For those who like that kind of things to be amused. It's all frightening entertaining and effective, if predictable but we have seen the former classic movie but also its predictability is redeemed in part by the charismatic acting of enjoyable casting and all around. Cool cinematography by Bill Butler(Jaws) and again impressive musical score by Jerry Goldsmith(Planet of apes) with soundtrack-alike the first part , winner a deserved Academy Award.Although redundant to original movie is a fitting rendition by director Don Taylor(previously a famed actor) who took over the film-making when Michael Hodges (screenplay's author, alongside Stanley Mann) left. Followed by two inferior sequels, the third(Final conflict) with Sam Neil and directed by Grahame Baker and the fourth for television(The awakening) with Faye Grant and directed by Jorge Montesi. For addicts terror genre and followers to hit Damien saga. "},{"Title":"Decent Sequel (Believe it or not!)","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I can't say that this is my favorite sequel, in fact, it's probably my least favorite, but it's still a strong sequel, which you don't run in to very often.This second installment involves Damien's realization of his power, as well as his well-improved ability to destroy humanity. Once again, he is brought upon by politics, and once again, he wreaks havoc on his family until he inherits all into his own will.He's far stronger and smarter, (obviously, given his increased age), and he is also far more deceiving. The Omen series doesn't exactly improve here. In fact, it doesn't really go anywhere. It's basically the same storyline as the original, but again, it's just as well-done as the first. There may be a few flaws, as expected, but it's all worth it. "}{"Title":"The Strongest Damien character ever","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is more about Damien instead of the omen, and that is great because in the 1st one Damien Thorn just was there, he didn't do anything, the story was around him, not about himIn this movie Damien becomes more powerful as a character, even more than The omen IIIYou will see not only a horror movie, is a conflict in Damien about accepting his fate. Damien will become evil but need to leave the last human feelings that he has like friendships and good intentions. an awesome movie also the final picture of the movie say everything by itself. Transformation complete "},{"Title":"The Omen Redone","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Damien The Omen II is essentially the same plot line as the original movie. In this one, Damien, after having his family die in the original, has come to live with his uncle and his family. This includes the uncle's second wife and his cousin, Mark. Eventually, after essentially everyone else is dead, and after multiple warnings, the uncle realizes what Damien is and that he must kill him. Much like the first movie, it becomes a race against time to see if Damien can be stopped.Basically, this movie is exactly the same as the original. All that is missing here is the fact that there is no question as to what Damien is, and now Damien is aware of what his purpose is. The big difference in this movie is that to anyone watching, it should be obvious something is wrong with Damien. Literally any person who questions him ends up dead, almost always right after they do the questioning. Also, by the time this movie ends, Damien has pretty much taken out his entire family. While not a bad movie per se, this sequel is weak as compared to its predecessor. "},{"Title":"This movie has its ducks in a row...","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ...and proceeds to knock them off one by one.  The question is never WHO is going to die, but HOW.  I saw this as a first-run film in '78 and still have the same reaction now as I did then  just a string of somewhat creative ways to kill a bunch of people by accident.  It didn't scare me then, and it doesn't now.  The one death I rather like, however, is the elevator scene. "},{"Title":"It's impossible to spoil this one.","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Spoilers? Can't be done. Damien the AntiChrist boy hits puberty. People he doesn't like die. The movie ends. There are no plot twists to give away the whole thing is as formulaic as an infomercial, and not nearly as entertaining. This is one of those bad movies that couldn't even be made into a decent episode of MST3K.You gotta feel for William Holden, who made this just two years after the career comeback of a lifetime in Network. He's too much of a professional not to try, but he has nothing to try with.All of the factors that made the The Omen work are missing here, especially the cinematography, which is flat and unappealing. Save yourself the rental fee and catch a Golden Girls marathon on cable instead it will be three times as interesting as this muddled mess. "},{"Title":"Terrible sequel to a good movie (may contain spoilers)","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was bad.  This movie takes off where The Omen left off.  Damien is now an orphan and he is now living with his aunt and uncle and cousin and is attending a military school.  There are still strange things that happen as Damien passes by but not as creepy.  The stupidest parts of the film was in the military school during an argument between Damien and another schoolmate.  As well as Damien getting back at whoever gets in his way as he learns more and more of his powers.  After awhile, Damien acts more like a spoiled child with a temper tantrum that The Antichrist.  I found this film to be long and boring and nothing like the original. "},{"Title":"What a piece of garbage","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I wasn't that fond of The Omen, but I can't say it was terrible. I've seen a lot of bad movies in my time, but this one takes the cake. The movie is just more violent and grisly ways to kill people, William Holden being a bad actor instead of a good actor and William Holden trying to find out what the hell is wrong with his brother's son.(Pun intended)Damien's mother wasn't killed for nothing. Damien's father didn't try to kill him for nothing. Maybe Peck should have just stabbed him already and saved us the trouble of seeing this piece of garbage sequel. What I hate the most in this movie is the end. It took the idiot the whole movie to finally figure out his nephew was something out of hell and you would think he'd get the job done and not stall like his idiot brother in the first Omen. But of course by the time he's on to Damien it's too late and he, along with his wife, ends up just like the first couple. In such a stupid way too. Spoiler. Damien makes his aunt stab his uncle and then blows her up and walks out of the building. Wow what a great movie. Can I have my money back. 2 questions. Why was this movie made? Why where four Omen movies made? Where people dumb enough to keep going to see them. I could see the draw for a sequel. Especially a sequel to a big hit like The Omen. But you people can't always be fooled. Just watch the first Omen and stay away from this stupid movie. By the time you get to Omen 4 it'll already have gotten worse. Stay away. They get worse and worse as the series goes on. Stay away.  "},{"Title":"Bad sequel","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Come on, this was hilarious. It was like Final Destination with a Christian Chorus soundtrack. People must have liked The Omen so much that they asked for an improved one, with more killings and explosions.This time there are no Rotweillers, but there are crows. They are just as evil as their canine counterparts, but they only star in the first part of the movie. The second is full of human devil acolytes, protecting and grooming Damien.This story has the seed of a good movie, because you have a child that is the son of the devil, but also he is the loved (and loving) child of the families that raised him. The inner conflict and powerful struggle that could have been portrayed here are reduced to a single scene when the boy realizes who he is and cries Why me?. Afterwards he's totally OK with it.And in this part all kind of people die in the most imaginative ways. People that didn't need to die, were less than a threat and were really ridiculous. I mean, you have your basic two sides, good versus evil; the good ones are represented by hysterical people talking gibberish and immediately dismissed as total lunatics; the bad ones have cunning men and women, infiltrated in all relevant positions, and they have dogs and crows on their side. Tough choice, isn't it? Hysterical lunatics or nature loving people in positions of power... )Anyway, compared with the first movie, it is crap. And to think I had so fond memories of this film from my childhood. "},{"Title":"It commits the sin of boredom","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I didn't mind the first Omen picture.  Despite the flaws in internal logic, (why is it that Satan can only kill the people who spill their guts about Damien after they've blabbed?).  It's also worth watching Billie Whitelaw and Gregory Peck in damn near anything.Damien Omen II is a terrible drag by contrast.  Every five minutes someone finds out that Damien is the Anti-Christ, then dies in some messy way.  It takes William Holden's character an incredible amount of time to notice the corpses piling up around the teen ager, (during which we have to go through the irritating I'm Trying to Convince You scenes that are standard issue in these kinds of movies.  They always end with something like, If you don't do something, I will.  The character uttering this line has to die, of course).  By the time he gets religion it is so obviously too late that the ending is a fait accompli.It would have been more interesting if they'd stuck to something the script gestured towards for a second.  Damien finds out he's the Anti-Christ and that he's destined to do all sorts of horrible things and he runs screaming, terrified of what prophecy demands he become.  It would have been an ironic twist if Damien were a good person who discovered that it was his ultimate, irresistible fate to be evil.  That conflict could have had real drama and a meaning beyond the slaughter.Instead, Damien went and committed the worst movie sin; the sin of boredom. "},{"Title":"A failure on many levels.","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *Minor spoilers, maybe*First of all, I have no allegiance to the original movie.  I thought it was at worst fairly competent and at best pretty entertaining.That being said, the way that this movie absolutely tarnished the legacy of the first one, and the legacy of movie making as a whole, is very unfortunate.  Gone is the mystery and the flavor of the first one, replaced with a by-the-numbers plot and laughable death scenes.Yes, why don't we talk a bit about those death scenes?  Supremely awful.  In THE OMEN, the death scenes were sporadic (at least until the end) and actually meant something.  There were really only two (the Priest and Nanny) before the the very last part of the movie.  The Nanny suicide was strange and the justification behind it was not clear.  The priest's death was a bit more ridiculous, but there was at least a mild buildup for it.In THE OMEN II, it follows this pattern 1. Introduce character(s) 2. Have them realize Damien is the antichrist (and this is not even followed in a few cases) 3. Kill them, quickly.Now, I'm being purposely glib about my description, but it really isn't much more than that.  A doctor is introduced to the story through his discovery of Damien's apparent invulnerability.  Two minutes later, he's killed by a falling elevator in a scene so predictable that even children in the audience were sighing (or cringing).  The deaths just keep coming and coming, as a substitute, I believe for an actual compelling story.The story, what there is of it, is essentially the same as the first film, with a little more leeway given to Damien to make evil looks.  Like his brother, Damien's uncle takes until the very end of the film to realize that something is amiss and he comes to this decision based on practically no evidence -- as opposed to Gregory Peck, who scurried about the European countryside in search of the truth about the boy and who DIDN'T have multiple people instructing him on the reality of the situation.We get three evil helpers and a crow in this movie, instead of one evil nanny and a dog (aided my multiple dogs, later) in the first.  And although all that evil might sound infatuating initially, it's quickly evident that more evil does not equal more complexity.  The movie doesn't even make more than a token effort to allude to the allegiances of these characters -- although no doubt the progressives among us applaud the distinction of the very ardent capitalist and pro-globalization thug as aligned with evil.  But that's not enough to make up for the rest of the film.In summary, this film has all the heart and depth of a Friday the 13th sequel (perhaps excepting the fourth installment).  It's really not much more of a slasher flick, with the slasher being very unfortunate coincidences and timing.  Stick with THE OMEN and stick DAMIEN OMEN II where it belongs in movie hell, with the devil itself. "},{"Title":"Lacks the intelligence and originality that made the first film so good.","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  DAMIEN OMEN II (1978)THE GOOD--There is some good suspense sequences in this film. I loved the death under the ice (goddamn that would be a horrible way to die), the birds attacking the reporter and the intense murder of Mark by Damien.--Jonathan Scott-Taylor's performance in this film is great. At the start I had my doubts about his performance but as the movie went on he became more and more entertaining to watch. I really bought his performance as Damien - it felt very real and it seemed to me like I was watching the real Antichrist unfold in front of my eyes.--The score, just like it was in the first film, is terrific, memorable and thrilling.THE BAD--Aside from the strong first half, this movie is basically a stale rehash of the original after a while. We get the daggers, the warning person (the reporter this time) and that same wall thing we got last time. It makes the film seem like they had no ideas for a second movie, which makes me how the hell they're gonna come up with a good idea for the third film.--This movie is WAY too repetitive. It feels like a slasher after a short while - its death, funeral/grieving, death, funeral/grieving.repeat until ANNOYED. What happened to the infrequent yet shocking and brilliant deaths of the first film, and the interesting storyline we got in the first film?--The characters aren't very well established (I forgot who was who numerous times) and I wasn't really interested in them as people and didn't really give a crap if they died or not.--What the hell was up with that stupid subplot with the Uncle's business? That had no place in the movie. We get so many scenes and conversations discussing that business and how it's gonna change the world and stuff and it doesn't amount to anything or have even any place in this movie at all.--Damien's character is really uneven and it was so frustrating. One minute he's this stand-up young gentlemen, then a blood thirsty little Antichrist brat, and then he's back to being that wonderful cadet in the military, and then he's back on the bratness. Did this piss anyone else off? In the first movie he was pure evil, but it seemed like in this one the writer tried to develop the character's grief and understanding of his life whilst at the same time continuing the run of evil Damien. Though I did enjoy the performance by Scott-Taylor as previously mentioned.RATING5/10 - Damien Omen II lacks the originality and intelligence that made the first film such a hit.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDThe Exorcist (9/10) Final Destination (8/10) Final Destination 2 (7/10) The Omen (8/10) Stigmata (6/10) "}{"Title":"Unreal, but never false.","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" From Lee Grant to Lance Henricksen, the acting in this film is remarkable. It's really a pleasure when professionals like this take their work seriously, even in the unfairly maligned horror genre, and don't look upon it as just an easy paycheck.There are three levels of horror in Damien Omen II. First of all, the scary images. You don't take your eyes off the film and yet you want to close your eyes, as the blood flows in gobbets. (There is also a raven that can put you off all members of the crow family for life.)The second dimension is internal, as the characters try to come to terms with what is happening around them. A stupendous cast of some of Hollywood's finest, most serious actors deliver really good performances -- it's just amazing watching them. The third dimension is supernatural, metaphysical, religious. There's no getting around it. The film is about the Anti-Christ, and you better freshen up on your theology. (Even Old Beezelbub's son gets to carrying around a Bible in this movie to do a little inventory of sins and wickedness.)Add Jerry Goldsmith's truly wonderful score and you've got a genre flick that's really a major motion picture. "},{"Title":"Quite Good","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Robert Thorn and family are now gone as Damien is now being raised by his Uncle Richard (the brother of Robert) and wife Anne with his cousin Mark.Sent off to a military academy where they have family ties, Damien starts to notice strange things happening to him and others. First, he stares at a kid who later goes haywire. Next, he knows all the dates his history teacher gives him the names of events to and from there it gets stranger and stranger as he now comes into his power.What I liked about the first film was the journey. Robert didn't believe that his son could be of all the AntiChrist. He followed a trail that closed behind him until the final scene and finish Richard however, shows the business side of the Thorn family as well as people trying to warn Richard that the fate of his brother could be his soon. It's a race against time to find if he could succeed where his brother failed.With a lot of great scenery, brightness, good acting, I actually like their voices for the era they're filming in (late 1970s) and the story as well as the music which was a strong feature of the first. This one ramps up the kills which are inventive and strange enough to warrant attention. The sequel does seem to leave out some of the calculated trail of the first then speeds up to catch up. I give this film an 8 because it's well done, sleek and modern for its time while also having a bit of nostalgia It's a great film to get lost in if you want to be delighted and terrified at the same time "},{"Title":"Entertaining sequel to a classic","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sent off to a military school by his uncle, a teen comes to learn that his past includes his secret as the Antichrist and sets off learning his newfound powers while those around him try to curtail the rise of his destiny.This is quite a decent effort that does entertain on its' own but does fall flat against the original. One of the better elements is the fact that there's a much more impressive sense of grandeur than expected here in regards to the intense action throughout here, as there's much more here than initially expecting along the film. There's a fine energy here from the film's big action scenes such as the opening crypt burial with the two professors or the highway attack with the crow on the reporter which helps this one move along at a much brisker pace as these big energy scenes come along at a far greater rate in this one. For the most part, this greater influx of scenes also allows this one to pack in much more gruesome and graphic deaths with a much larger body count to work with getting that extra play by really upping the ante here with some rather spectacular kills which is what really gives this one some good moments with here. This spectacular sense, though, highlights the first of the film's flaws here in the fact that the film opts for the grand showcase rather than the realistic throughout here. The fact that this one goes for that grandiose sense of spectacular kills and action scenes really tends to throw the sense of logic and reason found in the original which loses the tense and scares there so it has fun and exciting scenes rather than chilling. The sense of atmosphere it featured is dropped off for a conflicting attitude which is quite disastrous to this one as it seems to conflict with the ominous tone from the storyline about the dawning of his legacy. This also brings up the other big flaw here about this one which is the lacksidaiscal plot pace here which doesn't really move along all that quickly so the spectacle comes off really forced in even more obviously against the storyline pace as it meanders along providing the opposite reaction intended against the stellar action by taking so long as it does to get the truth out. The last part here that doesn't really hold up is the finale which comes in really rushed and seems designed to set-up the next film rather than actually conclusively ending this one. Otherwise, it's a decent enough effort.Rated R Graphic Violence and Language. "},{"Title":"Damien's initial horror as to his destiny transforms him into the future of the world's destruction.","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Several years have passed since Damien's parents have died, and he is now in military school, living with his father's brother (William Holden) and his wife (Lee Grant). He's a seemingly spoiled teenager whose great-aunt Marion (Sylvia Sidney) knows immediately upon sight that something is wrong. Where there's evil, there are ravens, and Sidney pays for her suspicions immediately. So do others who stand in the way of Damien's destiny, including a schoolmate, the head of the military school (Dr. Kildare's Lew Ayres) and several others who pop in to expose the continuing evil that started long before Damien's parents demise. Jonathan Scott-Taylor has taken over the role of the aging Damien, and as his knowledge of his destiny takes affect, his initial despair disappears and the evil grows.While a follow-up to The Omen seemed as obvious as the real Anti-Christ's entrance into our world, it may have been untimely due to the failure of The Heretic Exorcist II from the previous year. Damien Omen II isn't nearly as bad as that disaster, but it does suffer a bit in comparison. Some of the horrors which occur are almost identical to those from the first film, and still, Damien is on the outside, looking in, even though he is certainly more evil than the infant version of the character. His evils seem to be things he can't control, like an inner part of that child is fighting to prevent himself from committing them, yet his destiny won't allow him to. Lance Henriksen takes over where Billie Whitelaw left off as Satan's emissary guiding Damien towards his destiny, providing an equal level of creepiness and giving indication that not all military leaders have world peace on the top of their agenda.Old Hollywood is highly represented here, with the presence of Holden, Grant, Sidney and Ayres, and that element alone gives this a slight touch of class in spite of the dark subject matter. 1978 was a spooky year for teenaged boys with 13 year old Hitler clones roaming around the world in The Boys From Brazil. The structure of the first film remains intact, presenting this story not as a glorification of the on-slaught of a desire for evil leaders to take over the ruling of the world, but as a warning of what might occur in our lifetime should the book of Revelations be proved true. "},{"Title":"The Strain of Sequeling Shows","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Damien Thorn in now a teenager, coming of age and learning what it means to be the spawn of Satan and his godless place in our world. While his deciples carefully guide him towards his destiny, his powerful family struggles to uncover the truth behind a series of tragedies claiming their lives; one by one. Damien Omen II is a pretty good movie. Not a classic in and of itself but part of a classic series and certainly worth a look for genre addicts. Jerry Goldsmith who earned an Oscar for his work on The Omen returns with a largely redesigned soundtrack that's uncommonly effective. The first film was gorgeous and atmospheric. Omen II has a tacky, new money look and feel to it. Everything is too clean and brightly lit for my tastes but some of the 'kills' are quite effective anyway. Followed by The Final Conflict. "},{"Title":"The Boy Has Got To Die!","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sequels usually are an area of some controversy and this is so with any film genre -- not just Seventies horror!'Halloween' (1978) and 'Jaws' (1975) were ground-breaking, but their sequels seem to be largely neglected and only occasionally honoured in their own right.And so it is with 'Damien Omen II' (1978). Some disregard it entirely and move straight on to 'The Final Conflict'; others adore it, sometimes even more so than Richard Donner's original film.I love it on a par with Donner's film, but I admit that, whilst he was away trying to make audiences believe that a man could fly, his presence was sorely missed.Overall, the film is a great horror sequel and an entertaining one at that.It takes the view that Damien Thorn is the Antichrist and charts his rise to power as he establishes himself further within the Thorn family, hoping to inherit a global conglomerate controlled by his adoptive uncle, Richard (William Holden). Although this loses the mystique of whether Robert Thorn was right or actually a raving lunatic taken in by the doubts that he had regarding Damien and the lie that he had fed his wife, to be honest, how else would a sequel to 'The Omen' have been crafted? Not all the Thorns could have been that insane or deluded!!There's a great cast here, with Holden embarking on his only horror film and leaving behind a memorable performance for posterity, whilst he is joined by the incredible Lee Grant as his wife, Ann. I saw Grant for the first time in this movie and only later discovered her performances in 'Columbo Ransom for a Dead Man' (1971) and 'Airport '77' (1977). She's a great actress in all, but this is the performance I remember the most. If you see or have seen this film, you'll probably understand why!Supporting cast members are also memorable, including Sylvia Sidney, Lew Ayres, a young Lance Henriksen, and the always sly Robert Foxworth. The latter two are almost criminally underused characters, but they use their time well enough. Novelist, Gordon McGill even crafted a further two sequels after 'The Final Conflict' that, had they been adapted, would have given Foxworth much more screen presence to show what a great actor he is. Nicholas Pryor also deserves credit for his performance and British stalwarts, Leo McKern and Ian Hendry also get cameos.And Jonathan Scott-Taylor is great as Damien, too! He grabs a few scenes that lend the character some inner conflict and even perfects his own icy 'Omen' stare as he starts to come into his powers. It's just a shame that the planned 1979 second sequel to 'The Omen' starring Scott-Taylor didn't go ahead, as there is too much empty time in Damien's life between this and the next film!Although it was implied in the first film that he was possibly aware of his demonic lineage and that he may be adopted by the President of the United States, these are not really big things that leave you wondering what happened here, then? Even though William Holden/Richard Thorn wasn't in the original, who cares? 'The Omen' was meant to be a one-off and accidentally led to sequels. Plus, as 'The Final Conflict' shows, Damien was far more effective and enjoyable when he did have parents running around trying to stab him!!But the film is cheesy. Elizabeth Shepherd's British journalist arriving in a terrible, gaudy red coat practically shouts it at you This is a film that isn't being taken quite as seriously as the last one. And that's it - this film is fun! It wasn't intended to be 'Haha' funny (despite some of the performances) but, when compared to the overbearingly grim 'The Final Conflict' and the deadly serious 'The Omen', this film has a real pace to it, particularly when Richard Thorn starts to realise that he can no longer ignore the omens surrounding him. Things just happen and you go along with them. It's like Marmite -- you either love it or you don't!Naturally, to compete with 'The Omen' and David Warner's classic end in that film, there is a whole spate of memorable death sequences here that are fun and, sometimes, quite chilling as well... You can see them coming -- but, again, who cares?Picture quality has improved a bit since 'The Omen', but largely due to the increased budget resulting from that film's success. There are more special effects, more family drama scenes, more Damien... It really complies with those three 'Scream' rules for a horror sequel, really more, more, more!And, on that note, be prepared to enjoy another musical contribution from Jerry Goldsmith. Although he didn't shoot to Oscar fame with this 'Omen' score (or its more lyrical successor, either), Goldsmith delivers racy, thrill-ride compositions, with a maximum of one pleasant interlude, a handsome amount of eerie uncertainty and foreboding, and a lot of that famous 'Ave Satani' returning, albeit in an altered form. It is clear that he was having fun tinkering with a set formula that he helped to create!There is some quite beautiful location work, this time set in Chicago, Illinois, Wisconsin and Israel.And, despite some confusion, if you're prepared to look hard enough for it, there is actually quite a decent chunk of plot involving Thorn Industries, Damien's rise to power and the interaction of the Thorn family and those surrounding it, as well as the usual contextual Biblical references. There are plot holes and strained plot lines, but films like this are still rather fun!Finally, to dispel popular myth, there is actually a church in this sequel...see if you can spot it!! "},{"Title":"Son Of A Jackal","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When I first saw the phenomenally popular, satanic thriller The Omen, it was 28 years after its 1976 release, and I do believe that I may have been the last person in North America to see it for the first time. The movie knocked me out, as it does most people, but somehow, it has taken me another eight years to catch up with the film's sequel, Damien Omen II, which was released two years after the first. The second film of an eventual trilogy (part 3, The Final Conflict, came out in 1981), it does what all good sequels should do; namely, it expands on the themes of the original, advances the story line in an intelligent manner, and leaves the viewer wanting even more. The film ups the murderous violence of the initial entry considerably (there are 10 imaginative and stunning diabolic homicide sequences in this film, as opposed to five in the first), and if it is by necessity a tad less original in concept than its predecessor, yet remains an unqualified success.The sequel picks up only a week after the events of The Omen, with archaeologists Bugenhagen and Morgan (uncredited turns by Leo McKern and Ian Hendry, respectively, McKern being the only returning actor from the original film) becoming trapped in a cave-in whilst examining some incriminating ruins in Israel. The film then flash forwards seven years, to catch up with the doings of our favorite little Antichrist, Damien Thorn. When we last saw the lad, he had survived a murder attempt by his own savvy father, played by Gregory Peck. Now 13, Damien lives with his wealthy industrialist uncle, Richard Thorn (played by William Holden), his stepmother Ann (Lee Grant) and his cousin Mark (Lucas Donat). At this point, Damien is completely unaware of his satanic pedigree and of the 666 number of the beast that is branded on his own scalp. But all that changes, when he and Mark go off to a nearby military academy and become cadets. And as the number of grisly deaths both in the Thorn family and surrounding it escalates, Richard, like his brother before him, comes slowly to the realization that cute little Damien must die....As in the first film, Damien Omen II is given great gravitas, dramatic heft and credibility by dint of the terrific cast of seasoned pros that has been mustered to put the conceit across. Peck and Lee Remick worked wonders in the original picture, and here, Golden Age Hollywood stars Holden, Lew Ayres (playing Holden's business partner, in his final screen appearance) and Sylvia Sidney (aka The Face of the Depression, here playing Holden's Aunt Marion) perform the same office. They are more than ably abetted by Grant (another Lee playing the senior Thorn's wife), Allan Arbus (aka Dr. Sidney Friedman on TV's M*A*S*H), Meshach Taylor (in his first film, and eight years before achieving fame on TV's Designing Women), Lance Henriksen (as a very mysteriously motivated drill sergeant at Damien's academy) and Robert Foxworth (as a very mysteriously motivated executive at Thorn Enterprises). And then there is 16-year-old Jonathan Scott-Taylor, who does a marvelous job with his difficult lead role. Helping to put the film over is the very assured direction by Don Taylor, the imaginative lensing of DOP Bill Butler (I love the first shot of Damien that he gives us, with his face superimposed by the flames of a burning pile of leaves), and the freaky-sounding Latinate choral effects provided by Jerry Goldsmith. Shot in large part at Lake Geneva and Eagle River in Wisconsin, the film has a wintry beauty that must have looked very impressive on the large screen. The picture is well paced and consistently suspenseful, and those 10 gruesome homicide sequences (by cave-in, induced coronary, crow attack, drowning under a frozen lake, a chemical factory disaster, an elevator accident, the rupturing of a cranial artery, a runaway train car, by dagger and by fiery immolation) are all brilliantly staged and fairly horrifying. The film certainly does leave us with unanswered questions, mainly regarding the actions of the Henriksen and Foxworth characters, and of course as to the destiny of the 13-year-old Antichrist. Guess we'll have to proceed on to the 1981 film and hope for some devilish explication.... (Oh...and on a side note, I hope all IMDb readers will forgive me for writing this short piece on the Antichrist on Christmas Day, of all days!) "},{"Title":"Not a bad sequel, but OMEN was the best!","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Isaw this in the theatre 2 years after I had seen the first one, which was a MUCH better film. But this was okay - new characters, new deaths,new devilishness... One word of concern anyone expecting the surprises of the first OMEN, is sadly mistaken. In this one, sure you'll see some guy get cut in half by an elevator cable, a gal getting her eyes chipped out by a crazed Raven, and yet another guy clipped together by two roving trains.....all in a day's work, in Damien's world! Right? But no one seems to know of Damien's evil nature. It's not until the end that the step-mother understands and accepts Damien for who he is - and wants to join him in Hellion/Oblivion! What a film! ****** - yea, it's worth a rental! A 6 out of 10 !!!! "},{"Title":"Not As Good As The Original, But A Good Film","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It is hard to explain how I feel about this movie. I find it very enjoyable indeed, but at the same time I feel that it is average at best. The main thing to think about when watching this movie, is not to expect it to be as good or even to come close as being as good as the original. The original is a classic, so you just have to tell yourself that the sequel probably isn't going to beat it out. Then, you should be alright when watching it.The film was made two years after the first film, but I believe that it is suppose to take place much further ahead in time, because Damien looks to be around age fourteen or fifteen. Damien, now a teenager, is living with his aunt and uncle. Damien and his cousin go to military school. Damien is a good kid, but he can not figure out why he is so smart, and knows things that he was never taught. But, as soon as Damien learns who he really is, he begins getting more evil with each passing day.A very good film, and a must see for all fans of the original. Just remember, it is not near as good. "},{"Title":"Wasted Potential","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I found this movie in the bargain bin of a video store. Having seen the original film just a few years ago, and been impressed by its power, I decided to watch the next chapter in the life of Damien, the boy who is the Antichrist.And with an older Damien, now 12, this sequel starts with a greater potential than the original film. What powers and limitations would a 12 year old Antichrist have? Would he try to stand out or blend in? What would he be doing now to prepare for the great confrontation ahead?Alas, the film doesn't try to ask or answer any interesting questions. Instead, the various people who have suspicions about Damien, or even whose basic decency is just considered a hindrance to evil, are simply knocked off. This is, of course, a less-than-brilliant strategy since each death just convinces more survivors that Damien is very bad news indeed. The power of the Antichrist is supposed to come from the ability to deceive and manipulate people by the millions, not send a crow to kill someone.So the film's focus is on finding creative ways for people to die. And some of the ways people die in this film are creative. There are some chills in the film, and although other reviewers obviously disagree, I thought the acting was quite capable. But with one killing after another leading really nowhere, the movie is more like a slasher flick than a supernatural suspense film. Damien Omen II is good by the standards of slasher films, but it could have and should have been much more.  "}{"Title":" Religious horror meets American suburbia.","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Completely on a whim, I rented  The Omen., which to my surprise, I liked. Alas, what made that movie great is diminished in the sequel. In focusing the story around Damien, we are presented with a All-American boy at a military academy, who happens to be a history whiz;in one scene, Damien is talking to two girls.  Also, it is surprising that Damien,who cringed in fear at the sight of a church in the first film, can read the Holy Bible without a grimace. I was impressed by the use of a raven as Damien's familar, as they call it, thus preventing anyone from suspecting for the sinister deaths. I think this sequel was built around William Holden, explaining Thorn Industries since he is known for playing tough gentlemen( via Network.)Despite some of its faults, this film does deliver some good chills.  "},{"Title":"alternate version...1978 TV trailer","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A 1978 tv trailer promised the return of LEE REMICK and a series of suplot invovling england and the young years of thorn. The trailer also promised a subplot where thorn is held hostage by a hitwoman from the papal assasination squad out to kill him before he can fulfill prophecy. This wa sa interesting trailer to say the least....complete with tag line.... for a limited time only... "},{"Title":"altertnate end....syndication version 1978-1989","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In a alternate version to two. A alternate end has been show preparing the way for omen 3. This features a full grown damien walking into a church in wisconsin. This age progression done for the sake of the final film. This version has not been seen since the 1980's on tv. As a frame of refrence many films did this including GODFATHER...added footage was filmed or added to fill in plot holes for films. Some footage was illegally filmed....a knock off of sorts. This is probably not the case in this version. Some media reports which may not be accurate reported omen 2 was briefly pulled out of circulation then put back in with the remick footage. "},{"Title":"Not quite as good as the first one.  And isn't that scary.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well after wasting 3 months renting this movie from a certain online rental site, I finally had time to watch it today.  Being a rather odd movie nut, I didn't really wanna watch any of my newly bought dvd's today.This movie is still better and perhaps scarier than The Exorcist.  But pale's in comparison to The Omen.  It doesn't have the suspense as the first one did.Spoilers?Heck, the parents or guardians this time round are left in the dark until the last 20 minutes of the movie.  Where somehow they managed to do alot with those 20 minutes that they couldn't do with the rest of the movie. And whats this about Damien not believing he's 666?  He certainly figured it out in the first movie.However I thought the actor who played Damien to be well suited for the role.  And it's a good bit of awkwardness when he kills his step brother.. that he does so without causing much violence. I can say without a doubt that I'll keep watching this series to The Omen III.5/10Quality 4/10 Entertainment 7/10 Replayable 2/10 "},{"Title":"Wish the producer would have warmed up first on DVD track","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I so enjoyed the DVD of OMEN that I couldn't wait to get OMEN II and hear the audio commentary that accompanies the film.  How disappointed I was to hear Harvey Bernard, one of my favorite producers, stumble through his recollections, not being able to remember locations or names of players. These guys should browse through one of the studio presskits and have these names and locations readily available.  They should look at the movie once or twice before sitting down in the DVD lab and give us some memorable stuff - that's what we like about DVD's.  Recommend you rent this one and own only the first on disc. "},{"Title":"Despite being an unworthy sequel, Omen II is still watchable, entertaining hokum.","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    Yes, let it be known, Damien Omen II is an unworthy sequel to the 1976 Richard Donner/David Seltzer scarefest The Omen. Mainly it's because the story itself is a coming-of-age tale of the teenage anti-christ in a military school in Chicago, nothing more. Writer David Seltzer has admitted that he didn't want to whip up a sequel to his eerie original, but he did offer to the heads of 20th Century Fox the idea of creating a starting point for the second.  The idea was nixed and producer Harvey Bernhard was left to cook up a story kernel for part II. Berhard initially wanted the boy of the beast to be the age of 18, yet studio heads killed the idea and hired others to bring the age down to 13, an idea Bernhard didn't like at all. In fact, Bernhard didn't like many of the ideas for the picture, but did hire William Holden, an actor who had passed on the role of Robert Thorn from the first film (eventually played by Gregory Peck) and his Stalag 13 co-star Don Taylor to direct (who ended up replacing first choice, Mike Hodges, the movie's screenwriter).  Anyhow, the picture ended up being tortured by critics, calling the movie predictable and unscary. However, when seen under its own light, Damien Omen II isn't really all that bad. Sure, the picture doesn't live up to the Omen I, but few sequels live up to their predecessors. Omen II features Damien (a campy, not scary Johnathan Taylor) living with his rich uncle and aunt (William Holden and Lee Grant, both good) at their lush home in Chicago, IL. The movie goes onto to show the viewers that whoever knows the identity of the beast will be destroyed in the most inhumane act possible (a formula for all the Omen films).  The movie is corny, silly and predictable, yet Taylor gives us a quasi-entertaining picture with over-the-top scenes and performances. Damien Omen II doesn't rank as high as the first in the scare factor, but it ranks up with the same star rating, 2 1/2 stars out of 4.          "},{"Title":"the alternate version OMEN 2","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This version featured a tunnel system bathed in bluish red light and featured the exploration of this system with damien, a female friend and another kid. These films symbolic in nature, were popular yet, varied from the bible to reflect new age and satanist versions of the rise of antichrist. This version of the film also had some footage shot in england. The tunnel sequences were possibly a refrence to the stonemason era of the great awakening and occultism and occult kill cults. A fascinating story arch in the film which enhanced the story and appeal of the film. This made the film more than just a film about people finding out who he is and then he kills them. The tunnel sequences featured damien and his friends exploring the tunnels by torch light etc. "},{"Title":"Extremely weak sequel with a couple of disturbing scenes","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first Omen film (1976) was a dark, disturbing and often convincing gothic horror that rose above its own self-consciousness and dumbness to become a minor classic. This sequel, however, is right up there with Death Wish II (1982) on the Worst Sequels Of All Time register. As with the Bronson monstrosity, the 'II' in Omen II means twice the gore, twice the deaths, twice the attempts at shocking and upsetting the audience, and a script that's twice as trite as the typical schoolkid's creative English essay. SPOILERS...there are a couple (three, actually) of disturbing scenes in this film, but there is just so much garbage and pathetic dialogue surrounding them, you might want to walk out before they actually occur. Firstly, a female journalist gets her eyes pecked out by the malevolent crow. This is an extremely gut-churning scene, especially for anyone who gets nervous just applying eye-drops or putting their contact lenses in. But then the director just goes for broke and has the blinded woman crushed by the mother of all trucks. On a deserted highway in the middle of nowhere. Yes, subtlety is not this movie's strong point. The second horrifying scene that sticks in my mind has that fine actor Lew Ayres (who looks just as stranded and befuddled in this mess as the equally talented Holden) drowning beneath the ice on a frozen lake. The scene is very well shot and edited, and it'll certainly make you think twice about breaking out the skates next time your local park's boating lake freezes over. Finally, there's the doctor who gets sliced in two following a scary incident in a malfunctioning elevator. Again, this scene makes you jump and cringe, but it's nowhere nearly as impressive as the David Warner decapitation bit in the first film.That's really all this unconvincing sequel has to offer. You'll laugh at Mark's brain aneurysm scene, callous as that sounds, because it looks to me like the poor boy was listening to some Limp Bizkit on his Walkman when some trickster decided to crank the volume to eleven. And the film doesn't even look like a horror flick - it's all shot with flat, garish lighting, like a TV sitcom, and the photography is similarly devoid of light, shadow and character. Also, if Damien has been conspicuously free of any illnesses or ailments all his life, how come he has so many fillings in his teeth?Definitely one to avoid.  "},{"Title":"You would want to run to the restroom and never see this flick again","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Damien  Omen II is set seven years after the first film, and the second film has more death scenes than the first film.  The score by Jerry Goldsmith (well known for scoring Star Trek  The Motion Picture and Star Trek Voyager) is more up-tempo, as well as matching the death scenes.In the first Omen, a surrogate parent and an Exorcist-esque plot was incorporated, but in the second film, a black raven is the icon of evil, as well as the symbolism of Armageddon.  The scene with the raven attacking a stranded motorist (by having your brains and eyes picked) on a roadside is graphic, as well as drowning in cold water (Lew Ayres is the unlucky victim), being hacked in half in an elevator (Designing Women's and Mannequin's Meschach Taylor, as a doctor), and death by cardiac arrest (Sylvia Sidney of Mars Attacks! fame).  Too bad that Sylvia Sidney is a little senile in this film, unlike the sweet granny roles in Mars Attacks! and the short-lived reincarnation of Fantasy Island.The railroad scene is less graphic, where someone is rammed between two railroad cars, which makes the decapitation scene in the first film more graphic.  Anyone that gets into Damien's way seems to die, or suffer some unfortunate event, the same way that he has done to his parents in the first film.One character that would later excel in future films is Lance Henriksen, who portrays a military academy commandant, and this led to other roles in films and TV, as well as being on James Cameron's alumni list.  For William Holden fans, this was one of his films that is seldom overlooked, not counting the black comedy S.O.B.   "},{"Title":"A very good continuation of the Omen story","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This entertaining movie is a pretty good example of big budget mainstream horror. It is, of course, a sequel to The Omen; a film that had tapped into the 70's thirst for religious themed horror and had went on to be a big smash hit. Damien Omen II, perhaps unsurprisingly, doesn't have the originality of that first film but it maintains the story very well in my opinion. It's the one film in the franchise where the action has moved from the UK to the USA. It focuses on the now 13 year old antichrist Damien Thorn, who is being schooled in a military academy. It's also the part where he becomes aware of who he really is.In many ways its story arc follows quite close to the original template but with the addition of more frequent, inventive and gory death scenes involving the poor unfortunates who get too close to the truth. In effect, this movie plays out like a series of elaborate set-pieces strung together over a fairly basic plot-line. This isn't such a terrible thing though because these macabre moments are all really executed very well. In particular are three notable death sequences &#x96; on a deserted road a woman is attacked by a raven who pecks her eyes out, she is then finished off by being hit full force by a truck; a man is cut in half by a falling elevator cable; during a game of hockey on a frozen lake, the ice breaks and a man falls under resulting in the disturbing scenario where we see him helplessly floating just below the ice. These set-pieces, along with several others, constitute the highlight of the movie and they are all well-conceived and give the film its definite draw. Because the film is neither a beginning, nor an end to the story it allows this instalment to simply focus its attention on the macabre material in between and it's really not a bad thing.There are other interesting changes though, such as the use of the raven as the creature of the devil, I thought it was a better choice than the Rottweiler from the first movie and it was very well integrated into the story. The acting too is more than decent with the likes of William Holden basically taking on the role Gregory Peck filled in the first movie, while Jonathan Scott-Taylor looks right as Damien, his thin features can look cold and ominous but he is never cartoonishly evil, which was a good thing. He has one particularly memorable and original scene too where he knows the answer to every single question his history teacher throws at him. It's one of the less gruesome more subtly sinister moments that really stands out. Some things remain the same though and once again there is a really good score from Jerry Goldsmith. It's very dramatic with that ominous choir sound that is just perfect for this subject matter. "}{"Title":"The Omen II is the story of Damien Thorn 7 years after his father died trying to kill him.","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is actually my favorite installment in the Omen trilogy, though the first, starring Gregory Peck, was excellent as well. The Omen II- Damien, like its predecessor, scores a perfect 10 for casting. All of the actors are believable in their roles with newcomer Jonathan Scott Taylor (teenaged Damien) giving a particularly outstanding effort. The musical score was haunting and the plot very well done. The story unfolds seven years after Damien comes to live with his father's brother. It is here, he discovers and comes to terms with who he is and his destiny with all the angst, emotional turmoil and eventual acceptance the audience could imagine themselves facing. The plot flows easily, the story line makes sense and there are no loose ends left hanging. For a sequel, this one works and works well. Following a wildly successful original, The Omen, was a risky under taking. One usually expects a let down. You will not find one in The Omen II. In fact, so rare is it for a sequel to succeed as powerfully as this one, I can only think of one time where it happened. The Godfather II was as brilliant as The Godfather. That is how I feel about this movie. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Saga of Damian continues","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The movie was scary when it first came out. It continues on the story where people mysteriously gets killed around Damian Thorn. But now it looks rather tame compared to what are posted these days on the internet about what satanists are actually doing in society. The best part of the movie is its creepiness. The story is good, and so are the actors. It's part of the trilogy that put 666 and anti-Christ on to popular mythology. It was one of the best movie of this type at the time, and still holds its place as the movie that singles out anti-Christ as its main character. Thorn industry aren't so far off from what the likes of Monsanto and Halliburton are doing to our food, oil, and military industry. The movie was way ahead of its time in this sense.This in my opinion is the best of the Omen trilogy, and is recommended for viewing. "},{"Title":"great sequel to great predecessor","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" probably one of the best horror sequels ever. Jonathan Scott Taylor seemed born to play the teenage anti Christ. Oscar winners William Holden and Lee Grant bring class to their roles just like Peck and Remick did to the original but Jerry Golsmith delivers and even more chilling score that will make the hair on the back of your neck stand up and the death scenes couldn't have been better and more realistic and remember this is before cgi which if done today would probably look fake. It also delivers on the coming of age of the antichrist and (considering how business is today) makes a creepy point of what if one of America's largest corporations was to actually be controlled by Satan? Lacks the mystery of it's predecessor but clearly makes up for it with inventive death scenes and high standard production values. "},{"Title":"A good sequel to The Omen....","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I thought that DamienOmen 11 was a good sequel to the first film. The story is set seven years later, where 13-year-old Damien Thorn now is living with his Aunt, Uncle, and cousin in a suburb of Chicago, in the United States, and is discovering who he really is, and what he is destined to do. So he ends up going into the military academy. Damien is anxious to inherit everything what is his own from his farther. I found this horror film not to be nowhere near as good as the original Omen film. I though that it did not have the same kind of feel to it because there was not very much in the way of horror shown here. The film seemed to show more of the way that Damian has grown up into a teenager and how he is ready to face life as he is. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Rent all the Omen movies and get a clue...Damien is coming !","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" These are just some of the scenario's's that will happen. Wait till when Damien will arrive on planet earth in real time.Be thankful that you can watch it on TV, and or not experience it in real life ! For the moment....In the mean time read your bible and wear your necklace with the image of Jesus on it !Crank the volume on your TV and turn it up! The music and sound effects are chilling ! If you are with a group of people see who can scream the loudest during the most frightful scenes !This situation could happen anytime. A good movie to help one prepare for the Anti-Christ ! "},{"Title":"If You Liked The First One........................................","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Damien Omen II gets five stars because of the superb quality of the cast that director Don Taylor guided through this sequel which made almost as much money as the original Omen did. That cast however was better able to play the thing straight.Director Don Taylor and William Holden were old friends from Parmount where Taylor had the part of the rich boy flier that Holden busts out of Stalag 17 with. I wonder if the two of them ever sat down and reminisced about the good old days in that Billy Wilder classic?One of the few members of the original Omen cast left alive was Leo McKern who played a crazy archaeologist who has discovered young Damien's secret. Never mind, he's dealt with quite expeditiously in the first 15 minutes.Too late to warn William Holden who is the brother of the late Gregory Peck from the first film who has now taken guardianship of the devil's spawn. He and wife Lee Grant are raising both Damien and Holden's son by a first marriage. But that's in name only because young Damien has lots of folks looking after him. As in the first Omen film, all kinds of people go to meet their Maker in a variety of bizarre ways. I will say the film does not lack for imagination that way. My favorite is Meshach Taylor and that particularly gruesome demise in an elevator.Damien also is told to read the book of Revelations to find out about himself while he's at military school. This is where I have a problem with the film and all films of this nature. If he reads the thing he knows he doesn't come out on top in the end. Not a terribly encouraging thing to do.The cast which also included Sylvia Sidney, Lew Ayres, Robert Foxworth, Nicholas Pryor, Lance Henriksen just go through the motions and collect a big fat salary check. "},{"Title":"coming of age","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" although not as good as the original Omen, It's a pretty good job. I imagine it gets pretty hard not to turn the story of an teenage becoming Antichrist into a soap opera.It basically starts with an 12-13 year old(round about the same age Jesus was when he found out he was the son of god) Damien Thorn alive ab=nd always well. Although he knows that he is a very gifted boy, he has no idea just how important he is. He continues to believe that his father desire to kill him was a result of pure madness from the death of his mother. He attends a military school and is top in everything, but is not in competition with his cousin, Mark, who he is very found of. Mark is in fact the only person who doesn't think of Damien as anything evil. When a new CO(commanding officer)comes to the school, strange accidents start accruing that results in peoples death. Damien soon learns to read his bible and finds out why his father seeked to kill him. Then, after accepting what he is and he is going to do, he starts to recruit and destroy. His biggest ordeal was the death of Mark, Mark had refused to join him. But in the end, again, He remains the only survivor, apart from his Commanding officer, who is revealed to be a messenger of Satan.Sometimes you think that Damien will defy his father, but like Jesus, he accepts his fate and, unlike Jesus, uses it to his advantage. "},{"Title":"Occasionally good, but repetitive.","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" What's the main problem with sequels to horror movies? They're all been there, done that, a daft remake of the original where few, if any, unexpected things happen, and the ending leaves the road open for endless other follow-ups. Damien Omen II is such a sequel.It begins with the elimination of the only link to the first film Carl Bugenhagen, the man who told Robert Thorn the truth about the latter's adopted son Damien, dies shortly after revealing the shocking secret to a friend of his Damien Thorn is the Antichrist! Seven years pass, and Damien (Jonathan Scott-Taylor), currently living with his uncle, Richard Thorn (William Holden), is sent to a military school with cousin Mark. Once there, he will learn the truth about himself, while everybody who suspects something will face a horrible death.As I said before, this film is basically a pale imitation of its predecessor people find out who Damien is, they die under weird circumstances, etc. The only new thing is that this time the Devil's son knows, too, and is fully aware of his abilities. Sadly, this doesn't do much to make Omen II at least as good as its predecessor. In fact, apart from the various demises and Holden's performance, the only memorable thing about the movie is Jerry Goldsmith's terrifying score (the Ave Satani song still freaks me out).So, what can I say? The Omen is one of the scariest films I've ever seen (I'll never be able to forget THAT final smile). The second film, on the other hand, is worth watching once if you wanna know what happened next. If you don't care about the rest of the story, well, then go rent or buy a real horror film. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable sequel, but lacks psychological suspense of the original","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As the second installment of the Omen trilogy, Damien Omen II does a decent job of continuing the storyline from the original film. What it possesses in cinematography and cast talent, however, it lacks in sound writing and direction. Where the first film made great use of psychological suspense, the second film seems to sequence death scenes with no real suspense.Despite mediocre screen writing and the downfalls of a director clash/switch part way through filming, the cast members give commendable performances with the material given. Jonathan Scott-Talyor is particularly engaging as Damien, and receives strong supporting performances from Lance Henriksen and Robert Foxworth. William Holden and Lee Grant are good as well, but have little to do but naively react to the strange tragedies around them.As with the first film, the Jerry Goldsmith score is very engaging, although a bit heavy on the synthesizer. "},{"Title":"Woe to you, oh earth and sea...","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" DAMIEN, OMEN II is a fine sequel to the hugely successful OMEN film. This time around we see the main character, Damien Thorn, as a pre-teen finding out who he really is and subsequently unleash some hellish mayhem upon his enemies. Though the story basically repeats itself (the only difference being that Damien is older and knows who he is)it never ceases to be boring. Some of the death scenes though, are beyond predictable, in the sense that you suspect who is going to get the devil's wrath. The manner of these deaths varies from being totally lame (a heart attack) to graphically gory and spectacular (a man gets cut in half). This sequel could have been superior to its original at the hands of a more skilled director, since there were many aspects of Damien's youth that are left untouched and interesting subplots that are dropped like hot potatoes near the end of the movie. Still, it is an enjoyable film that holds pretty well even to this day and age of digital wizardry and high tech FX. Jerry Goldsmith's unsettling score is pivotal in providing tension even in the most unfrightening moments and the acting by Veterans like William Holden are believable enough. Also, you'll get to see Lance Henriksen (ALIENS, Millennium) in what might be among his first roles. He does well as the mysterious Sergeant assigned to protect Damien. The sad thing about the new DVD version of the movie is Thia lack of a 5.1 Dolby mix. The sound is definitely lacking in the volume department and it's sad to hear Goldsmith's score on such a poor mix. Despite this, you'll do no wrong in buying or renting this modern horror classic! 666, the number of the beast!!! "}{"Title":"A sequel which is actually almost a remake.","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The original The Omen was a very good horror film and a huge commercial hit. Given that it also ended with the villain still alive and well, it was almost inevitable that a sequel would follow before long. Damien Omen II is an average horror sequel which follows the conventions and plot mechanics of the first film to the letter. Gregory Peck's US Ambassador might be gone, but another Hollywood legend - this time William Holden - is there to play the unsuspecting elderly relative about to learn the chilling truth about young Damien Thorn. And once again, the demonic child is out to fulfil his sinister destiny, with gory and spectacular fates awaiting those who unmask his unholy identity! While Damien Omen II is ostensibly a sequel, it might more accurately be called a remake.Following the death of his parents, Damien Thorn (Jonathan Scott-Taylor) goes to live with his uncle Richard Thorn (William Holden) and aunt Ann Thorn (Lee Grant). By the time he is 13, Damien is well acquainted with his new family and enjoys attending a prestigious military school near Chicago. A pesky old relative, Aunt Marion (great but brief performance by Sylvia Sidney), is pretty much the only member of the Thorn clan who suspects that there's something unhealthily devilish about Damien. But she is killed by a raven soon after voicing her theories. Similarly, a journalist who gets close to the truth is blinded by the same raven and staggers in front of an oncoming truck. Damien, still only vaguely aware of his powers, is told by a platoon sergeant, Neff (Lance Henriksen), to read the Book Of Revelations, which he promptly does. And once he realises that he is the Antichrist, he goes on a huge killing spree, wiping out anyone and everyone who threatens his plans to destroy the world.Don Taylor lacks the subtlety of Richard Donner as the director of this sequel and he goes for a more graphically gory approach. Each death is more elaborate and bloodthirsty than the one before (the guy getting sliced in half in the elevator is perhaps the film's gruesome highlight). As a result, the film caters more for gore fans than those who like a spooky, psychological flavour to their horror films. While unquestionably a heck of a lot bloodier than its predecessor, Damien Omen II is paradoxically nowhere near as terrifying. Holden holds the film together well (he reportedly hated the script and his role, but does well to conceal his disdain), but Scott-Taylor's Antichrist is somehow less chilling as a teenager than Harvey Stevens' was when he played the 6-year-old incarnation of this famous screen monster. "},{"Title":"Superb sequel. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  DAMIEN - OMEN II (1978) is an excellent follow-up to the classic Donner original. Damien (Jonathan Scott-Taylor) is now a teenager and living with his uncle, aunt and nephew, Richard, Ann and Mark (William Holden, Lee Grant, Lucas Donat) and is now enrolled at a youth miltary academy.An eccentric aunt (Sylvia Sidney) has noticed Damien to be strange and demands that Mark and Damien be put into separate schools in light of the tragedy that befell Robert Thorn in THE OMEN, but she is killed when a raven sits on her bed and gives her a killer look. A reporter, Joan Hart also picks up the story and tale and asks Richard for an interview, but he refuses and she is killed on an open highway.Whilst on a visit to a Thorn Industries plant, an accident befalls the group, except Damien who is mysteriously unaffected by it all......If not superior to the original in terms of surprise, DAMIEN - OMEN II is a great effort with some good horror moments to complement the story and some first rate performances by the actors help to give the film that added zest and style.  "},{"Title":"Thorn in my side","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is what the Bible has to say on the subject of ravens an abomination (Leviticus 12-21). While according to Isiah (34, 8-11), on the day of the Lord's scorched-earth policy, our feathered pals will fill their blackened bellies with the crispy flesh of the damned. So it's appropriate this much maligned bird, intelligent and music-loving, should feature so heavily in Damien Omen II as a demonic fixer for teenage Antichrist Damien Thorn (Scott-Taylor).With hell boy still largely unaware of his destiny, it's the raven who's responsible for much of the murdering, usually by just perching up and belching along to an undulating Jerry Goldsmith choir. That's something those Old Testament prophets neglected to mention; the 'Father of Omens' has a habit of introducing itself with a loud, beak-smacking gut-honk. Not only will it pop your eyes like fried eggs, it'll burp in your face for an aperitif.Set some 7 years after the events of The Omen, the troubled sequel finds the little devil living the high life with uncle Richard (Holden), Richard's second wife Ann (Grant), and gormless cousin Mark (Donat). Damien's turned out marvellously considering his first adopted father was gunned down while trying to turn him into a colander. Charming, cheeky, insouciant and savvy, he's Holden Caulfield with a helmet haircut. And like most boys on the verge of their thirteenth birthday (considered by many cultures to have initiation rites), Damien's going through some startling changes. If only pubic hair and frenzied masturbation were the extent of it.Shorn of Satanic nannies and hell-hounds, but with the burping raven on constant call, facilitating his rise to badness are a bunch of well-appointed acolytes and corporate thugs, smoothing his entry into the obscenely rich and powerful Thorn Industries, which plans to control - or withhold - food distribution in famine-afflicted territories (good business say some, 'unethical' think others - and horribly familiar we say, from the vantage point of the 21st century). Meanwhile, anybody who gets in Damien's way is slaughtered, and which teen hasn't fantasised about that? Following the trajectory of many future captains of industry, Damien is packed off to military school, where brooding academy sergeant Daniel Neff (Henriksen) informs him of his true nature. Why? he howls despairingly. Why me? A playful riff on the traumas of puberty, it's the one truly affecting scene because it's so honest. The remainder can be fed to the flames.If The Omen had a certain vaudevillian grandeur, the sequel feels like a cheap, made-for-TV slasher. More reliable than buses, you can set your watch by the slayings, including a damn good pecking, a deadly plunge under the ice (the most effective set-piece) and death by lift cable, featuring a technician chopped in half width-ways; if the film was aiming to trounce the original's straightforward decapitation, it's just not half as effective in its execution.It makes one wonder what original director Mike Hodges could have done with it, before fleeing production three weeks into the shoot. As Hodges told the 'Guardian' in 2003, during a row about the design budget the apoplectic producer placed a handgun on the table. I said, 'Is that loaded?' And he said, 'Yes.' And then we just looked at each other for a bit. Hodges retains a credit (unlike Leo McKern and Ian Hendry, drowned by sand in the first 10 minutes), but the script might have been so different 'You're a big man, but in you're in bad shape. Now sit down and behave yourself before I summon Baal and Lilith to play conkers with your b****cks. With the exception of Henriksen, and the beguiling Scott-Taylor, the acting is uniformly stilted, and a quick buck for Holden who was originally pencilled in to play Robert Thorn, but passed as he didn't want to star in a film about the devil. Having seen The Omen clean up, he wasted no time hopping on board for the sequel. More pertinently, the original film was shot with an alternative ending in which Damien died but Alan Ladd Jnr, sniffing bucks, nixed the idea. All of which proves once and for all that the love of sequels is actually the root of all evil. "},{"Title":"SO so very tacky... in the most endearing way!","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one of those films I remember seeing the ads for, but being too young to see it at the time (I was 10). My friends saw it on cable and told me about it, so that put it back on my radar. What a HOOT! Every single aspect of this movie is SO UTTERLY tacky and banal&#133; but in the MOST endearing way! Let us explore&#133;The music was incredible&#133; this is one of those movies where the soundtrack is going 'DUN-DUN! DUN-Dun-DUN-Dun-DUN-DUN-DUN!' while NOTHING is happening. There's a shot of a crow and the soundtrack explodes. WHAT a hoot. Other people have written here how great the soundtrack was. Uh&#133; it was intrusive and noticeable, that's for sure, but it didn't inspire much in me except laughter.Many people also say that this movie features good acting! I heartily disagree! Gads, everyone involved was SO AWFUL, particularly the hideous Lee Grant. Did anyone else notice that her hairdo makes her head look like an enormous penis? You can really notice a lot of styles of acting, screen writing, and directing that were prevalent at the time, but seem alien (and completely false and ineffective) today. The script was an absolute nightmare! But everything was SO banal, middle-of-the-road, and downright TACKY that you have to love it! I was literally slapping my knee all the way through.I also LOVE how the Holden and Grant characters have to absolutely psychotic in order to continue denying that anything is going on. So by the end like 5 people have died shortly after telling them to beware of Damien, and they're still like 'Damien? How could they possibly think anything's wrong with him?!?!?!' And so many of the deaths seem so unmotivated&#133; I mean, maybe this person has suspicions about Damien or warns someone, but what are they really going to DO that's such a threat to him? It just seemed pointless after a while.I think these films were the precursor to the FINAL DESTINATION films in that you have these elaborate deaths that come with lots of build-up, but aren't committed by a person, they just kind of happen.Oh dear&#133; well, that's about it. Not really scary, not much of quality about it, but a totally enjoyable film if you like to laugh, especially if you enjoy a totally serious tone about something utterly ridiculous.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure that will entertain if not enlighten!","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While I will be the last one to say that this is a great film or a must-see, it certainly is very entertaining though you might be embarrassed to tell your friends you liked it! That's because it has a silly plot involving the spawn of Satan, occasionally lame and overwrought dialog and a style that just needs to be seen to be believed! But, despite its many shortcomings, this is still a fun little film and not nearly as awful as I'd first suspected. That's because the previous film (THE OMEN) was panned and placed in Harry Medved's Fifty Worst Films of All Time book. However, after having seen both films I can definitely say that there are hundreds or perhaps thousands of worse films. In fact, since they entertain and keep your attention, they really aren't bad films but more guilty pleasures! The film begins with budding teen Damien seeming a lot like a normal boy--not acting at all like the result of a mating with the Devil and a Jackal (wouldn't that make him a son of a .....?). But, slowly, it is revealed that some around the boy are well aware of who he is and are there to serve him without fail. When he is finally told who he is, Damien suffers a short existential crisis before he ultimately gives in to the dark side....no wait, he IS the dark side! Along the way, there are countless exciting to watch and very silly deaths--some orchestrated directly by Damien and his followers and others created by either an unseen force or a nasty crow who seems to be the one behind all the mess. Because the deaths are so bloody and creative, the film reminds me a lot of the low-budget Vincent Price film, THE ABOMINIBLE DOCTOR PHIBES. The dumbest death was the lady who is hit by a truck and the most interesting and disturbing is the man who was sucked under the ice (a nice touch).While you will be entertained, please do NOT stop to think or reason this out as this is NOT a well-constructed plot. The Biblical passages are wrong--being twisted and misquoted and the film was not meant to be anything other than a silly little exploitation film. While this may offend some religious fundamentalists, if they actually sit still and watch the film, they, too, will probably find the whole thing ludicrous yet oddly entertaining. "},{"Title":"Another Thorn in the side of the devil","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Passable sequel has the brother of the Gregory Peck character from the first instalment (played here by William Holden) taking custody of the young demon spawn (Scott-Taylor), his wife (Grant), son (Donat) and associates (Ayres, Sidney) all beginning to suspect there's more to Damien than just a reclusive, aloof teenager. Enrolled in the local military school, Damien soon develops a network of devil worshippers (Henriksen, Pryor) eager to advance the second coming of Beelzebub.Not bad as far as sequels go, with a pretty decent cast that includes plenty of familiar faces in the wings (Meshach Taylor playing an ill-fated Doctor, Fritz Ford, Nicholas Pryor et al) and some memorable carnage (check out that elevator bi-section) to rival the The Omen's infamous decapitation scene.Palpable tension and moody atmosphere can't match the sophisticated tone and narrative pace of the original, the cinematography too can't emulate those visual effects present in the original - it's difficult to improve on an idea that's been so well executed in The Omen, though not so difficult to follow in the foot-steps, and Damien under Don Taylor's veteran guidance, does that sufficiently. "},{"Title":"He's back! And he's getting acne!","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This sequel tries to expand on the original by having Damien being a semi-normal teenager trying to live a normal life while the impending destiny of being the son of Satan looms on the horizon and people around him discover the truth and try to destroy him. That sounds good when I'm writing it right there, and I remember enjoying the film a lot more way back then than I did way right now.The problem is that Damien doesn't really come under any threat whatsoever throughout the entire film. Seriously, no one really gets within stabbing distance. What you have instead is Damien going to school and getting surrounded by his acolytes (who share ominous looks with each other at every turn &#x96; way to avoid suspicion!). Anyone throughout the film who realises that Damien may prefer Black Sabbath to Cliff Richard gets killed almost straight away without letting on to anyone, and the inner conflict that may have added to the drama of the film goes more like I'm the son of the devil? Well, easy come, easy go&#x85;Dude! I'm, like, mentioned in revelations!It very well filmed, and has great actors in it (William Holden, Lance Henrikssen, that 'Sylvia' woman who's name I can't remember), but there's barely a plot to hang this on to. Maybe I missed something during all those corporate meeting they kept having. It's okay, but believe me, the Omen series is the least eventful horror series there is (no gore! No sleaze! No cheese!). "},{"Title":"Not bad but formulaic sequel to The Omen","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Damien Omen II is a watchable series of inventive deaths rather than a story in its own right. Roughly every 10-15 minutes a character discovers who Damien actually is and proceeds to die at the hand of Satan, usually meeting his end by way of some mechanical device malfunctioning.The opening scene, with Leo Mckern reprising his role as Bugenhagen, the archaeologist-exorcist (How do you apply for that job?) and Ian Hendry as his doubting colleague, is very well done, with excellent miniature photography and a sense of real claustrophobia.But the main action, set seven years after the first film, follows The Devil's child now living with his Uncle (William Holden) and his development into the personification of evil at a military academy. There are some opportunities for character expansion, but the film never really develops, and begins to resemble all those terrible Friday the 13th movies where one by one the cast get munched, splattered and generally come to nasty ends. The supporting cast contains some surprisingly good actors - Lew Ayres, Elizabeth Shepard (terrific in Tomb Of Ligeia) and Sylvia Sydney to name but three.A decent and watchable example of 70s horror, at least a couple of rungs down from the original. "},{"Title":"Not quite there","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lacking the impact or the pure ability to frighten of the original, Damien Omen 2 is nevertheless a good depiction of the boy's teenage years as he enters a Westpoint-like military academy.Differing from the first one in that the death toll dramatically rises -- not unusual in sequels of horror films really -- this features a magnificent cameo performance from Leo McKern in the kind of role that only he and Brian Blessed can pull off.This performance easily outweighs some bad over acting, particularly that of the second wife of Damien's uncle. "},{"Title":"A sequel which could have been better.","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Rating 1/2* out of 4DamianOmen II is pretty bad the only thing I can find that I liked was special and adequate effects. But the actors look embarrassing or wasted like Jonathan Scott Taylor who has the lead for Damian. The young Antichrist-Satanist (Now at age 13) is off to military school. Here a greedy Military Sergent (Lance Hendriksen) teaches him and his brother about great honor. Well what the hell does that have to do with Antichrists. When Damian notices his birthmark 666 which I forgot to mention on my comment about the first Omen. He begins to kill again with his demoniac bird. William Holden, Lee Grant, Silvia Syindey, etc. are the ones which have no need to be on the set. The most weakest of The Omen films. Omen III The Final Conflict came next and was more successful. Omen IV The Awakening then came to a flop to TV. Damian Omen II could have been much better by either returning Gregory Peck or at least someone which has more experience with writing scripts or directing from Don Taylor.   "}{"Title":"Very weak sequel...","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first Omen was good,not great,then came sequel,which is completely lame.Yes,the acting is mostly okay but DamienOmen 2 lacks scares and suspense of its predecessor.The film is very slow,dull and boring;the ending is also a big disappointment.The death sequences are weak(I like only elevator scene)and minimal amount of blood and gore doesn't help.I looked forward to seeing and enjoying this one,and I guess that's too bad. "},{"Title":"He's always belonged to me.....","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Damien, now thirteen years old, is just discovering who he really is, and what he is destined to do. Now living with his Aunt, Uncle, and cousin in a wealthy suburb of Chicago, Damien is anxious to inherit everything. Can Richard Thorn finish the job that his brother failed to do?After the success of the original, it was inevitable that there would be a sequel, and predictably, it's no where near as good, or as shocking as Donner's terrifying classic.Despite the fact that the movie barely has a plot, it's still a fun watch, in the sense of seeing how elaborate the next death scene is, because as the film goes on, they get more and more ridiculous.And this works its way into the flimsy plot. People become suspicious, or find something out snout the titular character, and they soon perish.And in turn, William Holden becomes more and more suspicious, as each death occurs. And this what happens for the majority of the film, suspicions galore.The death scenes on the original were atmospheric, and most of all, very scary. Here though, they are laughable, from a woman literally flung over a truck that takes at least thirty seconds to get to her, to a man looking very concerned in a falling lift, and then getting chopped in half.Because of this, it's unintentionally funny, and this detracts you from the urgency Holden has because of all his suspicions.A fun film for all the wrong reasons, it's just played too straight for its own good. "},{"Title":"Stumbling around for a plot","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While the original The Omen was brilliant, this first sequel seemed to stumble around for a plot. There is none. It's just a succession of grisly murders that will make way for the beast. Now your horror fans that like that kind of cheap bloody horror, will be satisfied with this, despite a lack of substance.The cast alone would make you expect a fine sequel. William Holden, Lee Grant, Robert Foxworth, Lew Ayres, and Sylvia Sidney. What more could you want? Well, a little acting that would you make you invest in the characters would have been nice. We get a little of that from veteran actress Sylvia Sydney, but she is killed off within the first few minutes of the film. And, perhaps we get a little from Lew Ayres, but his demise -- an old man playing ice hockey -- just doesn't quite seem to make sense, although the special effects of him drowning under the ice was nicely done. William Holden was often a remarkable actor. But everything seemed to go downhill for him after Network, just 2 years previous. Here, his performance is nothing but disappointing. Lee Grant had to be in just the right kind of role to be really enjoyable on the big screen; this was not that kind of role. Dismissed. And Robert Foxworth just seems so mechanical here.And then there's the why of certain plot angles. The military school aspect works, but the scenario with the sergeant just seems to drift with no purpose, although it's clear that he is on the side of evil.The one plot twist that is worthwhile here is Lee Grant murdering William Holden (wife murdering husband) at the climax of the film. I didn't see that coming.Watch this if you can stomach it. Its only real value is to fill the gap between the first and third films. "},{"Title":"More of a remake than a sequel. Hence extremely predictable.","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" O2 is an improvement over the overrated first part; it's very well-photographed and interesting - and most importantly doesn't have any tiny evil children who can't act - but is bogged down by several flaws, some of which it shares with its inferior predecessor.First of all, the story unfolds in a Godless universe &#x96; or at least a world in which God is disinterested or at the very least just a passive observer, never actively participating, never helping by sending over some well-armed uber-priest who slays demons for breakfast, lunch and dinner. Unlike Satan, who makes his presence known and who swats his enemies like annoying flies, one by one. This totally unexplained and lop-sided imbalance of power between Good and Evil, between the Church and Satan's minions, is frankly quite ludicrous.This brings me to the other major flaw, directly related to the powers of Good being on vacation the movie's increasing predictability. By the time we get to the 2nd half of the movie, the murders are so easily foreseeable (who will get killed, why and even when) that you can almost set your watch to them. This makes O2 play out almost like a cheap slasher film, at least plot-twist-wise. Yes, the killings are inventive, mostly unusual, and they are well-filmed but at some point I'd prefer to not have to know everything in advance.The general problem with the Omen series is that the imbalance of power between Good and Evil creates a one-sided battle (well, a wipe-out really) in which the outcome is a foregone conclusion. With God doing absolutely zip/zilch/nada/niente to help his obedient flock, Satan is poised to win every single time. This kind of one-sided nonsense can only be interesting to Satanist viewers, I'd imagine. Not only is this a bad way to conduct a religious-based horror film because it eliminates all elements of surprise, but it also defies logic. Surely, in a universe in which an all-powerful Divine Being is being challenged by a runaway ex-angel, that Supreme Being would make its presence also known in form of powerful priests, flying nuns, magic crucifixes and what-not. At the very least there should be some priest running around, warning everyone in Bible-speak gibberish, and being protected by God. One single priest, that's all I ask. But there is literally nobody, not even a half-dazed squirrel. How the hell did God &#x96; at least the one in this movie serial - even get to be in charge if He never helped the humans with magic powers? This is yet another logic hole, about as big as Oprah's ass.It is hence small wonder that Satan's (and later Damien's) serial-killing in O2 is so brazen, so lacking in caution, so bombastic, and so totally out in the open. Then again, why take stealthy measures when the opposition refuses to fight you? The movie is like watching John Cleese in the boxing ring against Connie Booth i.e. a full-grown man beating the crap out of a school-girl; it's like an adult rugby team fighting a team of kids (again the Pythons; that scene from The Meaning Of Life); very predictable hence a little pointless. Which is why the ending is such a boring affair; no end-twist &#x96; if we ignore that silly nonsense about Holden's wife having been a Satanist all along.But how can Lee Grant be one of Devil's disciples when she looked genuinely concerned and shocked at the old woman's death? Yes, we HAVE been cheated by the movie. Or was Lee perhaps PLAYING UP to the camera? As far as I know, characters in movies aren't supposed to know that they are being filmed hence feigning emotions for the camera for the audience's benefit is simply a moronic plot-device used by clueless writers and directors. Withholding information is one thing; but outright lying movie-goers like this sinks the movie deeper into its mud of bad logic.The set-up in The Prophecy series makes much more sense, hence makes for more compelling viewing. Even The Exorcist series involves a measure of balance, an actual power-struggle between Satan and God that ensures that stories with unpredictable plot-twists can be written, something that is quite difficult in this Satan-controlled Omen universe. It is hence also illogical for Satan to need SO LONG to re-gain power &#x96; when there is no visible opposition whatsoever from his adversary. This leads me to the inevitable and very logical conclusion that the Satan portrayed here is either incompetent or lazy, or both.The lush production values, the non-moronic dialogue, the good soundtrack, and the overall mood make up for some of these minus points, but there is no denying that the Omen series is far too linear and predictable, and that this movie is far too similar to its predecessor, with an almost identical basic plot. "},{"Title":"Good movie for what it is.","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm not really a fan of these movies. I think they're okay for mindless entertainment (aside from The Omen IV) but they're nothing I'd watch again. If however you are a fan then this movie might be okay.The basic plot? Damien is thirteen years old and has been adopted by his uncle, Richard Thorn. Soon people start realizing the truth after seeing a 13th Century monk's paintings on a wall that was excavated after a character from the first one and his friend die inside. After people start realizing Damien dispatches them one by one.Now the deaths of the people in this movie could be shocking (but these deaths aren't over the top like the later Final Destination movies) but in terms of horror that is about all it has to offer, whereas the first one used cinematic tension as a way to convey horror to the audience. It might not be much but I'm just saying that so people don't see this without that expectation.So as I said this movie is good for what it is. I will watch the Omen III The Final Conflict. The acting is decent from William Holden and a few other people but Jonathan Scott-Taylor and Lucas Donat are a little wooden in their performances. I'd recommend to fans of the first one or to Christian people that like horror movies. "},{"Title":"The beast is back.","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Now almost a teenager, Damien Thorn (Jonathan Scott-Taylor), the AntiChrist, is being schooled at a top military academy, along with his cousin Mark (Lucas Donat). With the guidance of his evil disciples, he discovers his true identity, accepts his unholy destiny, and learns to use his Satanic powers to destroy anyone who might threaten his ascendancy... including those nearest and dearest to him.It must have been a devil of a job following in the cloven foot-steps of Richard Donner's superb horror classic The Omen, but director Don Taylor does so admirably with a supremely effective sequel that is almost on a par with the original. Taylor handles his material skillfully, his stylish direction making the most of the bleak winter setting to enhance the already chilling atmosphere, and his excellent cast (which includes William Holden, Lee Grant and Lance Henriksen) play everything with a deadly seriousness that will make a believer out of even the most sceptical of atheists, if only for the duration of the movie.Perhaps, though, the film is most notable for its elaborately staged deaths, designed to delight those who considered David Warner's decapitation by sheet glass to be the highlight of the original. In Omen II, viewers are treated to several equally gruesome scenes in which a variety of unlucky souls meet their fate (often heralded by the appearance of a raven and the genuinely eerie 'kaw' croaks of Jerry Goldsmith's brilliant score). Buried alive, drowned under ice, eyes pecked out and hit by a truck, gassed to death, crushed by a train, and sliced in half&#x97;they all go in a decidedly nasty fashion, the deaths made all the more horrific by the extreme terror experienced by the victims in their final moments. "},{"Title":"this movie was not good","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i watched both the omen one and two in succession.  the first was great, the second was not so.  Although it wasnt terrible i felt that everything good about the first was lost or exploxied and made predictable.  Damien wasnt the evil in this movie and he had no real guardians.  The evil and the killers was not damien it was a bird (Edgar Allen Poe must be rolling over in his grave) or just the devil himself.  Damien inflicted very few deaths himslef which made me feel that he wasnt evil but something else was. though not a terrible movie it just lost so much of what was good about the first.  I just felt bored watching this movie.  It was very slow and although it said the cinematography was great, i thought it was just average.   "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first one.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Omen 2 is not nearly as good as the first one, now Damien is a teenager, who brings hell to the people who oppose him and his destiny. Again, top casting, getting William Holden is terrific continuity. Lee Grant is also top class.This time the film goes for the gory approach, it was inevitable I guess. The film does lack something, it's very uneven and not well written. The writing was rushed, it required more development. There's a whole chunk of development undiscovered in this film, really a big shame because this could've been a terrific picture. It's not that the writing is bad, it's just undeveloped, desperately required another 2 drafts!The acting is good, Holden and Grant are perfect. The kid who plays Damien is very good also.The direction is okay, but required a Donner touch. There's something missing from the picture. The wide-screen frame is used very well. The music by Goldsmith is not as good as the original, it sounds rather messy to me.Overall, Omen 2 is notch below Donner's original.  "},{"Title":"*SPOILERS*","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I remember reading 'The Omen' novel when I was a kid and being really scared but the film was just silly. That's one of several advantages books have over films, the ability to make your own imagination seem more powerful. And how terrible it is to lose one's mind. Or not to have a mind. How true that is.Benjamin, I've got just one word to say to you Frogs.This has a great score by Jerry Goldsmith which sounds like a pastiche of the original 'Omen', only accompanied by a frog choir. DAN-DER *ribbit ribbit* DANER-DER *ribbit ribbit*. It's one of my all time favourite soundtracks but ever since I keep breaking out in a cold sweat every time I pass a pond. Later on in the film, a crow menaces a journalist and the frogs are back. *Ribbit ribbit*. Shouldn't that be KAW-KAW? Or maybe it's meant to be a demonic sound? Personally, I think it's frogs. But why frogs? Also, Damien's father is meant to be the Goat of Mendes so why was he born from a Jackal? Either way, we're up to our navels in barnyard animals so Don Taylor is the right director, as anyone who has seen his zoo scene in 'Escape From The Planet Of The Apes' will testify. It's the actors who distract your attention.In 'The Omen', Robert Thorn meets Father Brennan on a park bench who tells him to seek out the priest BUGGENHAGEN! The row I was in at the cinema giggled. It's the way he said it. Being a God fearing man I told them to pipe down. Anyway, BUGGENHAGEN is back at the start of this film driving a jeep in a frankly reckless manner through some streets, although Buggenhagen doesn't sound very Italian. He meets his friend Micheal and takes him to an archeological dig to convince him of the existence of the Anti-Christ. Suddenly, there is a cave in and they are both trapped. After a full minute of just standing there having sand dropped on their head, Micheal suddenly exclaims we've got to get out of here! Nice idea, Mike. The Anti-Christ is upon us! Yells Buggenhagen at a volume that makes Father Brennan look like a piker. Yes, it's B-movie time again, given similar cache to the original by the hiring of top (if slightly gone to seed) talent. Although everyone is content to just fill in the numbers, this is Jonathan Scott Taylor's big break as Damien and he doesn't disappoint. He has a couple of cracking scenes including a harrowing one with his brother played by Lucas Donat who makes the supreme Christian sacrifice of rejecting the hand of the devil and ends up clutching his ears while screaming in pain. More titters from the audience. I scowled at them. Damien's not playing him Britney Spears, he means business. Why can't people take religion seriously? Or frogs.The problem with this film is it's not very ominous. They've ditched all the photography business and hence any suspense. After freaking out his history teacher at the Military Academy, Damien is taken to one side by the sinister Sergeant Neff and admonished for drawing attention to himself. I say, that's a bit rich isn't it? I mean, the devil has all the inconspicuousness of a SWAT team raiding a telephone box in this picture. The poor doctor who takes Damien's blood sample is a case in point. How about a discreet heart attack or something? No, instead he suffers a rather nasty stomach-ache in a runaway elevator followed by an avalanche of glass being dropped on his bonce. This beggers the question as to what happened to all those other doctors who tested Damien's blood since childhood. Didn't they notice all those doctors with twenty syringes stuck in their necks or accidently chloroformed and sent into operating theatres where they accidently had their heads removed? But a curator friend of Richard Thorn discovers who Damien is and drives over to Thorn's country house in icy, snowy conditions without a scratch so it's comforting to know that even the devil has to sleep sometimes. Or maybe he was busy with tax fraud that weekend. I'm so scared! The curator tells Thorn and I shared his trepidation. Or at least I did until I read a quote by Brian Seltzer who wrote the original I did it strictly for the money. I was flat broke. What does frighten me is how many people actually believe all this silliness. I went red in the face. He's right, how could I have been so foolish? It's only a small part of the Bible anyway, barely a foot note. Suddenly I could use elevators again and go ice skating. I could go to the pond and feed ducks. And get hit over the head by that old busy body who tells me to read the sign. Oh, how I've missed that. How silly I've been. As if a crow could sound like a frog. Solipsism is no longer a dirty word to me, I just don't know what the hell it means. And the Anti-Christ could not possibly be destined to rise from Great Britain. I mean, he wouldn't find anywhere to park. The devil is a myth. Come to think of it, I always thought those deaths were a little unlikely....*Ribbit* MIR SPACE STATION CRASHES THROUGH ROOF .....But I'm still alive and that can be explained away as mere coincidence. Jonathan Scott Taylor is not the Anti-Christ but is in reality a lawyer in California. Hmmm, that's where the whole thing breaks down, isn't it? "},{"Title":"Thorn in my side","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is what the Bible has to say on the subject of ravens an abomination (Leviticus 12-21). While according to Isiah (34, 8-11), on the day of the Lord's scorched-earth policy, our feathered pals will fill their blackened bellies with the crispy flesh of the damned. So it's appropriate this much maligned bird, intelligent and music-loving, should feature so heavily in Damien Omen II as a demonic fixer for teenage Antichrist Damien Thorn (Scott-Taylor).With hell boy still largely unaware of his destiny, it's the raven who's responsible for much of the murdering, usually by just perching up and belching along to an undulating Jerry Goldsmith choir. That's something those Old Testament prophets neglected to mention; the 'Father of Omens' has a habit of introducing itself with a loud, beak-smacking gut-honk. Not only will it pop your eyes like fried eggs, it'll burp in your face for an aperitif.Set some 7 years after the events of The Omen, the troubled sequel finds the little devil living the high life with uncle Richard (Holden), Richard's second wife Ann (Grant), and gormless cousin Mark (Donat). Damien's turned out marvellously considering his first adopted father was gunned down while trying to turn him into a colander. Charming, cheeky, insouciant and savvy, he's Holden Caulfield with a helmet haircut. And like most boys on the verge of their thirteenth birthday (considered by many cultures to have initiation rites), Damien's going through some startling changes. If only pubic hair and frenzied masturbation were the extent of it.Shorn of Satanic nannies and hell-hounds, but with the burping raven on constant call, facilitating his rise to badness are a bunch of well-appointed acolytes and corporate thugs, smoothing his entry into the obscenely rich and powerful Thorn Industries, which plans to control - or withhold - food distribution in famine-afflicted territories (good business say some, 'unethical' think others - and horribly familiar we say, from the vantage point of the 21st century). Meanwhile, anybody who gets in Damien's way is slaughtered, and which teen hasn't fantasised about that? Following the trajectory of many future captains of industry, Damien is packed off to military school, where brooding academy sergeant Daniel Neff (Henriksen) informs him of his true nature. Why? he howls despairingly. Why me? A playful riff on the traumas of puberty, it's the one truly affecting scene because it's so honest. The remainder can be fed to the flames.If The Omen had a certain vaudevillian grandeur, the sequel feels like a cheap, made-for-TV slasher. More reliable than buses, you can set your watch by the slayings, including a damn good pecking, a deadly plunge under the ice (the most effective set-piece) and death by lift cable, featuring a technician chopped in half width-ways; if the film was aiming to trounce the original's straightforward decapitation, it's just not half as effective in its execution.It makes one wonder what original director Mike Hodges could have done with it, before fleeing production three weeks into the shoot. As Hodges told the 'Guardian' in 2003, during a row about the design budget the apoplectic producer placed a handgun on the table. I said, 'Is that loaded?' And he said, 'Yes.' And then we just looked at each other for a bit. Hodges retains a credit (unlike Leo McKern and Ian Hendry, drowned by sand in the first 10 minutes), but the script might have been so different 'You're a big man, but in you're in bad shape. Now sit down and behave yourself before I summon Baal and Lilith to play conkers with your b****cks. With the exception of Henriksen, and the beguiling Scott-Taylor, the acting is uniformly stilted, and a quick buck for Holden who was originally pencilled in to play Robert Thorn, but passed as he didn't want to star in a film about the devil. Having seen The Omen clean up, he wasted no time hopping on board for the sequel. More pertinently, the original film was shot with an alternative ending in which Damien died but Alan Ladd Jnr, sniffing bucks, nixed the idea. All of which proves once and for all that the love of sequels is actually the root of all evil. "}{"Title":"Great sequel!","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Of course this movie is not as good and surprising as The Omen but fact remains that this movie is way better than every other normal standard horror movie. It's definitely better than 90% that is being made these days! The movie is not surprising. We all known who and what Damien is, which means that this movie gets all the room to show of some of the things he can do and how he handles his own identity and faith, now that he has reached early puberty, without being forced to go too much back into detail about how and why. So yes the movie is kept rather simple, which provides the movie also with some more gore and deaths.The Omen movies aren't really horror type of movies like we're accustomed to. It aren't movies with scare moments, monsters or anything of that sort. It are movies with an eerie story and character, that all work out so well due to the realistic approach of the story. The movies are always atmospheric and have a certain uneasy feeling all over it.Damien gets more than enough interesting to do in this movie. In the first movie The Omen, people mostly did the killing for him and lets face it, it above all was a Gregory Peck movie. In this movie all focus is on him. The character gets developed and is made more interesting and complex, without loosing any of its power as a scary character. Jonathan Scott-Taylor is a great Damien in this movie and its nice to see how much he really looks like Harvey Stephens, who played Damien in the first movie. William Holden is no Gregory Peck but then again no one is asking him to be. He does a good job acting in this movie, although his character could had gotten a bit more interesting to do. The movie also features Lance Henriksen in an early 'big' role, who is always great to watch in any movie. The only actor reappearing from the first movie is Leo McKern as Carl Bugenhagen. It perhaps makes it hard to connect the first two movies at times but also if you see this movie as a standalone one it's a great and original one to watch!The movie has a couple of great and memorable sequence in it and some good and original gore. Too bad that the ending feels way too rushed and is a sort of an anti-climax, that doesn't work out as it was supposed to.The movie has some creative cinematography from Bill Butler, which also provides the movie with a great typical '70's and Omen kind of atmosphere. This also goes for The Jerry Goldsmith musical score. He uses all of the themes from the first movie and mixed them together to a new unique and also certainly unusual score. It was like all the gloves were off and he pushed things to the extreme, without crossing the line.A much better than you would expect sequel!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Solid horror sequel.","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Damien Omen II starts a week or so after the events of the original Omen (1976) in Israel with an exorcist named Karl Bugenhagen (Leo McKern, uncredited) pleading with a archaeologist & colleague named Micheal (Ian Hendry, uncredited) to travel to America & convince Damien's uncle to finish what his brother couldn't & kill the Antichrist, as Karl tries to persuade Micheal of the importance of the mission they both die in an 'accident'. Cut to 'Chicago Seven Years Later' & Damien (Jonathan Scott-Taylor) is in his early teen & lives with his uncle Richard (William Holden) & aunt Ann Thorn (Lee Grant) who also have a son of their own called Mark (Lucas Donat). Richard & Ann pack both Damien & Mark to 'Davidson Military Academy'. Damien's other aunt named Marion (Sylvia Sidney) knows that Damien is the Antichrist but dies in mysterious circumstance's shortly after trying to tell Richard & Ann the truth. A journalist named Joan Hart (Elizabeth Shepherd) has been investigating around the archaeological site where Micheal & Karl died & has also discovered that Damien is the Antichrist, she too meets a gruesome end when she tries to talk to Richard. Dr. Charles Warren (Nicholas Pryor) also starts to become suspicious of Damien but will he be able to convince his good friend Richard of his nephew's evil before he too falls victim to an 'accident'?Originally started by co-writer Mike Hodges who left after 'creative differences' & completed by director Don Taylor I thought Damien Omen II was a good watchable sequel. The script by Stanley Man & Hodges moves along at a reasonable pace & never becomes too dull or boring, the first half is slower than the second which when it gets going has one demonic killing after another with a scene where a Doctor is cut in half with steel wire & a scene when a journalist has her eyes pecked out by a large crow & subsequently is run over by a huge articulated truck being the stand out killings. Damien's attention this time is focused on business matters with him killing various members of 'Thorn Industries' which he will own eventually, turning the company into a cold-blooded organisation catering for his own needs. Most of the characters a little bland & forgettable with Damien himself not developed that much beyond a teenager who suffers with some personal angst as he becomes aware that he is the Antichrist, he takes it pretty well considering! I thought the twist ending was quite good as well. Director Taylor manages to create some great set-piece killings with the aforementioned two being particularly impressive, there is also a great sequence where a company executive named Bill Atherton (Lew Ayres) gets in Damien's way & ends up under some ice desperately banging as the current drags him further away & stunned spectators above frantically trying to rescue him as he slowly drowns trapped under the rock solid ice. Technically Damien Omen II is very well made & obviously had a reasonable budget, special mentions for the cinematography by Bill Butler & one for composer Jerry Goldsmith who turns in yet another fantastically atmospheric score. There isn't much blood or gore with only the Doctor being sliced in half containing any real grue. The acting is OK & the familiar face of genre favourite Lance Henriksen is here in a small role. Overall I liked Damien Omen II, it is a very well made & an entertaining horror film in it's own right. Having said that it's one of those films where I tend to think that there's nothing wrong with it but at the same time there's nothing outstanding about it either, definitely worth a watch though. "},{"Title":"very good sequel","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  very good sequel although not as quite as good as the original is still very good in it's own right Damien is still very menacing still and i found it kinda creepy as well if u get the chance rent this it will entertain you ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A couple of good scenes, that's it","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is very inferior the The Omen.  It is strictly by-the-numbers and has no originality whatsoever. The cast tries hard - veterans William Holden, Lee Grant, Lew Ayres and Sylvia Sidney know their way around a movie; God knows they've collected hundreds of credits between them, but this is beneath them all.  I assume they were seen running to the bank when it was all said and done.The best scene involves Meshach Taylor as a doctor who has an unfortunate episode in an elevator. And although the 'twist' ending was probably meant to intrigue, it fails completely.  "},{"Title":"Doesn't improve with age","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this when it first came out in 1978.  Even at the age of 16 I wasn't impressed.  The only parts were the sometimes inventive murders that were in it.  25 years later it hasn't improved much.The Omen original was well-made, scary, inventive if totally unbelievable.  It also had a grade-A cast and really worked.  This sequel has a great cast also (Lee Grant, William Holden, Sylvia Sidney, Lew Ayres) working hard and doing their best...but it doesn't work.  The deaths, while inventive, are pretty tame and sometimes downright laughable (when a woman is hit by a truck it is so obviously a dummy it's hysterical).  The only death that was suspenseful and really worked was Ayres' death under ice.  The script is basically pretty dull and a one-note rehash of the original.  Jonathan Scott-Taylor really tries as Damien but he's defeated by the lines he has to say.  All in all it's not horrible, but certainly not up to the original.  Worth seeing if you're in the mood for a fairly slow, mindless, tame horror film.  Also it is William Holdens only horror film.  "},{"Title":"As Damien Ages, the Series Starts to Limp.","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Would-be-shocker that becomes too dull too fast to keep up the interest generated by its good predecessor. It seems that young Damien (the only son of Satan played by Jonathan Scott-Taylor) is now living with his aunt and uncle (William Holden and Lee Grant) and attending military school with Holden's son of the same age. Nothing seems too odd, but strange deaths start and several begin to suspect Damien of his true colors. Eventually the anti-christ learns of his true purpose and becomes even more dangerous. Holden was originally to play Gregory Peck's part in the original but was working on Network at the same time and had to pass. He probably should have passed on this uneven project as well. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Slasher Pic in Clerical Robes","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's hard to discern which genre this film spawned, or begat, if you prefer -- lousy 80's horror pics like Friday the 13th, or lousy 90's fundamentalist thrillers a la Left Behind. One one level, it panders to a viewer's voyeurism and bloodlust. Lots of characters get killed, some of them in rather creative ways, and there tends to be plenty of splatter (don't eat before the scene where the lady reporter in the fake fur buys it). Now, that's sick, but it has its own sort of integrity. What makes DO2 especially hideous, however, is its hypocrisy. In this movie, only the crazy characters are right about little Damien, and after proclaiming the truth -- that he is the Anti-Christ -- they are destroyed by a vast, sinister conspiracy. So Christianity, a global religion that preaches selflessness and love, is turned into an underground movement defined by paranoia and revenged. It's a survivalist's wet dream.You have to work hard, though, to be disturbed by DO2 since the film-making is so laughably bad that you don't notice the rancid ideology. Bill Holden is a great actor, but somehow he's made his share of bombs and Damien Omen II is his thermonuclear blast. His trademark cragginess and churlishness don't suggest a man being overwhelmed by dark forces so much as a man who wants to punch his agent. And who can blame him? In one scene, he gets into bed with wife Lee Grant, kisses her goodnight and lies there, looking disturbed. Is he wondering whether his stepson is the Anti-Christ or pondering the sad decline of his career, as evidenced by the sad decline of his co-stars? From Audrey Hepburn and Gloria Swanson to Lee Grant and Jonathan Scott-Thomas . . . it's a precipitous arc downward. If Holden is embarrassed, his co-stars are embarrassing. Lee Grant has two facial expressions, mildly amused and mildly menacing, and should sue whoever costumed her, although you'll finally learn where Boy George got his fashion sense. And there are a couple of scenes that wouldn't make it into an undergraduate student film -- the long shot of William Holden's cab driving into Chicago's Cabrini Green housing project, which is doubling for New York City (!), and a scene at a military academy in which you can see the headmaster squinting at the cue cards. Oh, this is poor. "},{"Title":"Class, we're going to learn why films need subtleties...","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Those who have read my comments about the first Omen film will know that I tend to see it as a kind of comedy rather than any kind of powerful horror or statement about mankind. So Omen II is starting off behind the eightball, and in spite of its best efforts, it never really gets out of there.The acting is deadpan enough, but shifting the focus to Damien rather than those who deal with him was a mistake. However, there was a chance to recover from this. Damien goes through most of the film seemingly unaware of what he is. This could have worked to the film's advantage. We could have had a catastrophic event that makes Damien decide to embrace rather than shy away from his origins, for example. With the rampant accusations of paedophilia and rape being levelled at the clergy nowadays, playing out such a scenario here would have done the film wonders. Instead, we get a thirty-second character arc with some of the worst acting in the history of cinema. Oh well, if there is one thing you can count on Hollywood to be, it is undaring.Gone too is the mystery or detective element. The film pretty much erases any doubt the viewer has from the very beginning, and using one of the silliest substories you can imagine at that. The film basically begins with all of its cards on the table, and that is what kills it in the end. With a total absence of interesting plot twists, the whole thing becomes so by-the-numbers that one can guess what will happen next without the barest of hints.Another element that shatters the film's credibility is the number of amazing coincidences that happen around the titular character. One relative cacking it under suspicious circumstances, I can deal with. But when people keep dying over and over with the only common link between them being they had something to do with Damien Thorn, the obliviousness of the people Damien needs to gain influence from is a hard pill to swallow. This is where my summary comes in. It is a well-known theory of film that if you don't get your audience to believe in one part of your plot, they're going to be disconnected entirely from the rest.Ultimately, Omen II, like its companion films, exists in a vague fantasy land where a secret plot exists to eliminate the Christian empire. This, ultimately, is what destroys their credibility. As the films get more and more fanciful, they forget to give the story enough mooring in reality for the viewer to go with the rest. This secret underground Satanic conspiracy that exists in the Omen series must be very, very secret indeed, because the people who are the most likely candidates to become members generally have never heard of it.So when the chips are down, Omen II is basically nothing more than The Omen with the mystery element firmly removed. Given that this mystery element is the only thing that made the original interesting, I can't even recommend this turkey for a viewing at 0400 hours. Two out of ten is about all I can give this in good conscience. "},{"Title":"Dull dull dull","Date":"22 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 'Omen II' is made up of one scene repeated over and over until the running time has been filled and the film stops. Once we've seen one bloody death of a character who gets close to the truth about Damien's true nature, we've seen the whole movie. It doesn't help that the ostensibly central character played by William Holden blindly bumbles through the plot ignoring every sign that something is up with his nephew, and even refuses to see anything suspicious about the numerous dead friends, family members, acquaintances and coworkers piling up around him. The movie is boring and repetitious, and is basically a string of sausages that squodges out of a nozzle with no variation. "},{"Title":"Lackluster acting from the kids","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" With the death of Robert and Katherine Thorn in the first movie, it falls to others to confront Damien the antichrist. It's 7 years later, and 12 year old Damien (Jonathan Scott-Taylor) is living with his wealthy uncle Richard Thorn (William Holden) and his wife Ann (Lee Grant). They have a 15 year old son Mark (Lucas Donat). Aunt Marion (Sylvia Sidney) is very concern about Damien's bad influence on Mark.This one depends greatly on the young actors and they're not up to the task. Quite frankly, none of the actors create any compelling characters. There is no rooting interest in any of them. Maybe that's what's missing in this movie. It needs Mark to be a compelling foil to Damien. It could have been good versus evil in high school. Instead they try to create stranger and stranger ways to kill people. If you're into that, then this movie is for you. "}{"Title":"Damien Returns.","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" William Holden & Lee Grant play Richard and Ann Thorn, who have adopted Damien after the deaths of his parents(Richard was Robert's brother)They are in charge of Thorn industries, an international conglomerate worth millions. Richard doesn't believe the rumors about Damien, and just believes that his late brother had a mental breakdown, but later changes his mind when strange occurrences and more bizarre deaths happen, as Damien attends a military academy, and learns for himself who he really is, and that there are people around him who also know the truth, and want to help...Hit sequel is certainly faithful to the first, and also no better or worse, since it also is more concerned with melodrama and shock killings rather than thoughtful horror drama, like The Exorcist for instance. Watchable enough as a double feature with the first, but that's all. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After watching 'The Omen', I think it was not unreasonable to hope for a movie of the same calibre with the sequel. Unfortunately, that did not turn out to be the case. I think the main problem with this movie is its sheer predictability. Basically the formula is as follows person suspects who Damien is, person dies (usually in a nasty unpleasant fashion), and everyone scratches their heads and puzzles over the strange accident. Victims can also include people who do not suspect Damien, but are people who show integrity and might therefore be getting in the way of the evil plans. They also have to go. Those who suspect Damien's true nature are surely aware of his capacity for evil (being the son of the Devil and all), but still it never seems to occur to them that they might be a target. There were no surprises in this movie. The second major problem this movie faces is it's lack of character development. Damien himself experiences a moment of distress on comprehending his true nature, but it passes in a flash and there is no sign of further soul searching. But the most ridiculous example of this is the uncle, Mr Thorn. He spends the movie (understandably) scoffing at all the supernatural mumbo jumbo, but once the truth is made clear to him he quite matter of factly heads off to find the daggers and deal with it, with a boy he's loved as his own for years. Contrast this with the distress of Damien's father in the first movie, and the anguish he experiences even as he tries to do what needs to be done. 'Damien Omen II' is a severe let down after the excellence of 'The Omen' "},{"Title":"It tries too much to be like the first movie...and fails.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The problem with Damien is it tries too much to be like the great Omen movie. We see Damien now as a teenager who lives with his uncle (William Holden) in America ,he is a cadet in the military and he lives with his step brother and step mother too. He starts off as a nice young man but as time goes by he starts to understand his purpose in life and who he is, thanks to some followers who are around him.  People start to realise he is the son of the devil and as they do they mysteriously pop their clogs in a nasty way. This is not a patch the first for for a few reasons. Firstly it tries to be very like the Omen and that was always going to be difficult , secondly the cast is poor. The boy who plays Damien is not scary enough, he is too camp and in no way scary , also William Holden is no Gregory Peck although he does try and third it is very , very dated . It is not all bad though, there are some scary moments and the twist in the end IS a suprise which is good. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Languid and rather unremarkable Omen sequel, that strikes us so little we must remind ourselves The Devil is at work and the world as we know it is under threat.","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In simple terms, Damien Omen II just isn't anywhere near as good as the 1976 Richard Donner original. It's less intense and a lot less scarier; it falls too much in love with its craft and is badly paced in its reveals and epiphanies &#x96; it takes what was frightening about The Omen and removes it, focusing instead on conglomerate takeovers and the trials of a polite young boy who's on the cusp of his coming of age and based at a boarding school. Donner's film was able to dig out an awful lot of both tension and atmosphere whilst feeding off the simpler and more agonising things; an infant boy, of whom remained mute throughout, reacting strangely to certain things and looking on at certain happenings without so much as making a sound as exasperated adults tried to figure things out was much more interesting and a lot more affecting in The Omen than what is done here in the form of focusing on a well spoken, puzzled thirteen year old boy and a crow going around killing people. Ultimately, the film is a lot less fierce and surprisingly so, for the coming of The Devil and the threat of the end of the world looming ought to be 'up there' in those sorts of departments.Damien Omen II begins in the dusty surroundings of Palestine, and a gentleman more broadly connected with certain events towards the end of The Omen speaks exasperatedly to another of whom is there in the country (sorry, Authority) on an archaeological dig. Some dialogue ensues, during which one tries to convince the other that a centuries old image on a tomb wall is that of Jonathan Scott-Taylor's titular character &#x96; he believes him, and after trying to leave to tell everyone else, the age-old infrastructure gives way causing them both to perish. Was it a coincidence? Or were fouler powers at work. Such a sequence goes onto epitomise the film, a piece generally consisting of people finding out the truth behind the situation; desperately trying to either report or inform someone else, before perishing in some nasty way made to look wholly natural at the bereft of Satan himself.Following the events of the latter stages of the first film, which I will not go into here out of the fact the film still works as a stand alone thriller, the child born of a jackal; born with the beast's number of '666' on his head and who burrowed his way into a rich and wealthy family name out of the fact their own child died, has grown up. No longer are expressionless faces and aggrieved reactions that plagued the titular character, and which made The Omen so effective, the run of the norm; Damien, played by the aforementioned Jonathan Scott-Taylor, is a walking, talking and opinionated young boy at a Marine academy with his cousin. When we first see him, director Don Taylor laboriously shoots him walking through the haze of a foreground bonfire on his residence's grounds, whilst the kid is still several yards away from it. His coming out of fire and brimstone leads him into the residence proper, of which is a mansion of sorts owned by the brother of the first film's protagonist - a man named Richard Thorn (Holden) and a higher-up in the Thorn industries agriculture organisation. Damien is spoilt by his father; maintains a good rapport with his new-found family and comes across as quite the little scamp.The film manoeuvres us down routes which results in the thing feigning to be about both a clash of egos young Damien has with a staff-Sergeant at the school as well as a similar sort of power exchange in the Thorn company itself, when someone looks to challenge the ideas and practises of the existing chairmen. Nothing comes of either of these ideas, in spite of both of them sounding better than what we end up with. Instead, the piece takes an absolute age to force Richard into a corner of realisation when the worst is implemented unto him and when it gets there, darts off into thriller territory which is over too quickly and not interesting enough in its general happening anyway.There are a lot of sequences sharing common ground with that of the first scene, ranging from broken elevators to road-traffic accidents and where The Omen got across its scares and shrill atmospherics through the frightening possibility of these happenings, Damien Omen II wallows in the spectacle of it all. Recall, if you will, that instance in which the photojournalist from 1976's The Omen developed a self-portrait only to observe a pole-like object through his head on the actual print. After the establishment that this method of shooting those whom then possess implements about their person foretells their death, the journalist takes it upon himself to get out and underway on the quest to stop the forces of Evil doing their bidding by putting himself on the front-line and in harm's way. The kick was in the anticipation of when it might happen, indeed IF it might given how informed on the situation the journalist was. Damien Omen II gets more of a buzz out of the shrill spectacle of the people falling afoul of it all, an often tiresome project with very little in the way of character despite one individual having to come to terms with the fact The Devil is among us; very little narrative in spite of the fact The Devil is preordaining the take over of the globe and very little interest in spite of the fact, well, you know.... "},{"Title":"Opportunities given away","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The first part gave good opportunities for further treatment of the topic. One of the real opportunities would have been, to create a sketch how Damien becomes the beast that threatens the whole world -- not in the sense of wealth or might, but in the sense of character.The scene starts interesting with an almost likable Damien of age 12. This would have been a good start and rather believable that Damiens character is now to be formed.Also the film suggests some character development -- but fails greatly in my eyes. Either the ideas where missing or the courage to try some real interesting character development.The Damien actor was rather good and believable -- and so the foundation for a good story would have been available. But then it just goes on and on like a drive-by-shooting of people that could endanger Damien.What stays The conclusion that nobody can hinder the Evil to get to power -- an assertion that already was given (in a much more believable and creeping sense) by the first part.Summary Good Damien, good start, OK ending -- very repetitive story without real ideas. "},{"Title":"Good for a late night watch...a fair enough sequel to the original...","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" WILLIAM HOLDEN and LEE GRANT take an awful lot of time before they discover that all the deadly and sinister things that happen to their acquaintances are the work of the devil--and namely, the devil's own son, their own Damien (JONATHAN SCOTT-TAYLOR).Seems that everyone who does make the connection is soon disposed of in the most gruesome way possible by their still cherubic looking Damien. Most memorable, for me, was the ice hockey scene on a frozen lake where LEW AYRES meets an unfortunate demise. Another imaginative one was the elevator scene where the cable snaps and another poor chap meets a grisly end. All of these things happen with the soundtrack blasting away at Jerry Goldsmith's sinuous music and choral background.There's even a final twist for the ending and all of it is stylishly produced and photographed in Widescreen color, looking every bit as extravagant as the original THE OMEN.WILLIAM HOLDEN, looking a bit tired and worn, does what he can with the role of the boy's uncle who puts him in a military school, and LEE GRANT is the wife who refuses to believe her son could possibly be a demon from hell. Or so it seems.An altogether satisfying little sequel that doesn't necessarily surpass the original, but at least it makes a stab at doing so. "},{"Title":"The Devil (and a big pay-off at the box office) made 'em do it","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This asinine sequel to the 1976 shocker retains none of its predecessor's style or class. Directed, blandly and at times strictly for shock value, by journeyman Don Taylor and starring William Holden as the uncle of little Damien. Holden, a great actor, looks haggard and having played his fair share of heels in the past, is not nearly as helpless appearing as Gregory Peck was in the first film. Lee Grant replaces Lee Remick here and while she's not as vulnerable as Remick, she does turn out to be bit TOO nurturing to her devilish nephew. There are various gruesome killings perpetrated by Damien (here played Jonathan Scott-Taylor) including a particularly unsettling elevator tragedy. The supporting cast is surprising and includes Lew Ayres, Sylvia Sidney, Alan Arbus and Robert Foxworth. Lance Henriksen appears as one of Satan's bagmen. The produces wisely brought back Jerry Goldsmith to expand upon his creepy score. "},{"Title":"Inferior but interesting sequel","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The original Omen was a superlative horror film, much better than the absolutely laughable Exorcist. This inferior sequel can't match the original's power, and contains only one unforgettable image (in the elevator), while the Omen contained at least five.But it will hold your interest. "},{"Title":"while Damien grows up...his creepiness shrinks.","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a very logical sequel to one of the greatest genre efforts ever and therefore almost impossible to reach the same quality-level. Damien &#150; the son of the devil &#150; is an adolescent now and lives with his aunt (Lee Grant) and uncle (William Holden). He pretty much acts like any other teenager and is rather irritating in other words. Yet, every time someone becomes suspicious towards him and/or his past, this person brutally comes to an end. These ingenious and horribly showed massacres are the only highlights in an overall lame film. Don Taylor desperately tries to maintain the breath-taking biblical tone of the first and adds multiple Christian topics as well as an equally great musical score. Holden is a worthy follow-up for Gregory Peck but he deserved a better script to work with, for sure. There's a giant lack of tension and involvement in this sequel! The character of Damien as the Antichrist was much more scarier at the age of 5 than he is at 14&#133; Still, as mentioned earlier, there are a couple of great death-scenes like who's getting sliced up in an elevator and a chilling bird-attack. For the fans of religion-themed horror especially!  "},{"Title":"Talky, unscary thriller warns of terrible things and then gives us cartoonish murders...","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Withered, unhappy sequel to The Omen has the AntiChrist coming into his own as a teenager at prep-school, learning of his powers and how to direct them. Film is so badly structured that a fight between Damien and a taunting classmate results in unintended laughter (the woman who gets her eyes pecked out and then stumbles in front of a truck also got laughter from the audience I saw this with). There's no momentum for the terror the filmmakers are trying to mount; they release all the tension by giving us outlandish, shock deaths (as with a lengthy elevator sequence, so painstakingly mounted with precision it can't help but be an anti-climax). Good actors like William Holden, Lee Grant, Sylvia Sidney, Robert Foxworth and Lance Henriksen struggle through this, but most of the movie rests on Jonathan Scott-Taylor's lead performance he's well-cast as Damien but decidedly one-note, with a monotone voice that seems mired in indifference. If the Devil really did put a disciple on Earth, wouldn't that boy be a terrifying and dynamic presence? This kid squints his suspicious eyes and makes heart attacks happen... *1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"Poor","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Inferior sequel that's little more than a series of grisly death set-pieces, some of them downright silly and not shocking or frightening in the least. The entire point of the movie seems to be to introduce people just so we can see them die a horrible death. There's none of the suspense or intrigue from the first movie and certainly none of the creepiness.The script is weak. Whenever it isn't focused on setting up a death scene, it seems confused. There are entire subplots that go nowhere and have nothing to do with the rest of the movie, so far as I could tell. The acting ranges from terrible to competent. Vets like William Holden and Lew Ayres go through the motions while the lead, Jonathan Scott-Taylor, is unimpressive to say the least. The film does boast of being the debut of Meshach Taylor though! Avoid it unless you're really bored or a devotee of the first film who feels compelled to complete the series. "},{"Title":"The damned bird is more menacing then the Anti-Christ...and that's a problem...","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Damien The Omen II can only be described as a cash-grab of a movie; a quest to wring more box office dollars out of moviegoers by exploiting the spooky-creepy greatness that was the original Omen. The plot, in a nutshell Young Damien, Anti-Christ that he is, is adopted by the brother of his Earth daddy who tried to execute him in the first film. Puberty age Damien goes to military school...and does nothing for most of the film. Meanwhile, there's lots of dirty work afoot in the annals of Thorn Industries, which young Damien will eventually inherit. We get lots of characters we've never seen before, who are all apparently part of the Satan Fan Club, plotting Damien's future for him. Anybody not in the hell clique and figures out what the hell is going on is immediately, and graphically, murdered in ways that put any of the Final Destination deaths to shame. Eventually, Damien literally reads the truth out of a book, (the bible, in this case) and then...does nothing some more.During all of this, upper tier actor such as William Holden, Lee Grant and others shamelessly overact the silly scenes and ridiculous dialog they're given to perform. Everybody but Damien dies, setting us up for the inevitable and even worse third movie in the series, The Omen The Final Conflict. And as Porky Pig would say, Th-th-th-that's all, folks! Seriously, I've just told you the whole movie, now you don't have to waste two hours of your life sitting through this. Aren't I a nice guy?I'm a lot nicer then the powers-that-be that put together this stillborn sequel. For a film named for it's Anti-Christ central character, Damien is given pretty much NOTHING TO DO for the whole film. Everything that happens, all happens around him, most of it in the midst of his ignorance of it even happening. When Damien DOES get wise to what's up, the film is almost over, anyway. So, if Damien isn't the cause of all the horror and bloodletting, who is? The aforementioned ciphers of characters, who have no context or back story, they're all on Damien's side because A) they're devil worshipers and b) they're convenient to the plot. Them, and the damned black crow that shows up whenever it's time for a murder and even gets involved in one of the killings at one point. When a god-damned BIRD is scarier then the Anti-Christ, it's definitely time for some script-doctoring. But no, Omen II is nothing more then it was intended to be a Hellish money-grab, leaving audiences asking God why they coughed up perfectly good money for this. If there's one positive to be said about Omen II it's that at least it's not as bad as Omen III The Final Conflict, for what that's worth. Do yourself a favor, just revisit the original Omen and treat this sequel like the Star Wars prequels and just pretend it doesn't exist. You'll be happier if you do.And look out for black crows! "},{"Title":"Much better than the first film of the series!","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As one who fancies himself a Horror devout, it was time to watch (and later review) the The Omen series. I've finished watching The Omen not two hours ago, and I must say I haven't been entirely impressed (even when taking consideration of the facts it's over 30 years old). However, I must say The Omen II has been pleasantly surprising!Unlike most reviews I've seen, I've found The Omen II Damien to be far, far better than the first one on virtually all accounts (even if it has been made only two years after). The acting is better, more convincing and realistic (although the actors still seem too emotionless about all the deaths of their friends and relatives). The story and plot are better and less predictable. To top it off - there's even a twist towards the end, one that caught me completely off guard!Of course, the film isn't perfect. The greatest shortcoming is still the main character, Damien (this time played by Jonathan Scott-Taylor). While doing a much better job than Harvey Stephens in the first film, the character of Damien is still not as frightening and unnerving as it should be, in my opinion.What I might have neglected in my previous review is the music - which is one feature in which the first film is better than the sequel. However, in all other aspects - The Omen II is one of the best sequels I've seen, and a fine well done film. I'd recommend it to any Horror fan and/or late 70's films fan, but do watch the first film first, as it will make you enjoy this one all the more. "},{"Title":"Damien has been adopted and now is living in the white house.  To carry  on the bloodshed he started as a boy.","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This sequel fails what the first film accomplished. It isn't scary. There is one thing this film taught me . . . rent a movie before you buy it. I learned this lesson the heard way. I loved the first one so much, I thought the second one would be just as brilliant. Boy was I wrong.Another reason you should not see this movie is that it is boring. The first kept you at the edge of your seat! This movie just isn't interesting. It is very dual.I will give it some credit, in that it had some good performances. That is the only good thing about this film. So take my advice and stay clear of this movie. "},{"Title":"This was much better than the first.","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There was more action, more revelations (pun intended), more story. It is still nothing more than a two hour sermon, but at least this one was a bit more entertaining.Damien is now old enough to attend to his own affairs and after he is shown who and what he is, he takes them well in hand. Now living with his uncle and his family, Damien is somewhat eager for things to proceed in the usual, chaotic fashion. There's not really much to say about this installment except that if you are going to watch the franchise, this is a must see in order to understand the progression of events.The nicest element was the use of ravens.Very nicely done.It rates a 6.3/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Don't do Damien","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When I was thirteen, a long, long time ago, this movie inspired me to read the Bible, it made me think Iron Maiden's 'Number of the Beast' was a work of genuine prophecy. I, slightly disappointedly, failed to discover any numbers in my scalp. This film scared me and inspired me.I've just revisited it, more than thirty years later, and, oh my God, why, why, why, why, why? The thirteen-year-old I watched it with fell asleep. My immediate reaction was that horror dates, but 'Psycho' hasn't dated, and 'The Exorcist' hasn't dated.Bad films date. Don't watch this. Life is short, particularly since there is a raven staring at me now in a malevolent fashion. I'll be dead soon. "},{"Title":"surprisingly dull and cheapens the first Omen film","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" More interesting as a time capsule than a movie, Damien Omen II alternates between monotonous, bloody and laughable, with the emphasis on monotonous.The first scenes, with Leo McKern and a guy who reminds me of David Niven, are among the best. McKern is always very full of life and he speaks his final lines like he's King Lear cursing the heavens. If the movie would have continued with McKern and the Niven-type guy (and if they had lived, of course), the movie ultimately would have been far more interesting.Once the movie gets started on Damien, it is very boring and lifeless. Lee Grant acts angry, Jonathan Scott Taylor, as Damien, seems like he should be in the Dead Poet's Society, and William Holden tries to be a good sport about the whole thing.The death scenes are suitably graphic, drawn-out and imaginative, but the film is a complete repeat of the first movie (although more uneven and less interesting). This movie actually cheapens the memories of the first Omen film, since it's emphasis on death scenes makes the whole movie series seem like an excuse for such unsubtle exploitation.The first Omen film had a subtlety in the characterizations and some genuinely scary characters (Mrs. Baylock was memorably sinister and had a mysterious sense of danger). This movie, on the other hand, has forgettable and boring characters. One of the villains, played by Robert Foxworth, looks and acts just like Mike Brady from the television show The Brady Bunch. Another character is played by Alan Arbus, who played the psychiatrist on M*A*S*H. He plays his character the same way in this film, talking like an ethnic Alan Arkin. The lack of scary characters and the addition of generic ones make the film boring and unintentionally funny. Damien himself seems like a cuddly little kid going to prep school and wearing oversize military outfits. It seems like he's playing at being a grownup. Needless to way, there's no sense of evil from him at all. There's some first-rate actors involved in this (Elizabeth Shepherd, who plays one of the victims, is a very well-regarded actress), and it's not a little dis-spiriting that they didn't use their talents on something more worthy of them.A staleness and lifelessness hangs over the whole movie, and it ends up leaving the viewer feeling depressed, and not in a scary way. There are some good scenes, which show what the movie could have been. Besides the scenes with McKern, Jonathan Scott Taylor has an effective scene where he tries to talk his cousin into joining him on his satanic mission. It has a certain intensity that stands out and seems genuine. But ultimately, this movie is just an empty, deadening cash machine, written to squeeze the most out of the Omen franchise. "},{"Title":"The Omen was chilling; Damien is the thaw","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It took me quite a while to understand the depths to which the Omen franchise plummeted after the first magnificent thriller masterpiece. The truth is, Damien Omen II should be on the Bottom 100, somewhere adjacent to From Justin to Kelly. While Richard Donner's original film was superb and harrowing, this mindlessly bloody follow-up has a pre-teen Damien Thorn coming to terms with his demonic heritage (who died and made this movie American Graffiti?) and, bizarrely, absent for most of the movie, away at a military academy while a few people back home struggle to unravel the mystery of his identity. And what really happened that night at the church at the end of the first film.Therein lies one of the main problems-- no Damien! While he does end up wreaking quite a bit of havoc (once at the school, several other times on quick trips home), the directness of the plot is taken away from him. It's really not plausible for him to be causing so much destruction from so great a distance (yes, I attacked the plausibility of an Omen movie, not the most defensible of positions for me). Another huge problem is that the writers misinterpreted the point of the first one completely *plausible* deaths that were scary without being excessively bloody, and could be legitimately explained without resorting to blaming the bad guy. As The Omen Legacy documentary narrator Jack Palance said, the death scenes are spectacles of big-screen gore. There's an horrific raven attack, an icy demise on a frozen lake, an accident with industrial chemicals, and much more.And ravens? As the bestial residencies of evil spirits-- the role taken over from scary Rottweilers in the original-- birds, even ravens, aren't very effective. Well, okay, the bird lady from Mary Poppins just got a little scarier.After the first director, Michael Hodges, demonstrated a knack for moving along at a snail's pace, he was replaced by Don Escape from the Planet of the Apes Taylor. But Taylor is so concerned with finishing the movie on schedule that he doesn't take time to wring good performances out of the actors, even the legends like William Holden (here an emotionally impotent hack) and Lew Ayres (whose role does not suit him in the slightest). Worst of all are Lee Grant as Damien's preposterously skeptical aunt and Jonathan Scott-Taylor as an irritating Antichrist.And don't even get me started on Bill Butler's so-called cinematography.Damien does have one legitimate shock the shock that a sequel with so much promise could suck so bad. "},{"Title":"We Didn't Need A Sequel","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I thought THE OMEN was a great horror movie , much better than the over-hyped THE EXORCIST . In fact I thought it was so good that there was no way the original needed a sequel and this movie proves it . It fails for three obvious reasons 1 ) The audience know that Damien Thorn is the anti Christ hence we're one step ahead of all the characters in the movie unlike in the original where we were shocked by the plot revelations 2) This possibly ties in with the first point . Several characters are aware of the fate of Damien's parents but are very blas about it all . In other words these characters seem impossibly stupid 3) Damien Thorn is around 12 years old and very polite . Is there anything less menacing than a polite 12 year old child ? The problem with sequels is that if they play out in an entirely different manner then fans of the first movie will be alienated , if they play out in the same way ( As is the case of this one ) then you've got a very predictable movie . In other words it's a case of heads you lose , tails you don't win . Aside from a couple of novelty deaths ( One of which was recently remade as a beer commercial ) there's not much to recommend this movie . At least THE FINAL CONFLICT was entirely daft enough to be entertaining "},{"Title":"Damien Omen II","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I knew this wouldn't be as good as the brilliant original film, I guess I just wanted to know how good or bad it was compared to it. You remember how at the end of the last one, you thought Damien was dead and he suddenly reappeared, well he's grown up now, aged 13 (Jonathan Scott-Taylor) and discovering what he really is. Living with his uncle Richard Thorn (The Bridge on the River Kwai's William Holden) and aunt Ann Thorn (Lee Grant), Damien is anxious to inherit everything his relatives have to enable him to rise to power. Oh, and in the meantime he is doing something with the military. Along the way there are some more character deaths, but they aren't up to the terrifying or bizarre standard as the previous film. Also starring Robert Foxworth as Paul Buher, Nicholas Pryor as Charles Warren, Lew Ayres as Bill Atherton, Beetle Juice's Sylvia Sidney as Aunt Marion, Aliens' Lance Henriksen as Sergeant Neff, Elizabeth Shepherd as Joan Hart, Lucas Donat as Mark Thorn, Allan Arbus as Pasarian, Fritz Ford as Murray, Meshach Taylor as Dr. Kane, John J. Newcombe as Teddy, John Charles Burns as Butler, Paul Cook as Colonel, Diane Daniels as Jane and Robert E. Ingham as Teacher. This is a very forgettable sequel, not even the very occasional and satanic deaths can rescue it from being a waste of time. Pretty poor! "}]