[{"Title":"Kenneth Mars as Marshal Wooly Bill Hitchcock","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy, Western","Review":" First of all, congratulations are in order for Tim Conway for hilarity,and the unforgettable Kenneth Mars' outrageous funny Marshall Wooly Bill Hitchcock character whose performance left me in stitches from laughter! I laughed long after seeing the film when I remembered how did Marshal Wooly Bill Hitchcock go after the Apple Dumpling Gang. In my opinion this sequel to the first Apple Dumpling Gang was a great improvement from its original version in both comedic content and character development, and its story line. I highly recommend this sequel for clean family fun and entertainment. Steve Horvath, Chicago, IL "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious!","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I have never laughed so hard at a movie in my life. I'm very disappointed in the rating this comedy has gotten... this film was one of those rare sequels that surpasses the original. A definite must-see for all Tim Conway fans (Where is your horn, little boy blue.)Granted, there are some smarmy moments... but Tim and Don shine in this comedy for the whole family! "},{"Title":"The Cavalry Is Looking For A Few Good Men","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy, Western","Review":" Tim Conway and Don Knotts proved to be so popular in the first Apple Dumpling Gang movie that the Magic Kingdom felt they had to be reteamed for The Apple Dumpling Gang Rides Again. Leaving behind the two children they were involved with in the first film, our two outlaw wannabes find themselves enlisting in the cavalry after unwittingly helping in a bank robbery.Conway and Knotts's fiddlefooted fumblings are happening at the same time that army supplies are being systematically robbed from Fort Concho with commandant Harry Morgan having no clue why. And Morgan's got other things on his mind as well. His daughter Elyssa Davalos is arriving to marry her fiancé, Lieutenant Robert Pine. But a most amorous private played by Tim Matheson keeps getting in the way.It was a stroke of genius at the Magic Kingdom when someone got the idea to team Don Knotts and Tim Conway. Like Bing Crosby and Bob Hope who had very successful careers as solos, when they teamed they really clicked. I only imagine that the individual projects both men were involved in kept them from doing even more films together. Each had a really good feel for the timing of the other and the comedy styles blended well.Disney Studios gave them a good cast in support as they always did. Ruth Buzzi has a nice turn as a blind lady who keeps trying to raise the town alarm about a bank robbery. But the absolute best was Kenneth Mars as Marshal Wooly Bill Hitchcock, a man who can't stand to lose. A feared legend of the west, he can't close the deal on Knotts and Conway, because strange fate keeps intervening. He gets driven to madness the same way Inspector Dreyfus is with Clousseau.Best scene in the film are Conway and Knotts as they bungle their way into burning the whole fort down, a bit taken from the Gary Cooper comedy, Cassanova Brown. Second best scene is Knotts and Conway in drag as saloon entertainers, taken of course from Some Like It Hot.Reused material or not, the stuff is very funny and more than kids will get laughs from two comic geniuses in The Apple Dumpling Gang Rides Again. "},{"Title":"Nice!","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I like Don Knotts in what he does as an actor. This movie is just some good clean fun wrapped up in hilarity! Tim Conway is also good at his role in the movie. I like this movie because it is something that everybody can watch and enjoy! "},{"Title":"One of the funnyest!","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I thought this was one of the funnyest movies I have seen..  This almost surpasses Cannonball Run and Cannonball Run 2..  It's a must see..  Tim Conway was as funny as he has been in some of his other movies like the Dwarf..  But I thought Don Kotts took the cake..  I have watched it twice and after writing this I am going to watch it again.. "},{"Title":"Not As Godd As The First One","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy, Western","Review":" This is the sequel of the first movie that was made in 1975 and that was The Apple Dumpling Gang. In 1979 The Apple Dumpling Gangs Rides Again starring Tim Conway as Amos Tucker, Don Knotts as Theodore Olevie and Tim Matheson as Private Jeff Reed. Those two bumbling outlaws Theodore and Amos are broke and down on their luck. So they decide to try to deposit a check in the local bank only to be accused of trying to rob it. While trying to escape they run into legendary Marshall Wooly Bill Hitchcock. With Hitchcock on their trail the two bumbling outlaws decide to enlist in the Army. Enters Private Jeff Reed who trying to figure out whose stealing guns from the Army surplus. After getting in all kinds of trouble Amos and Theodore end up in the stockade. Although they escape this mess, the witless team who could never shoot straight still can't seem to succeed in going straight. It's riotous, raucous fun as The Apple Dumpling Gang Rides Again. I saw the first one and I don't think this was as good. However with Tim Conway and Don Knotts together you can't go wrong so I'm giving this picture 8 weasel stars. "},{"Title":"The first one was better but this had it's moments...","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy, Western","Review":" and those moments didn't really include Don Knotts and Tim Conway. These two are good for what they are, humorous as supporting characters in a b-line of the story. But they, in my opinion, weren't funny enough to get as much of the story as they did, which left the whole thing feeling off balance. But then I'm not much for slapstick humor like them or Lucille Ball. I prefer the storyline of the stolen military supplies, Major Gaskill, Jim, Jeff and Milly. Theodore and Amos aren't without their purpose. Their bumbling that led to the destruction of an entire fort was amusing if a little long. The sheriff was entirely annoying to me. He served a purpose but was too involved in the story as well, I think. Still, all that said, I liked it enough to buy it on DVD. "},{"Title":"better than the first movie","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy, Western","Review":" in my mind this sequel is better than the first movie.i thought it was funnier,and much better paced.it's shorter,but there's more packed into it.the story is better.Tom Conway and Don Knotts reprise their roles from the first one.unfortunately Bill Bixby does not return.on the plus side,there is more comic mayhem in this one and more action in general.once again,the movie is family friendly.again,if you have nothing else to do on a lazy Sunday,you could do worse than this movie.like the first one,it's no masterpiece,and it's not supposed to be one.it is however an improvement.for me,The Apple Dumpling Gang is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Constructive Chaos","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Comedy, Western","Review":" Don't watch this if you are sad. There's a strange dynamic in humor, having to do with happy endings. Happy isn't happy.The standard model is two dummies who do everything wrong. As the story progresses, more and more damage is done, and the plight of the comics gets worse and worse. For some reason, their disaster makes us feel lighter. Its such a strong model that when we deviate from it, we notice.Then, at some point, someone &#151; possibly Disney &#151; changed the formula to what we have here. The guys are stupid as usual. They destroy everything as usual. They humiliate the policeman (or other authority figure) as usual. What's new is that it all adds up to them being celebrated for some unintended good.For some reason, the effect is to make us feel worse. It was only with Peter Seller's Jacques Clouseau that the hero was so profoundly clueless (and French, extra clueless because he was french) that the adjusted formula works. The only value in this is the performance of Ken Mars as the tortured sheriff. Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}]