[{"Title":"Grotesque yet beautiful","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"76 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Having read the greater-than-life novel by Günther Grass, this film is an interesting viewing for many reasons. Reason number 1 the most important reason is of course, how on earth did they manage to get anyone to play Oskar? The director has shown us a stroke of geniosity by casting a 12-year old boy as Oskar, who besides is a brilliant actor (I wonder whatever became of him). Reason number two how could anyone ever visualize the grotesque and chaotic scenes in the book? Once again the director comes up with something brilliant, he makes the scenes as graphic as possible, he doesn't care about the MPAA, he doesn't care about movie-watchers with heart problems, and he's not afraid of overdoing anything. He puts as much force and effort in the scenes as possible, and they come out brilliantly. Reason number 3  How does he capture the moods of the multi-layered book? He simply stays very faithful to the books text and uses camera angles, lighting effects and music perfectly to accompany the visions of Günther Grass. Those are the most apparent reasons and because of those, the film is brilliant. The only flaw is leaving the story unfinished (although, the ones who never read the book, won't notice that). Altogether, an interesting, stylish and rewarding film experience.  "},{"Title":"Strangely Beautiful","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"51 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  That day, thinking about the grown-up world and my own future, I decided to call a halt. To stop growing then and there and remain a three-year-old, a gnome, once and for allGoodness, what a marvel this film is! It is certainly the greatest film from Germany that I have seen yet. Winner of the 1979 Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, The Tin Drum follows the life of a boy named Oskar. After seeing how ludicrous adults act, Oskar decides to stop his growth, and stay three years old forever by falling down the stairs. He succeeds, and the fall has stopped his growth. Aside from the hault of growth, the fall eqips him with two special powers that he regularly manifests. The lesser of these two powers, is repeatedly pounding his tin drum, which he absolutely refuses to let go of. Oskar's undeniable power is to let out a high pitched shriek that will shatter any glass he directs it at. Does it sound strange? Well, the film is much stranger, but also much more beautiful than my description.The film follows our little Oscar over a period of around two decades, through World War II in Germany. We follow Oskar through his many sexual, emotional, tragic, funny, and beautiful exploits. An absolutely important credit must be given to actor David Bennett, who plays young Oskar. He portrays Oskar as an infant, as a three year-old, as a six year-old, as a twelve year-old, as a 16 year-old, as a 21 year-old...well, you get the picture. Bennett was only 11 at the time, and his performance is very impressive.I haven't seen very many German films from the last thirty years, but most of the ones I have seen (the excellent Vanishing, and the immensely mediocre White Rose) haven't had very good scores. The Tin Drum has a very slight, but very servicable, score by the famous Maurice Jarre. The score has an emotional theme played in only a few scenes (notably, the ending), it also has an innocent little music box theme, and surprisingly a cool waltz for scenes involving members of the circus (a big part of the second-half of the film). A very good score. To my knowledge, it was released on LP when the film was released, and on a CD pressed in Japan sometime in the 90's. I read that the (sadly out of print) Kino DVD includes the isolated score as an extra.It's an excellent film that I strongly connected with, but I can see many people not liking it, it is VERY strange, but I am somebody who has always found VERY strange things extremely beautiful, and The Tin Drum is no exception. Over-all, I consider this film a classic, and I'll once again state that it is certainly the greatest film from Germany that I have seen yet. "},{"Title":"Me and my drum","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"42 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Germans are unsurpassed when it comes to depict whatever is grotesque, bizarre, monstrous or disturbing. This tendency was best illustrated by the trend called expressionism, an art movement of the nineteen twenties that applied to painting (Dix, Grosz), cinema (Fritz Lang, Murnau) and theatre (Bertold Brecht's Threepenny opera). The movement was dismissed by the Nazis as degenerate art and abruptly ended with Hitler's rise to power. As a movie, The Tin Drum is a unique modern tribute to expressionism.Before it was adapted for screen, The Tin Drum was already a classic of German modern novel. The author, Gunther Grass, was born in Danzig, now Gdansk, Poland's major port on the Baltic Sea (where the Solidarnosc movement actually appeared the very year the movie was released). During the interwar period, Danzig was officially a free city, but was claimed both by Germany and Poland, and it was the German invasion of Danzig that was the official cause for the outbreak of World War II. So no wonder the hero of The Tin Drum, little Oscar, is born to a German mother and two different fathers, a Pole (the natural one) and a German (the adoptive one).When little Oscar is born, his mother predicts that when he turns three, he will be given a tin drum. Prediction comes true, as little Oscar turns out to be a very naughty sort of Peter Pan. Disgusted by the world of adults around him, he attempts suicide at age three by jumping from the top of the cellar staircase. He survives but his growth is stopped. The eerie gnome and his fellow drum become inseparable, and if one ever tries, little Oscar has a lethal weapon  he can shout so shrill that his voice breaks any glass around. So don't mess with little Oscar, who keeps drumming and drumming for any reason, and remains a sarcastic and outcast witness of his time  the rise and fall of Nazism.The Third Reich is depicted here as background for Oscar's adventures. Since he can't attend school because he will never give up his drum, he makes a career in a troop of circus midgets where his glass-breaking talents can bloom. Most of the time, Nazism is mocked here as a ridiculous farce with a humor à la Lubitsch. At heart though, The Tin Drum is far from being just a satire, as tragedy is often underlying under the dark humor. After little Oscar has lost his two fathers at age twenty one, he decides to bury his fetish toy in a pit, and embarks on a westbound refugee train as Germans are massively evicted of their former eastern territories.This movie has an unusual amount of excellent scenes, but I'd rather not mention them, because there are just too many, and the surprise effect makes them all the more grasping. Needless to say that several of them deal with Oscar's glass-breaking exploits, which soon develop on a massive scale. Many of them are also voluntarily disgusting, but I guess it's the name of the game here. Should you eat before or after seeing this? In case you don't eat before, you might not feel very hungry afterwards, and if you do... well, if you're faint of stomach, better you avoid this movie anyway.If you get a chance and you don't mind subtitles, the original version seems like a good option. Little David Bennent's mischievous and cringing voice is an excellent performance, and gets enhanced by the rasping sound of the German language. The movie is almost two and a half hours long, and if it's no wonder that many will find it absurd or offending, it is neither slow or boringA well deserved Palme d'Or in Cannes for 1979. "},{"Title":"Absorbing and Thought Provoking","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"55 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  That day, thinking about the grown-up world and my own future, I decided to call a halt. To stop growing then and there and remain a three-year-old, a gnome, once and for all - Oskar MetzertathThe Tin Drum is based on Gunter Grass's highly acclaimed novel which used magic realism to capture the madness of war, and the folly of the people who made it possible. This movie only tackles the first two sections of the novel, leaving out the post-war events. The film won the Academy Award for Best Foreign film in 1980, and the Palm d'Or at Cannes. It was also banned in Oklahoma as child pornography. Despite moments of brilliance, The Tin Drum left me feeling incomplete and curiously unmoved.It is a very different kind of film from the others I saw this week, using satire and surrealism to explore people's reactions during the period from 1939 to 1945. It seems to be saying that it is all right to stop growing (that is, participating in the world) as a protest against the cynicism and corruption of the adult world. The setting for the majority of the film, Danzig (now Gdansk) is a major northern port town in Poland. Danzig was a free and independent city until September 1, 1939, when it became the first region taken by Germany at the outset of WWII. After the war, Danzig became a part of Poland again. The Tin Drum is the story of Oskar Matzerath, a boy who grows up in Eastern Germany before and during World War II. Oskar decides the only way to protest being part of the adult world is by banging on his drum and remaining a child forever. This is his rebuttal of society and his tin drum is his protest against the mentality of his family and neighborhood, or perhaps against all passive people in Nazi Germany at that time. Oskar tries to shock the world out of its inhumanity. His life reflects Germany's struggle to free itself from its own dream of Teutonic superiority and find peace in the national soul.David Bennent as Oskar gives an outstanding performance, creating a character that is both haunting and frightening. He looks like a little man in a child's body but his eyes are deep and have a very knowing look that seemed to be looking right through me. Oskar is not a cute little updated version of Peter Pan. Since age three (when he was given his first tin drum), Oskar can scream with such a high pitch that he can shatter any piece of glass. He even controls his scream to the point where he can break windows on the other side of the city, or etch writing into glass. Oskar uses his ability to manipulate and control the adult world, often using vicious and cynical snide comments about the insanity around him. At one point, he disrupts a Nazi rally by changing the beat of his tin drum to the Blue Danube which the band then follows. The ensuing scene where the crowd breaks into a dance and the rain comes down leaving the Nazi soldiers bewildered is one of the best in the film.I found the scenes where Oskar joins a midget troupe and finds loving companions of his own kind to be very tender and moving. However, the film became morally ambiguous for me when Oskar and his troupe decide to entertain the Nazi soldiers at the front lines. Schlondorff never really makes it clear what his motivations are and Oskar's actions seems to contradict his essentially anarchist protest for most of the film. The Tin Drum also contains some objectionable scenes of childhood sexuality and grotesque depictions of slithering eels being caught using a severed horse head as bait. The result, needless to say, is stomach churning.I found The Tin Drum to be absorbing and thought provoking yet, despite moments of brilliance, for me it did not add up to a totally satisfying experience. "},{"Title":"A smart movie powered by David Bennent's performance","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"43 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Oskar is a young man in World War II Germany who refuses to grow up when he was three years old. He deliberately let himself fall on a stair to injure himself and stop his growth. Oskar's refusal to grow and release his tin drum is an obvious metaphor about refusing the Nazi regime. This is made more obvious since he finally decided to grow and let go of his drum after the Nazi's defeat. The Tin Drum is based on a celebrated novel by German author Gunter Grass. Director Volker Schlöndorff brings it to life with profound elegance and intellectual humor. Made in 1979, in the middle of the German film renaissance, The Tin Drum pokes fun at the Nazi regime and at the same time presents an unforgettable and often hilarious story. The movie begins in the late 19th century when Oskar's grandmother helps his grandfather to escape German soldiers by letting him hide under her skirt. It is also where Oskar's mother Agnes (Angela Winkler) is conceived. Agnes grows up during the First World War and marries a man named Alfred Matzerath (Mario Adorf). She begins to have an affair with her cousin Jan Bronski, while Oskar slowly becomes aware of their relationship.David Bennent's performance as Oskar is simply amazing. He was about 12 years old at the time, and he plays Oskar from childhood to his 20s. Although Oskar's physical appearance never changes. We can see his aging process through Bennent's performance. Oskar's movement changes; he begins to become more mature and discover the world around him. Bennent plays the character with an impressive level of believability and intellectual maturity. The Tin Drum reminded me of one of my favorite movies-Forrest Gump. Both movies have central characters that are physically and mentally disabled, and both manage to have an interesting journey life. Both movies pass through an important historical event, with both heroes getting involved. The Tin Drum is not quite in the same league as Forrest Gump, but it still amazed and captivated me from beginning to end. The Tin Drum contains some really grotesque scenes. One scene in particular is when they show a fisherman using a dead horse's head as bait for eels. The fisherman removes the eels one by one from the horse's head, while Agnes vomits in disgust. To balance it out, the movie also contains moments of pure joy. I love the sequence where Oskar's drumming influences a band to change their music form a German march to Strauss' The Blue Danube. A Nazi officer screams in disgust, while the crowd joins together and dances.I enjoy watching intelligent satires. I laughed out loud a lot of times in this movie and I relished its lush story. The movie deals with many things, including warfare, adultery, and religion. It may be a little too long for some people at 140 minutes, but for me, no good movie is too long. The Tin Drum contains astonishing images powered by remarkable acting. It may be hard to find on video, but I'm sure it's worth the trouble.  "},{"Title":"One of the most memorable films of all time","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"37 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Die Blechtrommel, based on the highly acclaimed German novel by the same name. Oscar is 3 years old. For his birthday he gets a tin drum. He sees how grown ups act, (this is during the rise of the Nazi Party) and he decides to stop growing.The film is filled with moral ethics and symbolism. The tin drum Oscar always drums on is a symbol of his protest against the cruelty that grown ups create, not to mention the rise of Nazism. Die Blechtrommel even has large scenes that are only for symbolism. It is probably one of the most important German films since WW2. Somehow, the German make the best films that decipher Nazism and WW2 (like Stalingrad and the new Der Untergang) which very clearly shows their self awareness. I think Die Blechtrommel is one of the finest examples of this.It is often quite absurd this film, one of the most memorable scenes is when Oscar watches a Nazi rally. As an officer is marching through the crowd, the orchestra is playing a march. Oscar starts playing his drum, and make all the musicians play false, and after a while they all start to play An der Schönen blauen Donau and the crowd starts to dance.Die Blechtrommel is one of the most memorable films ever, whet ever you liked it or not. Some scenes are very sick, and i do not encourage people who don't have a stomach for strong films to see this. For other film lovers though, this is one of the greatest films ever. "},{"Title":"Beautifully disturbing","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It's been a while since I've seen this German film but I am still struck by key images in the film and the overall tone set forth casually against a backdrop of the chaos of Nazi Germany's rise and fall.I do wonder how much of my love for this film is owed to the Gunter Grass novel on which it's based It's a quirky slab of magic realism to be sure, like the film, but I have no idea how closely it hews to the original.The performances are nuanced and striking in places. The cinematography is appropriately dreary and the editing crisp and unadorned. The centerpiece though, is the performance by the child actor at the core of the film. How much is owed to his voice-over narrative, I don't know, but the man growing inside of the still-grown little boy was handled just beautifully.It's a disturbing and strangely uplifting movie at once. I recommend it -- especially for those who have seen only black and white view of World War II and the typically American view of our adversaries in German. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary Film making.","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"30 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The Tin Drum is Extraordinary. It captures the perverse side of the individual and the whole. Oskar is conscious inside the womb. He is a product of kissing cousins. He is an inbred. He is a product of a secret love affair. Oskar's expressions capture the evil that would soon devour his home state. It is set in World War II, Poland, a town called Danzig. A town with billowing smoke and towering spiral steeples. A Grimm's Faerie Tale. The film plays out like a fantasy. To never grow up. The Tin Drum contains some of the most fantastic images found in a feature film; The shattering of the jar with the fetus; The cracking of the teachers glasses ; The eels oozing out of the horses head as the seagulls scream and Oskar bangs his drum. It was an incredible scene to read on the pages of Gunter Grass' novel but to see a filmmaker capture the words and turned it into a real life experience was awe-inspiring. Directed so well. It is an erotic film. Intense scenes of desire. Primal. It captures the dark side of us all. The scenes where Oskar and his first adolescent love exchange spit and fizz are very perverse and effective.Oskar does grow up as a man but remains the size of a 3 year old. He bangs his Tin Drum to drown out the craziness around him. World war II must have been horribly felt by those so close. The Nazi regime seemed so frightening. As a three year old who was conscious in the womb, how would Oskar see this direction that man, who once was three years old, has taken. What is wrong with us?Overall, it is about the next generation wanting the previous one to get over itself and enjoy this paradise called Earth. The film is mesmerizing. It is a beautiful piece of celluloid art. The magical realism is captured very effectively. How about doing One Hundred Years of Solitude? Here's your director. Victor Nunnally BFA Film Production and Dramatic Theory, AA in Performing Arts "},{"Title":"Sometimes great, sometimes weak, but definitely memorable","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  For me, this was definitely a hit-and-miss film, but luckily, most of the good things about this movie are also quite memorable.  This is a weird movie, for better or for worse, but because it is so strange, there is absolutely no way that you will find this predictable.  In fact, if you know little or nothing about this movie, keep it that way so that you can appreciate each odd twist when you watch it for the first time.  I found the movie to be somewhat overlong, and the best parts of the story tended to be earlier in the film, but much of this picture is top-notch.  I think most people would agree that love it or hate it, this is certainly a film that you won't soon forget. "},{"Title":"A haunting movie ...","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I saw this flick many years ago, and there are images from this movie I shall probably take with me to the grave.Things I saw in this movie that vividly stuck in my brain are such things as a huge eel being pulled out of a severed horses head that was just dragged from the sea on a rope, a soldier having carnal knowledge with a lady in the middle of a field while being hunted  by another soldier, a young boy spitting into a hand of a young girl ...And I could go on. This movie I found to be extremely unique and varied in many ways. I don't know that I can really recommend this movie all in all, but if you do watch it, be prepared for a very unique experience film wise.Beamer "}{"Title":"A strange, surrealist visit to war time Germany.","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"25 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The Tin Drum is one of the strangest films that I have seen in a long time. Strange not necessarily being a bad thing. It contains a feel similar to that of other eastern european films. It follows the life of Oskar, a three year old German boy who refuses to stop playing the tin drum that he received for his birthday. After viewing how ludicrous adults act, Oskar decides to stop his growth, and stay three years old forever.The Tin Drum has been banned in Oklahoma, and was the feature of some programs on censored films. The cause of this controversy is the fact that Oskar grows old, but never changes his toddler appearance. This plot line troubles some, especially when Oskar reaches puberty and becomes interested in the fairer sex. Despite the controversies, The Tin Drum is a film that should not be missed. It is definetely one of the best films to come out of Germany in the past 20 years.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Art Direction, Surrealistic Story and Annoying Character","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" In Danzig, the young Agnes (Angela Winkler) has a triangle of love with her Polish cousin Jan Bronski (Daniel Olbrychski) and the dealer Alfred Matzerath (Mario Adorf). She marries Alfred, but has a son, Oskar (David Bennent), with Bronski. On the day of his third birthday, Oskar decides to stop growing up. Along the next years, the family lives the life after World War I and before and during World War II and the rise and fall of the Nazi Party.Die Blechtrommel is a bizarre cult-movie with a wonderful art direction, too long and boring surrealistic story and an annoying lead character. The movie has grotesque scenes and is senseless most of the time. The symbolism of the stuck German after WWI and the boy with a drum that refuses to grow-up is obvious but the 142 minutes running time entwined with disturbing and nonsense scenes give the idea of the intention of raising polemic to be in the spotlights. My vote is four.Title (Brazil) O Tambor (The Drum) "},{"Title":"A strange story","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" In the beautiful town of Danzig we watch this strange story of a boy who, after a terrible accident that he himself provoked, decides not to grow up and remains like some tragic Peter Pan version. The story is developed between 1899 and the end of WWII. This is an adult world seen through the eyes of a child with all its dramatic events of several kinds including an amorous triangle formed by the boy's mother, her husband and a cousin of hers. This triangle is accepted by them and everybody around them. The ascent of Nazism and the war that follows shape and form the story background from a certain point on with all their tragic and dramatic events. The movie is well made and directed but its symbolism is not very clear I mean if there is a message involved it's not very well passed on to the viewers through images and dialogues. "},{"Title":"Play that funky music, white boy","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The innocent are so few that two of them seldom meet. When they do meet, their victims lie strewn all round. - Elizabeth Bowen Volker Schlondorff's The Tin Drum stars David Bennent as Oskar Matzerath, a young boy growing up in 1920s Danzig (a city which once straddled the border between Germany and Poland). Because he's possessed an adult's (somewhat pessimistic) awareness since birth, Oskar begins to develop a deep hatred of humanity. Oskar thus decides to not advance beyond the age of three. He will not grow up in this world, and instead spends his days banging loudly on a tin drum as a show of protest.Oskar is initially painted as history's moral objector. He sees what others don't and protests what others keenly follow. Quickly, however, Oskar's drumming becomes Schlondorff's blunt metaphor for ineffectual artisans. Oskar drums and screams, but no one listens. Nazisim gathers steam, Poland is invaded, Germany's economic miracle occurs, and he becomes a witness to much adultery, cruelty and horror.Oskar himself becomes increasingly amoral. His body may preserve an outward innocence, but inside he grows self absorbed and cruel. And so though Oskar interrupts Nazy rallies and sympathises with the Jewish man who sold him a tin drum (and who is later killed during Kristallnacht, the Night of the Broken Glass, upon which the Nazis destroyed Jewish stores and synagogues), he is nevertheless quick to don a Nazi uniform and play his drum for Nazi officials.By the film's end, Oskar epitomises every man infantalized by, or made an obedient child to, the tides of history. I prefer to be a spectator, not an artist, Oskar says. He's adopted a tone of total futility, and comes to believe that imagination, action and conviction are all inadequate in the fight against place, time and political currents. But while this is Oskar's belief &#x96; he later throws his drum away altogether &#x96; it is not something Schlondorff necessarily affirms. Oskar's drumming is shown to have the power to destabilise. In one of his more successful protests, an entire Nazi band is led into confusion by his boisterous percussion.Like the works of Wojciech Has, Schlondorff's tone here is a strange blend of surrealism, fantasy, farce, tragedy and much queasy imagery. Oskar himself has the face of a gnome, and his antics are frequently nauseating. The film also makes heavy use of symbolism, many of its major points conveyed obliquely. For example, Oskar is shown to be born in 1924, the year when Germany's economy began its post WW1 climb. On Oskar's third birthday the country's economic stability is then aligned with the child's own refusal to progress, a stagnation which echoes Germany's suspension of democratic and liberal freedoms. Oskar's drum is even shown to be threatened with a silencing on his sixth birthday, which occurs in 1933, the year the Nazis came into power, symbolising Nazism's quest to silence all dissenters.Other issues are raised almost imperceptibly. A throwaway line, in which one character states that he was not present for Kristallnacht, highlights a stance which was common in Germany after the war it happened but I was not there; I did not participate. Meanwhile, Oskar's own uncle is quick to replace a picture of Beethoven with Hitler when the Nazi Party comes into power, and replaces it just as quickly when the Nazi's are defeated. He is the everyday Nazi, his allegiances blowing with the winds of change.One of the most disturbing passages in the film revolves around fishermen plucking eels from a dead horse's head, a sequence which mirrors the eating habits of other characters in the film, all of whom are shown to be always munching on seafood. This food is later aligned to the corpses of English sailors sunk in naval battles off the coast of Germany. While Oskar protests, Germany eats her foes (while the country rots from the head down?).Anti-semitism is touched upon openly &#x96; Jewish shop-keepers are bullied and driven to suicide &#x96; but briefly. More interesting are several sequences in which Oskar damns the Catholic Church for not resisting Hitler (see Costa Gavras' Amen). In one of the film's more overt moments, Oskar slaps a statue of Christ and accuses him of not helping. Meanwhile, religion is mirrored to Germany's frenzied, quasi religious adulation for Hitler, whom Oskar calls the Gas Man, a warped version of Father Christmas. Mirrored to these two national fathers (Christ and Hitler) are Oskar's own two fathers (a Polish and German father), both of whom are condemned to death by Oskar's behaviour. Schlondorff would revisit similar material with his 2004 film, The Ninth Day.8/10 &#x96; See The Garden of the Finzi Continis, The Damned, Seven Beauties, Special Section and Protector. "},{"Title":"Squirm inducing","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This has to be the most revolting film I have ever seen (and I have seen The Cook, The Thief, His Wife & Her Lover).  This movie produces the argument that does revolting mean it's bad?  In the case of The Cook, The Thief...I would say no.  That movie was thought provoking and intelligent as it was disgusting.  The same would probably apply to The Tin Drum, but I am in no hurry to revisit this one.   What struck me, besides the overt symbolism (as repellent as it was), was the scope of the movie.  I can see why it was Germany's most expensive production before Das Boot.  A boy refuses to grow up, going as far as damaging himself to stunt his growth.  His drum is the way he communicates with adults.  All of this takes place while Hitler rises to power. I do feel the film has something to say (and I haven't read the Gunter Grass book), but the film is a surreal experience.  Actually the more I think about it, the more I would like to see it again.  I just won't eat before, during, or after watching. "},{"Title":"A grotesquePeter Pan.","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It is an adaptation of the famous novel by Gunther Grass about a child, Oskar (David Bennent, which will appear in the role of elf in Legend (1984) Riddley Scott), born in the city of Danzig wars with incredible ability to break windows with squeals and his dwarfism caused by accident shall not prevent it shed its first gift of childhood; the drum.Oskar aware and proud that he will not ever grow on his act of rebellion, immaturity will also be reflected in the decline of a country about to explode into war and adults who either fall short in various situations of everyday life. Because at the household level will be witnessed her mother's incestuous relationship with his cousin Bronsky while his father is part of the National Socialist Party.It also explores the feelings owner of the toy store where he buys drums (Marcus Charles Aznavour) is also in love with her mother. When the Nazis took power, the environment Oskar collapses in front of his pride and explorer curious child and his escapades through Europe with a curious circus band formed by quirky characters of the same physical condition.Oskar knows depression, death, sex and jealousy. It is told with voice-over innocent but surly child, while penalties will go to those who most want to his indifferent and silent look. Oskar is in his world, untouchable, always on the defensive.It is a strange, highly peculiar and unique history, we must be patient with it, it also has its flaws, its rate will decline during development. Since its inception and first part is withering, impeccable, but becomes longer and losing interest from its second part, everything starts to be more grotesque while primitive.The Tin Drum is a risky work that not everyone will know appreciate it, even going to put it away for its rarity, but one who is not afraid, watch and feel like something good and new, you know how to value the work of German Schoendorf . "},{"Title":"Uniquely unique","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" As winner of the Foreign Language Oscar for 1979, The Tin Drum has been on my list of movies to look out for for a while. It's a lot stranger than I anticipated- possibly more unconventional than the winner of the same award for 1978, Get Out Your Handkerchiefs. Say the movie is a coming-of-age tale of a boy living before and during World War II in Poland, and yeah, you'd think it'd be fairly typical. Now say the protagonist never grows more than he was at age three, screams so high he can shatter glass whenever you try to take his drum away, and that his mom dies from an addiction to eating raw fish- and you'd say, what is this?The Tin Drum is a surreal dark comedy that is often more unusual than funny, but it is, generally, interesting and enjoyable to watch. You just have to be willing to accept a protagonist who isn't totally likable. Oskar's screaming actually hurt my ears, his drumming creates disruptions, he doesn't seem to mourn his parents' deaths, and despite some glimpses into the Nazis' cruelty, doesn't seem to have any problem with entertaining German troops. What this movie has to offer is a view of history, and life generally, quite possibly unlike any other. There is some colour, some laughs, some tragedy, and some eroticism, making for competent storytelling. Do I agree this is the best foreign language movie of 1979? I'd go with Tarkovsky's Stalker. But this is a movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A severely overlooked masterpiece.","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" One of the most unique, inventive and flawless films I've ever seen. The first half displays brilliant symbolisms scattered throughout. The most obvious are what the tin drum and Oskar's screech symbolize, anti-establishment and anti-culture. Oskar uses his drum as an act of rebellion against the establishment, a more public way than his early rebellion in deciding not to grow by breaking his spine. He bangs his drum constantly, rebelling against his teacher at school, his father and even the church. When people attempt to stop this rebellion, his symbolic anti-culture technique kicks in with his wailing screech. This screech smashes all of the valuable, material possessions that the vein culture covets so dearly.One of my favorite, less obvious symbolisms comes when the family encounters the fisherman who uses the horse's head to catch eels. What comes across is how Oskar uses his drum to tone out the terror and tragedy of what occurs around him. Much like his refusal to grow physically, he uses his drum as a way to refuse to grow mentally and emotionally which is displayed later in the film in his relationship with Maria. After the first half though, the symbolisms really take a backseat and Oskar's transition from a young, immature teenager into a strong adult becomes the forefront of the film. This gives the spotlight to the remarkable performance from David Bennent. He shows maturity and range remarkably far beyond his age in one of the defining performances on all time, I think. He was only 13 when the film was released, yet he shows more strength and absorption into his character than a good majority of those three times his age. I was stunned by how magnificent he was. "},{"Title":"I have remembered the scenes for 20 years.","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I saw this movie back in 80'or 81' on HBO in the middle of the night. I was only 7 years old and everyone in the house had fallen asleep and I sat there enthralled. I did not know what it was about throughout the entire move. I didn't understand what the story was but the scenes in the movie have stayed with me for 20 years! Due to the internet,20 years later I am able to come on and find out what in the world I saw that night because I remembered that the title had Drum in it. I still don't know if the story of this movie will be any good but I can make the comment that this movie absolutely has the most memorable scenes I've ever encountered in a film before. "},{"Title":"Too bloated, lacks focus","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Die Blechtrommel or The Tin Drum is a German movie from over 35 years ago that managed to win an Academy Award in the Foreign Language Feature category as well as winning the Palme d'Or in Cannes. I cannot really see why though. I watched the director's cut of this film and it runs for almost 2 hours and 45 minutes. Certainly a case of quantity over quality here. David Bennent was actually a good choice for the main character as his face was truly memorable. However, the solid acting by him and established actors like Adorf, Winkler, Olbrychski and the young Katharina Thalbach was not enough to make up for the flaws that this film has.Occasionall scenes with soldiers or speeches by Hitler and other Nazi officials are not enough to make a film a convincing political/war movie. And apart from that, the stories were simply really more absurd than interesting. This goes for the main character's mother having several men at the same time or at the depiction of pedophilia later on, which wasn't even shown as something bad here. Maybe the reason is because this film is so strictly against Hitler, his politics and World War II, so pedophilia something bad that even the Nazis despised was not depicted as really evil for that reason here. But the worst aspect was probably the storyline that the boy stopped growing because he decided to do so. Does it make sense that he did not want to be like adults in this world? Maybe. But don't all kids would like to stay young at some point? Why can't they do it? Complete nonsense rally. The inclusion of dwarf people that apparently made the same decision was really the negative highlight for this plot. I am not sure to what extent this film is based on Nobel Prize winner Günter Grass' work and how close Schlöndorff stayed to the original, but in any case I cannot say this was a successful film adaptation. It's not a great family movie, not a great war movie, not a great political thriller and it's also not worth watching for the historic context. Maybe it could be considered fantasy. But if you hear about a fantasy movie about Hitler, you knew you're in for something that is guilty pleasure material at best. This one here is not. It's just bad. Not recommended and certainly one of the worst Foreign Language Film winners in Oscar history. Also they could have kept this easily at around 100 minutes without losing any of the film's value. So many unnecessary scenes. But I guess they wanted to go for bloated here for whatever reason. "}{"Title":"A Strange Fantasy","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Danzig in the 1920s/1930s. Oskar Matzerath, son of a local dealer, is a most unusual boy. Equipped with full intellect right from his birth he decides at his third birthday not to grow up as he sees the crazy world around him at the eve of World War II.This is very much a fantasy film. IMDb says it is a war drama, which is true enough, being set in the place and time that it is. But this is less about the war and more about Oskar, which I think makes it a fantasy film. His imagination is incredible, or perhaps more incredible is the idea that none of this is his imagination at all. His ability to alter the world around him is quite interesting.The idea of a tin drum as a symbol of protest makes sense. It becomes even more interesting when put in the hands of a small child, protesting against life itself. Such an action is unheard of. "},{"Title":"Schlöndorff's best known film is a penetrating look at postwar German society&#x85;","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Of all the directors of the New German Cinema, Volker Schlöndorff is the one who interests me least. That's not to say that I'm not a fan &#x97; I can think of very few filmmakers with a gift for adapting written source material on par with Schlöndorff's &#x97; but it is that very facet of his art that diminishes my interest in his work. Because he is always working from material that is not his own, his films lack the personal, artistic touch of the New German filmmakers that interest me more, such as Fassbinder or Herzog. That being said, while I don't hold him in the same esteem as some of his contemporaries, there is no doubt that Schlöndorff is a highly talented, highly intelligent filmmaker, and he has had about as much to say about German society as any other member of his movement, even if he uses largely the words of others, instead of his own.This is a complex issue, of course. Alain Resnais worked from source material, and no one would doubt the artistic or personal qualities of his work. Sometimes the choice of material, combined with the cinematic execution of that material, can achieve a personal version close to that of the medium's greatest filmmakers who worked from their own, original ideas (i.e. Ingmar Bergman or Eric Rohmer). I'm not sure I believe Schlöndorff is comparable to Resnais in that regard, but there is no question that his piercing allegorical portraits of a German society still recovering from the trauma of World War II are as profound as virtually anyone's.The four films I've seen by Schlöndorff &#x97; Young Torless, The Lost Honor of Katharina Blum, Coup de grâce, and The Tin Drum &#x97; have alternated curiously in style. Young Torless and Coup de grâce utilized a formal realism (pardon the oxymoron, but I think it's appropriate) with a black-and-white aesthetic, while The Lost Honor of Katharina Blum and The Tin Drum were color films that operated within a predominantly classicist mode of filmmaking.To refer to The Tin Drum as classicism shouldn't be misconstrued to suggest that the cinematography is less impressive by technical standards. In fact, classicist films tend to be the most polished of all, but their formal and aesthetic qualities are impressive in a technical way, as opposed to an artistic one. In other words, the cinematography in a classicist film will very often be considerably well executed, but always toward the end of making the film go down as smoothly as possible for the viewer, not toward the end of being artistically expressive.It's a very important distinction, for the thing I found the most disappointing about my experience with The Tin Drum was how familiar it all felt. It reminded me too much of the kind of Hollywood classicism I grew up on in the '90s. Of course, The Tin Drum is immensely more complex, immensely more intelligent, and immensely better than virtually any of those films. Furthermore, this familiarity, in actuality, is probably to the film's credit, since it suggests that it served as inspiration for coming generations of classicist filmmakers, and likely influenced a great deal of future films (for instance, possibly, something as recent as The Book Thief). The Tin Drum also reminded me of an impressive and under-appreciated German film by Helma Sanders-Brahms, Germany Pale Mother, which was released the next year, in 1980.Like all the films I've seen by Schlöndorff, The Tin Drum views very much like a novel (which is logical enough, since his films are based on novels). Both theme and symbolism are executed very much as they would be in literature, with form ultimately giving way to content. That being said, there was some vaguely surrealist imagery throughout The Tin Drum that definitely added a welcome element of visceral potency to the viewing experience. The film's protagonist is a young boy who, on his third birthday, just after the end of World War I, is given a toy drum by his mother. On that same day he makes a conscious decision (or what he recollects as a conscious decision) to stop growing. He is unimpressed by the adult world, and prefers to avoid it. His refusal to participate in this world is symbolized by the tin drum, which he keeps close by him, attached at the hip, for essentially the duration of the film, and when someone tries to take it away from him &#x97; when he feels threatened by the encroaching adult world around him &#x97; he beats his drum and yells in an ultra-high pitched voice that is capable of breaking any nearby glass. It is his unique defense mechanism, and his only means of protecting his tin drum (that is to say, his innocence) from the harsh world that envelops him. The Tin Drum is a film about social and cultural atrophy. The child with the drum is a metaphor for a German nation that had suffered petrification after the first war, and as a result, throughout the interbellum, the second world war, and, most importantly, the postwar period, it remained stuck in stasis, unable to grow or progress, like the child in the film. Naturally, as a means for dealing with life and its hardships, this is as ineffective for Germany as it is for the boy with the tin drum. One must eventually leave both the hopes and despairs of the past behind, and embrace the future, however uncertain and intimidating. This is Schlöndorff's criticism of German society. Schlöndorff (and the author of his source material, presumably) declares that it's time for Germany to wake up and move forward, at long last.I've heard so many mixed reviews about The Tin Drum, and I think I weigh in somewhere in the middle. For me, it's a very good film, falling a bit short of a truly great one.RATING 8.00 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"Stunning Film of a Childs refusal to grow up in Nazi Germany","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Made in 1979 this award winning German film is an adaptation of the book of the same name by Günter Grass. It is the story of Oskar who is born to a mother who loves two men and a grandmother with a past and very accommodating skirts. On his third birthday he sees how the adults around him are behaving and is less than pleased. So he makes up his mind that he will stop growing up.He is also inseparable from his tin drum &#x96; which he bangs at all occasions and needs to regularly replace. He also has a gift of having such a high powered scream that it will shatter glass &#x96; this he uses when ever he is displeased. His rejection of his family and their middle class attitudes is set against the rise of Nazism and Der Fuhrer. Even though his body will not grow his mind certainly does and that will bring its own problems.This is a truly memorable film, with acting, direction and camera work that is as close to flawless that I have seen. It is 136 minutes long but seems much shorter which is always the sign of a quality film. There are scenes that come close to bizarre but that too is used to show the absurdist nature of what was taking place at the time and beneath the pomp of the rallies, and the like, lay the very real dangers that Hitler and co would bring down on Germany. This is one of those films that all serious cinephiles need to see, I am glad I finally have. "},{"Title":"Masterful throughout","Date":"5 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I'm reviewing the Criterion DVD restoration of 2013.I was talking about this film this morning with a friend. It is one of his favorites; he said he could remember even small details like the heart-shaped crack in the wineglass that Oskar makes for Roswitha. Reading some of the reviews above, I'm astonished at the lack of empathy and imagination displayed by the reviewers. As a Christian--even a lax one--I find nothing depraved or obscene in this movie. It is something you have to watch with a historical perspective. Nazi youth rallies were exercises in mass hysteria, just as the one shown here. Oskar's parents had to be watchful in case the police caught him--as a dwarf, he was in danger of being euthanized. There are many instances of a police state that I could mention but will not.The performances are marvelous. Angela Winker is great as the mother carrying on an affair with Bronski under the oblivious eyes of the family. Mario Adorf as Matzerath plays a warm, caring man who is caught up in the Nazi craziness. He understands that his wife is cheating on him but ignores it for the sake of the family. Daniel Olbrychski is the elegant and befuddled Bronski to a T. David Bennent's eyes sometimes remind me of the kids in Village of the Damned, but he's always convincing. "},{"Title":"The Tin Drum","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This German film came as with many other foreign films I've seen in recent years from the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, and I have a thought process that tells me to try as many if not all films in the book, no matter what, so I did. Basically, set in Danzig, Germany the film takes place before, during and at the end of World War II, and focuses on the life of young Oskar Matzerath (David Bennent), before being born his mother wasn't sure who his father was, as she had two love interests, she married German man Alfred Matzerath (Mario Adorf), but she continued an affair with Polish cousin Jan Bronski (Daniel Olbrychski). At age 3 Oskar was given a tin drum for his birthday, he is not happy with the world around him as he grows up, so he halted his growth as a child throwing himself down the basement stairs, his tin drum becomes his comfort, but also perhaps his obsession, as he never lets it go throughout, and he found the ability that his high pitch scream can shatter glass, which he uses to stop anyone trying to take his drum away from him. Poland is invading by the German Nazis, including the small town the family live, there are two family deaths, his mother Anna Koljaiczek (Berta Drews) who kills herself swallowing large amounts of raw fish, and Jan Bronski who is killed by the Nazis while continuing to work at the Polish post office, Oskar is sheltered with his peasant cousin Maria Matzerath (Katharina Thalbach) and her father, she over a short time becomes his stepmother, but also his lover, and she ends up pregnant when they have sex. It is unclear if Oskar really is the father, but he assumes baby Kurt born is his son, but he does not stick around as he meets an old dwarf acquaintance Bebra (Fritz Hakl) who invites him to join the travelling circus of other dwarfs that perform to escape the threat the war, he entertains with his screaming talent and occasionally the tin drum, and it is there that he meets his second love Roswitha (Mariella Oliveri). This romance is cut short before the war comes to an end, and he can do nothing but go home, and returning Oskar faces the tragic loss of his father, and at the funeral he finds the strength to finally let go of his tin drum as he buries it with the coffin, and that same day his son Kurt hits him over the head with a rock, and his bodily growth is restored. Also starring Angela Winkler as Agnes Matzerath and Charles Aznavour as Sigismund Markus. In the leading part young Bennent is a fascinating character, with his piercing eyes expressing some severe emotions and never truly growing up, the film is full of surreal moments, especially any part with the tin drum and the young man's insistence to always have it and never let it go, even in dangerous situations, and of course the war element of the story is powerful in portraying struggle to survive and loss, the visuals are fantastic, and it has a lot of expressionism, it is indeed powerful and memorable wartime drama. It won the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film. Very good! "},{"Title":"real   impressive","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" it is a remarkable film. for the great adaptation of a strange novel. for the interesting solutions for create a world. and, sure, for David Bennent performance. a film without limits or clear definition. because, after reading Gass masterpiece , only realistic adaptation of book is your script. and courage of a director to do a film in which large images of Blechtrommel are presented with high accuracy, in which Oskar is so realistic, it is an extraordinary work. special - the role created by Charles Aznavour - rare delicate artistic gem. so, it is an unique trip. an event. or a special gift . must read the novel ! than, must see the film 1 not only for personal culture. but for the sea of feelings for who that masterpieces are seed. "},{"Title":"Strange film may need context for some","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" 'The Tin Drum' is so bizarre and stirs up such a mix of appreciation, fascination, revulsion and whatever the best word for thoroughly weirded out is that I actually can't rate it. The best comparison I can offer potential viewers is 'Taxi Driver'. (And now that I've said that legions of American film buffs will damn me for a heretic, but it's true.) The central character is intentionally only minimally sympathetic--your fellow-feeling with Oskar (as with the protagonist in 'Taxi Driver') begins and ends with the sense that the world he lives in, a reflection of the world you live in, is a madhouse. Bad things happen to good people and the reverse, innocence is too often functionally equal to stupidity, people are jerks, and life is brutally, cruelly unfair. But the way he deals with it is grotesque, unrealistic and simply can't work. What keeps you watching is a morbid fascination with a single question How long can he get away with it? (Fair warning grotesque in 'Taxi Driver' and grotesque in 'The Tin Drum' take very different forms. The WWII setting does not make this 'Life is Beautiful'; the coming-of-age aspect does not make this a charming film. If you're an American and you're not used to the unconventional/off-kilter visions of childhood in some of the films of Europe, this is not the place to start. I recommend Francois Truffaut's films for that.)Other reviewers have criticized the film for promoting Oskar's attitude and choices, expecting the audience to like him. They're mistaken; I don't think you ARE supposed to like him. It's true that in American film making one is supposed to identify with the principal character(s) and cheer them on, as it were. But it's not a hard and fast rule; 'In Cold Blood' proved that. Oskar's twisted response to the chaos around him is as much a part of the film's social/political/human commentary as the chaos itself.'The Tin Drum' is based on a book, which I have yet to read but am curious to do, because knowing that I feel like I'm missing part of the picture. People who are familiar with the book seem to know a bit more about what in heaven's name is up with the weirdest of the weirdness in the film. I'd like to be able to claim more understanding of this formidable master work than I can right now.Some book-based films you're better off seeing before you read the book so that the good things still outweigh the WTF?! That's not part of the story! ('Apocalypse Now', 'The Vampire's Assistant') and some films are so intriguing that they lead you to gobble up mountains of original books ('True Grit', 'Master and Commander The Far Side of the World').... and some films you just won't fully understand/appreciate unless you know the whole story. 'The Tin Drum', for me, belongs to the second group. But in all honesty, for a lot of people, it probably belongs to the third. "},{"Title":"Our kind must perform and run the show, or the others will run *us*.","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Do you dismiss a movie because it is strange? Some do, and rate this film as a story about an obnoxious little boy who goes around banging a drum and breaking glass.Firstly, the performance of David Bennent as Oskar was phenomenal. As an 11 or 12 year old, he played a part from infancy to 21. Maybe he was obnoxious, but I choose to believe that he was making a powerful statement about the undesirability of growing up in a world where adults do not act very adult.Set against the backdrop of WWII, it can also be viewed as rebellion against war and fascism.Strange, sometimes evil, but nevertheless a powerful film that should be seen by all. "},{"Title":"Stay As Sweet As You Are.","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" There's never a dull moment in this allegorical film about growing up -- or deciding NOT to grow up -- in a German/Polish village between the first and second World Wars. Everyday life is coarse. The cobblestone streets are crowded with horse-drawn buggies and vendors. Everyone seems to shout or to talk emphatically. There are pompous political festivals and fustian speeches that end in rainstorms. Enthusiastic bands march clumsily around, hitting innumerable clinkers. People sit at tables and eat unappetizing meals, not decorously, but more like animals -- not essen but fressen. Sometimes they stuff themselves with fish until they die. There are grotesqueries circuses, dwarfs, clowns, superhumanly tall psychotics. If we didn't know it was a German movie directed by Volker Schlondorff, we might mistake it for Fellini.But it's from Gunther Grass's novel about a little boy who sees the political climate changing around him and decides to stop growing at the age of three. We follow him until he's twenty, through strife, love affairs, grief, disgust.The background for all this is the development of Naziism in Germany, which the little boy, Oscar, refuses to participate in. What a case of arrested development although, like Forrest Gump, he has one outstanding ability that makes him different from others, and that's a high piercing scream that shatters glass.It's a strange film, ambiguous and full of symbols, some of which got by me. I didn't get Oscar's attachment to his tin drum, for instance, unless it stands for Oscar's neoteny, which, itself, stands for Oscar's unwillingness to grow along with Fascism. In that case, though, the drum would be a higher-order symbol, a symbol of a symbol, or a metasymbol. Where was I? Stanley Kubrick and Adrian Lyne both had a hell of a time getting their versions of Lolita made and released. (Child pornography, about which you wouldn't know, Lo.) But here Oscar runs around bare naked, falls in love with and marries a midget, and has intercourse with a teenaged girl whom he impregnates. But the blue noses are not up in arms about it. Those who made Lolita a nightmare to release have said nothing about it. Oh, Lo, how the mighty have ignored it.I haven't read the novel but I admire the movie for a couple of reasons, not just because of its recognition that Naziism was an aberration, but because everyone is given his or her due. The evil is there, and it's explored, but not exemplified in stereotypes. Oscar's step father, for instance, is swept up in the movement and wears his khaki uniform proudly, but he's more stupid than cruel -- brusque and thoughtless without being unkind. And Sigismund Markus (Charles Aznavour), the dreamy Jewish dry goods dealer who is in love with Oscar's mother. When he learns she's having an affair with a Polish citizen, he ironically advises her, Don't bet on the Poles. Bet on the Germans. Or, better yet, bet on me. And if Oscar is the hero, sometimes the hero acts like a spoiled little brat. The film is narrated by Oscar in his little boy's voice and adds a good deal to our grasp of his feelings and of the backdrop against which this drama is played. It's not dull exposition. I went here, then I lost track of my beloved, then I looked for another drum. Instead Once there was a gullible people who were told that Santa Claus was coming, but Santa Claus turned out to be the GAS man. (Cut to a scene of soldiers clearing a building with a flame thrower.) The narration is read most expressively.The movie begins with Oscar's grandmother back around the turn of the century, sitting on a heap of damp earth in a bleak farmland, scorching some potatoes in a small fire. At the end, when Oscar and the others leave, she remains behind. The final shot is of a train drawing away in the distance while an old lady sits before a smoky fire on a heap of dirt. I think I managed to catch that particular symbol. She's Anna Livia Plurabelle, right? A remarkable film. "},{"Title":"Disturbing Symphony of Symbols","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Not devoting so much attention to the well-known literary background of the film, I would like to point out three vital aspects which discern this piece of art.First, this is a very physiological work, full of intense, sometimes disgusting scenes (the frog soup drinking or the famous episode with eels) that will strike a blow into your sensual perception. However, we should bear in mind that European and, especially, Eastern European art simply HAS far deeper traditions of portraying those ugly and dirty natural physiological processes such as urinating, puking, spewing sputum and so on, in which The Tin Drum abounds and which therefore will leave more lasting impact on the Western viewers who belong to sterility-centred cultural environment.Second, the film is not an easy one to watch and comprehend, as it totally screws up your brain, not fitting into any of genres you would like to stick it. The most precise genre perhaps would be called &#150; a grotesque gradually being won over by a tragedy. The first scene where we meet Oskar is rather light and comical one, as he looks to us from the womb with a gaze full of suspicion and sarcasm. Yet his character is not a role of a comic dwarf, he is a metaphor for the prosecutor of mankind and his time. Another scene includes his mother gobbling raw fish, because she has turned out to be pregnant again &#150; so grotesque a scene, you feel amused. In a minute, she commits suicide. So it is impossible to watch the film in a stable, consequent mood; in the end, The Tin Drum leaves you disharmonic, disillusioned and unbalanced, just as you should feel about life itself.Third, we come to the obvious conclusion that The Tin Drum as all remarkable works of art must be viewed as a symphony of symbols and metaphors. The character of the little drummer Oskar evidently is the most powerful one, as he embodies the true attitude we each have for ourselves somewhere deep inside. We all feel so small, so willing to be pitied and protected, so not-belonging to the dreadful world outside, so humiliated by our comrades, so naive and so terribly lonely. And in the same time our inner selves are just as cruel and self-centred as Oskar is, and we hold so tight to our little tin drum (should it be our surroundings, people, money, status, looks or anything else which we believe to be constituting our identities from), and we yearn so keenly and so unsuccessfully to return back to our mothers' wombs and hide forever from the fierce and violent meaninglessness of this life. "}{"Title":"An ironic masterpiece","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I liked this movie very much! It is very ironic, especially when it deals with serious issues, such as the rise of Nazism or the war. Unfortunately, the different accents (which are somewhat important and very characteristic) won't become evident in the English version; so, if possible, watch the German version! It is a pity that the last part of the novel is missing (where Oskar goes to Western Germany). Besides, the story comes very close to the book, which is another advantage of the movie. It is difficult to understand why the movie is forbidden in some countries, because the presumed indecencies are far from being indecent, at least they are not meant to be. The movie and the book are true masterpieces. And both are funny too, which is not very common in German cinema. "},{"Title":"The other victims","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  It's easy to watch a film that deals with a historical tragedy if it leans heavily on the victim's side--that is, on the one who is conquered, vanquished, oppressed;the one who didn't intend and is merely at the receiving-end of the catastrophe.For it's clearly defined where our sympathies should lie.Our moral duty as film-viewers is unambiguously called to task and eventually fulfilled.Thus, in a film about Nazism and the Holocaust, we are almost always moved by the fate of the Jews, the sole target of the so-called racial cleansing (e.g., the Hungarian Jews in Kjell Grede's 'Good Evening, Mr. Wallenberg').Or in a film that portrays Japan's imperialist might during World War II, it's not unlikely that we're on the side of that country's colonial subject (e.g., the Chinese villagers in about the second half of Zhang Yimou's 'Red Sorghum').But what if the supposed aggressors were also the unwilling victims? Would it be easy for us to look at the other side of the coin?Such daring questions may possibly come up upon watching Volker Schlöndorff's 'The Tin Drum' (TD) and Shohei Imamura's 'Black Rain' (BR).The two films deal with a critical period in their respective countries' historythe rise of Adolf Hitler and his National Socialist (Nazi) party in Germany and the dropping of the atomic bomb in Hiroshima, Japan.Both events were inextricably linked with the Second World War, wherein Germany's and Japan's roles were, unfortunately, always viewed in the nature of destruction and assimilation.So we can imagine the risky and unconventional position of Schlöndorff's and Imamura's films.The two master directors didn't have to move away from home, so to speak, to illustrate the horrific implications of the Führer and the Bomb.As they saw it, it wasn't only the exterminated Jews and the colonized territories that were the immediate victims of a destructive craving for world dominion;it was also the people of their own.In TD, it's the child Oskar Matzerath, who had the misfortune of being born in a disgusting world(something which he already perceived while still in his mother's womb!);in BR, it's a Japanese landowner couple and their 25-year-old niece named Yasuko, who never thought that their lives would dramatically change on the morning of August 6, 1945.But these unwilling--if not unlikely--victims have their own way of facing up to the monumental monstrosities that are of their own nations' making.At the age of three, Oskar decided to make that fatal--and fateful--fall so that, though he may age through the years, his body would forever be of a small child, being a form of rebellion against a disgusting world--on a personal level, against the unholy triunity in his family;on a social level, against the incipient ascenscion to power of an innately mass-destructive Führer.Why would I let myself grow up when those around me have shown, with their despicable acts, that they, too, haven't grown up, the little rebel seems to ask.In the course of this micro-revolt, Oskar's sole companion and weapon is a red-and-white-striped tin drum, supplied to him regularly (in a subtly subversive act) by a kind Jewish store owner(who, along with thousands of others of his own skin, would later fall victim to a one-man-guided racial annihilation).This, together with his powerful, shrieking voice, are Oskar's sound-proof shields against the noises and shrills of a world in chaos.While in BR, the devastation of the atomic bomb is of a wide-ranging implication that, even if half-a-decade has already passed, it can still be potently felt, physically as well as emotionally.The scars are endured not only by the body but also by the soul.But for the landowner couple, the ill-effects of the Bomb shouldn't get in the way of their niece's being able to live a happily-married life.Thus, every possible oppurtunity for engagement and, eventually, marriage is taken by the couple for Yasuko's sake, even if the wounds and memories of that fateful morning are destined to stick with them for the rest of their lives.Schlöndorff interpreted his bleak subject in consonance with Günter Grass' novel of the same title(the first of his Danzig trilogy), from which the Palme d'Or-winning film was adapted--in a flight-of-fantasy manner, as if to say that all the workings and consequences of Hitler's Reich were the destructive fantasies of a delusional mind.Or that's how the stunted Oskar would want to see it.Thus, the horrible shriek on the bell tower, the rain-drenched disorder in the open-ground meeting of Hitler's Youth, the wine-glass-breaking circus act for the bedazzled SS officers, the mother's fish-consumptive breakdown--these are just some.This director born by the New German Cinema(along with the likes of Werner Herzog and Rainer W. Fassbinder)knows too well how to find his way through the labyrinthine intricacies of Grass' literary piece that the result is a splendid masterwork, with, as Leonard Maltin puts it, memorable sequence after memorable sequence. Another thing memorable, of course, are the superlative portrayals throughout(the mother, the father, the uncle, the Jewish merchant, the maidservant, the midget travelling performer), most specially by the incredible 12-year-old David Bennent as the unusual rebel Oskar.On the other hand, Imamura takes more the role of a quiet observer in BR(also based on a novel)that the outcome is a somber and stark black-and-white portrait of his own national tragedy, painfully real as it is creepily unimaginable, as if reality and nightmare have merged into one paradoxical whole(in a way that Ingmar Bergman would have it, on a more intimate level though, as can be perceived in 'Scenes from a Marriage' and 'From the Life of the Marionettes').For who would ever imagine that these things could happen--a young boy who has become a horrible nuclear monster, making his presence known to an older brother, a throng of people grappling for life in a poisoned river, a stupefied mother hugging her stiffly-burnt infant, a blinded man looking for Hiroshima? Such are the images that make up the initial quarter of BR;and the images are so strong that they'll haunt you DURING and AFTER the film.Even the second half, where everything should've been pacified already, is not without unsettling images, more so because of the quiet and deliberate manner in which they are executed--the last moments of an old man in his deathbed, Yasuko's hair gradually falling down, the tableau-like encounter of a traumatized soldier with the horrors of his past.The Japanese master's deft hand in exploring the dark undercurrents of Japanese life with his peculiar brand of humor and pathos is evident here, as he still displays in his comeback masterwork almost a decade later, 'The Eel.' Unlike in the last film, though, the destabilization in BR is to be viewed from an encompassing perspective--as an irreparable consequence of Japan's historical blunder.To focus on unlikely victims is not to say that this side was more devastated than the other and so, is more deserving of our sympathies.Rather, it's one way of bringing across the painful lesson that in a historical tragedy like fascism and war, there are really no champions, only casualties.  "},{"Title":"An enthralling journey","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Quite simply, my favourite movie of all time.A fascinating rite of passage movie, which shows the first half of a superb novel. If you can open your mind wide enough, then you will be rewarded by this film.The one sour note is a mistranslation on one version of the English subtitles. When Oskar decides he wants to grow again Ich will erwachsen this is very poorly translated into I will grow rather than I want to grow, there's a couple of other minor mistranslations, but none that are so pivotal to the plot.Not a film for narrow-minded people though.All the best Simon "},{"Title":"Watch it for David Bennent's amazing performance.","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  David Bennent is one of the most intense and entertaining film actors I have ever seen, and it is my opinion that he is equally as talented as the likes of Klaus Kinski or Peter Lorre.  David brings the young fellow Oskar to life, and you care about him and his experiences.  I won't get into any sort of controversy that surrounds this particular film, but it is difficult for me to believe that anyone would be particularly offended by the honesty that the director and his cast bring to life in this feature.  Told during the second world war, and essentially about one unique young man's adventures and horrors.  The Tin Drum is a rare experience in Cinema, in that, it includes such raw feeling and power.  Each scene is a carefully conducted orchestra, and is a real treat for the eyes.  Not the best film ever made, but certainly a close second or third... "},{"Title":"This movie will resurrect you from Hollywood's insipid grip!","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  'The Tin Drum' is rich with symbolism, if you like that kind of thing.  I will have to re-watch this epic a few times to fully grasp the richness of it.  'The Tin Drum' forces you out of Hollywood's schmaltzie grasp by throwing so many bizarre images at you, so many poignant scenes and riveting dialog, that you find yourself searching in dusty parts of your brain to make sense of it all.  This movie's a must for anyone wishing to return to the real art of film. "},{"Title":"Stunning rendition of Gunther Grass's masterpiece","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Schlondorff brings to life the epoch-making novel with intensity and honesty. I have not found him to be ever able to achieve the level of artistic perfection as he has in this oneYou feel, close to you bone and flesh , the  real filth and stink of an ideological regime, seen thru the dagger-sharp gaze of a child who stubbornly refuses to grow up.One of the best films ever made. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I have not read the novel, and the combination of me not understanding German and the subtitles not covering everything may have lead to me missing things. If something sounds completely off the wall in this, that's why. This is the strange story of a boy who, from seeing how the grown-ups behaved at the day of him turning three, decided that he would never grow, physically. If you want the answers to be obvious, this is not for you. This has a lot of food for thought, but it's usually metaphorical. Film as art is an appropriate term, here. I understand that it's rather close to the book, if it does not cover the entire thing. This will be called disgusting by some, and it certainly has a couple of truly grotesque visuals. It also deals with sexuality(and to an extent, perversity) without much holding back. This is a finely crafted piece of work. The writing is imaginative, without crossing over into full-blown fantasy(although there are elements). Acting is all excellent, every performance is spot-on, and Bennent is absolutely perfect, and the exact right casting choice. This has unforgettable moments and disturbing content. There is violence. I wouldn't know about harsh language. I recommend this to anyone who believes they can stand the worst this has to give them, since the best may very well be worth it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"20 century boy","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Schlöndorff's The Tin Drum is an admirably crafted masterpiece, because it has all the qualities of true art-house film and at the same time is controversial enough to be listed alongside the masters of anti-Establishment, twisted European cinema( Bunuel, Ferreri, Abuladze, Pasolini, Ken Russell to name only a few). Even more, Grass's novel is turned into a film which could symbolize the quintessence of the equally twisted and violent 20th century itself. Oskar Mazerath, the main character of this film, is the typical product of this century. Raised , like Grass himself, in Danzig, he shows from the very beginning of his life, even before he was born( watch the surreal scene of his birth closely) an abnormally acute sensibility and understanding for the surrounding world. His family environment is fairly respectable, but presented in a shocking anti- Bourgeois, almost Bunuelian way a hulking and rather simple-minded father with business ambitions and slight right-wing tendencies, a frivolous mother, a superstitious grandmother, a legendary, supposed grandfather believed either dead or having made a fortune from rags to riches like Gatsby as an immigrant in the US, a good-looking but weak and sickly uncle who is presumed to be his actual father. Oskar's precocious sensibility and his awareness of the flawed adult world prompt him to take a surreal decision on his third birthday- he causes himself a crippling fall from the top of a staircase in order to stop his physical growth and therefore stay a child( strictly bodily, because his mind is far more developed than that of adults). Everybody believes it was an accident, but even the name Oskar seems to be a hint to Oscar Wilde and to his story about Dorian Gray- like the character in Wilde's work who's portrait ages instead of him, Oskar is trapped in a body which won't grow nor age. This self-inflicted interruption in the natural growth process is also a symbol for Europe's imminent plunge into the involution represented by Fascism and Communism which would eventually end in World War two. But Oskar is born in 1924, when both political extremes are no serious threat the Nazis are just some hoodlums who are incapable even of organizing a public gathering, Communism is represented by an anecdotal character which does nothing more but performing the Internationale. But all of these characters are morally ambiguous like the petty Bourgeois universe in which they live like in an expressionist painting, nobody is spared of gruesome and bizarrely humorous caricatures, the church, the school, the neighboring kids; all of them indulging in humiliating Oskar for his small height. But this is almost nothing compared to the risks Oskar would have faced if he grew up normally- 9 chances in 10 he would have ended up fighting for Nazi Germany like millions of other youngsters Hitler sent to war. And Oskar plays drum. Often accompanied by his voice, so shrill that it shatters glass( which was later taken up as a gag in Victor/Victoria). He is moody and rather amoral, unlike the kids faced with World War II from Pasolini's Salo, he is not exclusively a victim, he actually resembles often Alex De Large's sociopath tendencies, the children from Lord of the flies or the teens from American History X. He doesn't hesitate to entertain the Nazis, at the same time being eager to seduce the servant girl and future wife of his father( by, e.g.spitting in some fizzy powder sprinkled over her hand or body and forcing her to swallow that mixture- in a way he is incapable of ridding himself of childhood perception about pleasant activities) and trying to force an abortion with some gigantic scissors when he discovers her pregnancy. At the same time he seems innocent and immature to the outside world, due to his appearance and his drum. I think that the more recent Jeuxs d'Enfants owes a lot to The Tin Drum because the couple from this film is prompted by a tin box from their childhood to act childishly even when both are 35 and married and to see even a foolish suicide pact as a mere game. Oskar was also compared to Amelie and Forrest Gump, but while the first is a fully developed and mature woman with childlike innocence and Forrest a grown-up with subnormal immaturity, Oskar is not so innocent and optimistic as these two, and the message of the film is far deeper as the rather campy, unrealistic chicken-soup happiness of these two similar characters. Towards the ending of the film, when, in a sublime symbol of vanity, Oskar's giant father is buried in a coffin improvised out of crates with his hand lurking out( due to wartime poverty), he finally starts to grow, as en ending to his self-induced childhood, parallel to the war that draws to a close and with it, Germany's and Europe's involution. Haunting film, right down to Mario Adorf's portrayal of Oskar's huge but ultimately mortal father, the both playful and compelling soundtrack by Maurice Jarre and the character of the madman wandering about in graveyards screamingHabemus Dominum!. A must-see to be seen at least once. "},{"Title":"Ein Oscar für Oskar","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  When the Nobel Committee decided to give the literature prize to Günter Grass my reaction was something like well, they took long enough, didn't they? I shake the dust off my 1967 copy of <Die Blechtrommel> and 1976 copy of <Hundejahre> (The Tin Drum and Dog Years) among other titles by this author on my shelves &#150; not that I need any reminding of the content of these very singular novels, though it serves as an excuse to be thankful to Ralph Manheim for the excellent translation into English. These two novels alone are worth any or all the prizes that may be floating about out there. The genius of Grass resides in combining the rare talent of using unlikely human conditions in the most bizarre situations in very tragic-comedy human situations. Hardly surprising, as he was born in Gdansk (otherwise and previously known as Gyddanyzc) which most of the time is in Poland and at other times has been part of Germany or Russia, is basically Kashubian descended from Pomeranians, and was successively invaded by Borussians, Teutonics and other destructive elements; finally a hitherto fortress was converted into the Hevelius-Platz which in the 20th Century has had the Polish Post Office &#150; Polskie Poszta &#150; defended and lost on several occasions, until Lech Walesa held out for the miners and dock-workers, and hence became president of Poland when the Berlin Wall and Communism fell.With such historical and cultural background, Günter Grass was not given to writing fairy-stories, romantic comedies or banal police novels. His writing is sardonic, even sarcastic, incorporating weird and bizarre elements into his scandalous novels none of them are simple reading. His ample intellectual capacities embarked him on a somewhat gallish trail of obsessive characters against the backdrop of latter-day events in and around Germany and Poland, more specifically in the first half of the 20th Century.Having certain similarities with some of the works of Czech-born Franz Kafka, but without the misogony, and certain comparative formulas by the Columbian Gabriel García Márquez, Günter Grass was able to pen some of the most `outrageous' literature ever published in Europe.All this had to be taken into account when Volker Schlöndorff decided to convert <The Tin Drum> into a film. A difficult task indeed. You had to find a little fellow who had not grown, just to start with. You had to find streets which could be taken for Gdansk, the dock-lands, the post-office. Schlöndorff seems to have assumed much of Grass' neo-realist visions as his own, as at all moments in the film he has forced himself into following not only the plot or theme-work of the original novel, but also the rather more abstract concepts so important in the final understanding of the work. The end result varies between mesmerising and hallucinating, without forgetting the odd sour chuckle.Some brilliant portrayals of the motley characters, first and foremost by David Bennent, as also by the rest of the `Matzerath' family; but pay attention too the lesser actors, including Charles Aznavour &#150; however unlikely it may seem! &#150; who give tremendous support and lend even more authenticity to the film.Maurice Jarre, as always, apports good music background; one of the best 4&#150;5 film composers, of course. He has that ability not only to strike the right chord whether for historical or geographical reasons, but also to fuse in with what is taking place on the screen. Difficult to pull off with this film specifically, but he does so.Not an easy film to follow &#150; neither is the book. However, I must say both film and book are highly recommendable.    "},{"Title":"Nobel Prize Winner","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The question that comes to mind when viewing this film is whether the unusual imagery comes from the filmmaker or the novelist. The well known expression A picture is worth a thousand words might well be reversed in this case. Although other viewers have expressed how faithful the film is to the novel, we can all imagine how the scenes could have been portrayed.Many ponder the meaning of this film and all cite the unusualness of this film. The truth is we need to go to the source. The novel of the same name is equally strange and has an equally obscure meaning. The conventional explanation is that it is deep (multi-layered meaning and import). So, my suggestion is - now that you've seen the film, try reading the book, or if you're not sure you want to see the film, try reading the book. If you can't trust the Nobel Prize Committee, who can you trust?Günter Grass is the Nobel Prize Winner for Literature, 1999.Unfortunately, great literature doesn't mean great film - not that I'm suggesting Die Blechtrommel is great literature. Also, for those who consider this a great film, they need to see a few more films. This said, Die B... is worth seeing. "}{"Title":"An Oscar for Oscar","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Die Blechtrommel is based on the famous novel of Günther Grass. The movie won at the Cannes Film Festival in 1979 (with Francis Ford Coppola's Apocalypse now!, another movie milestone...) and in 1980 the Oscar for the best foreign language film (an Oscar for... Oscar, the main character of the movie).If you look at the booklet of the DVD and if you look at the interviews of Volker Schlöndorff you'll see how difficult was preparing the film. Because the book itself in not easy (like all the books of Günther Grass), and because it wasn't easy to find the right actors and the permissions for filming... By the way, Volker Schlöndorff won these battles and with that movie he became worldwide one of the best known European directors.The story is told with the eyes of a child, Oscar, who has decided not to grow. His only consolation and inseparable friend is a drum. With it he comments everything he lives tragedies, war, joy, the discover of life...The film deserved the prices it won. The story is very dramatic, of course, but there are also comical and quite surreal moments... Sarcasm is everywhere, especially when Schlöndorff describes a society cheated by Hitler. The film is a classic of the European cinema. It's interesting to note, as I said before, that it won in Cannes with Apocalypse now, another classic which talks about war and about this madness...  "},{"Title":"The best movie you'll never, ever want to see again!","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Like others have said, The Tin Drum is a very moving, thought-provoking movie. It's theme is an apt metaphor for Germany during the Third Reich. Some of the previous comments seem to have the metaphor backwards. Oskar is a metaphor of Germany, which refuses to grow or mature during the years of Hitler's reign, while becoming more and more engrossed in grotesque situations. The affair of Oskar's mother is symbolic of Danzig torn between the stronger Germany and the more affable Poland. The tin drum represents war. Oskar shattering glass represented Germany's genius for destruction. The eels and fish represent the ugliness of war (note the line During World War I, the eels were as thick as my arm), and Germany gorging itself on war. A haunting movie.That being said, the movie is disgusting. The film wreaks of carnality with romance, violence without heroics, and grotesque scenes that seem more for the purpose of getting a rise out of the audience than showing any depth in the human soul. The dance scene at the NAZI rally seemed creative, when Oskar, by beating his drum, turned a four-beat march into a three-beat waltz. But the other scenes were strangely sickening in the way that they warped reality. The movie didn't sit right with me, especially if the allegations of child pornography are true. This is one of too many movies that show the depraved side of mankind without showing enough of humanity's potential for good. These days, I long to see beauty and virtue in cinema, while this movie reflects my own ugliness back at me.In short, the movie was high art and intellectually stimulating to watch. However, I don't want to see it again, and would not mind if it were taken off the video store shelves. Perhaps this is one book that should have never been made a movie and rendered in the flesh. "},{"Title":"The Tin Drum","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Books incorporated with eccentric characters and theatrical events are destined to be transcribed onto the big screen, so internationally renowned (Poland-born) German writer Günter Grass' excellent epic novel expands around 20 years charting a boy Oscar's rite-of-passage dirge, who refuses to grow up at the age of 3 and remains in his diminutive figure in Danzig during last century's abhorrent wartime. Directed by reverend German director Volker Schlöndorff, the film fairly does justice to its namesake novel, and conflates the tumultuous vagaries of peoples' mindset (German vs. Pole) refracting from Oscar's eyes and the familial turmoil inflicts on Oscar's own psyche with unstrained imagination, cinematic impact and metaphorical embodiment. From the over-pressing opening drumbeats, the tale unwinds itself in its outlandish and surreal fashion with a chirpy tone, the delivery of Oscar is seen through a grotesque view from the infant baby inside the womb, reluctantly to set foot on this world until her mother promises give him a tin drum when he will be 3, then the morally-challenging ménage à trois of the family sickens little Oscar and he arbitrarily decides to stop growing at his 3-year-old birthday (not a potent prerequisite for the blunt decision, but it is requisite for the spurs to propel the story going into its right direction). With his glass-breaking screaming superpower and the tin drum he carries all the time, it bespeaks Oscar's official entry into a rebellious, warped world traumatized by the venomous war and moral forfeiture. The abnormal two-fathers with one-mother structure has been arduously recorded, but without conspicuously verbal elaboration (even it equivocates who is Oscar's biological father), the nativity of Oscar itself stands for a kind of incestuous madness which scourges both his mother and Polish uncle, there are many self-aware sequences when the three adults balancing a harmonious co-existence in the same space while smutty fondling needs no camouflage, it is not a sexual suppression case, it is a perverted mentality which is powerful enough to engender self-destruction. Oscar is the on-looker here and compulsorily poisoned by it, the trumpet strain during his mother and uncle's tryst (while Oscar is the indirect voyeur) and the subsequent outbreak of his super-scream and church profanity highlights the abnormality has deeply-rooted in his mind, when he reaches puberty, his sexual aggression outstretches his child-like appearance, the domestic fornication has its detrimental sequel, it is heavy fodder to be adapted on big screen, thanks for child actor David Bennent's fully commitment (although it seems not so healthy for a child to forbear all the precocious physical endeavor), the film's success is greatly indebted of the cast, Bennent's child-midget hybrid mien suffices the age-range required of his character (the soda-power ecstasy scenes are both gross and erotic), a nonpareil child-performance leaves its mark in the textbook, sometimes the cruelties and inscrutability appositely exude from his doe-eyes and innocent face, which is as fierce as any malevolence could achieve. Adult actors, namely Angela Winkler (mother), Mario Adorf (father) and Daniel Olbrychski (uncle), Katharina Thalbach (as the second wife and Oscar's first love) and Berta Drews (the square skirted grandmother) are all well-chosen and convincingly adept in their respective roles, French composer Charles Aznavour has a minor role as the Jewish toy shop owner, the stout provider of Oscar's tin drums. Running against 142 minutes, the film sustains its momentum along its journey, there are plentiful interpretations of all the characters' connotations correlating the milieu in lieu of Grass' delicate autobiographical delineation. Tragedies aside, the comic relief is the sporadic humor, for example, the interruption of the Nazi ceremony with the drum beats and waltz is sublime and ridicule, also when Oscar's Italian girlfriend-of-the-same-size wanted her morning coffee during a dashed-off fleeing, one could anticipate what will ensue but the benign mockery eclipses the grim emotion arc here and in a tall-tale like this, a sense of humor is alway being appreciated. "},{"Title":"Very Unusual","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" And now for something completely different. A German tale as told by Oskar, while at a mental hospital in the early 1950s. The boy ever grows up and has the ability to scream so loudly that he can shatter glass and knock people down with it. He is a child prodigy with adult intellect in a forever small body. He claims two fathers, Alfred, a Nazi married to his mother, and Jan, a Polish man executed by the Germans during the invasion of Poland.He becomes a carnival entertainer with a group of other dwarfs during the war, and when his girlfriend is killed, he returns to Danzig where he leads a criminal gang. The Russians soon take over and shoot Alfred. Oskar had stopped playing the drum after Alfred's death but starts playing again with two other musicians, and they become a successful jazz band. He is walking through a field and finds the finger of a girl he was in love with and becomes involved in her murder investigation. The whole story is told from Oskar's perspective. The Tin Drum is a very unusual experience. "},{"Title":"Unconventional, bizarre, interesting and overdone","Date":"9 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" If you are looking for something different, look no further. This is probably one of the strangest films I've ever seen though at times it seemed as though I was watching a big budgeted Hollywood epic. Soon though I was reminded that this was NOT your typical American film. No sirree. The Tin Drum takes place during the Third Reich in Danzig. Little Oskar decides he doesn't want to become an adult and throws himself down the stairs to the cellar in his home and stops growing. Yes, stops growing.He continually bangs on a tin drum I suppose out of rage. I won't give away anything here but the film contains some bizarre images, some grotesque. I can handle a lot but one scene literally turned my stomach. So should you watch it? The film is well made. The acting excellent by everyone. The costumes and sets are all excellent. The film is very long and becomes a bit tiring. There are some silly moments that made me shake my head. Some of it made me laugh. If you are going to create a bizarre and unconventional film don't subject me to silliness. I can't handle it.The film is interesting but it should have been shorter and there should have been a character I could relate to better. "},{"Title":"The rise and fall of fascism and Nazism, seen through the eyes of a boy who refuses to grow.","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I always like it when a movie shows things from a new and original point of view. This time we get to see WW II through the eyes of the 'normal' German citizens. I however would not classify Die Blechtrommel as a war movie but more is a dramatic character study about an unusual boy with unusual powers in an unusual time. It shows the bad and disgusting side of human beings.Young Oskar is disgusted with the grown up world around him. Because of this he refuses to grow any bigger. The entire movie we get to see the world trough the naive eyes of the main character Oskar. We learn and get to understand why he is disgusted about things and as the movie progresses we also get to see the rise- and eventually fall of the German Third Reich.Unique is certainly the right word to describe this movie. It's a one of a kind movie that provides us a most unusual and original look upon things.The movie is filled with some wonderfully constructed and unique sequences. Some are very memorable and are one of the many reasons why the movie is an unforgettable one to watch. It's impossible to describe the many unforgettable and powerful moments present in the movie. It's truly something you have to experience for yourself. The storytelling is spot-on and real subtle at times. It all is beautifully directed by Volker Schlöndorff.Young Oskar is perfectly portrayed by David Bennent. This is a very heavy role for a young boy like him but he never made a mistake, or overdid anything. The rest of the supporting cast is also very good. The characters are well constructed throughout the story and despite the many characters that are introduced, we never loose track of the story and the movie remain fascinating and powerful to watch throughout its entire (long) running time.The nice little and underrated musical score of the movie was is composed by the legendary Maurice Jarre.Wonderfully unique Oscar-winning drama, that in my opinion is an absolute must-see.10/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A very different take on the Second World War","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is a great adaptation of a great book. The Tin Drum was the first of Gunter Grass' novels to place him in a category by himself as both documenter and deconstructor of twentieth century German society. Here, 3-y/o Oskar's decision to stop growing and remain permanently a gnome is an allegory for the stultification of German culture during the reign of Nazism. Oskar marches through the war, both literally and figuratively, to the beat of a different drum. Director Voker Schlondorff and Screenwriter Jean-Claude Carriere collaborated closely with the author in successfully extracting the main theme from a multi-layered and complex novel. The result is that only a portion of the story is told (the movie ends in 1945 while the novel continues until 1959), but it is told well, and all the acting is superb. David Bennent, who portrays Oskar, was 11 or 12 at the time of the filming, but suffered from a growth disorder, so the impression of a deeply knowing individual peering out from the eyes of a 3-y/o body was in fact quite true. You won't regret watching this movie, nor will a subsequent reading of the book prove repetitious. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the 70's","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Captivating, haunting tale of young midget, with the power to break glass with his voice, growing up in Germany while it's being taken over by Nazi's. I usually have a hard time watching foreign films because of the back and forth between reading and admiring imagery, but 'The Tin Drum' is utterly fascinating. Mixing surrealism with brutal realism it has a way of staying with you for a long time. Magnificent performances all around especially by young Bennett who plays Oskar. This deservedly won the Academy Award for best foreign film of 1979 and it ranks as one of the best foreign films of the decade. "},{"Title":"Stunningly beautiful and painful.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  An amazing movie about a little boy who decides to stop growing up at the age of three.  It also is a journey through part of the first and the second world war.  Oscar the boy has remarkable powers that are only appreciated by the other stunted  people he meets.  This movie affected me deeply and has numerous levels on which it can be understood. A remarkable metaphor for much of life.  It is at turns erotic, painful and illuminating.  Go rent it and if you are like me you will never forget it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and Memorable","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  These are exciting times!  So says the hapless everyman German father as he belatedly embraces the Hitler/Nazi phenomenon.  The same can be said for this brilliant and memorable movie.  Even eight years after my last viewing, the images, content, context and overall impact of this singular film remain with me.  This is not a film to trust the specifics of any other viewer's observations--so I shall not in this writing try to alert you to the elements which grabbed me by the scruff of the neck.  As close to a flawless film as I have ever seen, it makes Surrealism believable, and Realism baffling.  It is as though a nightmare revealed itself as a fairy tale, and insisted throughout that this was no dream.  If you have ever lived through a disastrous event, you recognize the awful truth of this experience. Don't judge this film while viewing it--allow yourself to be released into its construct, and then watch it again and again, this time with thought and feeling.  It will not dissapoint! "}{"Title":"A Reponse to Fascism","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This film presents an interesting response to fascism.  Oskar, the protagonist, decides that adult behavior is silly and that he will not grow any older.  He remains three years old until he is twenty.  As he ages, his interests and activities change, but his appearance remains the same.  The lead performance is remarkable.  He is clearly older than three but the actor does a great job of shifting through the ages.  The film has humor, suspense, eroticism, and drama. The Freudian undertones are a bit obvious, but the social drama of this boy's decision played against the rising tide of Nazism in Danzig is wonderful.  Since he never grows up, Oskar never has to deal with the war in a grown-up way.  This is a refreshing way to look at the war.  He sees through the silliness of the Nazi's, especially at their party rally, which is reduced to a waltz after some well timed drumming by Oskar.  All in all, the Tin Drum is a fine epic told from a unique point of view.  Having just watched the Great Escape a few days ago, I am struck by the insincerity of the Sturges film in the face of the Tin Drum's presentation of the war.  "},{"Title":"Left Elbow Index","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The Left Elbow Index considers seven elements of movie-making to help one decide if a film is worthwhile, measured on a scale form a high of 10 to a low of 1. The elements are acting, production sets, plot, character, dialogue, artistry, and continuity. The acting is excellent, a 10, on all counts, with minor characters as well as with supporting and major characters. David Bennent's portrayal of Oskar is so convincing that Oskar's absurdity very quickly becomes normal. The production sets are extraordinary period scenes, from the 1880's to 1945 in movie time, therefore rating a 10. This includes costumes as well. The plot rates an 8, mostly because little makes sense unless one has read the novel. As a university literature professor of forty years experience, I recognize the enormous amount of scholarship on the novel; and, generally, if the viewer is not aware that Oskar is a symbol of Germany for sixty-five years of so, the plot and story line can be confusing. It seems to me that the movie makers have to provide the viewer with some indication of this early in the film. Character development is complete and avoids any unnecessary additions to those in the novel, thereby earning another 10. A 10 for dialogue, it is appropriate to each scene. Very effective is the dialogue of Oskar as a limited omniscient narrator, resulting in a storyteller who lets the viewer in on some of Oskar's viewpoints. The artistry is a little puzzling (rates a 9). The camera angles are very good. Yet, it seems that more of Germany's Age of Decadence could be portrayed, as CABERET does so well. The film is very strong on continuity (a 10). Oskar is a rebel at just before the time of his birth, and he stays so. There is excellent continuity between the events in Germany and those of Oskar's life, even going back to why his grandfather liked vanilla. Suffice it to say that because of his powers, Oskar is an observer, a participant, and a symbol in the confusing period in Germany between 1918 and 1945. Of course, the novel is in large measure responsible for the continuity and Gunther Grass's collaboration helped greatly in this regard. This brings us to the main issue of derivative art---Is the film as good as the novel? Knowing both, I cannot decide. However, it seems to me that the film is as good a film as the novel is as good a novel. The Left Elbow rating is 9.28, and with a small bonus for ironic humor, it moves somewhat higher. I strongly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Fascist fantasy...","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" There once was a gullible people who believed in Santa Claus, the medical marvel Oskar informs us But Santa Claus was really the gas man! Was he ever... THE TIN DRUM is, for the most part, superior film-making of the highest order. The opening sequence, which segues eventually into a shot of the prenatal Oskar literally looking forward to his upcoming trip through the birth canal, is at once both funny and foreboding. It sums up the filmmaker's philosophy well enough. Logic sometimes falls by the wayside (this is, after all, clearly a fantasy), but one can't help but question just how the gentle Germans (who were prone to euthenize derr Reich's lower forms of life) allowed the midget monster to roam derr Fatherland at will (certainly the prospect of having Herr Oskar as a patient would've made Herr Mengele's mouth water)... The scene where Oskar disrupts the Third Reich rally is a bit too fanciful, and comes across, almost, as a singing and dancing number from a monstrous musical (which may've been the intent, but it lacks credibility if playing his little tin drum were that effective, surly he could've saved the world the trouble of a second global conflagration and still-birthed the flowering of flaming fascism); it's an odd scene that is never repeated (thankfully). The others are coming, warns Bebra the cirkus performer- who Oskar joins in the Front Line Theater. This, too, rings untrue by every account, the Nazis were trying to cleanse the Master Race. Would they have allowed a troupe of freaks to hold center stage (other than inside a gas chamber)? It hardly seems likely. Still, THE TIN DRUM is a film most definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Unusual drama about a boy who decides to stop growing...","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" 1st watched 1/8/2006 - 6 out of 10(Dir-Volker Schlondorff) Unusual drama about a boy who decides to stop growing at 3 years old because he doesn't want to be like the adults he's around. The movie is mostly from his perspective including narration from him and a very interesting exit from the womb. The boy is given a tin drum on his 3rd birthday and also finds out that he has a talent in breaking glass at will, with his high-pitched screams. He uses these two things as tools for communicating his emotions, sometimes with destructive results. The setting in the movie is Poland, starting just prior to WWII, where the Nazi's are taking over from inside the country thru recruiting. Soon, you either are a Nazi or a Pole, and there is a definite distinction. The boy, Oskar, is split between one parent who follows the Nazi's and an uncle who doesn't, but plays the part of a 2nd parent throughout most of the movie. The thing I like is that the scenario is treated as reality in Oskar's life and his life becomes the story and not the circumstances. The movie takes some unusual twists and turns that is distracting at times, especially when Oskar joins a performing troupe in his late teens just after realizing that he's part in fathering a child. This quick exit was quite strange and then he just as quickly returns to the family after losing a midget loved one to an American bomb. If you can handle the eccentricities in this movie, you can handle the movie. I did, but just barely, which explains my slight recommendation. When you consider the time that this movie came out, 1979, it was an era of unique eccentric movies like Apocalypse Now that we're embraced by the Academy awards, you understand it's best foreign picture that it received but it probably wouldn't get the attention these days. All in all, this is a well-made movie that is definitely a unique viewing experience in the least and also gives a different perspective on life in this setting that us Americans wouldn't normally see. "},{"Title":"Visionary","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The tale of Oskar Matzerath, the boy who chose not to grow and be part of the adult world, has remained in my heart.Volker Schlondorf's adaptation of the dense, complex Gunter Grass novel captures the spirit of the source and gives us an Oskar (David Bennent) impossible to ignore.The film's first half covers Oskar's fascinating youth in pre-World War 2 Germany. His encounters with authority, sex, soup makers, adult betrayals and anti-Semitism shape his unique world perspective.The film's second half, set during the conflict, depicts Oskar's reluctant plunge into complicated adulthood and covers the period when Oskar's kind were exploited for Germany's war effort.The anti-establishment theme of THE TIN DRUM is cemented into the narrative quite early on. Oskar's high-pitched scream, which he uses when angry or frustrated, marks his own contribution to his own personal war effort with the world at large.The film is grotesque, surreal, sensual and expansive in that it covers vast emotional and cultural ground. Schlondorf never allows the political strife to distract us from Oskar's amazing journey; the personal conflicts are always on the frontline.Maurice Jarre's score is hauntingly beautiful.One of the most stunning magic realist pieces ever produced.It deservedly won the Best Foreign Film Oscar. "},{"Title":"A Kashubian boy, A Nazi dream","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Others may tell you that this is pointless, sickening, pornographic and incomprehensible.  And they would be correct on all but the pointless part.The schism of cultures.  As a young boy, and later as a (half) man, all Oskar sees is the ever dividing cultures of his unique Northern Polish matriarchy, and his Prussian fatherland.  A stereotype within a stereotype, this boy and his krystalnachtesque tendencies provide a social commentary only a child would be arrogant enough to portray.While the films view of the Danzig Nazi party is idealized, the waltz scene says more than much else of the movie.  The world is but Oskar's frame of reference, and his he not the man who would be king in his own dreams? "},{"Title":"May seem very naive, but nevertheless carries a powerful message","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I've always had a weak spot for (anti-)war movies and original, often European, films. Die Blechtrommel (or The Tin Drum in English) combines all these things into one movie. And next to that it also has some kind of cult-status by many who consider themselves as intelligent people. I'm not saying that I'm smarter than the average person, but I do like more intelligent movies over the average box office hit with an enormous amount of explosions and unnecessary shooting.Die Blechtrommel has a very original concept. It tells the story of Oskar, a very special boy in the 1920's/1930's in Danzig (then a German city, today known as Gdansk in Poland). He had his full intellect from the moment he was born and at the age of three he decides he'll not grow up. He'll remain a three year old kid for as long as he wants to... He always carries a tin drum with him and when someone tries to take it away from him, he'll scream so loud that all glass will shatter.After reading this you might think this is more a kids movie than a movie for adults. And perhaps a bit older kids could watch it and enjoy it as well, but it is very clear that this movie also carries a more important message that will probably be better understood by adults. It gives a clear view on the mentality of the middle-class people in Germany and their racism before and during WWII. I say racism and not anti-Semitism, because it not only shows the Germans' hate against the Jews, but also against the Poles. Next to that it also shows how little people did to prevent it all, even though it was clear long before the war started, that what was happening would end in a catastrophe.Even though this movie carries such a heavy message, I can't help thinking it would have had a lot more impact if it had been shown from a different perspective. The fact that you see it all happening trough the eyes of the little boy doesn't mean that the message isn't clear, but it just isn't as powerful as I would like to see it. Still, this movie is worth a watch, because it certainly is original. I give this movie a 7/10. "},{"Title":"riveting from beginning to end","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This movie begins with such an interesting birth scene that you can not help but watch until the end to see what little Oskar is going to do next. Oskar, a sort of self created midget, decides at age three, to never grow up. However, he succeeds only in not growing bigger.  His experiences and the world around him force him to mature, despite his insistent protests. The movie provides an extraordinary view of events during World War II. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Foreign Film","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Based upon the bizarre novel by Gunther Grass, 1979s 'The Tin Drum' is the surreal story of a 3 year old boy( played by pint-sized 12 year old David Bennett) who wills himself to stop growing in protest of the Nazis increasing power in Germany and bangs out his frustration on his drum. Controversial and disturbing to be sure, The 'Tin Drum' is  filled with unforgettable scene after unforgettable scene,and deservedly won Best Foreign Film Oscar. Great small part for Charles Azvanour "},{"Title":"A brilliant high-water mark in filmmaking","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is not an easy movie to watch or absorb, but it is immensely gratifying.  The imagery is indelible and sometimes shocking.  But to describe it in too much detail or to attempt to deconstruct here would compromise the magic.  See it for yourself.  "}{"Title":"tries to achieve artistic greatness simply from being comfronting.","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I just finished watching this film and i deserve a medal for making it over the half way point. The tin drum is the story of a boys life who jumps himself down the stairs so that he will stop growing, he also has the power to break glass with his voice and has an addiction to his tin drum. at first this is just the film, following around this boy and his drum. i was really enjoying the film at this point but it took a turn for the worst around when his mother died of eating too much fish as he puts it. after this point the boy and his tin drum just continue on with life, living with random people who just seem to be fine with him living with them. the film then gets gradually more and more disturbing as he starts a sexual relationship with a 14 year old girl. the film completely relies on it being confronting, disturbing and at times difficult to watch so that its viewers that like it discard the nonsense of it because it is weird and different. this doesn't mean its good. in the end its just a series of disturbing events resulting in nothing. "},{"Title":"Excellent background music","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" In my opinion, the movie Tin Drum is actually old wine in a very stylish bottle. The movie's story is not that good but the way the movie is presented is very cool and stylish. Its a movie for action lovers because it stars two macho Bollywood stars Sunny Deol & Sunlam Shetty. Both the stars are in a different getup. David Bennent is excellent as the child Oskar and he has a very different look in the movie.Tina Engel also gets cool dialogue and one-liners. Tadeusz Kunikowski is the worst thing in the movie.He cant act and his dialogue delivery is very bad. Celeina Oberhaus is just about OK. The other actors are also OK. I would highly recommend the movie for Sunny Deol & Sunlam Shetty's fans. As for others, its a good movie with a not too good story...Marks analysis Disturbing Factor(1) + Stunts(1) + Other cast(1) + Blurbs(1/2) + Direction(1/2) + Script(1/2) + Dialogues(1/2) + Locations(1/2) + Personal Attraction(1) + Background Music(1). Total = 7.5Median = 8 "},{"Title":"Brilliant (Spoiler for one scene)","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This film is the best kind one where you watch it the first time for the pure enjoyment of it. Then every subsequent viewing you dig deeper because the story is so rich and profound. I refuse to call this absurd because some of these happening are just so crazy they might actually happen. The voice over narration is some of the finest I've ever heard in any film. You also have to love any film with a birth scene that takes the baby's POV. David Bennent is wonderful in the role of the child who refuses to grow up. Trying to synopsize this film's accomplishments it too hard. All that needs to be said is that it is a richly layered, wonderfully performed and directed experience which will not disappoint "},{"Title":"An Adult  Locked Inside a Child's Body with a Tin Drum","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" What a disturbing, unpleasant and often disgusting this Palm D' Or and Oscar Winner for the Best Foreign Language Film is. Perhaps it is appropriate given a bizarre look at the history of Germany from the World War 1 through the rise of the Nazis through the eyes of a weird child who refused to grow at his third Birthday. Little Oscar symbolized a conscience of the citizens of Danzig when the Nazis are in power and the war rages. I am expected to sympathize with Oscar because he supposedly understands better than any adult around him what the chaos of 1920s would bring to life to Germany and to the world in 1930s but I simply can't. For me, Oscar is the scariest and creepiest little creature with the empty and cold eyes of young Alex de Large whose expressing his outrage by constant pounding on his toy tin drum and screaming with window-shattering voice only annoyed me. As the years pass, Oscar turned into a teenager who became naturally interested in girls but was trapped in a little boy's body, which contributed to some of most disturbing and repulsing scenes in films that I've ever seen and I am a quite open-minded and tolerant moviegoer. The movie's imagery is powerful and I guess the filmmaker drove his point across but for me, The Tin Drum is too cold to genially touch me and too unpleasant to like it. "},{"Title":"a childish, yet disgusting movie (spoilers)","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"16 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This movie is about a boy who doesn't want to grow up because he doesn't like other people and who protests by disturbing everyone around him. Well, I think that behavior is also an exact description of the makers of this movie. But whilst the boy uses a tin drum and his unusual high voice, the movie makers use film equipment in order to articulate their childish protest.Every scene of that movie seems to tell Oh, poor me, I live in a world that's hell and everyone around me is brutal and stupid! But the movie doesn't stop here, it also shows how you should behave, if you feel that way avenge yourself! Torment the hated adults! Disturb them with sounds, sabotage their meetings, make the girl who made you jealous pregnant against her will and make that your father and your stepfather get killed!It's unbelievable to me that a movie which provides such a primitive message is called intellectual.P.S. I think it is an impudence making an eleven year old boy playing the lead in such a perverted parade, full of violence and (only negative) sexuality! "},{"Title":"Tin Drum is one of the best films of our time.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Little Oscar, the star of the film is amazing, intriguing, beautiful and witty.  You will laugh, cry, scream and be annoyed.  This film is  a must for anyone who appreciates  art!!!!!!  Oscar's story begins in the womb and at a young age he decides that he no longer wants to grow up and stays small forever while he dances and screams around all of the other demented people in his life. "},{"Title":"Great and unique film","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Span the life of a boy during the years when the Nazis controlled Europe.This is a unique perspective seen through a childs eyes. A biting look at the way war effects people , especially little Oscar.The visuals in this picture will stay with you for many years. This is a fabulous film! "},{"Title":"Startling, surreal tale with great Nazi-Germany backdrop... but uneven, with VERY cold characters.","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Here we go again in covering my long-awaited list of the classics! This is the startling tale of a most unusual German-Polish boy growing up in 1920s- & '30s Danzig, with three major traits He has stopped growing physically at the age of three by throwing himself down a staircase, he is obsessed with his toy tin drum... and his voice can shatter glass! Adapted from the Günter Grass novel, the rise of Nazi Germany and subsequent WW2 eruption serves as a great, captivating backdrop to a highly memorable (if not sympathetic or understandable) protagonist's fate in this splendidly produced drama. What it does do, however, is waver unevenly between being brilliantly surreal (with show-stopping scenes), off-puttingly unpleasant and visually hypnotic. Also, the wallowing in the bizarre and grotesque is sure to divide its critic fronts, but to me, the inexplicable long lulls in the middle and VERY cold characters (is ANY to care for, really?) most unfortunately hamper the much-acclaimed masterpiece potential. But in retrospect, its influence is clear to see on many film-makers to have come along, such as Tom Tykwer & Lars Von Trier.6 out of 10 from Ozjeppe "},{"Title":"A perfect reason of why film awards shouldn't be taken so seriously and an unpleasant experience that goes nowhere or a message difficult to find (if there is one)","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" A 142 minute film that seems to go way longer in its horrible and tasteless moments The Tin Drum fails completely in a story that seems to have a meaning but it fails on how to show it. It is a pathetic, devious, diabolical, demented, derailed, deranged, dubious, flawed, shameful, disgusting, art pretentious and other adjectives that is best not to be written here. Unfortunately in this times of technology and internet someone who disagrees of a cult or brilliant thing is called a troll or things like that. I'm not a troll, and as you're gonna see in this comments many things that can be debated over this trash film awarded in 13 awards including the Oscars, I have a complete fundament about why this film failed in so many levels.How come someone can buy the story of an obnoxious and annoying little brat named Oskar and his desire of not growing up, and instead he keeps playing a little drum disturbing everybody and when he's vexed he screams like a opera falsetto and breaks all the glasses around him, scaring people away? It is said to many viewers and reviewers that he decides to stay aged three because of mankind's awfulness and madness, but at no moment before this story with the drum little Oskar watches this crazy world, everything bad happens later with the coming of the 2nd World War and other bad things that this character makes. To say that he's innocent is just silly. He's a diabolical creature that resembles Hitler in a way, immature figures who every time things doesn't happen in the way they want they scream higher and higher, and do bad things (Oskar will be responsible for many deaths through the film). And a creature coming out of the hell because he reminds of stories of angels who felt from the sky to become powerful among humans (Oskar fells from a ladder and after that he'll no longer grow, and someone needs to explain to me since when felling from stairs makes you no longer grow? I fell from a ladder when I was a child and that didn't changed a thing in me).For those who say that The Tin Drum used metaphors to show the horrors of war and Oskar represents so many things well, you're all wrong. These things wasn't presented this way. What does playing a drum means? What does the spitting change means? Why this boy is so special? He's not, he's annoying, inexpressive with a dangerous look in the eye (a look that reminds of Hannibal Lecter, Alex DeLarge and actor Bud Cort) and all I could think of was that I wanted to slap him in the face and say Grow Up!. It is a very boring film, that even with two hours and a few minutes of running time it seems to go forever, and I had to divide the film in so many parts to absorb the whole thing to find that it didn't had nothing so special except some original and shocking scenes like the eels stuck in a horse's head found at a beach (the most disgusting thing you're gonna see in a non horror film) and then Oskar's family ate those eels; the first part of the story which was a little bit interesting (the opening is fantastic telling Oskar's grandmother story). Volker Scholendorff's film disappointed me big time! I heard so many favorable things about it (but I confess that I was blindfolded in terms of knowing what the story was, I only knew few things away) including the awards this film earned. And here's a reminder, awards don't mean that much. To think that this mess won Palm D'Or at Cannes (in a tie with the amazing Apocalypse Now) and a Foreign Film Award at the Oscars (in a year that Germany's best film was The Marriage of Maria Braun recognized by German critics as one of the best of that period and to think that Rainer Werner Fassbinder never was nominated) is unthinkable! It is the worst film ever awarded at the Foreign Film category. Not just this film shows how awards are almost meaningless, jewels like E La Nave Va, Pixote, Vargtimmen and all Kieslowski films are all outstanding works of art that weren't nominated for an Oscar and those films had so much more to tell, to show, to stay in our memories, and if you haven't seen them skip The Tin Drum and go see them! Trust me, it's all good.There's so many wrong things with this film that I cannot say which was the worst but perhaps the concerns on under age sex scenes (which caused many problems with future releases in certain countries). Nowadays this film is totally incorrect with those moments, I dare to say that Schloendorff became a phedofiliac figure in filming those things (it's not graphic, but it certainly makes you feel bothered). I haven't read the book in which this was adapted and I don't think I will, it is such a pointless and bad story that I don't wanna see it twice. Run for your life because after that you might get depressed as fast as I am now. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Mediocrity and Malevolence","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" One noteworthy scene in Die Blechtrommel is during the siege of the Polish post office, where Oskar Mazerath wants yet another tin drum on the top of a shelf. The walls around the shelf are littered with German made bullet holes. When a Polish man gets the drum down from the shelf, he is mortally wounded by the continuing gunfire and artillery. Oskar just stares at the Pole, banging the drum without a single care. It should be noted that Oskar is well into his adolescence by then.Who is Oskar supposed to be and what does he represent? Is he the personification of childhood and innocence? Is he supposed to represent the confusion of youth as it glares and is repulsed by adulthood? Or is he a spiteful, obnoxious, egomaniacal, calculating and cruel little boy? In any case, it seems that almost everyone he is related to, almost everyone with whom he shares a significant connection with, will either die or suffers tragedy.The film concerns a young boy named Oskar, played by Swiss actor David Bennent, who at the age of three, decides that he has had enough of the silly adult world and refuses to grow up. He does so by stunting his growth and, most significantly, incessantly banging against a tin drum. He lives in Danzig against the backdrop of rising Nazism, as the city is in a state of confusion regarding what it should be. As Oskar grows older, he Die Blechtrommel was released in 1979 and won both the Palme d'Or at Cannes and the Academy Award for Best Foreign Film that same year. It was also highly controversial because of sex scenes involving the twelve year old Bennent and the twenty-four year old actress Katharina Thalbach, who played Maria. The film marked the arrival of Volker Schlöndorff, as well as placed him in the company of the young German directors of the 1970s, such as Werner Herzog and Rainer Werner Fassbinder, part of a revival in German film.The acting in the film is uneven and not particularly noteworthy. The worst performance of the film comes from David Bennent himself. It seems that somehow the audience is supposed to connect meaningfully with his consistently sour, bug eyed face, and he rarely shows any other emotion. His expression does occasionally change when he gets what he wants, but the way in which Bennent portrays this character distances the audience more than enwraps them. Is the audience supposed to feel sorry for a cold, calculating and wicked child? Berta Drews, who plays the older version of Oskar's grandmother, gives the only noteworthy performance. She imbues the character with a doomed dignity and provides one of the few sympathetic characters in the film. Angela Winkler does a credible job as Oskar's doomed mother Agnes, as does Mario Adorf playing Oskar's father Alfred. The previously mentioned Thalbach, playing the young Maria who works for the family during the war, overacts with too much crying and she fails to bridge the gap between the audience and Maria. Daniel Olbrychski playing Oskar's uncle Jan looks constipated and uneasy most of the time. The only area where the film does succeed is in creating the look and feel of Danzig at the time. The audience is effectively transported to the city at the time and the sets and settings appear exceptionally authentic. Schlöndorff's pacing of the film is nothing spectacular, although he does have some interesting uses of camera movement, creating an impending feeling of doom as he dollies up to get a shot of Oskar about to fall down the stairs.The film ultimately fails as an effective narrative on a boy's struggle to cope with a world he perceives as unworthy of his presence. Oskar's painful moments should cause the audience to pity the boy, not smile at his suffering. An irony came to mind at the end of the film. Oskar is supposed to never want to progress out of childhood, and is so assured of himself being this fiercely independent and strong willed individual. Yet, he gives in to carnal temptation and manages to sleep with two women in the film. It is curious how, in Oskar's efforts to never grow up, he manages to succumb something which is very adult. "}{"Title":"don't watch this please","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I've just seen it and it disgusted me so much it even made me write my first 'hate it' comment here. Cinematography is great but what is beyond it is bad taste to speak in a mellow way. It's not even a bad film like some really obscene b-films of whatever, it is worse. Filth and scum. This is what it is. Really awful. This kind of films should be fought with, in order to protect people who like arts and see some meaning or point in making it for the sake of humanity (or whatever development) from immoral brutal pointless vandalism of an art. From this moment I will stop trusting all the Oscar and Palm D'Or giving people completely. This time they have all gone too far awarding this film, which IMO should be erased completely from the surface of the Earth.The first 20 minutes were intriguing and they made me watch this till the end. What a dirty trick! With the eels in the horse's head scene the whole thing became what it its. Vandalism. "},{"Title":"Wallowing in depravity","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"15 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The imagery in this film is certainly vivid eels slithering through the orifices of dead horses, frogs being boiled alive, children being forced to drink urine. Then there's the douching episode, and the notorious kiddie porn scenes. Yep, it's gross.And all in the service of what? Why, those big themes of course1) Nazis aren't nice.2) See 1).When you are sticking your neck out with daring themes like those, then I guess it's all right if you overdo things a little bit.I last saw this film 20 years ago when it was new. It was just as offensive then as it is now, and just as pointless.There is one reason to see this classic. The great Polish leading man, Daniel Olbrychski, makes one of his first non-Polish appearances, although he has virtually nothing to do, except expose his bare bum. This film just can't get anything right.Watch for the scene where cute little Oskar blinds his teacher. What a joker! What a hero! And what a performance from little Oskar. Sometimes he stares straight ahead! Sometimes he beats his little drum! Sometimes he does both at the same time!! You'd think talent like that could stop a measly world war.This film is only two hours twenty minutes but feels much, much longer. That unfortunately hasn't changed since the '70's either -- the interminability of unadulterated pretentiousness. Bring extra pillows to sit on if you feel up to the challenge of taking a dip in this sty.  "},{"Title":"An Empty Shell","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The Tin Drum is about a boy, Oskar, who refuses to grow. All around him, peoples lives are being destroyed by the 2nd WW. Oskar and his tin drum make hideous noise when Oskar sees cruelly around him. Unfortunately, The cruelty that Oskar sees, are not the same as i see. That makes Oskar quite an annoying little boy.Oskar tends to represent the socialism in Germany, he drums for political reasons. but meanwhile he also drums for his own egocentric sake his mother cheating on his father, anyone who doesn't like drumming. That hasn't got anything to do with the WW situation. This leads to the strange point where i don't know whether i am supposed to like Oskar or not. Is this film intended to make my own opinion about The WW2? Or is this film intended to dislike Oskar? To bad that great images are ruined by the fact i can't FEEL anything when seeing Oskar. He just makes me wonder (what the heck does he want!?) Nothing more then that. "},{"Title":"One of the Best top 100 Movies ever made","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This was another one of my very first foreign films. This is a film that stays with you for a long time, and it has with me. This film is about a very bright boy who makes a decision when he is three years old that he never wants to grow up, so he throws himself down the stairs to stop that growth, but you know what...life still happens around him and although his body never gets bigger, his experiences do. We the viewer get to experience the World War through his eyes and he's got a very interesting way of seeing things and letting you see them as well.A brilliant film for those with an open mind, one you must not miss or have in your collection. "},{"Title":"Why do the stupidest reviews of a film seem to appear first?","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I don't know if the first post one sees on a comments page here remains there, but the facile, lazy review that greeted me doeas this film a gross disservice.A great film of a great, great book. Not an easy book to make a film off, but Schlondorff gets it just right. Brilliant performances all the way through; from Adorf, Winkler, and especially Bennent.This is an Expressionistic film of extraordinary power. Heartbreaking scenes of the outbreak of war, and a weird phantasmogoric ride through the progress of the war seen through the tiniest anti-hero in European film.A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"More German than a doberman","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  As good anime is not anime without an alien/demon raping a school girl, a good German movie can't do without some creepy sex scene of its own (minus the demon, enter a dwarf). I would not call it a pornography as did some, for it's no more exciting than those eels slithering out of the horse head. As with many other German movies the main idea of this one is to do everything on the screen that you mutter does not let you to do in the living room. What was Olbrychski to do in this movie is beyond me as is the point of having a French-Armenian singer Aznavour playing a Jewish store owner. The plot is definitely overcast by overqualified actors and drags clumsily towards the all too distant end. This movie is both depressing and engrossing (in more ways than one), its take on Nazism is shallow even compared to Chaplin's Great Dictator, but one way or another it's a part of a cinema experience if you ever to have one. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" A film with some interesting elements if not much else, it is a bizarre semi-surreal comedy fantasy, in which anything pretty much goes. Some of the comic aspects, such as the high-pitched scream, just feel plain silly, and it is hard to know what to make about bits of the humour. The film's premise is fascinating, and the actor who plays the protagonist does a fairly good job. Otherwise, there is little else to make this film more than a silly romp. The film is based on a popular novel, and viewers who are familiar with it have commented on the film having something to say about fascism. The novel may have, but the film sadly has very little to say about resisting fascism, as the reason why the protagonist in the film chooses not to grow up is only a distaste for adult sexuality. The bulk of what makes this a fascinating watch is the open-ended premise. What would it be like to never physically age? This keeps the material interesting for an amount of time, but ultimately on such related ideas alone, the film cannot take the stretch to over two hours in length. It is not a poor film, if one feels like checking it out, but I can only cautiously recommend it myself. "},{"Title":"pretty much pointless--the impact of this film is undone by its pretentiousness","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"17 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is a terrible movie masquerading as high art. So many have seen the film and reveled in its symbolism and greatness, but there really is NO symbolism--just a main character that makes absolutely no sense and the rest of the film that is filled with sick and depraved images. The film COULD have been allegorical--perhaps with little Oskar willing himself to stop growing as a result of his not wanting to cope with the rise of Fascism--but it didn't. It could have been totally weird and surreal--but it was only surreal in small aspects and completely sick and uninteresting throughout. It could have been poignant and really stood for something--but what could have been touching often was not. This is a fine example of a film that has won many awards that probably only got them because it was weird and the people on the committee thought there must be some deeper significance--but there wasn't. Seeing people throw up, eels crawling in an out of cow's head, 3 year-olds (or who look and act and think like 3 year-olds) trying to perform sex acts on a 16 year-old, suicide, a woman eating whole uncooked fish (head, guts, scales and all) and a child having sex with a midget are NOT my ideas of either entertainment or symbolism. This is just a sick mess that is designed only to offend and assault your senses. I do not mind a disturbing film wheh there is a point to it--this is just pointlessness in the guise of something profound. A terrible, terrible, terrible film.This film should NOT be viewed by kids or even adults for that matter. "},{"Title":"Really bad","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"10 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Blechtrommel is a pointless German movie with a bizarre story. The actors is OK, but the story in the film seams to have as a goal to shock the audience in a repulsing way. Hidden behind a known author and some surrealism this seams to work for a few people (specially those who think they understand movies). I remember I saw this movie for the first time for about 10-11 years ago and I really disliked it. Now, 10 years after (and about 2000 movies ago), I saw it once again to see if I could get some more out of the movie than the first time, but that did not happen. A bad and pointless movie . "},{"Title":"Please, Please DO NOT WATCH THIS !!!! I BEG YOU !!!!","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I AM HELPLESS !!!! I do not know what else to say about this disgusting, unimaginable piece of human feces than please save your time, your brain energy or whatever you might call it, and never ever watch this. If you just bought the DVD, go burn it. If you like WW2 Movies, get yourself a copy of Saving Private Ryan, if you need to be reminded of how cruel humans can be to others in total disrespect of life, love, and anything that matters to most of us today, The Pianist is a wonderful, yet very disturbing piece of Art, as it is Schindlers List. If you like good Fantasy Stories, maybe have some episodes of Twin Peaks. Drama Requiem for a Dream is A MASTERPIECE !!! And if it so happens that you are an absolutely devoted fan of deep-brain-cell-destruction-while-in-a-totally-drunken-state-of-mind, a copy of jackass, jackass the movie 1,2 or (even 3 someday?) might be your choice of the moment. All of the above are movies or series that I enjoyed watching a lot, depending on whether being up for something intelligent, entertaining, sad, or just stupid time-wasting. But  Die Blechtrommel is just nothing . No Sense. No enjoying. No crying. No nothing. Please burn every copy. It is more senseless than watching 2 hours of your local station's test signal or a digitally transmitted picture of a fireplace. My only relief right now would be to see the people mainly responsible for that movie burn in the just mentioned place right now, really. Or at least in a nice and secure place where they are being helped to cure their diseases. "}]