[{"Title":"So bad they advertised it as a comedy!","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Concorde--Airport '79 is truly one of the worst films ever made.  It is tacky, imbecilic, and inept, with some of the most inane plotting ever committed to celluloid.  It comes complete with what is probably the worst script ever by an Academy Award Winner (Eric Roth of Forrest Gump fame). It is so dumb it is laughable.  It is stupid.  In fact, it is so bad they advertised it as a comedy!The plot is inane  wealthy weapons manufacturer (Robert Wagner) is confronted by television anchorwoman/girlfriend (Susan Blakely), who tells him she has evidence that he is selling secrets to the Russians and is going to expose him.  Does he kill her then?  No.  Since she has been assigned to cover the inaugural flight of the Concorde (Washington, D.C. to Paris to Moscow), he decides to shoot down the plane with the anchorwoman in it. So when the plane takes off with the usual Hollywood Squares cast of television has-beens as passengers, and the two most unlikely pilots in the business (Alain Delon as Capt. Marquand and George Kennedy as Capt. Joe Patroni--that's right, airline mechanic turned executive turned Concorde pilot), he tries to shoot it down with a wayward missile, which he could conveniently blame on equipment failure.  After the pilots elude the missile by flipping the plane over a half-dozen times and firing a flare out the window while flying at mach 2 (!!), they survey the damage and decide to fly on to Paris, since noone is hurt and structural damage evidently not a concern.  Then they get to Paris, where they are attacked by a couple of fighter jets, which they manage to elude.  They then crash land (in one of the most cheesy uses of obvious miniatures I have ever seen in a supposedly big-budget film--even the trees are obviously plastic) and disembark. That's the end, right?  Wrong.  The movie is only half over, so after an overnight layover, in which the cast couples as if the Concorde is Noah's Ark, everyone reboards the plane to go on to Moscow, even though they know someone is trying to bring it down.Anyway, let's just say the second leg of the trip ends even worse, with the plane crashing into a snowdrift without a single passenger or crew fatality. So what does our wealthy weapons manufacturer do?  He shoots himself in the head.  Fade to Black.Where do I start?  Obviously this is absolutely ridiculous from start to finish.  And then there are the actors  soft-core porn star Sylvia Kristel as a stewardess, Jimmie J.J. Walker a saxophonist, Mercedes McCambridge looking ridiculous as a Russian gym coach, Andre Marcovicci as a gymnast who appears to be six feet tall, John Davidson as a TV reporter, Bibi Andersson a prostitute, Eddie Albert the idiot Concorde owner and Sybil Danning his trophy wife, David Warner the flight engineer, etc. etc.  There's even a cameo by Charo (yes, Charo) as a passenger who tries to smuggle a chihuahua onto the plane by pretending to be blind and saying it's her seeing eye Chihuahua.  And, sadly, we're treated to the sight of the great African-American actress Cicely Tyson, reduced to picking up a paycheck as the mother of a heart-transplant recipient who's accompanying the heart to Paris where her son waits.  (In the late '70's, the two most highly regarded TV performances of the decade were Sally Field in Sybil and Cicely Tyson in The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman.  Field was rewarded for her performance with a film career that was capped by two Oscars.  Tyson disappeared after appearing in this travesty.  How sad.)Yep, the stupidity runs rampant  Kennedy and Andersson make love by a fire. Kennedy tells stewardess Kristel They don't call it the cockpit for nothing, honey, a line that would get you fired in a second nowadays. Albert says upon disembarking in Paris Nobody is keeping us from going on the Moscow!  Martha Raye adds unfunny comic relief as an old lady with weak bowels.  When she's nervous, she runs to the bathroom.  She spends the entire film in the bahtroom.  (Ho! Ho!) And no one even mentions lawsuit once, even after the plane turns upside down.  And the cast?  Dreadful. All the way down the line.  Paychecks, paychecks, paychecks.  That's all anyone was after on this one.Incidentally, the director of this mess was yet another television hack, David Lowell Rich, who may as well be named Ed Wood.  But he's the least of the problems.  No, the problem is a studio that insisted on dumping cheapjack product like this on an undemanding public instead of taking the time to hire truly talented visionaries who could come up with a decent premise, or better yet, not make the darned film in the first place.  The only good thing about The Concorde--Airport '79?  Released at the same time as Beyond the Poseidon Adventure and the year before When Time Ran Out..., it delivered strike two in the at bat that mercifully ended the disaster craze of the '70's.  And not a moment too soon.  no stars (out of *****) "},{"Title":"What a disaster!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"36 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There are bad movies, movies that are horrible, and then there's a tiny, rarified body of movies that are so horribly bad that, even after seeing them just once, the sheer awfulness makes it impossible to forget them even decades later. This is exactly such a movie, and it's hard to believe that the original film in this series was actually quite good. Let's see, George Kennedy, the cigar chomping tough guy mechanic of the original has somehow been promoted to airline captain, and, after the Concorde comes under missile attack (don't ask), he resorts to stunts like shooting a flare gun out the cockpit window despite (presumably) flying at Mach 2, all the while doing the sort of wild high-G evasive maneuvers that would have ripped the wings off any real airliner, never mind the effect of the passengers! But the absolute worst part of the film, at least to dedicated airplane buffs like myself, is that this atrocity starred one of the coolest, sexiest, and most technologically remarkable planes ever to fly. The Concorde (or, just plain Concorde as its pilots refer to it) deserved far better, this abomination is the equivalent of taking a high class beauty like Audrey Hepburn and putting her in a Porky's sequel. Thankfully, the release of the ever hilarious Airplane! the following year brought the whole Airport franchise to a well deserved halt, as anyone even contemplating a fifth installment would have been laughed to death by studios and movie fans alike. 1/10 "},{"Title":"2/10 */5 ~ Please do not misconscrew me. Can't the drone be reprogrammed? What a pathetic joke!","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The original Airport (1970) was a classic of its kind, and the first two B-movie follow-ups (Airport 1975; Airport '77) were watchable fun at best, amusing camp at worst; but this crass and inept final entry lacks any entertainment value and displays a shocking contempt for its audience. It's unendurable and not even good for laughs. All of the three Airport sequels were theatrical releases made by Universal's television wing but this one is beneath even the modest standards of a TV movie of its day, with cheapjack production, grotesque casting, visual ugliness and tasteless, unfunny comedy. The project was clearly doomed by the creative efforts of Universal executive Jennings Lang who personally produced and is given a story credit.Everyone starts somewhere, and writer Eric Roth (Forrest Gump) might have provided an element of self-burlesque, as had the previous films (especially the notorious Airport 1975), but there is nothing worth spoofing in Roth's turgid, incoherent script and even the comedy Airplane! left this crud untouched.What makes The Concorde Airport '79 particularly offensive is its insulting misuse of professionals. The worst victim is the supremely gifted Cicily Tyson (Sounder; The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman), pitilessly reduced to a vomitous subplot involving her escorting a frozen heart transplant on the unfortunate flight. A special kick to the groin is reserved for the wonderful George Kennedy, who is the true lead despite being buried in the cast list. The official mascot of the Airport series and the only actor to appear in all four movies, Kennedy had more than earned the starring role and his turn in the Captain's seat would have been the only possible reason for this entry other than the squeezing of one last buck. Kennedy provides the only warmth and real humor in this mechanical muckup, briefly putting aside the bravura machismo and revealing a genuinely sweet and tender side to himself, and his lovable and heroic character of Joe Patroni. Unfortunately we are never allowed to forget how fat and old and over-the-hill Kennedy is, and overage pretty-boy Alain Delon relentlessly calls him Porky Pig as part of a buddy-bonding that falls completely flat. Even Kennedy's Parisian romance, the only humane part of this plane-wreck, turns out to be merely a set-up for a hateful joke at Patroni's, Kennedy's, and the viewer's expense. "},{"Title":"Not a Comedy","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is scary at times, perhaps no more so than when a naked George Kennedy tells his hooker girlfriend he wants a little more sugar. Thankfully his nakedness is covered by a blanket, but the image is still more horrifying than anything you're likely to find in, for example, Schindler's List.The dialog in this film was inspiring; it inspired me to watch another movie. In one scene, when a stewardess remarks about male pilots, Kennedy asks, Why do you think it's called a 'cock' pit? Charming.And yes, contrary to what some have written, this film is very, very bad. "},{"Title":"this turkey can fly at twice the speed of sound","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" All the Airport movies are stinkers, but this one is the biggest turkey of them all. The formula was different for this one because it focused on TWO disastrous flights and a lot of plot occurring on the ground, while the other movies focused on just one disastrous flight and less plot on the ground. The stunts with the Concorde are worth watching for the laughs, although the special effects aren't as terrible as I'd expect for a movie of this quality made in 1979. George Kennedy's sexist remarks are disgusting and his rendezvous with a prostitute in Paris is totally unnecessary (and made me gag a little). Poor Martha Raye was relegated to a role where she did nothing but relieve her bowel over and over in the Concorde's bathroom. There are no big stars in this movie compared to the previous films, giving you one more reason not to watch this one. "},{"Title":"Almost bad enough to be good.","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the beginning, there was Airport, an A-list, ultra-slick adaptation of a best-selling book, nominated for multiple Oscars (including Best Picture!) Then came Airport 1975 with too much humor (intentional and unintentional) and Karen Black flying a damaged 747. Airport '77 had a private plane sinking beneath the ocean while rich passengers dropped like flies. In an inane attempt to continue the exploitation of the original film (and cash in on the notoriety of the then-new Concorde, the fastest commercial plane ever), this film came along and ended the series for good. A year later, Airplane! would slam the coffin lid and seal it with it's hysterical sending up of the many clichés of the air-disaster genre. Here, Wagner is a high-powered industrialist who's been selling arms to enemies of the U.S. When his reporter mistress Blakely is informed of this, he tries kill her. After she boards the Concorde en route to Moscow, he (ludicrously) decides to pull out every stop in the book to demolish the aircraft, even though it is full of Olympians, TV journalists, music legends, human organs and little old ladies who can't stay out of the bathroom! The entire film is both stagnant and simultaneously uproarious at the same time. The director, writer, editor and the actors can't seem to get ANYTHING right! (See Blakely's ridiculously unconvincing newscast in which she never once looks into the camera and in which clips from events AS THEY ARE HAPPENING IN REAL TIME parade across the screen.) It also contains some of the most abominable blue-screen and model special effects ever to be seen in a major studio film. The cast of the film is huge and full of names, though most of them are given, literally, nothing to do but embarrass themselves. Wagner looks very tired and hardly bothers to vary his facial expressions. Blakely works hard but is defeated by the stupidity of the character and the script. Kennedy (the one actor who was in all four films) is promoted to Captain this time, but is reduced to cracking crude sexual jokes and (in the film's most celebratedly lunatic scene) cracking open the cockpit window and shooting off a flare! Haggard, former screen-god Delon as another pilot tries to beat preposterous dialogue like, Your hair is my french fries in his affair with sex kitten stewardess Kristel (whose calf-length uniform has a split up to her thigh!) Other oddities include McCambridge spouting a dreadful Russian accent and flouncing around in curtain-like tops as a gymnastics coach, Walker as a pot-smoking sax player, Lewis as a jazz legend (!) who feels she may be losing it, Schreiber as a Russian coach with a deaf daughter (at least she can't hear Lewis singing!) and Raye as a grandma with a bladder control problem (first dentures and now this?! What? Did June Allyson turn the part down?) Special mention must be given to the side-splitting appearance of Tyson as a mother escorting (!) a frozen heart to her dying son. (Since when do parents go off and collect organs while their kid is expiring somewhere else??) In an apparent attempt to disappear from this rancid film, she hides her face under every imaginable object. Already buried under Victoria Principal's fright wig from Earthquake, she uses hankies, a clutch purse, blankets, ANYTHING to obscure her face from being seen, eventually turning away from the camera entirely! The endless cast list also contains Albert as the airline owner and Danning as his trophy wife, Davidson as a reporter, Charo as a pushy passenger attempting to stowaway a Chihuahua and Marcovicci who gets another special mention. Unbelievably, she plays a 24 year-old gymnast (!) going for her third gold medal, which is crazy enough except that she was 31 in real life! Just one more nutty aspect of this thoroughly retarded film. Perhaps the most bizarre of all is the fact that the plane goes through several traumas, spinning violently and nearly crashing, yet after a layover in Paris, virtually every single passenger GETS BACK ON! As if things weren't bad enough, the Olympics that were pushed so heavily in this movie wound up being boycotted that year by the U.S., so the whole film was outdated before it was even released anyway! Good for a few laughs, but worthless as drama. "},{"Title":"Absolute Hokeyest Movie Of All Time!!! JUNK!!!","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ordered the complete AIRPORT movie set recently. Always been a fan of the Airport series. First three, Airport (70), '75, '77, I've seen numerous times and always liked all three. For some reason I've never seen Airport '79 though. Ladies and gentleman, this has to be the all time hokeyest movie I have ever seen in my 50 years of life! Bad acting. Bad writing. Bad plot. Stupid plot. Bad special affects, even for 1979. Just bad everything. Honestly, after the first 15-20 minutes I was ready to turn it off. I was like, when is this movie going to get going. I cannot believe all the well known actors in this movie actually consented to being apart of this joke of a movie. I don't think there is one movie I have ever not said you have to see at least once until I viewed this one. I would NEVER recommend this movie to anyone even as a joke and I will never watch it again. "},{"Title":"I'd love to see what my horoscope said for this morning.","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oh, you pilots are such men. They don't call it the cockpit for nothing, honey. Dialogue like that is just one of many reasons why The Concorde&#133; Airport '79 (or, if you saw it in the UK where it dragged its heels getting released there, Airport '80 The Concorde) was the last and by far the least of the series. The disaster movie was in dire straits in the late70s, what with The Swarm having offered much unintentional hilarity and Beyond the Poseidon Adventure, When Time Ran Out and City on Fire simply offering much boredom, and the desperation to find a new spin on the genre is all too apparent here. This time it's a conspiracy plot, with Susan Blakely's news anchorwoman discovering billionaire boyfriend Robert Wagner has been selling arms to terrorists and the North Vietnamese. Naturally, she decides to tell him everything rather than make the story public, but, he fobs her off by explaining I'm a very rich man. I have everything in life I could ever want. Why would I jeopardise that by doing something so incredibly stupid? Just in case she doesn't buy that line, rather than, say hire a hit-man to kill her on the ground, he decides to do things the smart way by planning to destroy the Concorde while she's flying to Moscow via Paris. I've done a lot of things I've been ashamed of, but I am not a murderer, he insists indignantly on his way to reprogramme a guided missile to destroy the plane. So, nothing incredibly stupid there. And when that fails, he sends a jet fighter after it. And when that fails&#133; Don't even think of looking for anything resembling logic here this is real bottom-of-the-barrel stuff that even the studio gave up on and marketed as a comedy in the US after critics laughed it off the screen. Where the previous three entries all had the look of glossy big-budget entertainments, this small-screen friendly effort (the only one not to be shot in 2.351 widescreen) doesn't even manage to make the Concorde look good, which is quite a feat. TV veteran David Lowell Rich presumably got the directing gig because he was fast, cheap and had previously directed TV movie SST Disaster in the Sky where Peter Graves' supersonic airplane found itself unable to land due to sabotage and Senegalese flu (which was not, intentionally at least, a comedy despite the presence of a young Billy Crystal in the cast) and seemed like the natural choice for what looks like a $14m TV movie that somehow escaped into theatres when no-one was looking.Cast like a bad episode of Hollywood Squares, stars are in very short supply this time round, and most of the few vaguely familiar faces seem to have been rounded up from rehab clinics and busted sitcoms. Alain Delon gives the Hollywood career that one last shot as the pilot, Happy Fish (don't ask) George Kennedy moves from the executive suite to the co-pilot's seat in the hope of reminding people of the other movies, while the rest of the ensemble includes a couple of veterans of The Towering Inferno (Wagner and Blakely), a soft-porn star (Sylvia Kristel, trying to go respectable), an Ingmar Bergman regular (Bibi Andersson &#150; and she's the one playing the hooker!), David Warner's navigator on a diet having nightmares about being chased by bananas, the voice of the Devil (Mercedes McCambridge), Charo and her Seeing Eye Chihuahua (Dohn miscon-screw me), Martha Raye and her weak bladder, Jimmie Walker playing the sax in his seat and smoking weed in the john (in the few moments its not occupied by Martha Raye), Cicely Tyson kissing her credibility goodbye as the obligatory mother with critically ill child and a frozen heart in the overhead locker, airline owner Eddie Albert and trophy wife Sybil Danning occupying the best seat in the house, Ed Begley Jr in goggles, and the Russian Olympic team and their lovable coach Val Avery and his deaf daughter (ahhhh!) on a goodwill tour of the States (who knew about the boycott?). Just to add a touch of The Simpsons to proceedings, Harry Shearer voices one news report in the same tones he'd later use for Smithers.Highlight? Despite the impromptu wedding ceremony during a crash landing, it just has to be George Kennedy diverting a heat-seeking missile by opening the window, sticking his arm out (at nearly twice the speed of sound!) and firing a flare &#150; while the plane is upside down! And then Alain Delon turns off the engines so there won't be a heat source for the missiles to home in on&#133; Yes, someone actually got paid for writing this, and that someone was future Oscar winner and screenwriter of Munich and The Insider Eric Roth (hey, everybody has to start somewhere), although in his defence it was producer Jennings Lang who came up with the plot. Still, what do you expect from a film that credits stunt balloonists and ends with a shot of the Concorde flying off into the sunset? Amazingly, in one of those won't admit defeat moments studios used to be prone to, Universal shot another 20 minutes or so of footage a couple of years later to include in the network TV showings (not included on the DVD). Sadly its box-office failure led to the fifth entry in the series, the laugh-riot that would have been Airport 1984 UFO, never getting off the ground. Even more genuinely tragically, it was the Concorde used in this film that crashed in France 21 years later.(Oh, and if you're wondering what Charo says to her Chihuahua in unsubtitled Spanish when it's not allowed on board, it's What do you think? Don't worry. When the revolution comes, I promise you will fly on anything you want. I promise. What a shame, my love. What do they think they are?) "},{"Title":"If Not For The Courage Of The Fearless Crew, The Concorde Would Be Lost","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The real star of the last of the Airport films is that big supersonic carrier the French created called The Concorde. If you bear in mind that the whole film is dedicated to showing what that needle nosed plane could do in the sky, than the whole film kind of makes sense.But if you're expecting some serious drama here, than by all means take some of the evasive action the Concorde shows here when some nasty folks try to shoot her down.Susan Blakely plays a television news reporter who also happens to be the mistress of military industrial tycoon Robert Wagner. One of Wagner's aides just happens to bring her information on some of Wagner's dirty business dealings, selling arms to folks not friendly to the USA. When the source, Macon McCalman, is killed in front of her and she's nearly done in by a hit-man whom she escapes from of course she confronts Wagner with the information. And of course he denies it. But right before Blakely boards The Concorde, McCalman's widow Kathleen Maguire hands her the necessary documents. But on the way to Moscow with a stop in Paris, Wagner and his minions try to put the big bird down. But the fearless crew of Alain Delon, David Warner, and George Kennedy is up to all their tricks. It's quite a bag full as you'll see if you want to watch the film.If you're an aviation enthusiast, you absolutely won't care about the plot. It's like the film Le Mans with Steve McQueen which has a legion of auto racing fans who have made it a cult item. Maybe Le Mans is better at that because they just didn't bother with any kind of story.Among the passengers is a pot smoking saxophonist played by Jimmie Walker, a distraught mother accompanying a new heart for her child, played by Cicely Tyson and Martha Raye a woman with a weak bladder who spends the entire trip from Washington to Paris in the loo. She's actually the best one here.Robert Wagner must have been psychic though because I'm sure on the strength of this film he got the part of Doctor Evil's number two in the Austin Powers series.I'm sure all concerned got a big pay day out of this film, but it seems to have killed the Airport saga of movies. "},{"Title":"Screams of Terror are Passe -- Screams of Laughter are In","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is what happens when a franchise gets lazy, and no one can think of a new twist to add. Remember what happened to the Childs Play series? The first three were played as horror films, with genuine scares (albeit predictable) that held true to the theme of the movie. Then they ran out of folks for the doll to stalk, and decided to play it for laughs, with the next two being black comedies.....Well, that;s what happened here, but I think it was not meant to be like that. Kind of like saying, I WANTED to make pancakes for dessert! I did this on purpose! when your soufflé accidentally fizzles flat. But the milk was spilled, and it had some value in the theaters as a goof.When the floor ripped out from under the passenger seats, I sort of expected the passengers to extend their legs through the hole, start running Flintstones-Style, to safely land the plane in the Alps. I did. It would have fit into the silly campy theme of the rest of the show.Instead of pointing out the obvious physical impossibilities of the film, what about the social implausibilities? Like having George Kennedy's character react calmly to the news that his date was a whore? Even back in 1979, a man would not easily accept the notion that he has just poured his heart out to a paid companion. He supposedly felt he made a connection with a kindred spirit, who is subsequently shown to be a mercenary sex-worker with a come-on line. Who WOULDN'T feel cheated by the experience? And yet he giggles, and wraps his arms around his buddy's waist as they merrily stroll off. What a cheap wrap up of a sleazy scene. Ouch.I had an appetite for soufflé, and got served insipid cliché pancakes. And no, you did NOT do it on purpose! "}{"Title":"Total camp classic","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The fourth and last of the calamitous Airport series, The Concorde is undeniably the most wretched of the bunch, but presented with such disregard for intelligence that it's also the funniest.  Bubble--headed reporter Susan Blakely finds out that boyfriend Robert Wagner, a duplicitous arms dealer, has been secretly selling weapons to the Russians; when she boards the Concorde bound for Paris, he sends his latest heat-seeking missle after the plane.  Pilots Alain Delon and George Kennedy (who started out as just a simple mechanic in the first Airport) turn the plane upside down to avoid it.  After the missle is destroyed by some USAF sky jockeys, the plane continues on to Paris (!).  Approaching France, a jet fighter starts shooting off missiles again at the Concorde, so Kennedy opens up the window (!!) to shoot off a flare.  In Paris, Wagner tells Blakely it's all a mistake, so she gets on the Concorde again (!!!) to jet off to Moscow.  A timer opens up the cargo hatch and the plane starts to break apart, but not before Delon lands the plane in the Alps (!!!!).  A laugh riot, from start to finish! "},{"Title":"Thrill as the Concorde performs ridiculous aerobatic stunts.....","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Some slack might be cut this movie due to the fact that it was made in 1979. That much said, it really is pretty dire.Never mind the laughable back-projection or the awful, awful camera-tracking of supposed in-flight objects, it's the stunts that the Concorde pulls off that will have you blinking in disbelief at the absurdity. Barrel-rolls, loop-the-loops and violent evasive maneuvers left me wondering why the Air-Forces of the world didn't just fly Concordes as their main fighters.So, here are the important lessons I learned from this celluloid cheese-fest 1. The Concorde is at least as agile as a Phantom 4 jet-fighter.2. You can fire a flare gun at Mach 2 simply by opening the cockpit window and sticking your arm out.3. If the flare gun fails to discharge, do not drop it, as it may then go off.4. The Concorde can dodge up to two Sidewinder missiles fired at it at once.5. A flare will distract a heat-seeking missile every time.6. Switching off your jet-engines is a sure-fire way of throwing heat-seeking missiles off track if 5 (above) fails.7. When performing a crash-landing in the Concorde, it is apparently impossible to jettison your fuel beforehand.8. Concorde pilots are all combat-trained veterans.As you might imagine, this film is not very realistic. The effects are primitive by today's standards and that, coupled with the nonsense acrobatics the Concorde performs, makes this a movie deserving of little but scorn.Not recommended. Not recommended at all! "},{"Title":"Worthwhile simply to have said you watched the whole thing.","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I gave Airport '79 only two stars because it's a truly lousy film. Nobody who had anything to do with it deserves any praise (except for Charo's Chihuahua, who does a pretty good job in his role.) This is not to say that the film isn't worth watching. It helps if you have a buzz on, but this is not essential.A'79 really does seem like an early version of Airplane! Every scene has a set-up and a payoff, and the scenes blunder after one another as if they were totally disconnected. One of my favorite recurring points is that the passengers, crew, and airplane get to keep going, no matter what. You're a news reporter and a strange guy gets murdered at your house in your presence? The hit-man then chases you onto your greenhouse roof? No problem. You can still catch that early-morning flight to Paris...no need to get the cops involved. Your plane dodges one unmanned drone missile, four heat-seeking missiles, and cannon fire from an unidentified Phantom fighter, doing barrel rolls, an unpowered dive, and a crash-net landing without thrust reversers in the process? No problem, we'll have the mechanics check the oil and get you on your way in just a few hours. It's truly funny.And I'll admit that there's a bit of the anarchist in me that comes out when the passengers pay no attention to the cabin attendants. The highlight is when the attendant tells Jimmie Walker he'll have to put away his saxophone (God spare me from a flight seated in front of a saxophonist playing jazz!) prior to take-off. Jimmie basically says, Nope. Later in the flight, the sax is damaged during a barrel-roll and Jimmie actually shows up on the next leg of the flight with yet another sax that he won't put away. This aspect of the film is just fun. (ONE passenger actually obeys the attendant. When Charo is told she can't take her dog on the flight, she leaves the plane. Naturally, this is because you can't get a good view of her ass and boobs while she's seated.) In summary, a terrible movie, but terrible enough to be a bit amusing. Unfortunately, the filmmakers and cast deserve no credit whatsoever for this, as it was probably entirely unintentional. "},{"Title":"Huh?!","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One year before the hilarious Airplane! this film was released on an unsuspecting public.  Its easy to see what fueled the Zucker brothers to lampoon the Airport series so shamelessly. Let's look at the cast  George Kennedy, Alain Delon, Robert Wagner, Susan Blakely..not bad so far.  Not so fast, because in come the supporting cast  Mercedes McCaimbridge (as a Russian gym instructor), Martha Raye, Jimmie Walker (!), Sylvia Krystel ( as a stewardess ), Avery Schreiber, and Bibi Andersson (as a prostitute). The plot has pot holes that would do Ed Wood proud.  It is so bad dramatically that it plays like a comedy.  And funny it it...very very funny.  Watch this on a double bill with Airplane! "},{"Title":"Bottom of the barrel here folks!","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The last of the Airport sequels. This has Alain Delon and George Kennedy (who was in all the Airport movies) as pilots; David Warner (!!!) as the radio engineer; Susan Blakely as a newswoman targeted for death; Robert Wagner as a brilliant scientist (stop laughing!); Eddie Albert as a president of the airlines; Charo in a dreadful comical bit; John Davidson as a newsman (love how his hair stays in place even AFTER the plane turns upside down!); poor Martha Raye is humiliated; Cicely Tyson plays a mother who is flying a heart for her dying son (stop rolling your eyes!); Jimmie Walker as a clarinet player (what did I say about not laughing?); Mercedes McCambridge as a Russian gymnastics coach (OK you can laugh at that one); Bibi Andresson as a hooker and Sylvia Kristel and Sybil Danning as love interests.Just pathetic. Full of stupid plots and dialogue that will have you roaring--watch for Davidson getting married on the plane near the end! The Concorde is taking all these people to Russia. They're attacked with missiles, escape, land safely in France and TAKE OFF AGAIN the very next day!!!! Don't you think the flight would have been cancelled or something? Most of the acting is terrible--McCambridge is a sight to behold in a red fright wig and a horrible fake accent. The only good acting is from Kennedy and Delon (looking fantastic) who gives a very engaging performance. Still that's not enough to make you sit through this drivel. Too long and lousy special effects too. This was a mega-bomb and (thankfully) stopped Universal from doing anymore. "},{"Title":"So bad, it's good!","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Have you ever watched unintentional comedy? Well, this is it. There are so many absurdities, I couldn't keep track. The best scenes are when Robert Wagner decides to shoot down the plane with missiles and pass it off as a mechanical failure, Charo tries to smuggle a Chichiauah on the plane and, when it's discovered, claims it's her seeing eye dog, John Davidson's hair stays in place when the plane flies upside down, when a missile gets close to the plane, pilot George Kennedy rolls down the pilot's seat window (at the speed of sound) to shoot at it, Jimmy Walker smokes weed in the bathroom stall, and when stewardess Sylvia Crystal says seductively You pilots are such men!, Kennedy replies, They don't call it a cock-pit for nothing! What floors me is that after the first disaster, the plane takes off for another flight and the passengers get back on! If I were a passenger, no way would I board that plane! All this is backed up by special effects that wouldn't pass for an episode of Bewitched. If you can find this movie in the 99 cent section, I recommend it. I laughed more than I had laughed in weeks. It's great entertainment in the worst way possible. "},{"Title":"Twice as fast. Twice as stupid.","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" My Take The silliest of the AIRPORT movies, and probably one of the worst of the 70's disaster movies.As if to milk the franchise with all its got, the producers of this third sequel to AIRPORT throws in more action, silly subplots, gratuitous star appearances and goofier elements. In its attempt to be the biggest AIRPORT yet, CONCORDE AIRPORT '79 is the worst one yet, and probably one of the worst of the disaster movies of the 1970's. With its bad box-office results, it is no wonder that the genre has overstayed its welcome.The film opens with a rather catchy score by Lalo Schifrin backed-up by some impressive shots of the titular aircraft in its former glory (the same plane used in this film would be involved in a crash in July 2000). But then the credits appear, and we get a glimpse of the all-star cast, which is composed nothing more of faded Hollywood stars, TV actors and none-too-popular B actors. The plot is sillier than ever George Kennedy is back in the role of Joe Patroni, now the pilot of the Concorde (co piloted by co-pilot Alain Delon) en route to France after the Summer Olympics. On board is reporter Maggie Whelan (Susan Blakely), who has just discovered that his boyfriend, renowned weapons manufacturer Kevin Harrison (Robert Wagner), is selling their weapons to terrorist. To prevent her from revealing the news to the world, Harrison sends his most advance missiles and best saboteurs to prevent the Concorde from landing.The cast/subplots are dumber than ever, even sillier than an alcoholic Myrna Loy or a singing nun. We have Cicely Tyson transporting a live human heart in a cooler (!), Martha Raye as a woman with a bladder condition (and the character doesn't go deeper than that), J.J. Walker a a pot-smoking saxophonist (arguably the most annoying character in the film), Eddie Albert married to old wife Sybil Danning, Avery Schreiber as Russian coach with a deaf daughter and finally, a love story between reporter Jon Davidson and gymnast Andrea Marcovici (much to the sour watching-eye of coach Mercedes McCambidge). Plus the movie gets much closer to LOVE BOAT episode than ever with the silliest cameos of Charo (and her pet Chihuahua) and Bibi Anderson. Camp buffs will no doubt get a real kick-in-the-balls in this silly entry in a long strain of 70's disaster movies. This one is, in more than the sense of the word, a true disaster.Rating *1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"The Airport Franchise Comes to a Campy End","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The original 1970 Airport was excellent, with a good cast working with a top script about a hectic winter night at an urban airport. The 1975 and 1977 sequels were watchable, if a little silly. However, this movie outdoes all the others combined with campy, ridiculous silliness.Paul Metrand (Alain Delon) and Joe Patroni (George Kennedy) are Concorde pilots who run into a little bit of trouble, courtesy of sinister arms dealer Kevin Harrison (Robert Wagner). Harrison is determined to bring down the plane because reporter Maggie Whelan (Susan Blakely) has the goods on him and is on the plane. Harrison scrambles jet fighters (apparently he has his own private air force) to fire missiles to shoot down the Concorde without success. Then, Harrison's henchmen rig the cargo door to open in flight, which will surely rip the plane apart and kill everyone. Metrand and Patroni manage to belly land the crippled airliner at a French ski resort in the Alps (wow!) and evacuate the passengers before the plane explodes. Harrison is so distraught that he commits suicide at the end of the film. Also along for the ride are Sylvia Kristel, Eddie Albert, Charo, John Davidson, Jimmie Walker, and many other familiar faces.I really liked this movie not because it's good, but because it's so darn campy that it's irresistible. Any movie that has George Kennedy firing a flare gun out an open Concorde window during flight (at 30,000 feet, maybe?) has to be seen to be believed. The plane also turns upside down and later spectacularly lands on a ski slope, plowing up enormous amounts of snow. Campy dialogue, absurd situations, you name it&#x85;it's not good, but it's certainly entertaining.Best line Joe Patroni (Kennedy) We've got explosive decompression!!!! "},{"Title":"Who Needs Airplane!...","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When you have the hilarious turkey that is The Concorde...Airport '79! See what I did there? Used three dots in my title, just like the movie did! And, you know what? Both make as much sense as this movie does! They obviously spent a reasonable amount of money on this movie. So, why have such a hilariously bad script! As it is too often, it's the script that cripples the movie.The premise isn't the worst. What is the problem is that there isn't just one disaster, there are three. And, the trick is that the first two happen on the U.S. to France leg of the trip. Even though the plane has to do loop-de-loops to avoid missiles on both occasions, and the plane was under attack, everyone pretty much gets back on for the France to Moscow leg! What are the odds? Zero, of course! Take a wild guess about what happens on the second leg? Hmmmmm... (See, more dots!) It all deals with an illegal arms dealer who wants to kill off his girlfriend, a reporter who is on to his nefarious schemes.A crazy cast is along for the (very bumpy!) ride. Chief among them is George Kennedy, a mechanic in the first three Airport movies who is all of sudden a pilot. Okay! That is only the first of many aeronautical inconsistencies. Plus, lots and lots of logical inconsistencies. The main one is, why did I watch this? And, why am I taking time to review it? Oh my gosh! I make as much sense as this movie does! ** (2 out of 10 Stars) ...Yeah, I'm being VERY generous! "},{"Title":"I can't even believed it's been produced.","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" How this movie managed to get a rating as high as 4.1 is beyond me. This as got to be one of the worst movies ever.Joe Patroni after being an executive in the first sequel, which could have been logical, is now a pilot. Not only that but a pilot for more than 30 years when he told in the first movie that he was licensed only for taxiing.The plot is so exaggerated it becomes boring and makes no sense at all.Almost every action scene is bad but that stupid idea where you can, (roll the drums) Open a window, flying at Mach 2, to shoot a flare gun at a fighter plane is the most insane. By far the most idiotic move ever seen in whatever movie from whatever country in history, period. No C-list horror movies ever went that low. Compared to that, Jason Vhoorhees's seventh resurrection seems like something you'd see every week in your local newspaper.Finally, everyone and I do mean everyone who knows anything about a plane will tell you that nothing in this movies remotely make sense.I almost forget to tell you about the fakest special effects in the decade. I think they add explosion with more realism on Sesame Street.My only fear is that somebody would sees this without having seen the first one, and think that the series is entirely like this. It already a shame that the original airport has anything to do with this, it would be even worse that people interested in good disaster movies would not see it because they seen airport 79 first. "}{"Title":"The Miniature Effects, The Lalo Schifrin Score, Robert Wagner...Not Bad","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I remember walking out of an Australian movie theatre in 1980 and saying to my brother...That was a disaster movie but what was the disaster?. Granted, I was a child at the time.This Airport movie is different to the other three, no big sea dive or big collision, Airport '79 just seemed to be all over the place! However, the film has improved with age and two recent viewings have been very much enjoyed. It has a touch of The Towering Inferno (1974) with Robert Wagner still being up to no good, the miniature effects work of the Concorde itself is pleasing to my eyes and the film starts with a very uplifting Lalo Schifrin theme tune.Perhaps Schifrin was trying to be the new disaster movie composer as in 1980 he would score Irwin Allen's When Time Ran Out as well.There was to be a 5th Airport movie but the poor box office takings for Airport '79 put an end to all that. Too bad as all four Airport films are a special part of the 1970s and still survive repeat viewings to this day. "},{"Title":"Faster than the speed of sound &#x85; And sillier than anything you can ever imagine!","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" All the entries in the 70's disaster movie franchise Airport &#x96; a total of four movies spread over one decade &#x96; have been chastised by critics as well as regular action movie fanatics for being too grotesque and ludicrous. Me, personally, I liked the three previous installments a lot, but I can't but admit that the swan song in the series is a completely laughable effort. The supposedly adrenalin-rushing script is absurd, the stereotypical characters are cartoonish, the acting performances are wooden and the action sequences are downright hilarious. The set-up and plot of The Concorde is faithful to the previous movies. We have a cast full of acclaimed names, often in inferior little roles, and a screenplay that brings together pretty much everything that can go wrong on an intercontinental flight. The prestigious Concorde aircraft is ready to fly from New York to Paris and then onwards towards Moscow in celebration of the 1980 Olympics. One of the passengers is the female journalist Maggie Whelan, who's in possession of some important evidence that will unmask her ex-fiancée Kevin Harrison as an illegal weapon dealer. It's most vital for him that Maggie never reaches Moscow and thus he tries to kill her, as well as the rest of the Concorde passengers and crew, subsequently through nuclear missiles and sabotage. Luckily for the passengers, the Concorde has two of the world's biggest macho men behind the steering wheel with the French Captain Paul Metrand and the American veteran pilot Joe Patroni. The Concorde Airport 79 is a dumb and fairly pathetic film, but fortunately enough it remains amusing and never bores for one second. The sight of an hi-tech advanced airplane making loops in order to evade missiles is definitely bad in an entertaining way and the hammy performances of A-list stars are fun to observe as well. Particularly Robert Wagner is tremendous as the villain. With his straight face and eloquent monologues, he represents the prototype of Bond-movie villains and I strongly suspect that Mike Myers hired him to play Number Two in the Austin Powers' movie solely based on his performance here. Alain Delon looks quite bored and soft-erotica star Sylvia Emmanuelle Kristel is rather unnoticeable when she keeps her clothes on. Fun bloke George Kennedy is the only actor who appeared in all four of the Airport movies, so it's truly a shame that he plays his biggest role in the worst of the series. The dialogs are lame and some of the clichéd sub plots are horrendous (does there really have to be an emergency donor organ transport in every disaster movie?), but I certainly didn't regret the two hours of my life that I wasted on watching this film. "},{"Title":"Wagner and Kennedy rise to new heights in Concorde","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is a special heaven reserved for people who make the world laugh. Alongside Chaplin,Stan and Ollie,The Marx Bros and.....(fill in your own special favourites)space must be made for everybody connected with Airport 80 - Concorde,the movie. Robert Wagner in particular exceeds all expectations giving the comedy performance of a lifetime.I would never have thought he had it in him. The only way he could have been funnier would have been to have worn a red nose and a revolving bow tie. British moviegoers will recognise the fat one from Cannon and Ball pretending to be a Russian athlete,a nice trick if he could have pulled it off but,tragically,he couldn't.I have a 14 year old labrador more athletic and almost as funny. George Kennedy - bless him - has a part that requires him talk and move at the same time,and my goodness he triumphs!Brow wrinkled with effort he utters timeless dialogue,each word lovingly polished into Coward-like brilliance. Only once in twenty years does Hollywood turn out a film like Airport 80.All the years of toil and struggle,the sweat,the tears,the lessons with Lee Strasberg,living out of suitcases,born in a trunk etc etc,all come to fruition.A work of art is created that will last as long as there are movies and machines to show them on. I think I'm ready for my medication now. "},{"Title":"A lousy and badly-paced  supersonic movie in the ¨Airport¨ sagas has the Concorde pursued by missiles","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This old-fashioned , disconcerting catastrophe picture contains thriller , suspense , drama , moderate tension and being entertaining but with lots of flaws and gaps . All clichéd , incredibly far-fetched non-sense , the result is a very superior hokum . The movie is another jetliner epic with heroes as Alain Delon and George Kennedy playing two valiant pilots . Plenty of stock roles with regurgitation of all usual stereotypical situations from disaster films , including a fairly moronic screenplay . This is the four of four movies in the Airport series adapted from the Arthur Hailey novel . It's embarrassing and amusing as well as full clichés and stereotypes , including the unavoidable accident , with below average acting by all-star-cast . As the Concorde takes off several threads of the plot are already in motion . American based Federation World Airlines has just acquired a Concorde jet , which will make its inaugural commercial flight from Washington D.C to Paris and subsequently Moscow , in the former Soviet Unión . It is captained by Alain Delon who muses  ¨It's still amazing to me , only three and half hours ago we were in Paris ¨ . And another captain , co-pilot Patroni yells ¨I'd love to see what my horoscope said for the morning¨ . The film is detailing hectic flighty piloted by Alain Delon/George Kennedy and the relationship among passengers . As the Concorde is chased by missiles when the nasty Robert Wagner , who runs an arms plant , has been caught selling weapons to the bad guys of the world , and his journalist-mistress -Susan Blakely- is the woman with the evidence . Then , villain Robert launches an attack missile against the Concorde . As the captain pilot Delon banks to avoid two of Wagner's fighter aircrafts . At the end takes places a crashing in the Alps . If you've seen the original ¨Airport¨ by George Seaton based on the Arthur Hailey's novel 'the daddy of them all' , you have seen them all .It is an insincere , slick attempt to find box-office magic again , but this time didn't achieved hit smash . As the film was a critical and commercial failure at the box-office with the lowest financial take of the four Airport movies . Unflagging pace , plastic acting , hilarious dialogue and stock characters recounting a hectic flight in Concorde . Filmed at the height of the disaster genre from the 7os , this entry in the spectacular series is wasted by lousy acting embarrassing special effects and non-sense plot . The screenplay develops into ¨Coyote and The Road Runner¨ stuff and one can visualize Robert Wagner jumping up and down with rage as each new attempt fail .When American audiences greeted the film with derisive laughter, Universal decided to market it as a comedy, with the Tagline  Fasten your seat belts, the thrills are terrific and so are the laughs! . The movie was made and released around the time of another Concorde film, Concorde Affaire '79 (1979) , the two films both had French cast and French story elements , even their titles were similar . Look quickly to Eddie Albert , Bibi Andersson , Charo , Andrea Marcovicci , Cicely Tyson , David Warner, Mercedes McCambridge , Jimmie Walker , Sybil Danning , Jon Cedar , Ed Begley Jr , final feature film of actress Martha Raye, among others . In addition , George Kennedy and Monica Lewis are the only returning actors from the Airport movie series to appear in the movie ; Kennedy's continuing character of Joe Patroni appeared in all four Airport pictures . The motion picture was ridiculously directed by David Lowell Rich , habitual TV director and occasionally for movie theater . It's an inoffensive diversion but is sometimes tediously unspooled . The flick won't appeal to disaster genre enthusiasts . This sagas belongs the following films  the first was ¨Airport¨ (1970) , unanimously deemed the best , it paved the way for many lesser flicks including its many sequels , being directed by George Seaton with Burt Lancaster , Jean Seberg , Dean Martin , Van Heflin ; ¨Airport 75¨ (1974) by Jack Smight with Charlton Heston , Karen Black and Gloria Swanson , ¨Airport 77¨ (1977) considered one of the best of the series , being directed by Jerry Jameson with Jack Lemmon , Christopher Lee , James Stewart , Lee Grant , Robert Hooks , Monte Markham , Kathleen Quinlan , Darren McGavin ,Gil Gerard , M. Emmet Walsh , Pamela Bellwood , Michael Pataki , James Booth , leading to the last of the tired ones , this ¨Airport 79¨ (1979) by David Lowell Rich with . This picture was nominated for Worst Picture at the Hastings Bad Cinema Society's 2nd Stinkers Bad Movie Awards in 1979 and listed among The 100 Most Enjoyably Bad Movies Ever Made in The Official Razzie Movie Guide . Furthermore , ¨ Skyjacked (1972) ¨ by John Guillermin with Charlton Heston , James Brolin and this film was parodied heavily in Airplane! (1980) by Jim Abrahams and David Zucker "},{"Title":"Missiles at five o'clock!","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Airport series comes to a close with this final entry, a movie so awful that it can only be enjoyed as an unintentional comedy. The plot this time has pilots Alain Delon and George Kennedy trying to land a Concorde jet airliner safely while avoiding bad guy Robert Wagner's comical attempts to destroy it by . If you've seen the other films in the series, you will notice George Kennedy's character, Joe Patroni, has a different job in each one. This is the first time in the series he was shown to be a pilot. But it's our good luck that the movie didn't care about continuity because if there's no Patroni in that cockpit, this wouldn't be the gem that it is. Many of the movie's most hilarious scenes and lines belong to Patroni. His evasive maneuvers flying the Concorde and the flare gun scene in particular are the stuff of legend. Even him getting laid turns into comedy gold. Frenchie Alain Delon plays well off of Kennedy. Robert Wagner makes for a woefully inept villain.. The rest of the Love Boat-style cast includes Susan Blakely, Eddie Albert, Sylvia Kristel, David Warner, Mercedes McCambridge, Jimmie Walker, John Davidson, Cicely Tyson, and freaking Charo! What a lineup for a series that once had former A-listers like Burt Lancaster, Charlton Heston, Jack Lemmon, and Jimmy Stewart. It's not the best Airport movie but it is a lot of fun. The special effects are embarrassingly poor. It's an absolutely ridiculous and pathetic film when taken seriously and judged on its legitimate merits. But if you like movies that fail so spectacularly you can't take your eyes off the screen, this is for you. It's one of the great so bad it's good movies and I recommend anyone who enjoys those to give this a shot. "},{"Title":"a real disaster","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a real disaster. I mean, the whole flick is boring and the effects with the Concorde are ridiculous. There isn't that much that I can say except if you are going to watch it be prepared to have a big laugh.And still people are loving this flick. The effects done with the drone are stupid , it's being keyed and you just can see that it was a key. The Concorde looping on mach 2 or doing other stunts is just laughable.And if you think the first disaster was it be prepared for the second crash. Trying to land in the snow, really...If you do like the Concordde then it's worth seeing for watching take-off and shots made in the air.Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 1/5 Story 1/5 Comedy 2/5 (not intended) "},{"Title":"really stupid but one really nice stunt","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie opens with a passenger balloon floating near the runway and almost colliding with a Concorde landing. Kevin Harrison (Robert Wagner) is a corrupt arms dealer. TV reporter Maggie Whelan (Susan Blakely) is his girlfriend but she receives documents proving that he sold weapons to the enemy. She is going on the inaugural Concorde flight from D.C. to Paris and then to Moscow. She plans on revealing the documents on her report from Moscow but Harrison intends to bring the Concorde down.The whole thing is pretty stupid. The weapons manufacturer story is pretty stupid. The flying sequences are ridiculously bad. Putting aside the bad special effects, the action is mostly stupid. Maggie has to be one of the stupidest reporter character ever. Either that or this puts female reporters back 20 years. The dialog is tiresome. George Kennedy is workmanlike in this otherwise bad B-movie but then he also does a loop with the Concorde and fires a flare out the window. The movie should have ended after an hour when they land in Paris. The movie keeps going and the plane takes off again. Whatever B-movie goodness left is all gone by the end. There is one good stunt as a guy running across the runway is almost clipped by the Concorde taking off. That is probably the one and only good thing about this movie. "},{"Title":"Eric 'Forrest Gump' Roth's Disastrous The Concorde Airport '79 Was a Self Paraody, Wasn't It?","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" OK, IF the author of The Insider, Munich and Forrest Gump intended The Concorde Airport '79 to be a parody it's BRILLIANT! You'll laugh harder than at anything you'll see in the Airplane spoofs which succeeded this box office flop. Like Airport 1975, The Concorde earned a spot on The Golden Raspberry founders' book The 100 Most Enjoyably Bad Movies Ever Made in addition to being featured in Roger Ebert's book 'I HATED, HATED, HATED This Movie!'. Robert Wagoner plays an evil industrialist determined to murder his ex girlfriend before she can spill the beans about his illegal activities on the nightly news. He decides the best way of going about this is launching guided missiles at the concorde. The not so all star cast includes Jimmie Walker, Charo, John Davidson and George Kennedy...as PATRONI! One of several disaster movies produced late in the decade which helped kill the genre for a time. The others being; Beyond the Poseidon Adventure, The Swarm, Meteor and Irwin Allen's production of When Time Ran Out... "},{"Title":" The Concorde - AirportPart IV ","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fourth and final film in this series is truly a crash and burn disaster in itself. Ridiculous plot has the Concorde being threatened by an irate businessman trying to stop his newscaster girlfriend( a passenger on the Concorde) from going on air with irrefutable proof that he was illegally selling weapons to enemy regimes, making him a traitor. Naturally, he decides that destroying the very high-profile Concorde plane undertaking an international flight before the Olympic Games in Russia is the perfectly logical course of action to take...(sure!) Not even the presence of George Kennedy as familiar character Joe Patroni(now a pilot on the Concorde) can save it. Just awful. "},{"Title":"Flying Low ...","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is not quite up to the predecessor Airport movies, but it's not that terrible either. If you're an airplane fan, you might enjoy seeing the many shots of the Concorde aircraft from the outside, inside, and (although with rough f/x) - areal shots. If you don't care about such things, this movie is probably more a 4/10 or 5/10.Story - the movie is pretty simple someone wants to sabotage the Concorde. It's a very basic idea with no innovations.Characters - flat, too many (and not enough time with any of them), minimal character development and many of them are simply over-the-top (larger than life).Plane - the only thing going for this movie. If you want to see some nice close-ups exterior and interior shots of the plane (and mock-ups) you're in luck.My recommendation is if you like planes, see it for the plane and know it's mediocre everywhere else. Otherwise, pass on this one. "}{"Title":"Is it a bird? Is it a plane?... No it's the most laughable film ever!","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The only way I can imagine a producer undertaking such a film project is similar to the famous sketch from Monty Python's Flying Circus in which Graham Chapman, dressed as megalomaniac Howard Hughes (Big hat & cigar) states loudly before a bunch of yes-men something likeI see a plane (the Concorde).Applause.I see the hottest french leading man of the moment as the pilot (Alain Delon).Roar of applause.I see the not so hot french girl from Emmanuelle as the stewardess (Sylvia Kristel who is rather dutch for that matter).Louder roar of applause.I see a missile that goes up to the plane... and doesn't even touch it.Explosion of enthusiasm from the audience.Or is it?...Actually, this film cannot possibly taken seriously for one second and that's exactly why I like it. It's interesting to compare the laughs of mockery this stupid show provides with the deliberate parody of Airplane. I also had that strange feeling of watching a very very long and badly made commercial for the now retired Concorde. You never get very convinced by the solidity of the damn plane seeing it cracking from all parts like that.This was one of the last attempts in the disaster movie category by the end of the 70s., including some memorable box office flops as When Time Run Out, Meteor, or one of my favorite, in the unintentionally funny type, The Swarm. "},{"Title":"Very Funny Movie","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Its a truly awful movie with a laughable storyline.some awful acting.and a script that Ed Wood might be ashamed of.Wagner is laughable  in this. He plays his role like number two in Austin Powers.Easily the worst of the Airport movies.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An all star cast desperate for a paycheck","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING **SPOILERS**Lord knows I have seen some bad movies in my time and this one makes me just as angry. This is an insult to people who ARE LOOKING for a bad movie. The story involves a stewardess who discovers her boyfriend (badly acted by otherwise great Robert Wagner) is a murder, thief, and just an overall puke face. After the Concorde takes off, he sends guided missiles to destroy the Concorde. So while the Concorde is traveling at the speed of light, our hero (played with utter stupidity, George Kennedy) opens the window in the cockpit then, sticks his hand OUT THE WINDOW to fire at the missile! I'm no rocket scientist, but it seems his hand would at least get a wind burn. Then towards the final climax when the Concorde is headed for certain disaster and everyone will die, a passenger turns to his fiance and proposes marriage. A Priest just happens to be sitting in the next row and proceeds to marry them as the planes is crashing! (I'm not making this up) Wow, the guy who wrote the script must have been sniffing glue for a week.  "},{"Title":"so stupid, so cheezy...IT'S A LAUGH RIOT!!!","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i just saw this movie on TNT and let me tell you, this movie was downright corny and cheezy.  But after a certain point, I began to laugh my socks off and to tell you the truth, they should classify this movie as comedy rather than action/adventure.  The absolutely most hilarious scene comes when the Delon and Kennedy are making loop the loop 360's to avoid the French missiles that Wagner ordered to destroy the Concorde.  Our fearless leader, Kennedy, decides to shoot flares out the window to stop the heat seeking missiles?????  Dumb yet funny---the kicker comes here though---after one shot, the flare gun malfunctions and Kennedy tries to fix it in the cockpit and well...if you want to know what happens get a hold of this movie.  The dumb parts of this movie include the total lack of plot----yeah lets have some action for 25 minutes than land in Paris and go ONE HOUR with love scenes with prostitutes and flight attendants.  Now lets switch to the saboteur for ten minutes then a wasted rest of the movie and a plane that is visually breaking apart and the PASSENGERS DONT EVEN SEE IT???? ITS RIGHT IN FRONT OF THEIR EYES!!!!-----final rating for this move--- (1/10) out of 4 stars if it were action 2 out of 4 stars if it were a comedy "},{"Title":"Flat on its pointy nose","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is an absolute disgrace!  I thoroughly enjoyed the original Airport, and I can't believe how the same people could produce this twaddle nine years on.  First of all, the acting is bad.  The original had actors who had done quality (non-disaster) films before, but this one uses actors who have done the disaster movie circuit already (Blakely, Kennedy, Wagner). Also, George Kennedy's character Patroni seems to get promoted very quickly. He is now the lead in the film, but his character isn't strong enough to carry it off he has lost the charm and humour of Airport (1970), and the character is now just boring. Have I mentioned the plot?  Is it at all believable that someone would send a missile after the Concorde?? NO!!!  There are also too many loose ends; scenes that have no relevance whatsoever to the plot.  The scene where the hot air balloon lands on the runway, the chase of the thief in Charles De Gaulle airport are two such scenes.  Both would be interesting - if only they had something to do with the actual story.  There also many unanswered questions Why does Patroni open the window and fire a flare at the other plane?  Why does Robert Wagner's character kill himself? (He must have another stupid and costly way of Why is there no enquiry after the missile almost blows up the Concorde?   Why are the back projections so bad? (It looks as though a cartoon missile is following the Concorde; although it does work well when the plane lands in Paris)  Why does Patroni think that he is in a flight simulator? (when he turns the Concorde over)  Why does he get a hero's welcome in the cabin of the plane after having terrified the passengers?  And why is the ending so poor, if it can be called an ending at all?   Given their one-dimensional-ness, no-one seems to notice this. The blessing given to the young couple on the plane by the girl's coach is shmaltzy, the man who plays the saxophone is annoying, and the woman with the bladder problem is just plain silly.  The scenes where Susan Blakely is lying on the roof of her conservatory, and the when she tells Wagner that she still loves him are quite awful. In conclusion, this film should have been the climax of the previous three Airport films instead it is a diabolical, sub-moronic, complete and utter waste of time, money, energy, celluloid and talent!!!!!!! Remember when Patroni asks the French pilot if he has ever landed on his belly?  This film certainly does the belly flop, and lands flat on its pointy nose... "},{"Title":"Not a bad note to bow out on.","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When the film first came out, I was around 9 or 10.  I thought it was the best film ever made.  However, watching it recently made me wish I hadn't - it spoiled a good childhood memory.The landing on the Paris runway, the landing in the Alps and the missile attack was like watching an episode of The Thunderbirds.  In fairness though, some of the acting was pretty good, with believable performances from Kennedy, Delon & Blakely, and the storyline was befitting of film from the 80's, although I don't think it would make even a TVM nowadays.The passengers were a joke, I guess we weren't meant to take them seriously - how many people have seen passengers on a plane dancing to music or someone playing the Saxophone ?  Some of those clips should have been used in one or more of the Airplane movies.All in all, it wasn't a bad movie, at least some thought was put into the storyline, it's just a pity that more thought into making it more realistic.Still at least it didn't have the usual customary group of Nuns travelling together. "},{"Title":"A Descent Disregard for the Facts.","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has an interesting and intriguing plot that was poorly written and poorly acted.  Kennedy did a superior job as usual, but the support cast just was not there.  Also aircraft facts and certain specifications were avoided. This movie might have been worth it if the cast had been decent.  "},{"Title":"Plane Ugly","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This final installment of the Airport franchise was so incredibly awful that it took me awhile to realize it actually wasn't a slapstick comedy, like Airplane. George Kennedy shooting a flare gun out an open window to divert heat-seeking missiles was comical. What would happen to your hand if you held it out a window at mach two speed? You'd lose your grip on the gun and get a broken arm. The passengers were unintentionally hilarious, as was the interior of the plane. The sophisticated French woman coming on to slobby George Kennedy was like Jackie Kennedy coming on to Ernest Borgnine. Ain't gonna happen. Susan Blakely, a talented and unappreciated actress, did not get any points on her resume for this one. Neither did Robert Wagner. This movie was so lousy it seemed surreal. "},{"Title":"I could put on a better show with sock-puppets!","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen some BAD movies in my time, but this takes the taco. It's dreadful. Considering I saw this in 1998, it's so BAD that it's stayed in my head all this time. In fact, I have a bordering 'obsession' with it. This is so stupid and unbelievable that you'll wish you'd opted for a trip to Grandma's for tea instead of staying in to watch this preposterous film. The parts I recall are when the Concorde gets ripped up and loses pressure. Some guy's chair falls into a hole and other passengers manage to rescue him by remaining sitting in their chairs! Oh man, some day I'm gonna watch this again and it'll all come flooding back to me. To all those people on here who claim Airport 79 isnt a bad movie, I suggest you get yourselves back to the hospital. The day Airport 79 gets a vote higher than 3 out of 10, is the day I go out to buy some salt to sprinkle on all the places Hell just froze over.  "},{"Title":"the last entry into the AIRPORT film series.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  AIRPORT was a franchise that started off a best selling ALEX HALLEY book and snow balled into a film franchise which lasted a decade and spawned a independent made spoof. The final film is about the concorde civilian aircraft flown in europe and a plot to destroy it by a rich industrialist played by ROBERT WAGNER. The film features character JOE PETRONI as one of the crew members on the plane as it dodges one disaster after another on it's flight. The last film was a success and was released in a year that saw films like METEOR and THE FINAL COUNTDOWN released. There are many touches which make this the best film of the series. The film has a subplot about greenpeace style protesters protesting the deployment of the concorde over ecological concerns and the usual romantic story arch which was woven into the script in addition to the terrorist story revolving around the planes  attempted destruction. For aviation buffs and fans of disaster movies.  "}{"Title":"They gave the people what they wanted","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the beginning, there was darkness. Then someone flipped a switch, the projectors came on, and the first Airport movie filled the screen...many, many times, all over the world. They made it for $10 million and it earned $100 million. And the people wanted MORE! Fortunately, the producers still had more to give so they released Airport 1975. It wasn't as good as the first one, but it was still a decent-enough movie. And the people wanted MORE! The producers still had an adventure left in them so they release Airport 77...which wasn't quite as good as the first two, but it was still decent enough...And the people wanted MORE! The producers had nothing left to give - no more grand gestures or heroic feats lived within them, at least when it came to movies about ill-fated airliners - but you have to give the people what they want..so they gave us this. This...ridiculous...thing. It had the desired effect we didn't want any more Airport movies after that. This movie is terrible. There's no getting around it. This thing is full of intentionally bad acting - it has to be intentional because the cast is full of very good actors. The premise is ridiculous. The special effects are something you'd see in a high-school play. It is obvious they intended to make the worst movie in history, and nearly succeeded. Manos, the Hands of Fate is still worse but not by much.Fortunately for us all, the sequels Airplane! and Snakes on a Plane are of much higher quality. "},{"Title":"If these were concord grapes, this movie would rank a raisin!","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just a year before the comedy classic Airplane! came out, the last of the four airport movies was released to universal pans and a dreadful box office. There is good reason behind what the reactions were, but something tells me that the producers knew that they would soon be getting spoofed and decided to toss in some truly lame comedy in an attempt to sabotage the classic parody. It didn't work.In this one, George Kennedy is finally the pilot, actually the lead even though he gets also starring billing. I should warn you up from that the recently deceased Mr. Kennedy also gets a love scene. I could laugh with him in the Naked Gun movies, but here, I truly felt sorry for him. The film surrounds the flight of the Concorde from the United States to Paris, and then from there to Moscow for the 1980 Olympics. Universal world intrigue has the Concorde being the intended target of missile attacks, and the usual all- star cast of veterans and newcomers is placed in the predicament of going down with the fastest plane in world history. Some stars come off better than others, but poor Martha Raye is relegated to bathroom jokes thanks to a weakened bladder that makes me wonder why she wasn't offered the Depends commercials instead of June Allyson. I guess we have to settle for her for Poligrip. Her scenes are truly embarrassing, and you can only feel sorry for her when she comes out after a particularly violent attempted strike on the plane to announce that the toilet is broken.Cicely Tyson fares a lot better as a concerned mother of a seven-year-old who needs to go through a heart transplant. This actually comes off as two separate things that could have been much shorter, the flight from the states to Paris being over in just over an hour and the second flight from Paris to Moscow giving Charro the opportunity to take over where Raye left off even though Raye, obnoxious saxophone player Jimmy Walker, plane owner Eddie Albert (among others) are still going on. It just gets worse and worse and the convoluted storyline involving corporate Intrigue through corrupt Robert Wagner just gets more confusing as it goes on. Oscar-winning actress Mercedes McCambridge is wasted in a tiny role as the domineering companion to a Russian Olympic star, and to make matters worse isn't even listed in the main cast.I managed to make it through this a second time, having seen it years ago, and found it even worse then I had remembered. The comedy is corny, not at all intelligent like the comedy utilized in Airplane! and at times I found myself just rolling my eyes rather than laughing. It is still with the same elaborate quality as the other three in the series, but had it not been for the Airplane! release of the following year, this definitely would have been it for the series anyway. "},{"Title":"The disaster film trend of the 1970's goes out with a whimper","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fourth and final entry in the series that began in 1970. That first film helped kickstart the all-star big budget disaster trend in 70's cinema, and this final outing helps just as much at putting the final nails in the genre's coffin. Of course Airplane the following year would make fun of the entire previous decade's worth of disaster films.Alain Delon gets top billing as the captain of the title craft. With Susan Blakely and John Davidson as reporters, Robert Wagner as a crooked arms dealer, Sylvia Kristel as the head stewardess, Eddie Albert as the airline owner, Sybil Danning as his trophy wife, Avery Schreiber as a Soviet Olympic coach with a deaf daughter, Andrea Marcovicci as the oldest Russian Olympic gymnast ever, Mercedes McCambridge as her busybody chaperone, Cicely Tyson as a mother to a child desperately in need of a heart transplant, Nicolas Coaster as the doctor to perform it, David Warner as the dieting flight engineer, Bibi Andersson as a prostitute, Jimmie Walker as a pot-smoking sax player, Charo as Margarita and Martha Raye as the woman who can't stay out of the bathroom (no, really).George Kennedy costars as Patroni, the only character to appear in all four films. This time he has a larger part as co-pilot of the title passenger jet, on route from the US to Paris, as Wagner's evil arms dealer hatches numerous inept plans to bring down the craft and destroy incriminating evidence. The dialogue is trite and banal as usual, and the various relationships and mini-dramas amongst the bloated cast never rise above the mundane.Keep your eyes open for an early appearance by Ed Begley Jr as Rescuer #1. Like many films of the era, the studio also cut together an extended version for TV broadcasts that added even more subplots and characters, played by the likes of Jose Ferrer, J.D. Cannon and Alan Fudge, but the version I watched was the original. "},{"Title":"thank god this was the last one!","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" An evil billionaire has been using his planes to smuggle guns into foreign countries and his girlfriend finds out. He is one of the leading men in airplane and missile designs and he has been testing a new missile to target and destroy aircraft. When his girlfriend boards a plane to Paris he knows he must destroy that plane so his secret never reaches the ground. He send a missile and the pilot continues to dodge them and they finally get to a safe landing. While the plane is being checked over they spend the night in the city and plan to leave again the following morning to the Olympics, still thinking the missiles aimed at them were just a malfunction and not knowing that they were under attack. They board the plane again and the hatch door has been rigged to come open making the plane once again be under attack with a possible crash, can they get on the ground alive...hey this is AIRPORT 4 of course they will...This movie was so cheesy it's not even funny, well actually it's completely funny. It was so corny and laughed at so hard that they ended up promoting it as a comedy. From the cheesy missiles to the plane flying upside down and sideways and doing all sorts of silly things, it was very corny. JJ from Good Times, Jimmie Walker himself playing the sax is enough to make you bust a gut laughing.This is the first time George Kennedy has actually piloted a plane and by the way, what happened to his kids? He said on part 1 he had 5 kids and here he claims he and his wife had only one son. Other actors didn't impress me much either. Robert Wagner, Cicely Tyson, Jimmie Walker, Eddie Albert, Charo and so many actors that were even bad back then. Director here had perhaps the best areal shots, but thats it.This movie had a super slow start and the action was just funny stuff that was way too hard to believe and the movie isn't worth watching. 3/10 stars "},{"Title":"Flying high and low...","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It´s really hard to believe that this film was not intended as a comedy, considering how funny it is. It does, however, entertain in an awkward kind of way. It has a cast of big stars, a very good score by Lalo Schifrin (which somehow suggests a better film) and, of course, George Kennedy. No airplane disaster drama would be complete without him. This time around, the cigar-puffing Patroni even has an encounter with a prostitute. This feels right, if you have read the novel by Arthur Hailey (Patroni´s appetite for sex was toned down in the first Airport movie). You even get to see a suicide in this one. A complete turkey, of course, but a very entertaining one. Don´t miss it! "},{"Title":"Interesting cast, not an interesting film.","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Any movie with Alain Delon, Bibi Andersson, Charo, Martha Raye, Cicely Tyson and Mercedes McCambridge in the cast is at least worth a look. But, the odd cast combination is unfortunately the only interesting thing about this film. It is long and drawn out, far too many scenes where not much of anything happens. The score is over done, the special effects are surprisingly poor and obvious. The melodramatic acting is not very good in spite of the caliber of performers, although Martha Raye is memorable. The screenplay is actually rather stupid and is not in the least bit convincing. Watch Airport or better yet, Airplane! instead. "},{"Title":"Flight of the Concorde","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'The Concorde...Airport 79' was the last of the quartet of disaster movies that began with 'Airport' ( 1970 ), based on Arthur Hailey's novel. By the time this one appeared, the genre had run out of puff, as 'Meteor' and 'Beyond The Poseidon Adventure' clearly proved. Crusading television reporter Maggie Whelan ( Susan Blakely ) is given incriminating documents that prove beyond a doubt her lover, Dr.Kevin Harrison ( Robert Wagner ), is implicated in illegal arms sales. He decides to bump her off. Now, if you and I wanted to murder someone, we'd probably hire a hit-man. But that's too simple for Harrison. A real villain through and through; had the make-up department issued him with a false moustache, he'd probably be twirling it like there's no tomorrow.No sooner is Maggie's Concorde in the air than he dispatches robot drones and then armed Phantom jets to blow it to pieces. Luckily the plane is being flown by three brilliant, sex-obsessed men ( played by George Kennedy, Alain Delon, and British actor David Warner ) and they skilfully avoid destruction, before touching down in Paris where the Kennedy character ( 'Joe Patroni' - the only one to appear in all four movies ) makes out with a hooker! Maggie fails to connect the attacks on the plane with the importance of the documents on her person ( some reporter! ), and boards it again to fly to the U.S.S.R. Harrison insists he is innocent and pleads with her not to go. Does she listen? No way! Does he think to shoot her on the spot and spare the passengers his insane revenge plot? No way! The plane decompresses in mid flight and has to touch down in the snowy Russian wastes. Watching this on television, Harrison shoots himself in the head. End of film.Eric Roth ( who later wrote 'Forrest Gump' - another load of cinematic blue ice ) should have blushed with shame for taking the pay check for this farrago, while David Lowell Rich's direction is about as satisfying as airline food. Some fun to be had from the cast though, who include old-timers Eddie Albert and Martha Raye, and a few 'promising-newcomers-who-never-made-it' such as Andrea Marcovicci and John Davidson ( the latter's character seems to have been the inspiration for 'Ted Stryker' of 'Airplane!' ). You will howl at the sheer absurdity of it all, and the sight of a black guy ( Jimmie Walker ) wandering round the plane playing the saxophone while Martha Raye's pensioner forever dashes back and forth to the toilet only adds to the fun. Sylvia Kristel, a.k.a. 'Emmanuelle', looks tasty as the stewardess. You half expect her to rip her clothes off to use the material to make bandages. What David Warner is doing in all this is anybody's guess. He makes an inane speech about a giant banana at one point, and you wonder why his co-pilots feel safe flying with him.As it did not get released in Britain until a year after it was made, it was shiftly retitled 'Airport 80 - The Concorde'. That same year, 'Airplane!' arrived. The 'Airport' series had gotten so unintentionally farcical it must have been hard to tell the difference.I'll leave the last word to Joe Petroni. When the stewardess admires the pilots' masculinity, he replies ( probably the film's single most memorable moment ) They don't call it a cockpit for nothing, honey!. "},{"Title":"Airport The Disaster!","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The ConcordeAirport'79, Is for now, the last of the high drama high,camp Airport series, At first glance in the TV guide,or DVD cover you would simply think that the film your about to view is as thrilling as the previous Airport's Think Again! What your treated to is 2 hours And 3 Minutes worth of unintentional laughs courtesy of the worst script ever writing it was even penned by Eric Roth, Who brought the world 'Forrest Gump! well one things for sure the script is not Oscar worthy,It's Razzie worthy! The Executives at Universal in '79,done the right thing by marketing this as a 'comedy' Apart from Charo! the film does have an impressive cast list, It's certainly watchable to say the least, "},{"Title":"I know why this movie was advertised as a comedy.....","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Actually there was nothing funny about this monstrosity at all!! This movie was a complete abomination. The absurdities in this movie almost made me want to vomit!! I think that the people responsible for this movie took advantage of their viewing audience. They took a relatively decent series of movies (I did say decent, NOT GOOD!!) and totally trashed it by trying to put money in their pockets. The making of Airplane! was a way for Hollywood to make up for this crappy flick. The worst part about it is that either nobody in 1979 realized the asinine events of the movie (such as Concorde's door popping off at some ungodly high altitude or Patroni shooting a flair gun out the window at Mach 2 to avoid a NUCLEAR WARHEAD!?!?!?....what were they thinking???)were totally unrealistic or they just didn't care! I think that it is the latter of the two. The writers and director of this film, if you want to call it that, really tried to suck the Airport dynasty dry with this crap! "},{"Title":"So Bad it's Funny!","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie has more goofs than any other movie I have seen in my life. The special effects are damned terrible. For instance, near the end, when the Concorde is falling after the cargo door tears off, the thing spins like a toy. The special effects of Airport (1970) are way better than this crap. Also, the force of a Concorde opening up at altitude and speed would essentially turn the thing inside-out. (That is if it would even open at all) But the movie has its good points. Mostly when it ends. That's also cheesy. E.g. The Thing lands on a bank of loosely-packed snow, if it did that, it would splinter into a million pieces. Overall, 2 out of 10. Instant flop. Great laugh flick. "}{"Title":"At twice the speed of sound twice as funny.","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The last of the Airport Series. I'm not so sure the producers weren't going for laughs why else would they have hired Jimmie JJ Walker, Charo, and Martha Raye. Robert Wagner as the villian and Susan Blakely as the heroine are perfect and seem to take it all seriously. Even with the silly story, cheesy effects, and bad acting it's still better than Airport 77. I'm still waiting for this to be released on DVD. "},{"Title":"When the Laughter dies down....","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie should be shown at midnight, like Rocky Horror Picture Show. The Airport series had run its course by now, but somehow it was decided to trot out a bunch of stars to make another bad movie.  Most of the cast, especially the foreigners like Delon & Bibi Andersson, must have laughed like hell when they got the script.  The best is Cicely Tyson carrying a heart in an icebox labelled HEART!  "},{"Title":"Good movie could have been more better","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i've watached this movie and i liked it cause it dealt with the concorde but i didn't like how it was written and edited cause it left some plot holes and edited, cause some of the scene cut out to early or rushed the movie to fast. they should put Charo leaving in washington in the film with her dog so we could just to see how she would panicked when the plane fell out of the sky, and could of made it a bit more dramatic like one of the doors ripped open could sucked some of the passengers, and also the flight could of gone non-stop flight from Washington D.C. to Moscow to make more dramatic too. also the sex scene ruined mood of the movie or much better the landing in France should of not being written just non-stop with whole lot of adventure would of being good. i have the dvd and it looks good but they should of done the soundtrack at least on Dolby Surround than mono. "},{"Title":"Underrated, fast-paced action movie - SPOILERS","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this movie so I could see all of the Airport movies. I don't understand likes it!It stars Robert Wagner(The Towering Inferno) as a businessman who sells illegal weapons to rogue nations. One of his employees spills the beans to TV reporter Susan Blakely(Also The Towering Inferno) and gets shot. So Wagner knows that Blakely knows right? So she's going on this Concorde flight from D.C. to Paris to Moscow and he engages in several attempts at blowing up the plane before killing himself.I think this is a pretty good movie. Some special effects shots are bad, but some are Ok. George Kennedy delivers a solid performance as Joe Patroni, and John Davidson is laughable as a dorky TV reporter. Watch for Jimmie Walker as a pot smoking saxophonist.Overall, a fast paced, enjoyable movie.Eight out of Ten Stars. "},{"Title":"A disaster (movie)","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fans of Bibi Andersson,beware;this is not Bergman.It is actually the most demeaning part she has ever played.The star is here Sylvia Emmanuelle Christel who cannot act as any French knows.She is Delon's love interest.This is a mediocre disaster movie with some usual suspects such as Robert Wagner,Susan Blakely,and Arthur Kennedy who cracks vulgar jokes ,and who,like Andersson ,is demeaned .She was paid for that says Delon.This film was made to show the Concorde ,a British/French collaboration, to good advantage and that plane must be solid,given the drivel inside it. "},{"Title":"One of The Worst Comedies Ever !","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Surely you're familiar with the term (so-ludicrous-it's-fun). Well.. This movie doesn't reach to this level, despite the fact that the audience laughed at it while the experimental viewing, and the other more painful fact that this movie actually had been propagandized as Comedy ! For some, it's easy to laugh at bad movies. For me, it's just pure horror to watch one ! so how about one with some names on it ?, Robert Wagner, George Kennedy, Susan Blakely, and Alain Delon all participated in this collective black hole ! I can't blame the stars before blaming the script. It's idiot ! I think after 3 movies already, the writers felt how it's very damn easy to finish another episode of the series anyway. But there is not much in it or rather anything at all; Characters, inner-conflicts or conflict, touching or funny moments, forget about that utterly, these goods aren't here. Even the thrilling situation of plane-in-danger stuff, forget it also ! It's amongst the star-studded failures at the 1970s lasts as The definitive icon ! The direction was a die-hard TV. I don't know why all of that determination to be cheesy. There wasn't even one slight second that this director wanted to compete with any movie of the rest (Airport)'s movies or even to compete with movies ! You can't compare it even with Columbo's TV movies at the same era, it's more like comparing Pamela Anderson to Marilyn Monroe ! The production screams I'm Pooooor !. You've got the feeling that the whole thing had been made in just one location with the same badly painted walls, so the cabin, the bar, the bedroom all were one décor all along.And didn't you ever think that this is the worst publicity the Concorde might get ! So that's why they put that ambiguous shoot of the Concorde flying at the very end (as OUR Concorde exploded entirely just seconds before !). Supposedly they put it just to assure even forcedly that the Concorde will never die, or it will rise again. But basically why to name the movie the Concorde in the first place ! Ahhh.. To feel new this time, and OH BOY did I feel new ? You bet I did ! I think scenes as classically embarrassing as Joe Patroni's opening the plane's window (while flying !???) to shoot at the missile by his gun, pushed George Kennedy eagerly to demand spoofing himself as (Patroni) in the parody (Airplane !). Scene like this makes you think.. Maybe the script was written for a train movie (or a cowboy adventure) and it got a last minute changing ! Did you see the old lady with the make-up.. This is the comedy of the movie (or what the producers desperately tried to convince the moviegoers in 1979 !), and with the scene of the kid entering to the pilot's cabin both of the scenes made the original for the parody in (Airplane !), especially the famous infamous one of the second. WOW now this is a movie with pure gold originality, as its appeal remains in being the perfect source for good lampooning !Speaking of which still nobody spoofed (Robert Wagner)'s character (and performance) as the cutest stupidest arms dealer in the history of mankind. Maybe because it's the best parody for itself (OUCH !).Remember one good thing about this movie ? Hmmm.. Tough question. It would be discovering more than remembering ! I think (Alain Delon) was handsome in the pilot's formal costume. Sometimes the French star in France is like Superman in Krypton just another guy, but when he speaks English he becomes Super. However (Delon) here was the closest you can get to Clark Kent !! There is no role to act good or bad. He looked like a silent puppet that speaks or smiles occasionally. Nice photo on the poster though. Maybe the best of the movie ! It's a case of a movie that lacks everything. No efforts exerted. Like everybody united to make a willful dud. Maybe it's a producers' vanity. As a situation of let's put anyone on a plane with any danger and whatever the solution it'll make money ! In fact this movie represents the (Airport) same formula but outrageously poor. And believe it or not it closed the genre cinematically for a very long time. Clearly the saturation of the 1970s, then flops like this, and with the attack of not one but 2 parodies (Airplane's 2 movies) the fear of repeating it became prevailing. So the plane movies remained in some TV low productions during all the 1980s. As we had to wait more than decade to witness again movies like (Passenger 57 - 1992), (Executive Decision - 1996), (Turbulence - 1997). I believe also that it was the only movie with the word (Concorde) on it ever.. No wonder I think ! And it found people to laugh at it ?! Strange it didn't work for me whether as an action or a comedy or as watchable anything. Maybe it's a tragic one about making a thriller ! It wasn't so-ludicrous-it's-fun, it was so-ludicrous-it's-historically-ludicrous ! As a disaster movie.. It's a disaster, and as unintentional comedy it sucks too ! "},{"Title":"Run!  Stay away!  Unless it's 2am and you really need a laugh","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film isn't a little bad. It's not even kind of bad. It's horrid. You know you're in trouble when Charo shows up in a film. She must have had the week off from Love Boat. George Kennedy, at least he's a gamer - he's in there trying. Actually, he's all right. And it's good to see Martha Raye. Jimmie Walker's okay. There's slightly better acting than in Airport '75 but what film doesn't have better acting than Airport '75? One thing I liked about this film is that it had more going on than a lot of other disaster films plot-wise. At least they made an attempt at subplots. What really hurts this film is the special effects - ugh! Not too special if you ask me. This is the kind of film that at 2am is truly, truly funny if you've been up having fun with your buddies and you're looking for something to laugh at. "},{"Title":"Huh?!","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One year before the hilarious Airplane! this film was released on an unsuspecting public.  Its easy to see what fueled the Zucker brothers to lampoon the Airport series so shamelessly. Let's look at the cast  George Kennedy, Alain Delon, Robert Wagner, Susan Blakely..not bad so far.  Not so fast, because in come the supporting cast  Mercedes McCaimbridge (as a Russian gym instructor), Martha Raye, Jimmie Walker (!), Sylvia Krystel ( as a stewardess ), Avery Schreiber, and Bibi Andersson (as a prostitute). The plot has pot holes that would do Ed Wood proud.  It is so bad dramatically that it plays like a comedy.  And funny it is...very very funny.  Watch this on a double bill with Airplane! "},{"Title":"Are you sure it's not AIRPLANE!? WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just before AIRPLANE hit screens in spectacular fashion, the last of the AIRPORT offerings, THE CONCORDE arrived on screen, with the traditional formula of big stars, ludicrous plot and emotion.That's not to say that the film's aren't entertaining. AIRPORT '75 had Karen Black's effort in the cockpit (the best bit of dramatic expression and action which was before Jaclyn Smith surpassed it in an episode of CHARLIE'S ANGELS when she stopped a plane in the pilot's seat with the brakes whilst still wearing high heels) and AIRPORT '77 had some neat moments.Unfortunately,in the case of THE CONCORDE, the credibility factor was lower than a hovercraft at low tide, not least in the amazingly silly sequence where a guided missile is chasing the Concorde and Patroni sticks a flare gun out his pilot's window (at THOUSANDS OF FEET!!) and SUCCEEDS IN DIVERTING THE GUIDED MISSILE WITH A FLARE!!!.Still, the only virtue is seeing Sylvia Kristel, albeit clothed. "},{"Title":"Responsible for the Concorde's demise","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, that might not be true.  But one has to wonder whether watching Airport '79 will, in the future, bring back feelings of nostalgia for the mighty aircraft that will be retired after May 31.The biggest problem with the movie as I see it is the failure to adhere to the laws of physics and other technical flaws.  One redeeming quality though is the presence of George Kennedy as the captain, who has starred in some of my favorite horror and science-fiction films.  Alas, I can see why many people don't find him or this film to be so endearing.It's sad that now I will probably never be able to fly on a Concorde or any aircraft that flies at Mach 2.  I've always wanted to, especially after I first saw Airport '79. "}{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a kid, I thought this film was (I cant believe I'm admitting this) so cool. Recently, I purchased the Airport 4 pak movies and watched them all over a two day period. Seeing the Concorde again, I could not believe how hysterically cheesy it was. This film should be cherished for the comedy value - if nothing else. I loved all the actors in this one, but the plot was probably intended to poke fun of the previous films - in the same way Escape from L.A. poked fun of Escape from New York.  "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Comedy-Disaster Film","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Concorde Airport '79, the last movie in the Airport series, is a laugh riot indeed. I think it's a toss-up between this film and 1974's Earthquake for honors of the funniest disaster film ever. I think Concorde would win by a hair because I laughed harder while watching this than I did at Earthquake. The reason why this film is so howlingly funny because it's so ridiculous. Scene after scene the movie becomes more hilariously preposterous. And what about the all-star cast? There ain't a lot of Oscar winners on board this one, but there are good actors here and I think they were in this movie just to cash a quick pay check. But the thing that's real hard to believe is that the same man who wrote the Oscar-winning script to the Best Picture blockbuster Forrest Gump and co-wrote the Oscar-nominated script to the recent Best Picture nominee The Insider wrote this goofy mess. Yes, Eric Roth wrote The Concorde Airport '79 15 years before writing the script to Forrest Gump which eventually won him the Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay. I'm sure he regrets now that he wrote this silly movie. Nevertheless, if you want to watch a disaster movie and laugh hysterically out loud, watch The Concorde Airport '79.** (out of four)   "},{"Title":"Let that needle nosed bugger make the first move.","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Concorde ... Airport '79 starts in Washington where a man named Carl Parker (Macon (McCalman) contacts high profile TV news reporter Maggie Whelan (Susan Blakely) in order to hand secret documents over that prove his boss Kevin Harriosn (Robert Wagner) owner & president of Harrison Industries that develop weapons for the military has been illegally selling said weapons to foreign countries. However Maggie sees Carl assassinated & she barely escapes with her life, Maggie is to catch the Concorde to Moscow via Paris the next morning & intends to blow the whistle on Harrison who also happens to be her boyfriend which would ruin him. Determined to save himself he reprogrammes his hi-tech 'Buzzard' homing missile to intercept & destroy the Concorde during a test run killing all those on-board & destroying the documented evidence...Renamed Airport '80 - The Concorde for it's cinema & initial home video releases because it was released here in, well, 1980 rather than 1979 this last entry in the Airport franchise was directed by David Lowell Rich & is a notoriously bad film that was apparently laughed at during press & test screenings prompting Universal to promote the film as an action comedy. The first thing to say is that The Concorde ... Airport '79 is a really silly & downright daft film but on a purely entertainment basis I can think of a lot worse films to spend 108 minutes watching, I really can. I quite liked the absurd plot about a wealthy industrialist wanting to kill his girlfriend TV reporter before she can expose him as an illegal arms dealer but this guy doesn't do subtle & decides the best way to do it is to blow Concorde up with his own guided missile & then gets a Fench fighter pilot to try & shoot it down before finally sabotaging it so really there's three mini disaster flicks in one here as each time super pilot Joe Patroni manages to save the day. You know Joe Patroni played by George Kennedy appears in all four Airport films & goes from mechanic in the first to Concorde pilot extrodinaire in this, also I reckon he's a bit of a jinx since in the space of nine years he has been involved with four major aviation disasters. I think the real reason why the Airport series stopped here was because Patroni retired after this & the jinx was lifted. Some of the things that happen here are just silly, Patroni does barrel rolls, flies upside-down & out manoeuvre's a guided missile in a huge Concorde not to mention he crash lands it & fires flare guns out of his window to destroy the missile all while keeping a calm head. This guy is good, very good. Then there's the character's, there's a Saxophone playing black dude who smokes weed in the toilets, an old woman with a bladder problem & a team of Russian gymnasts with bad accents. Also, despite being almost shot down with a missile & then attacked by a Jet fighter the passengers of Concorde don't seem that bothered & happily get back aboard the following day, I don't know about you but after that I would probably find a safer way to travel & why do the police or authorities not question anyone? Why is the Concorde captain Patroni allowed to just go off & sleep with a French prostitute? The Concorde ... Airport '79 certainly isn't boring & is full of memorable moments & I was entertained in a way although it's far from a good film & modern audiences may not have the patience with it, hell I liked it for what it was in a daft way but it's no sort of classic.Even though Concorde no longer flies it's still quite a cool looking air-plane & there's plenty of footage of it here, the one used in The Concorde ... Airport '79 was the seventh one built. This Concorde was also the same aircraft which crashed after a tire bust caused a fuel tank to rupture and the leaking fuel catch fire on July 25th 2000, while taking off in Paris sadly resulting in the death of 109 passengers and crew on board and 4 people on the ground. When this aired on TV in the US in 1982 almost twenty minutes of new footage was included with most if not all of it being newly shot over two years after the original production had finished. I know the effects here take a bashing from most but I don't reckon they are too bad, when you consider this was made in the late 70's I think they come across quite well. The camera moves during effects shots, real footage of real planes is used rather than toy models which in my opinion would have looked a lot worse & I could certainly see what the makers were trying to do with limited funds & limited technology. In a strange way they are quite impressive actually without ever looking that good if you know what I mean. Probably the most action packed of all the Airport films there's missiles, exploding planes, daring crash landings, assassinations & a guy named Robert Palmer (no, not the singer) giving head a woman in a jacuzzi.The IMDb says this had a budget of about $14,000,000 which is actually more than I thought, maybe those special effects aren't so impressive after all. Shot in Utah, Washington, Los Angeles & France. The acting isn't great here, people don't look worried enough that they are about to die. Goerge Kennedy gets some bad one-liners while Robert Wagner plays the bad guy.The Concorde ... Airport '79 is fun for bad film enthusiasts everywhere & to be brutally honest I rather watch this entertaining mess of a film than some two hour Oscar nominated bore. "},{"Title":"I'm actually quite surprised i enjoyed this!","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well before i go into reviewing The Concorde ... Airport '79 i'd like to recap on the series so far. First i watched Airport '77, i really liked it, i gave it an 8/10 on here. Then i bought the Airport Boxset and watched the first one, (Airport) two weeks ago, 7/10. then a week ago i watched Airport 1975 which i also gave a 7/10. And then, last night, i watched Airport '79, the last in the series!*First off, i'll start with the negatives in the film The special effects were really crap most of the time during the film, although there were some scenes that looked very good. Some of the acting was poor, some scenes were people were thrown and get hit, i had a short laugh at, but the main cast's acting (George Kennedy e.t.c...) were the pick of the bunch! Also the unlikely plot associated with this film was kinda stupid but i kinda liked it as well! And lastly the way the Concorde flies upside down and side to side and making last gasp dives for air looked pretty fake. *Now the upsides George Kennedy was cracking a joke a minute (Okay, maybe not) but still was cracking the jokes throughout the film, even whenever the Concorde is in jeopardy! I just generally liked this film, maybe because i'm young and when i get older, will not appreciate films like these anymore, or maybe, i'm one of those people who likes bad films, only time will tell!So all in all, even with the negatives outweighing the positives i still enjoyed this film quite a lot, i'd love to see a fifth Airport movie but that'll never happen, nevertheless...8/10 "},{"Title":"I know him! That's Froelich, the mechanic on the Concorde!","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" (Some Spoilers) The last and by far the worst of the Airport movies has ace airplane mechanic and all round handyman Joe Patroni, George Kennedy, now elevated to captain of the supersonic passenger jet Concorde who together with his co-pilot the hot shot Frenchman Capt. Paul Metrand, Alain Delon, are in for the ride of their lives.It turns out that big time business man Kevin Harrison, Robert Wagner, has been selling arms to countries like North Vietnam and terrorist organizations like Black September to make big bucks regardless of what those arms would do in killing innocent and American lives, like the GI's killed by them in the Vietnam War. About to be exposed by his lover news-reporter Maggie Whelan, Susan Blakely, Harrison plans to get her killed, together with the explosive evidence that she has on her, in a staged airplane accident over the Atlantic Ocean.Try as he may Harrison just can't put the Concorde down as he has heat-seeking missiles F-15 fighter planes and even the ground crew in Paris sabotage the plane in order to blow it out of the sky it's, like in that famous watch commercial, takes a licking but just keeps on ticking. With all his efforts gone by the wayside Harrison watching on TV the happy crew and passengers, including Maggie and the damaging documents, rescued from the snows of the Bavarian Alps, where the Concorde crash landed, he puts a gun to his head and pulls the trigger.The only thing that saves the movie is it's unintentional humor thats a laugh a minute and never lets up until the final credits. There's Soviet star gymnastic champion Alcia Rogov, Andrea Marcovicci,who beside having a wild and secretive affair with handsome TV personality Robert Plamer, John Davidson, gets so excited and carried away with the action on broad the plane that for a moment she completely loses her, phony as it sounded, Russian accent. There's saxophonist Boisle, Jimmy J.J. Walker, who's so stoned on pot that even if the plane crashed and was sent to the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean he'd be so whacked out of his skull that Boisle wouldn't even notice that he died.There's Loretta, Martha Ray, who's so nervous of flying especially if the plane she's on is continually attacked, like an USAAF B-17 over Germany in WWII, that she spends the entire trip hiding in the planes bathroom. There's also the totally unexplained ridicules and almost comedic chase scene with airplane mechanic Froelich, Jon Cedan,at the Paris Airport. Froelich who sabotaged the Concorde all of a sudden gets the willies for no reason at all after he drops some cash, that he was paid by Harrison to do the dastardly deed, at an airport medal detection machine. Froelich mindlessly runs and runs around in circles for some ten minutes and tries to either get run over or get on the toeing plane as if he either got a sudden change of heart, and tried to stop it from taking off, or just went off his bird and flipped out because of the pressure he was under.For all the positive publicity that the supersonic jet Concorde got in the movie in how indestructible it is it's days as a passenger plane were numbered. The plane was so noisy, keeping people who lived around airports from sleeping, and expensive, costing as much as $12,000.00 for a round trip from New York to Paris or London, as well as a threat to the environment, in it's gas guzzling, that it eventually priced itself out of business. By the summer of 2003 Ol' Beak-nose as the Concorde was affectionately known finally, after almost 20 years in operation, went the way of the flying dinosaurs that it so much resembled and became like they did, some 100 million years ago, totally extinct. "},{"Title":"Actually, it's watchable.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The fourth and last Airport movie is not really too bad; it nearly drowns in soap-opera cliches at times, but some of the action scenes are decently spectacular (especially near the end, when decompression slowly tears the plane apart). The people who made this obviously knew that they weren't going to be taken very seriously, and that the film wasn't destined to become a classic, but at least they didn't try to rip the audience off; they cared enough to deliver a watchable movie. And it's nice to see George Kennedy calm and relaxed for once.   (**) "},{"Title":"Far better than the critics would have you believe!","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  CONCORDE AIRPORT '79, THE (1979) **½  Alain Delon, Susan Blakely, Robert Wagner, Sylvia Kristel, George Kennedy.  This fourth and final entry in the Airport series is arguably the weakest of the bunch, but it doesn't deserve the critical thrashing it's received over the years.  True, the script is rife with hokey, often saccharine dialog (in one nauseating scene, a television reporter (John Davidson) and his Russian gymnast girlfriend recite wedding vows to each other when they think the plane is going down), and leaves far too many unresolved subplots (thanks mostly to the use of a huge ensemble cast of Hollywood has-beens, a series trademark).  But Airport fans won't care, because the action is what matters and on that score, at least, The Concorde delivers.  Even with its dated special effects, the movie still packs a wallop, delivering plenty of nail-biting suspense and a spectacular ending.  Worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad, But Not Good Either","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This picture hit the big screen on August 17 1979 starring George Kennedy as Joe Patroni, Susan Blakely as Maggie Whelan and Robert Wagner as Dr. Kevin Harrison. The picture opens with a shot of the airport in Paris France. The Concorde gets ready for take off as it heads for its destination at Dulles Airport in Washington DC. After the plane lands in the Nations Capital, it takes about ½ hour for all the people and the plots get set up. Right before Maggie gets ready to board the plane she's met by Dr. Kevin Harrison. Harrison wanted to see her off and wanted to know if Maggie received the package that she was waiting for. As Maggie is going to the gate, she's met by a woman in a wheelchair and is given the package she was waiting for. After Maggie gets on the bus to go to the plane, she opens the package and starts reading the contents. On the side of the bus in a walk way Dr. Harrison is following Maggie and watching her read the contents. The material proves that Dr. Harrison is doing dirty business with people over seas. After the plane has been in the air for a while, Patroni gets a warning call that a malfunction missile is in there area and is out of control. Patroni has to do his best flying ever, as he has to take dangerous methods with the plane if they want to avoid the missile. The missile is eventually shot down by local air force planes. However, Patroni problems are only being because someone doesn't want Maggie to put the content of the package on the air. Here's some facts on the plane that was used in the movie. The Concorde that was featured in the picture made its first flight as F-WTSC on January 31 1975. This Concorde was the seventh plane of its kind built. The plane was however, registered differently. It was registered as an F-BTSC in May of 1975 and was used in the picture with the same register number. The Concorde was leased from Aerospatiale in France for the picture and after the picture was done, it was sold to Air France in 1980. This same plane crashed after tyro bust caused a fuel tank to rupture and caught fire while taking off from Charles De Gaulle Airport in Paris on July 25 2000. I though this movie after a very slow start was good as far as the suspense that keeps you interested in a movie. I though Susan Blakely was excellent in her role as the TV Reporter Maggie Whelan. I though that Robert Wagner was excellent in his role as the villain. Eddie Albert did a good job as the planes owner and there was even a very young and gorgeous Sybil Danning in this picture even though she didn't play a big role. Over all I give, this picture 7 weasel stars because it takes a while to get the movie going. "},{"Title":"Yawn.....","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The original Airport is one of all time favorite movies. Airport '75 was so-so, '77 was marginal. Last night, after buying the Airport 4 movie DVD set, I watched Concorde for the 1st time. Probably the last. It seems Joe Patroni has climbed from a fix any aircraft mechanic to Concorde captain. Did I miss something? Bad-guy Robert Wagner has been selling weapons to nasty nations, & his TV anchor girlfriend has the documents to prove it..& since she's on the Concorde, he'll stop at nothing to bring it down & kill her before she can blow the whistle on him. From Washington to Paris, Wagner fires missiles at the plane, & only Top Gun flying by the crew saves the day. (Tom Cruise would be proud) But, the aircraft is damaged & barely makes a safe landing in Paris. Here our hero Patroni & his co-captain go out on the town, with Patroni spending the evening with what turns out to be a hooker hired by his fellow captain. (Just what you wanted to see, a George Kennedy sex scene) After a badly damaged plane is fixed overnight (huh?), they're off to Moscow, with the same people on board. Why did they get back on the plane after the first time? This time the cargo door is rigged to open & bring the plane down for good! The plane is damaged & must head for Munich....but, they can't make it! So, they land on a snow runway in the Alps. Just in the nick of time, they all escape from the doomed jet. Meanwhile, Robert Wagner is watching all this unfold on TV from his private jet. When he realizes that his TV girlfriend & documents have survived & he's going to be in trouble, we see a him turn a pistol towards his head. Bang! Next thing you know, the credits are rolling. Real bad special effects too. The first airport was more convincing. I wouldn't have bought it, but it came with the DVD set. Anyone want it? "},{"Title":"Some of the Worst Special Effects I have ever seen!!! PERIOD!!!","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Prior to Airport 79' these movies were rather good. They had decent special effects, all-star cast, and good acting. This movie destroyed the franchise, and there are many reasons for it. Lets talk about the special effects WOW!!!! they are horrific, what was the director thinking about. I know it's only 1979, but lets look at other very good special effects movies such as Star Wars(1977),and Moonraker(1979). I like the idea of the Concord and this could of been the best Airport movie, but they did too much with it. How about Joe Patroni(George Kennedey) shooting a flare out of the cockpit window, to prevent a heat seeking missile from hitting the concord. Also he is doing 90 degree dives and loops. This completely far fetched, and unrealistic WOW!!!!!! Believe me the special effects don't help this scene, and really are beyond poor.... They almost look like a cartoon, and this is how the whole movie is!!!Finally lets talk about the acting which in my opinion is extremely poor to fair at best.... Over acting is a major issue in this movie, especially George Kennedy.. Which I really like as an actor, but just doesn't cut in this movie. The full blame has to go on the director, who did a very poor editing job, and really whacked out the Airport Franchise. Too bad the Concord isn't still used today it was a marvel of Air travel... "}{"Title":"The worst of the airplane flicks","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With a cast of mostly lesser-tiered stars (Alain Delon, Robert Wagner, Eddie Albert), lousy special effects (sure, it was the 70's but Alien and Star Wars came from the same decade), and a storyline that is so laughable that one might want to cry, this is a flight that should have been GROUNDED.Even Emmy winner Cicely Tyson and Oscar recipient George Kennedy can't keep this bird airborne.The implausibility of the third film - airplane is submerged in The Bermuda Triangle - is much more believable than this turkey.Avoid The Concorde at all costs! "},{"Title":"A classic of the genre.","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport '79 is an analogy for humankind in general. Director David Lowell Rich gives the audience a scintillating expose of the human condition in moments of sublime terror. George Kennedy as the Captain offers a unique performance of subtlety under pressure.This Everyman is going to do his best to ensure that his passengers get to where they are going while enduring the slight inconvenience of missile and jet attacks. The obligatory all-star cast give the performances a credible and considerable reality. The message here is that a good heart cannot be conquered and mankind can and will survive even the most dangerous of missile and jet assaults at Mach 2.  Drinks, anyone? "},{"Title":"..... and George Kennedy as Captain Patroni !","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After a reasonable improvement in cast and plot on Airport '77 compared to the previous entries, along came '79 and totally modified the scale for judging bad movies. While seeing it I had to wonder 1) Why did the same passengers keep on boarding the plane, after the repeated catastrophes. 2)Why didn't Robert Wagner simply have Susan Blakely shot in one of their many meetings instead of going to the so much trouble. 3) Who the hell cast John Davidson, Jimmy Walker and Charo in the same picture ? And if you are one of the many people who complain about the cartoony CGI effects on recent films, feast your eyes on '79 and you'll never talk again. "},{"Title":"Martin Scorcese's Airport '79.","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" During the seventies, Martin Scorcese turned out quite a few defining cinematic efforts ( Mean Streets, Taxi Driver, and this, Airport '79)Re-uniting with Robert De Niro, who takes over from George Kennedy as Joe Patroni, Scorcese delivers a kitsch, unappealing disaster flick.De Niro is not quite as good here as he was in Taxi Driver. His Joe Patroni has none of the fat, lovable good guy appeal that George Kennedy brought to the role.De Niro's Patroni is much less pleasant ( at one point telling an old lady to 'Go F**k yourself' and throwing her pet poodle out of the window to draw in a heat seeking missile.)Harvey Keitel is wasted as a gay steward with personal problems. His best moment is when De Niro catches him in the toilet with Alain Delon.Robert Wagner is probably the most gifted performer in this mediocre mess.Not one of Scorcese's best. Nevertheless, I give it a ten out of ten because of the great music score. "},{"Title":"Concorde - Airport 1979","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Concorde used in the movie is the Air France Concorde that crashed just outside Paris more than 20 years later (registration F-BTSC).F-BTSC(203), being originally a model 100 (that would have been converted to a model 103 for Pan-Am), was the heaviest Concorde of all the Air France fleet it was just under one ton heavier and two years older than the lighter and youngest F-BTSD (213).After taking part in the route proving flights in 1975, she was leased to Air France in 1976 for use until their other aircraft were delivered. In 1977 she took part in a mid-east sales tour , where they was interest in a purchase from Iran. After featuring in the Concorde disaster movie in 1979 she was stored until being bought by Air France for 1 Franc in 1980.She was re-stored, along with F-BVFD, on 1st Nov1982 when the airline were only operating 7 flights a week to New York. F-BTSC came back into service on 28th April 1986, when other Air France aircraft were due to undergo engineering checks. She was out of service for the D check between June 98 and Nov 99, where the keel beam was replaced due to corrosion, at a cost of £4M The D check involved visual, radiographical and ultrasonical checks. The work total 60,000 hours of checking, piece by piece. After which three weeks of ground tests took place before two flight tests were performed. The aircraft then returned to Service on 1st Nov 1999 On July 25th 2000 the aircraft was written off in a crash outside Charles De Gaulle Airport, Paris.It had made 3978 landings It had completed 11,989 flight hours.In 1978-79 this Aircraft was the one used in the film Airport'79  The Concorde. There are some grabs from the film at the bottom of the page.On 2nd May 1989 this Concorde carried Pope John Paul II. "}]