[{"Title":"Ahead of Its Time","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"110 out of 156 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" With the advancement of movie technology today, I am awaiting a re-make of this film as I can see the enhancement of the Armageddon-like atmosphere of this movie.Even though this film came out on the heels of Star Wars I feel that for its time and its budget it was awesome and very much overlooked. I think in this case, being a Disney film, didn't help its image either. As a kid this movie scared the pants off of me. It was dark and menacing and there was the big black hole staring me in the face the whole movie. (I can still recall the extent of the willies this movie game me).While flawed I see this movie as an artistic and hard core science fiction classic. It uses many of what I see as key elements in science fiction - known science, theoretical science, possible futures, and our fear of the unknown (I personally think even with what we know, we still know very little about black holes).This movie was made in the feel of 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea and Moby Dick, with the mad, yet brilliant captain, sailing a state of the art ship, knowingly, into certain and utter doom in the name of some idealistic obsession. And as it usually goes you have your idealistic yet rational unwilling passengers who want to get off the ship and survive the mad man's nightmarish dreams.The robots, while used in a highly symbolic fashion, were original in their concept and design. I particularly liked the way V.I.N.C.E.N.T. and B.O.B. were constructed as the avatars of humanity - completely man-made with human-like eyes and a soul, that only allowed them to see the right side of things - as we see them. While on the other hand Maximilian was brilliant as the epitome of evil and twisted humanity in this movie - a man silently trapped and condemned to an inhuman fate as part of a mechanical nightmare.Lastly, I feel that the space backdrops and the internal renderings of the space ship, which I feel have somewhat of an impressionistic flair, are awesome and were very well done for the period. If you passed on this movie the first time I recommend giving it a second chance. Take in the movie - see its symbolism, its social commentaries and far reaching vision. I think some of the issues the movie quietly addresses are still relative today. "},{"Title":"Light at the end of the tunnel....","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"85 out of 141 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Back in 1979, when this first came out, this could be seen coming down Main Street as a Star Wars cash-in.  Even I could see that (being 14 at the time).At the time, it was being hailed by everyone whom had not seen it as a return to cerebral, thought-provoking space opera, with the same kind of reverberations as 2001.  Now, let me tell you the truth about The Black Hole.From a technical standpoint, the movie is impressive (moreso when you consider that Harrison and Peter Ellenshaw, virtuosos in matte paintings, did the background FX work).  The ships all fly as they should, you can BARELY see the robots flying about on their strings and the wonder and mystery of what a black hole really is (physically as well as metaphorically) are explored satisfactorily.But if the FX are exemplary, the flesh and blood on display are not.  Each actor supplies their own black hole; empty, dark voids where there once was talent but now serve only to suck away all the life and energy surrounding it.  A shame, since actors like Forster, Mimieux, Schell, Perkins and even Roddy McDowell (in voice only) have all done good deeds on film prior and since.  In the acting sense, at least, this movie matches 2001.But in the end, you see a movie like The Black Hole for the story itself.  Is it worth watching?  In that respect, I think so.  What are the limits to which mankind can play God?  Are the mysteries of the universe for Man to explore?  Do black holes lead to anything?  We are left to draw our own conclusions, but at least the ending here allows us to think seriously about what really is out there.Eight stars.  Not a classic, but not that vacuous. "},{"Title":"Screw the reviews.  Remember it for Maximilian.","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"100 out of 175 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw this movie in the theater when I was 6 years old. So you have to remember that frame of reference when you read these comments. I saw The Black Hole when I was six years old and, of course, I loved it. Although what I remember the most about that experience was my first glimpse of Maximilian, the giant killer red robot. Maximilian terrified me. And he ended up being the first movie character to ever really scare the crap out of me.If you were 6 years old kid in 1980, you would remember this film. Because even though it's silly to make the comparison today, at one time the Black Hole held a special place in the hearts of kids everywhere, mainly because it featured a character who was even scarier than Darth Vader. That's right, Star Wars came 2 years earlier than the Black Hole, and Star Wars had a frightening guy in a black mask named Darth Vader. But let me tell you that to a kid growing up in 1980, Darth Vader was NOTHING compared to Maximilian. Darth Vader was a pansy compared to Maximilian, and I'm not just joking around. If you were a little kid in 1980, you knew about this movie. And you knew who Maximilian was. And you spoke about him in terms of reverence. Because you don't mock the robot who haunts your nightmares every single night.That's how big a deal Maximilan was at the time.Yes, The Black Hole has flaws. Yes, the rest of the robots are comical. And yes, the science fiction in the movie makes no sense. And sure, I'd agree that the sight of Ernest Borgnine in a tight turtleneck is disturbing and I never want to see it again. But none of that really matters to me. All I care about is that this movie features Maxmilian the bleeping killer red robot. And from a pop culture/movie history perspective, that makes this movie a classic.Personally, I think that the Black Hole is a pretty lame movie. But in 1980 I would have ranked it alongside Star Wars as the coolest thing I had ever seen in my life. And of course, that is almost solely because of Maximilian. So don't make fun of this movie. Just remember that it cause a lot of nightmares in kids from the 70's and early 80's. And please give it props for featuring a villain that (at one time) was cooler and scarier than a guy named Darth Vader.So here's to you, Maximilian.Please don't Cuisinart me through a book.Mario's Movie Rating 5 out of 10 (at least it's somewhat entertaining) Mario's Maximilian Rating 10 of 10 "},{"Title":"Here Comes The Pain Baby!!","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"41 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Spoilers AheadThis movie features the worst acting performances of an entire group of talented actors. I would hold up on getting in line for Disney's Star Wars. This was released with the Motionless Picture and it was neck and neck for which one would stink it up the most. The movie was gone from all the theaters in three weeks including the drive ins. Each actor had a great movie in his career Borgnine The Poseidon Adventure, Perkins Psycho and Bottoms The Paper Chase. Disney director Gary Nelson gets the worst acting you will see in a movie from the entire decade of the 1970s. The rumors, after the movie bombed, were that he was intimidated by the cast and would not do more than one or two takes. Even the legendary Maximillian Schell gives his worst performance. The film mimics the Motionless Picture in the long, slow, loving camera tour of the Cygnus that you could bake a cake during. Do you enjoy long angle shots of a poorly glued model with a rotating Blue Hole in the background? I know, apparently, the effects team never read the title of the movie. Once aboard the ghost ship Cygnus, we get a bad rendition of Captain Ahab; The Black Hole years, with his pet robot whom we can clearly see the wires he is dangling from the crane with. The Eastgate opened this in their 550, within a week it was moved to the 220 and finally the 110. By the third week, it was gone. The bad acting is equaled by the boredom. A cheap attempt to rip off the Crell tour of Forbidden Planet that will make you miss Walter Pidgeon. The highlight is a shooting contest between our Porty potty with Mcdowell's voice and S.T.A.R. Boring! Want to know how bad it is? Slim Pickens who played another Porty potty had his name taken off the credits for a reason. He was embarrassed to be associated with one of the worst science fictions in the history of film. Disney has a meteor right next to the cast on fire and nobody told the geniuses that they would have burst into flame, what until you see it. That was the director, Gary Nelson, what a genius! The cast finds out that the captain killed everybody and tries to escape except Perkins who has fallen in love with Ahab. The pet robot on wires activates his margarita mixer and so much for Perkins. The bulk of the movie is the crew creeping around the empty ship like they are looking for the restroom. It is slow, boring and badly written and acted.The ending is still being debated to this day. It is really not that hard to decipher. Disney wanted to give every group their own ending and blended them, like a retard, all together. Heaven and Hell; for the religious, A white hole; for the scientific and a rotating image spinning until you will puke to convey nebulosity. Sorry, pick an ending dummies. See, after people sat for two hours waiting for the resolution; they get postal if you give them three endings and say pick one. Young people, do not buy this movie. It is boring beyond belief. If you want to see them spend a half an hour creeping around the Cygnus with nothing happening go ahead, I warned you. Want to know what the most frequent evaluation was heard as we were filing out? WHAT A PIECE OF CRAP THAT WAS!! It was then and it still is. "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Classic","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"74 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Not only is The Black Hole beautifully made from a technical aspect, it has  marvelous performances. Robert Forester (Jackie Brown), Anthony Perkins  (Psycho), Ernest Borgnine, Maximillian Schell. It does get a little campy  but it is a Disney movie after all and it can be forgiven its attempts at  comic relief. This is a very unlikely sort of film for Disney, were it made  today it would have been made under the Miramax header rather than Disney,  and like another unlikely Disney film, Tron, it is tragically underrated.  The special effects and set design are breathtaking, but it is the script  which is the best part. The ending is one of the most surreal and haunting  in any science fiction film (and especially bold for a Disney film) The  characterizations are wonderful and the robots, especially Maximillian (in  my book the greatest cinematic robotic villain to date), are unforgettable.   "},{"Title":"spectacular failure","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"28 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw this new in the theater when I was a little kid, and revisited it last night with my wife. She still isn't speaking to me, and has taken control of the Netflix queue for the foreseeable future. Her last words to me were to the effect that I have lost any right to criticize her cinematic selections, for eternity. I think that's a reasonable response on her part, actually.I suggest a new, improved tagline There is a force in the universe that sucks harder than anything else known to man... It is The Black Hole!!! (the movie, that is!)(spoilers follow)Okay, first the good In its time, it was found to be visually impressive. It definitely hasn't held up like 2001, Star Wars, or even the first Star Trek movie, though. I do remember being pretty overwhelmed as a tyke watching this, back in the day. The end is still vertigo-inducing, looking suspiciously like a ride at Disneyland. Did they plan to build a spin off (very literally, in this case) ride based on the anticipated success of this film? I know! Let's have their seats all spin around inside the spaceship when they enter the hole! Why the hell the seats in a spaceship would be designed to spin madly is never addressed... Sorry, more good Maximilian is a badass looking robot. I am suddenly seized with a desire for a good model of him, because he is the very archetype of droid evil. His immobility just adds to the menace.The opening and closing credits score (not the lame overture) is pretty creepy cool, too. On to the bad The rest of the film. Script, acting, direction, plot, dialogue... By any reasonable measure of a movie's worth, this is a total failure. There are so many ridiculous, embarrassing moments, that this is a great choice for those compulsive smartasses who enjoy mocking a movie nonstop, MST 3000 style. Nothing in this movie makes any sense. The science of this fiction is beyond wrong, the design of the spaceships is absurd, (gigantic formal dining room with huge crystal chandelier wtf?) the characters have no motivation, and the ending... Ouch.Most of the dialogue is risible, and all of it is delivered woodenly at best. The gravity is at maximum! Uhh, what? The ugly There are two disturbing eviscerations in this film, which somehow takes it from a silly space opera for children into more serious territory. They should have kept it light and g-rated, or made a film worthy of adults.My disbelief failed to suspend in the face of such a ham-fisted production. Why would anybody design an enormous empty gallery through the middle of a spaceship? Oh, right, so a giant flaming meteor could roll through it later in the film, gotcha. Why is the meteor flaming and red hot? Because it's in proximity to a black hole, silly! And everybody knows that the most powerful force in the universe is... Gravity! Uh, no, actually; gravity is the weakest force known. Those of you at home can play Spot the Glaring Errors! Worst of all is the ending. Oh, the awfulness! On the other side of a black hole (which is portrayed here as a whirlpool in a tub in a gravity well, oddly enough) is... A Judeo-Christian morality play! Surprise, surprise. But nominative determinism wins the day, with Maximilian Schell ending up in Maximilian's shell, in hell. Choose your child's name carefully, folks!If you're a film effects historian, you should probably see this film, as it was a landmark and the last big Disney studio-system effects extravaganza. The results obtained may explain why they changed the system, actually... If you want to prove your worth and brilliance by ridiculing a silly, terminally confused movie, you have found your victim. Beer, popcorn, irony!If you are looking for a trip down nostalgia lane like I was, jump on board! Maybe without the wife, though. But if you are looking for a film that is satisfying as a film, burn your main engines at full power to escape the lethal suck of... The Black Hole! "},{"Title":"Haunting and powerful to SF lovers Completely underrated !","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"37 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Haunting is exactly the term for it. I know others have knocked the silly robots and laser guns.But I have always felt The Black Hole's spooky emotional impact, through the visuals and music. Although the visuals are now dated, what they were aiming for strikes true. It's a vision of the future that strikes a chord in me dark uncaring space, the black hole a crushing force more powerful than the sun, ego and insane genius, science and what's beyond science, the horror of the old crew's fate. The music with its heavy repeated theme is like the crushing presence of the black hole itself relentless. A new God if ever there was one.In my opinion it has more emotional impact than Solaris, which threw in too much murder mystery and sort of confused me. The Black Hole is simple it is clearly beyond knowledge and all the spookier for it.If you get a thrill from the idea of scientific discovery, give this underrated film a chance. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Disney gets it right. For once.","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"42 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Black Hole is probably the only Disney live-action movie (with the possible exception of Cool Runnings) that is even watchable. So the fact that it's incredibly fun just makes it all the more odd.Perhaps it's the overabundance of mediocre effects (even by 1979's standards, considering it was preceded by Star Wars (2 years) and 2001 A Space Odyssey (11 years)), or it could be the overall impossibility of the robot VINCENT, but I am hooked on this movie.Plotwise, there's some new stuff here for science fiction. In general, the black hole had never really been looked into, so combining that with the crazed genius (Maximillian Schell) just creates a story worth watching, despite some obvious speaking errors (habitable life in outer space) and some scientific errors (the astronauts are exposed to the vacuum of space and nothing happens...).All in all, the fighting, the story, and the utterly bizarre 1970s sets and costumes make this one of my closet favorites. If you are even vaguely interested, buy the video today, because it took 20 years to see it come out to the mainstream. Don't miss this! "},{"Title":"It didn't make sense when I was 8, It STILL doesn't.","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Spoilers follow, but not really, because IT MAKES NO FREAKING SENSE!They threw in a few phrases such as event horizon to prove that someone somewhere in the production of this movie had read some science, but in the end it just doesn't make sense. As can be seen by the much later (and also bad) Event Horizon, movies should not speculate that something religious is on the other side of a black hole. The movie has all of this (psuedo)science and then when it climaxes it retreats to Judeo-Christian religious images. It is like you have had an okay soup, some passable bread, an edible entrée, and then for desert.. you are served oysters covered in chocolate sauce and whipped cream. NOTHING FITS. After watching the DVD extras, an EFX guy admits that they had no ending written whatsoever. Now that I know that, it is unmistakable.Following are things that make no sense about the ending A long-haired guy (presumably Reinhardt) conjoining himself with Max the robot and becoming encased in him. Angelic beings flying through arched hallways Fire spewing from somewhere on a Vulcan-like planet with Max standing on high as if he is a Satan figure. In this hell, the androids (innocent pawns) standing as if in worship to Max. To me the androids should have been redeemed because they are not evil. Our remaining protagonists able to fly through it all to bright planet. Are these planets or states of being? Just because Kubrick can get away with My god, it's full of stars does not mean Disney can get away with My star..it's full of godsAnd finally..our little robot, Vincent, could barely save himself from the black hole at the beginning, but at the end can save both himself and a free-falling crew member?One thing that did give me nightmares when I was a kid was not Max the robot with spinning blades for hands, but instead it was Dr. Kate wrapped up in a sack that prevented her arms from moving. When they put her under the transformation device and it started to zap her in the forehead to android-icize her that frightened me quite a bit.The visuals were stunning. Absolutely stunning. But visuals alone do not make a movie. The music was not really worthy of being combined into an overture, it wasn't bad, but it was not great, and the movie wasn't that epic.Not that I am a physicist, but I was waiting for our protagonists to bifurcate. I felt very disappointed when they did not. "},{"Title":"worst sci-fi flick I've ever seen","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Uhh, OK where to start? I remember when this movie came out but never saw it until it was on TCM the other night.I couldn't get over how incredibly cheesy this movie is. Watching it, I couldn't believe it was made in the 1970's. It's obvious the writers & producers must have sat & watched numerous 1950's & 60's sci-fi movies in order to get the idea for this one. The set & acting all reminded me of an old movie in which all the spacecraft have cavernous rooms with highly polished floors and robots who move with jerky movements.How is it cheesy? Let me count the ways.First, the two robots VINCENT & Bob. Robots afraid? And then shaking in fear? This worked in the comedy The Ice Pirates, but that was a comedy. Black Hole is supposedly a serious movie. When I first saw VINCENT I realized I was watching a cheesy movie. The robot's eyes could have been so much better than just painted on. The robot reminds me of Cartman from South Park. And don't even get me started on Bob, the robot with the Texas accent. Also, how can a human have a psychic bond with a robot? I could have bought it if they said she had some kind of electronic implant or something. Incredibly advanced humanoid robots which move with stiff, jerky movements, can shoot balls of light with no problem but can't hit stationary people.The characters being able to breathe in outer space. Near the end, when the ship is breaking apart, yes, they climb onto the outside of it. Earlier they experienced rapid decompression in the garden chamber, but later when a meteor takes out the rail car tube, they don't experience the same problem. They also have the ability to breathe in space at this point. The meteor shower. Meteors as glowing fiery round balls? In the real universe meteors are cold chunks of rock floating through space. The scene where the one meteor tears through the skin of the ship and then rolls down the long chamber may have been cool from a special effect point of view, but is simply laughable. Notice how the meteor is just the right size to fit in the chamber? Near the end when they all go through the black hole appears to be a ripoff of 2001. The rocket even flies toward the same shining eclipsed star that you saw a few times in 2001.The deranged scientist dies on the ship when the giant flat screen TV falls on him, yet near the end he's alive again to be merged with Maximillian the robot? And what's with the Hell-looking area he ends up in? Is this supposed to make him the devil or something? And yet the good people fly down an arched hallway.This movie could have been so much better, yet wasn't made to be. There's just no comparison with that other 1979 sci-fi flick Alien. Black Hole shouldn't be seen by anyone over the age of 10, yet those under 10 are going to be bored with much of the movie and will not understand the ending. Actually, I don't think many people will understand the ending. "}{"Title":"Major Disney flop, not worthy of Walt's name","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I attended the 70mm premiere of The Black Hole in Hollywood in 1979. The pre-publicity for this film was huge. Buena Vista Studios pulled out all stops and published full page ads. The house was packed. I never saw so much disappointment in an audience. You could hear the audible gasps in certain scenes along with muffled snickers, it was that bad. Everyone was polite when the house lights came up, but you could tell... it flopped in a big way.This was also the year of Star Trek - the motion picture and Alien. During that 70mm premiere at the Egyptian, the film jumped the track and the 70mm film burned up before our eyes. A woman actually screamed which sent a wave of very loud gasps through the crowd. Fortunately, a friend of mine had other friends in Westwood (showing it 70mm later that day). We ran over there and they managed to squeeze us in. Compared to the Black Hole whether that comparison is fair or not, Alien was then and still is a sci-fi masterpiece, and complete pushed the Black Hole off the page for the year. No one associated with sci-fi would even mention Black Hole at the cons.The Black Hole tried so hard to be legit Sci-fi. But in the end, a great roster of seasoned actors had a poor script (TV writer Bob Barash's only feature film), poor direction (TV director Gary Nelson's only feature film) and all the wonderful special effects or sweeping score cannot save an inherently bad movie. Disney has yet to make another attempt at Sci-fi that has or will be considered successful. "},{"Title":"Interesting And Spectacular If A Little Wooden Disney Outer Space Disaster Movie","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" A spaceship, the USS Palomino, is nearly sucked into the gravitational field of a giant black hole, and encounters a vast craft, the Cygnus. Boarding the ship, they find the crew are all robots except for Dr Hans Reinhardt, a visionary scientist hell-bent on unlocking the mysteries of the Universe's most deadly and irresistible force &#x85;After the enormous success of Star Wars, movie companies fell over each other looking for epic science-fiction films to make. This was Disney's effort, which is pretty enjoyable and surprisingly adult in theme, although it has several shortcomings. Its best feature is its amazing Cygnus sets/effects by veteran designer Peter Ellenshaw, who also worked on Disney's 1954 classic adaptation of 20000 Leagues Under The Sea, which in many ways this is an outer space retelling of, with Reinhardt as Captain Nemo. The Cygnus is just colossal, with a vast central corridor, a spherical bridge, a hydroponics plant, transport tunnels - it's just immense. These are also a liability however; towards the finale the ship gets wrecked and the film becomes a disaster movie with endless shots of everything being blown up as our heroes stagger around, though one shot of a huge glowing meteor rolling towards them is simply phenomenal. The scenes are over-egged by an agreeable but way too overblown symphonic sturm-und-drang score by John Barry. The cast are good, but struggle to inject any dramatic dynamic into their characters (only sneaky Borgnine succeeds) because the plot doesn't allow them to. It is refreshing though to see a movie where two thirds of the way through Perkins finds out that someone else is insane. Perhaps the most intriguing aspect is a mystical ten minute finale featuring a Dantean depiction of Hell and an open-ended alternate universe - it's not quite up to 2001 A Space Odyssey but it's at least going for the same depth, and I'm sure would not conclude this way if the film were being made today. Some of the science is hokum - everybody should die as soon as the Cygnus' hull is compromised - but it's fun, interesting (We may encounter an Einstein-Rosen bridge !), has both cute and scary robots, and looks great. A good movie, but for an interesting alternative version of the Cygnus/Black Hole story, check out a couple of great songs by Rush from their late seventies back catalogue. "},{"Title":"Unusual science-fiction. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It is hard to believe now, but THE BLACK HOLE had an aura and a hype about it that would rival even THE MATRIX in terms of anticipation. Indeed, when the first trailers were released (the teaser of which I saw at a screening of the animated LORD OF THE RINGS in 1978-79)many of my friends in my street were talking about it.For the record, I stood outside a cinema in my hometown for a couple of hours before the film opened (three months after it's premiere in London at the Odeon Leicester Square) and endured a support feature about urban cowboys, before the trailers and adverts (which included the full trailer for THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK. How I remember the cheer that went up in the cinema when that came on)Then the film started.Seen today, there are a number of flaws about the film. Dr. Reinhardt's claim that there was enough power in the ship to power all of Earth was a bit much after the explosion the ship suffered when the Palomino blows up. The wires holding VINCENT and BOB are clearly visible in one or two scenes and the climactic sequences as the ship goes into the Black Hole can only be read more as a dream sequence) The visual effects, notably the lasers, are pretty lame these days and the action sequences are simplistic.Still, there are some good sequences in all. The opening sequence in which the Cygnus is discovered over the Black Hole and the discussions between the crew of the Palomino help to build some intrigue and suspense and John Barry's music is amongst his best.A cult movie from the Disney studio. "},{"Title":"Not for the little ones.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"     I first saw the Black Hole when I was in college and I remembered just enough to know that I liked it.  Others here have commented on the movie in great enough detail, I can only say,Lighten Up!  Sure the effects are not perfect but they really are pretty good. The acting is acceptable, not oscar level but then neither is the script that they were given to work with.  Many of the events depicted are not plausible, but how many movies really are? (Even non SF ones)    The Black Hole is in some ways Captain Nemo in space.  The Elizabethan structure of the ship in particular.  Also Reinhart and Nemo are similar characters.  However, Nemo is not truly a villain.  His crew is composed of volunteers and they are very loyal to him whereas Reinhart must lobotomize his crew to retain their services.  Reinhart cares for no one but himself, but Nemo was concerned, though grudgingly, for the welfare of even his prisoners.  In short, Nemo is a sympathetic character, Reinhart is not.    This brings me to the point of my review.  The mood of this movie is what really makes or breaks it.  I must credit my sister for defining it for me because I could not find the right word.  The word is CREEPY! There is a feeling of forboding that builds untill the action sequences are finished and our heroes enter the black hole.  After that it is just intensely weird and CREEPY.    Having not seen this movie for twenty years and remembering only the cool effects and robots I allowed my 5 year old to watch it. Big mistake!  He was afraid to go to sleep, and it bothered him for about a week.  This kid has handled action and SF movies OK before, although I do not let him watch the more violent or intense stuff.  This movie is intense!  Star wars did not bother him at all, but the Black Hole . . .    Parents of small children beware!  The Black Hole is CREEPY! "},{"Title":"Dark and wonderful forgotten treasure","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a great science fiction adventure, which came out in 1979. I saw this film for the first time at the age of 12, and I loved it then, I still enjoy it. I can see that there are very different opinions of it here. But if you love adventure and sci fi, you won't be disappointed.10 reasons to watch this film 1) A great story, dark and entertaining all along 2) Great special effects, they still work today 3) One of the biggest and most scary star ships ever shown on film! 4) Good performances from well known actors like Anthony Perkins. 5) The film score from Barry is outstanding - chilling and powerful 6) A very very alternative ending... 7) It's a film ahead of the times, the story, the creepy truth, truly an inspiration of todays filmmakers. 8) It's spectacular 9) Prove those who turn it down wrong! 10) A perfect popcorn movie! "},{"Title":"The Ending Doesn't Define the Movie","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" With The Black Hole, I'd say you either love it or you hate it. And of course, many sci-fi fans despise this movie. I'll say this - The Black Hole is extremely unique, and severely overlooked. It has an excellent score, beautiful backgrounds, and an intriguing story with a cheesy (but lovable) cast. It is dark at times, but exciting and action-packed as a science fiction movie should be. The ambiguous ending is the only thing I do not like about this movie, given its abruptness and out-of-place feel. I'll say it again, though - the ending does not define the movie, and it remains a very entertaining, well-done, truly Disney classic. "},{"Title":"Taken in terms of the late 70's, this is a science fiction classic.","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Having seen this movie in the theater when I was 8, I and everyone in my school was spellbound by it. Many parts of it haven't held up well 30 years later the acting is similar to any 70's made for TV show. It was made at a time when every show had a wisecracking character (think SNL) and had a symphonic theme (just listen to any TV theme show from the time). While the movie gets often nailed for the stoically wooden acting, 90% of the characters are scientists, robots or following the contemporary stereotype of astronauts as strong and taciturn. The plot is essentially 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea set in space. Culturally, the movie felt topical at the time. It was a perfect amalgamation of popular culture in the late 1970's science fiction (Star Wars, et al.), video games (Space Invaders), space exploration (the Voyager probes), laser guns and robots (everything from Battlestar Galactica to Buck Rogers), as well as ESP, parapsychology and heaven vs. hell (c.f. see the number of books on psychic phenomena and mysteries from the late 70's as well as the popularity of things like Heaven Can Wait and the George Burns' Oh God! movies). Disney took a huge gamble on a movie that was so overtly dark, both in tone and set lighting. The movie was not a runaway financial success but was not a loss either, a major achievement considering its extremely high price tag. Even if its ethos and pacing don't fit well with today's audiences, its design sense holds up today. The sets create a feeling of both scale, claustrophobia, and tension. The robot V.I.N.CENT actually steals the show, both in his insight and action. His action figure was more popular on the playground than any of the Star Wars figures, yet most of his constant clever yet arrogant wisdom comes from literary quotes far beyond any child's entertainment - from Shakespeare to Cicero to the Bible. Like the best Disney movies, this one was made to be simultaneously enjoyed on different levels by both the kids and adults in the audience.All in all, taken in terms of its time, it's a remarkable achievement in special effects and seeing Disney push its limits. The pacing, acting, musical themes, juxtaposition of long exposition with laser fights, scientific theories and portrayal of robots as rigid goose-steppers all seem dated today. The rest is a good allegory of balancing scientific genius with ethics. The practical effects still hold up. V.I.N.CENT is more human than any CGI creation and - with his constant humanities references, arrogance, and compassion for his crewmates - the most human component of the film. For anyone expecting a Disney movie circa the late 80's and afterwards, you may not be entertained. For classic science fiction fans as well as those who have nostalgia for or are interested in American culture in the late 70's, don't miss this. SPOILER BELOWThe ending is very 2001-esque and gets attacked for its obscurity, but the symbolism was clear to anyone who went to Sunday School (which at the time was nearly everyone) the bad guys went to hell and the good guys went to heaven. What's behind a black hole? According to the movie, the world all souls go to when they die. "},{"Title":"Disney meets Stanley Kubrick","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie received some hype when it debuted, as critics noted that it was the first non-kids movie from Disney--receiving a PG rating (unheard of at the time for Disney). As a result, I went to the movie with pretty high expectations.The plot and acting would probably merit a score of 4--maybe 5 in a pinch. Not especially good but not terrible. However, the movie really falls apart towards the end. What little momentum the movie generated becomes completely derailed, as it appeared they did not have an ending when they began filming--choosing to just wing it. Instead of the payoff for this dreary piece, the viewers were treated(?) to a combination of the ending of 2001 and some sort of avant garde art film that made absolutely no sense (unless you are on LSD or mentally imbalanced). You see, everyone is sucked into the black hole and, of course, this results in them flying through some silly corridors in billowy robes. Then, without explanation, they are back on the ship none the worse for wear! Huh?!?!?! PLEASE hit me on the head with a hammer if I ever ask to see this movie again! "},{"Title":"Bleh","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" There's a very good reason the attraction in Tomorrowland at Disney World has always been called Space Mountain and not The Black Hole even though the ride was obviously modeled after this movie.Overall, sub par acting (especially for a veteran cast), thin plot with more suspension of disbelief than is necessary except for maybe kids under 10. And that's kids under 10 in 1979, I doubt in this day and age that many kids over the age of 8 would fail to question some of the holes.Now, that being said, this IS a Disney movie and let's face it, the 70s aren't particularly noted for fantastic films. Take a look at some of the live-action crap Disney produced during that span (Watcher in the Woods, Unidentified Flying Oddball, The Cat From Outer Space, etc) and you can see where things were going. I've heard for years that Disney was in a very bad patch during this span (pre Eisner and the creation of dozens of new production companies to produce adult films without a direct link to the Disney label). They wanted to cash in on the new sci fi craze and biffed it. Just remember to thank God in your prayers every night for VCRs, cable TV and the Disney Channel - that's where the garbage that normally would have disappointed us every summer at your favorite theatre goes now.And yeah, Anthony Perkins getting frappéd by the floating red Cuisinart gave me nightmares, too. "},{"Title":"Dr. Mengele in space","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Though Disney Studios had certainly explored the realm of fantasy in their features and short films, their first venture into science fiction was this 1979 release The Black Hole. I'm not sure that if Walt Disney were alive the studio would have made a feature like this.Not that it's the best science fiction I've ever seen, the influence 2001 A Space Odyssey is plain for anyone to see on viewing The Black Hole. But it has some interesting aspects.And there's a bit of Star Wars in this one as well. There's a pair of R2D@ robots here only they don't just chirp and squeak. They are voiced quite eloquently by Roddy McDowell and Slim Pickens. Now there's a combination I never thought to at least hear on the big screen. They're the best in the film.Next best is Maximilian Schell who is a scientist in the tradition of Dr. Mengele. He's the only functioning human on board a large space ship that's parked near a Black Hole in space. It's a ship reported missing and another ship has come in search of it. The crew of the search vessel is staffed by Robert Forster, Joseph Bottoms, Yvette Mimieux, Ernest Borgnine, and Anthony Perkins.Perkins is a scientist who shows some strains of The Nutty Professor. He treats Schell like a colleague, but he ain't like any other colleague he's ever had.As for Borgnine he's a newspaper reporter. Now 1979 was before the internet and if the film were done today he'd be an internet blogger. I doubt that print newspapers will exist by the time next century rolls around when this set.The Black Hole won the Magic Kingdom a couple of Oscar nominations for technical categories. But while it's decent entertainment it breaks no grounds in science fiction. "}{"Title":"Eye of God","Date":"26 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" For such a naked Star Wars riff I think this underrated too. Murky and moody, the Cygnus spaceship where all the action takes place looks like a Gothic cathedral/industrial factory fun-house balanced on the edge of infinity, a gorgeous quantum whirlpool suspended in the heavens like the eye of God. The mad scientist story is rote and the googly eyed robots are a mismatch for the downbeat atmosphere but....the haunted house ghost ship with its huge deserted corridors & hooded monk-bots, the delicious & protracted destruction of the same and that awe inspiring conclusion with towering Mordor spires in tidal waves of fire & brimstone....there's definitely a darker, more visionary & operatic film laying underneath the generic happy meal shell. There's all sorts of exciting directions it could've gone that are only hinted at and its all pre-CGI so it has a certain weight to it, too. That last trip through the threshold could've pushed a lot further into 2001 territory. Like the critics said, it can't decide whether it wants to ape STAR WARS/STAR TREK or go off staring into the abyss. It needed to stop holding back & become the out 'n out horror movie it clearly wanted to be- in space no one can hear you scream! I've read it has a cult following & you can really see why. A very odd family flick, Di$ney could do interesting things despite itself. "},{"Title":"Disney's attempt at Star Wars","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Star Wars fever was everywhere by the end of 1978, we had Battlestar Galactica and Buck Rogers on TV (briefly), and numerous B-movie knockoffs which eventually ended up on Mystery Science Theatre (for good reason, I say). Disney caught this fever too, and decided to make their own space opera, so we get The Black Hole. It was controversial at the time for being the most expensive Disney movie ever made (at 20M, nearly twice as much as the original Star Wars), and the first Disney movie to receive a PG rating. Now Disney has Pirates of the Carribbean and Miley Cyrus videos, but in the 70s, a Disney product that was not safe for the under 10 crowd was quite scandalous. Did relatively well, but didn't set the world on fire. I imagine many people's first exposure to it was similar to mine, rented by our folks really as a placeholder until Empire Strikes Back and The Wrath of Khan dropped in price (people forget how expensive home video used to be).For the unfamiliar, the story concerns the crew of a stellar cartography vessel, the Palomino, consisting of the square jawed Captain Holland, hotshot pilot Charlie Pizer, empath Kate McCrae, science officer Alex Durant, embedded journalist Harry Booth, and utility droid LF-396, aka Vincent. They are on their way home for a retrofit when they discover a larger, older exploration vessel, the Cygnus, which disappeared several years earlier, dangerously close to the accretion disk of a black hole. They decide to investigate the ship, and once inside, they find a Rasputin lookalike by the name of Hans Reinhardt in command of a fully automated crew, including the crimson armored Maximilan, and the grizzled maintenance droid LF-28, aka Bob. Our heroes discover that the insane Reinhardt plans to take the ship into the black hole, which he believes is a gateway to the other side of the galaxy. When the original crew attempted to relieve him of command, Reinhardt had then indoctrinated, and he plans to do the same thing to our heroes.So, has it aged well since the 80s? Yes and no. The Cygnus remains visual marvel, it's like they put the Eiffel Tower and a Star Destroyer in a blender and kept pulsing it until they came up with something unique. Maximilian is also pretty cool looking, probably one of the coolest villainous robots not created by Skynet. The indoctrinated humanoids are fairly spooky. Reinhardt's android stormtroopers are precisely what the battle droids from the Star Wars prequels should have been. But the film has a bit of schizophrenia to it. The actors are having fun playing pistol jockey with the ray guns, but are likely biting their tongues on some of their lines. Vincent has a nice air of British sophistication to him, thanks to Roddy McDowall's voice work, but his design is more cute than utilitarian. Then there's Bob. Vincent was supposed to be a hybrid of both R2-D2 and C-3PO, so why add another droid? He imparts information that our heroes could (and should) have just as found out themselves via John Le Carre style spycraft (e.g. hacking into one of the ship's computer terminals), and then downgrades into the Jar Jar Binks of the team. For every good idea, there seems to be something that will have you rolling your eyes and asking Really? It seems as if instead of hiring a director that was actually a fan of this genre, they instead went with someone who probably just took a quick look at Star Wars and thought meh. There's a cool set piece featuring our heroes running through a corridor, with droid soldiers in hot pursuit, when a meteorite starts tearing its way through the hull, imagine how much more epic it would have been directed by a veteran of epic action in huge arenas. His most cardinal offense is having people in the vacuum of space without EVA suits. They must have been in a hurry to get this released before the Empire Strikes Back, because the second half is overall rushed.Until you get to the ending, where they take a stab at wacky surrealism. Quentin Tarantino has reportedly commented on its acid trip-like quality. Like it or hate it, it definitely has you scratching your head, and wondering why they would put it in a family film.So the big factor in your enjoyability is nostalgia. If you saw the film as a kid and rediscovered it thanks to Tarantino or Harry Knowles, then the nostalgia factor will make it a guilty pleasure. I can't say how likely is to win new converts, but it's worth a look at least. I hear Disney is looking at doing a remake, I say go for it, it could definitely benefit from modernization, since we know a lot more about black holes, AIs, and dark energy than we did in 1979. Ideally, a modernized version would draw influences from Sunshine, Ron Moore's Battlestar Galactica reboot, and Mass Effect 2 (the Arrival and Overlord segments). "},{"Title":"Merrily.. Merrily..","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Once again, we're in late 1970's Disney, aka, their dark period, where suddenly they were exploring slightly weirder and darker subject matter with their movies and animation. The Black Hole may be one of the weaker movies in this period. It's not necessarily bad, it's just somewhat clunky in terms on the story and special effects (eg, the things you were coming in to watch the movie for). The team of Robert Forster and company do a pretty good job of good guy astronauts trying to convince bad guy Maxmillian Schell not to drive his spaceship, yes, into a black hole. Schell has many secrets, unfortunately for the good guys, will they find out all of them in time? The robots here (hey, it was a little after Star Wars, give Disney a break) are probably the worst part of the movie. Both the good guy bots and the evil Maxmillian (the robot, not the actor!) are way too clunky and somewhat goofy looking. The movies does have it's good points though. The drones who run the ship are HELLA scary looking, and there's some splendid special effects in the end (maybe THAT'S where the budget went) and the 2001 ending is rather amusing, considering it's 10 years too late. "},{"Title":"Cheese in Space","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  ********PSEUDO-SPOILERS*********I hadn't seen this movie in YEARS.  In fact I hadn't even thought about in 17 years.  However the other I was flipping through the channels and instantly recognized the over saturated red color tone that encompasses the entire movie.  I was immediately drawn in, reliving my former youth.  It was much worse than I remembered, but it was still as much fun.  The robots were PATHETIC even for the time!  I mean this was post Star Wars, robots had taken an incredible turn.  There was no need to go retro.  I could make better robots out of my grandmothers bed pan.  I felt like I was watching an old episode of Lost in Space.  However, suck-bots aside it was still fun and retained that dark look although avoiding dark story like a real bad beating.  One sequence made me laugh at how unnecessary it was.  I think it was Alex who trips or something and is sent out into space and, in a an action that couldn't make me care even if my least favorite person was run over by a chariot, is suddenly saved by one of the robots.  WHY?!  How does this advance the story?  Oh wait, it doesn't!  It doesn't even add tension.  But like I said I still find it to be a fun movie, despite its tendencies to touch upon the ludicrous.  I'll tell you though, one of the final images in the movie to this day creeps me out.  When Reinhart is flying in the air at the end and he disappears out of frame followed by his head suddenly emerging from nowehere... damn, still gives me chills.  He is one scary SOB.  Anyway, I recommend it if you haven't seen and likewise if you have. "},{"Title":"Disney-Fi","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  *****Spoiler warning********For the time it was released this was a pretty good movie, although coming from Disney it was very *clean,* no blood or foul language or the like.  Some people have noted the movie has an almost deliberately retro look, and it does come across more like a movie from the sixties than the post Star-Wars era.  Everything's brightly lit because it's on a stage, the characters speak in voices that were probably dubbed over in post production, with careful intonations to everything so it doesn't sound like anything real people would say.  (Lines like Let's go here.  No, I don't want to.  The Doctor said we should.)There's also something very cardboard like in the characters, and they all fit into neat patterns of the hero leader, young cadet, old tough guy who's a coward, etc.  The plot itself is also something we've seen before.  Replace the spaceship with an island or castle and the black hole with some horrible experiment or monster and you've got this story and half the fifties-sixties horror movies.  That said there are some high points.  The Cygnus was pretty cool, and very different compared to most other movie spaceships, and the philosophy spouting and wise robot Vincent was a change of pace from the usual innocent wanna be human android we normally get.  Maximillian the evil robot was something that Ridley Scott could have had some fun with.  OTOH the beat up robot voiced by Slim Pickens almost single handedly ruined the movie.  I've got nothing against Slim, just a robot speaking with a beat down Texas drawl is something that just shouldn't *be*.Another let down was the ending, which starts off with a sequence of the Cygnus going into the Black Hole that tries as hard as it can to make it exciting, although the phony special effects pretty much kill the impetus.  (Especially the scene of the rail car doing loops in the tube, a close second being the giant meteor that's running down the inside of the ship.)  Then when the Cygnus should be torn to pieces under the gravity effects we instead get a calm breakup and the characters being exposed to seemingly breathable air outside the ship, almost as if it was adrift in the sea.Then of course we get the finale that is supposed to be interpretational but is pretty easy to sort out.  Reinhardt is locked into Maximillian's shell and condemned to hell, while the astronauts who are supposed to be going to heaven instead end up flying off to some unknown planet.  (Or actually just a dark body.)  Okay, maybe they left a few blanks in there.I think this movie had the idea there, just it lacked bold direction and the willingness to make it go somewhere.  I enjoyed it when I was 12 and the kids today may still like it a bit, but for adults it's kind of empty. "},{"Title":"Curiously strange B-movie feel to it...","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I heard about this one after it had already flopped, after the bad word on it had spread and after it had gone to the earliest forms of home video. When I did actually see it, it was at the birthday party of a sci-fi enthusiast I knew back then. I felt sorry for him there was a really spoiled brat who had also gotten invited who had seen the flick before (who was ironically named Vincent!), and when what was going to play was announced this brat actually announced in the rudest voice you ever heard, You're supposed to ENTERTAIN us, not BORE us to death!!!I kept politely quiet, and watched the movie with an open mind. It puzzled me, of course and I got to get a lot of closer looks when The then-new Disney Channel reran it several times one particular month. I watched it a LOT during that period desperately trying to make sense out of it. As a result, I know the movie nearly by heart.To show that I don't want to be mean here, I want to attempt pointing out some good things about this movie since I've seen dozens upon dozens of sarcastic reviews from the press trashing it. Sure it's not the ultra-cool TRON, which had everybody and myself flocking like crazy to the theatre several times over to see it, but looking back on it now THE BLACK HOLE isn't terrible--it's just pretty bad. There are a few things here and there which fascinate, and even a few moments that inspire genuine awe.Strings suspending a floating robot aside, the movie tends to look gorgeous in so many ways. I've always been fascinating by how they made the actual black hole itself look. And the Cygnus ship looks amazing. Indeed, there are a ton of impressive visuals here to go ga-ga over and an overall STAR TREK feel despite the 20,000 LEAGUES-style script. It also has a pretty good soundtrack to boot.There's something curious about the film, though... it appears to have a deliberately retro B-movie look and feel to it. Despite the special effects, it makes you think of all this old 50s and 60s sci-fi bits right down to the opening credits and the heroes' costumes. Now that's not a bad thing these days, but back then--when STAR WARS was fresh out in the theatres swatting away the older sci-fi cliches that this movie sports--this was a serious mistake. People wanted the new flavour that STAR WARS was sporting, not something like this that was a step backward in style. If this film had been made ten years perviously, I think it would have appealed a lot more. Also, it's awfully slow compared to other sci-fi films, which adds to the problem.*SPOILER*Much has been said about the ending, and throughout my entire life I keep getting told that it's supposed to be heaven and hell. I'm still confused as to whether this is the case. The first portion certainly does suggest hell with all the fire and flames everywhere and a really weird visual involving what appears to be a line of cloaked people being checked in by some weird waving *thing* off in the distance at the line's head (I kept watching for that shot over and over back then to try to figure out what was at the head of the line without luck. Maybe the DVD might make the image clearer). The second portion, though, is merely a silvery corridor of some kind during which you see some weird featherish thing flying off into the distance. Someone told me, That's an angel! I said, No it's not, it looks more like a weird featherish thing!!! ;) Whatever, I still can't make it out.Also, the whole bit regarding Maximillian Shell and the robot doing whatever the heck they were supposed to be doing doesn't make any sense to me either, but that sequence really freaked me out when I was young these days as an adult I'm used to it, but I *still* can't figure it out. Seriously, at first it looks like they're making out, especially with the way the music sounds in the background (and I'm not attempting to be sarcastic when I say that--I mean it). What was all that, anyway?Those are the details which I would love to examine in the original script if I only had it.If this all sounds unbelievable twisted, you're right. THE BLACK HOLE is stunningly strange. But it's more interesting than it has been given credit for. It's one major problem throughout the ages has to do with the fact that it was considered at the time Disney's answer to STAR WARS, and so everybody was anxiously waiting to see if Disney was about to fight back, so to speak. That detail will always hang over this movie in the eyes of its viewers. But it is interesting to see, even if only once or twice. Just pretend that the movie was made around 1967 or so and you'll be fine. ;)  "},{"Title":"I can't judge this movie impartially","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Black Hole was maybe the third or fourth movie that I'd seen in my life up to that point, so it held a special place in my heart.  Viewing it again now, I see how cheesy the story was.  But the atmospherics still stand out to this day -- the way the Cygnus was lit (or not lit, to be more accurate) really made the sense of foreboding palpable.  Compare that to how the latest Star Wars installments are shot like video games on a caffeine rush, and you wonder whether special effects have really improved over the years. "},{"Title":"A watchable science fiction movie!","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Although this movie is quite a cheesy, very 70's, science fiction movie, I have found it watchable. The plotline was pretty good, but the aspect of the movie that intrigued me the most was the film direction. When they were going through the black hole and were hearing all those wierd voices, that was dramatic. My favorite part of the movie is when Dr. Hans Reinhart is in the black hole (I think)and goes in the robot shell and the scan over his eyes, then zoom out and just show him standing on that ledge, as if he was taking a step back and looking at what was happening or what would become of him. I would recommend this movie to people who have never even dared to watch a science fiction movie, or people who LOVE dramatic filming techniques. "},{"Title":"One of the first movies I ever saw","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  If there is one image I will remember forever from this movie,it is the scene where the good guys are running over the bridge...and there's this ENORMOUS fireball rolling down the corridor,heading straight for them. I second the comment about this being one of Disney's only watchable live-action movies. It's more than watchable,it's a really good movie with interesting ideas and an absolute knockout performance by Maximillian Schell. "},{"Title":"Okay film, and one of a few actually decent Disney productions...","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film was made for one purpose only to make money from the wake of Star Wars and, to a lesser degree, Alien.However, competition from Star Trek The Motion Picture, released about a couple of weeks prior to The Black Hole, coupled with the later release of The Empire Strikes Back ensured that this movie's box office earnings would indeed be a deep black void.Aliens and Star Trek were successful because they were both more interesting.  In the case of Star Trek, it already had a huge fan following from the original TV series.  The other reason could be attributed to the fact that Disney and sci-fi did not, and still does not, entirely mix.The story does have some originality and is actually intriguing.  The acting performances are good and the score by John Barry is very good.  However, the film sometimes exhibits a magical Disney touch at certain points. This magical touch isn't really appropriate given the film's subject matter. In my opinion, it's this magical touch that, even though it blessed other Disney films, literally made this film, and Tron, laughable.  Both movies had great potential, but were ultimately ruined by forcing the Disney wonder upon them.The biggest letdown is special effects.  The only thing good I could say about the special FX were some of its miniatures construction and their explosions.  But the film had some awfully sloppy matte work, unrealistic looking miniature motion control effects, and some jerky animation effects. Disney hyped that this film was a special effects breakthrough.  However, when compared to the likes of Star Wars and Star Trek The Motion Picture, The Black Hole gets left in the cold dark reaches of space. No longer was Disney the special effects cream-of-the-crop, and this was realised too late.This is a film that still has potential of a remake, but it's production and distribution has to be handled by a different company, or at least by a different division of Buena Vista.  This is a film where adding the Disney mark and Disney magic will curse it to dramatic and artistic idiocy and box office failure.You still have to love that oh crap look on Dr. Durant's face, Anthony Perkin's character, as he discovers that Dr. Reindhart, Maximillian Schnell's character, is a mass murderer.  (Which begs the question as to why a Disney film would feature a character who's a mass murderer.)I still recommend watching the movie if you are interested, if you can filter out the Disney-esque that's in it.  The acting, music score, and story's core subject help to save this film from becoming a void.  It's worth a rental.  Be sure to get the widescreen version so you can watch the film in its original Technovision format and to help keep the cinematography intact.That leaves another question.  Why in the world didn't they use Panavision like Star Trek and Star Wars did?  - Reinhart "}{"Title":"Not bad, but I don't buy the ending...","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This started off well, and you can see where the inspiration for Event Horizon came from.  It had good special effects and above average performances from the cast, as well as a fairly decent plot and good script, and the director seemed to know where he was going......Until the end.  What happened?  The ending was a load of sh*te, and it didn't really make much sense.  It spoilt the film for me, which is why I've only gave it six out of ten, "},{"Title":"Why is this Black Hole every color BUT black?","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw The Black Hole on HBO way back in 81' and thought it was a cheesy bomb even then. ( Some twelve year-olds DO have critical thinking capacities.) Even then I was wondering,  If not even light can escape from a black hole, then why is this one brighter than Vegas on acid?I had no interest in these people. What where they doing out there to start with? The last third is that tired, drawn-out Take cover, she's gonna blow!!! pandemonium.Inane dialog, soapy, melodramatic and lousy acting. The only thing that saves it are some still-sorta-kinda-cool effects and a few minutes of disturbing imagery near the end. But those goddamned little trash-can robots with painted, yes PAINTED eyes! Surely they could've done better than THAT, right? To answer the summary, obviously if the movie actually just showed a black hole it would be pretty dull to look at, I guess.What kills me is there are still those who think this is a mini-masterpiece while Tron is junk. At least Tron didn't take itself so seriously. "},{"Title":"A different Disney film","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Black Hole was made during a period when Disney was undergoing a lot of turmoil.  The company was under the impression that family oriented films were not popular.  Disney films especially were  deemed by the public as just for kids.  So, during this period Disney made an attempt to make their films more adult oriented.The story is fairly well written, although the ending does seem to leave most people confused and wondering what happened.  The acting and dialogue on the other hand are rather weak.The look and style of the film is one of the things that I enjoy the most. In fact it's where the studio spent most of its money and concentration on the film.  The opening title sequence immediately sets the tone of the movie with an errie music score and flight over a CGI grid.  The Black Hole does contain some rather stunning special effects right along side some very cheap special effects.So, aside from the lack of attention to the story line and character development this is a pretty decent film.  If you like The Black Cauldron or Watcher in the Woods then you'll probably enjoy The Black Hole.  "},{"Title":"This is....interesting...dated but not bad.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember seeing this when it came out in late '79 and I liked it at the time-I was in 8th grade and quite impressed, though the whackjob ending needed explanation or a re-write in the scripting process....Few things though first, having looked through the other comments.  Saw it mentioned that this movie 'Bombed' or disappeared fast when it came out.Wrong! Check out the box office info on the side there. It's domestic rentals(half the actual gross, more or less) were 25M, a gross of about 50M. In 1980, this would have been Big, it wound up in the top 10-12 for the year. Yeah you heard me right. You have to stop thinking in terms of 2000 bucks and go back 20 years. This one made probably about 120M(more or less) in today's $$$. That sound like a bomb or film that came and went real quick? Doesn't to me, either.Popeye is another one that gets slagged as being a bomb by its critics-but again, guys-its all a matter of not being lazy-do a little research. 'Popeye' was the #10 film of '80, according to Premiere Magazine. It made about 50M, which again is something like 110-120M now. Hate either film all ya wanna, but don't go calling them busts financially. There were not then and are not now.As for the actual movie, well...its a victim of high, hype driven expectations and therefore gets hurt by them. I saw it again for the first time in over 20 years on TNT this morning. I liked it! It was slow, sure, Tony Perkins and Robert Forster slept walked through their roles, the robots were too cartoony,(paging Jar Jar...), and yeah, the ending sux. I don't mind a 2001 style vision if it has some depth or meaning, but we here in the audience sure weren't expecting it then and aren't now.But what's good-the F/x-esp the Hole, the Cygnus is cool, the Droid bots are OK, I thought the lasers they shot were well done, the starry backgrounds certainly well designed too. I have always liked BOTH Roddy McDowell and Slim Pickens, its too bad the 'bots they're saddled with are no more impressive than Cro and Tom Servo. As a kid I kinda liked them but did wince from time to time. Now? Wincing more.I am impressed by the range of talents that were put in front of the screen-Borgnine, Schell, Mimieux, etc. All are decent actors but had little to actually do for much of the film. You hadda like the go karts that they had to ride around on too, eh? Paging George Jetson!This was def. a Star Wars knock off in places, and you can sure see '2001 Leagues...' in it too. I think that Disney made a decent movie, but needed a tighter, more involving script and a better idea of who to target it too-was it for kids, teenagers or adults? They wound up being all over the board and as such, provided a watered down product.Gotta like Maximillian, by the way, had that Gort thing going on. Still works pretty good though its obviously just a big plastic rig on wires to these semi-jaded 34 year old eyes...no biggie.I give it a **1/2 rating, damning with faint praise--but its worth yer time, give it a shot.  "},{"Title":"It once was horrid, but now it's pretty OK.","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Oh, the anticipation.  In 1977, out of nowhere, Star Wars came and just BLEW us all away.  Man, that rush lasted for years.  So when we learned that Disney was making a science fiction film, WOW!  Others had already tried, and failed, to duplicate Star Wars, but Disney had the tradition and resources and talent to produce a movie that would DUST and CRUSH Star Wars.  So when this well-hyped juggernaut of a movie finally was released, we made sure we went to one of the big fancy L.A. theaters down in Century City.  And there we saw... The Black Hole.  Is it as bad as it looked to us that day?  No.  Words can't describe how totally awful it seemed.   And not just awful, but a complete failure.  Nothing about it seemed to work. Everything looked so utterly and incomprehensibly lame that we couldn't even imagine how someone could deliberately make that movie.Our reaction was fairly typical.  The Black Hole died quickly and for years nobody would even whisper the movie's name at Disney.  But that was long ago.  Since then the world has been flooded with science fiction movies a few good ones, mediocrities galore, and more than a few ghastly ones.  And I now realize that everybody, including me, made a fundamental mistake.  We all thought we wanted another movie like Star Wars, but what we really wanted was to feel the EFFECT that Star Wars first had on us, one more time.  But that was impossible.  Star Wars was a surprise.  Nobody who went to see it was expecting what they got.  And you can't duplicate that effect if you are seeking it.  The Black Hole may not be a great film, but it got blasted by everyone for attempting, and failing to achieve, the impossible.The movie itself is indeed flawed.  After Walt's death Disney films in general were pretty lackluster.  An internal commitment to continue producing the same types of Disney films that had been made before crippled creativity.  Anything new, by definition, is different; and nobody was ever sure whether some new idea was still properly Disney.  Only by rehashing the tried and true are you assured that you'll maintain all the Disney traditions... except innovation.Well it wasn't working.  Weak performances from weak films was the result.  They finally decided they had to change and The Black Hole was an early attempt.  It was the first Disney film EVER not to have a 'G' rating, it was darker and heavier in mood than any previous Disney film, and in many ways it was genuinely innovative.  Unfortunately, they were still tied too tightly to the past, with much of the film being filled with recycled pretend innovation, and infested with big-eyed cutesy robots.  Though it will never be a classic, watching it now, in the context of many years worth of blockbuster science fiction hits of indifferent quality, makes The Black Hole shine much brighter. "},{"Title":"An also-ran that deserves a remake?","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember seeing this film when it aired on the Wonderful World of Disney back in the 80s. It seems like a real transitional piece, made with 50s-looking designs (the Palomino could have come off the cover of Amazing Stories), techniques, film stock - very grainy Kodachrome yellow- and 50s actors at that. Remarkable when 3 years later the same company would herald the modern CGI era with fresh techniques and young, appealing actors in Tron ( has no-one noticed how the red Recognizers in Tron are pretty much a simplified version of Maximilian? ;) This film deserves a rewrite and a remake- and one significantly different from Event Horizon, which another poster well noted is the most similar film to TBH. Junk the cute robots, put an interesting misfit cast together (as Ridley Scott did for Alien), and a flawed, yet human villain-maybe Kevin Spacey or Robert Carlyle. And the ending? Well, I don't want to give away all my best ideas, but some have theorized that the matter that drains away down black holes emerges in other universes - maybe this time when the crew get sucked down they actually *become* another universe- i.e. they become God. Which is a better twist on the Disney ending, doncha think? "},{"Title":"A little cheesy,and ridiculous at times,but still a good film","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie intrigued me as a youngster. I liked VINCENT and BOB,the two heroic robots,and always wanted one of my own. Maximillian is still today one of the scariest villain robots I've ever seen,besides the Terminator. There are several problems with the film,such as our heroes trying to make their way to the escape ship near the end. They are subjected to deep space,without space suits,all this happening dangerously close to a black hole! Talk about ridiculous! But it's fun to watch,and makes one think about what is truly beyond a black hole...Two out of Four stars "},{"Title":"film project began in 1974...went through many phases....Some spoilage!","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  THE BLACK HOLE, began in 1974, as a project known as SPACE PROBE ONE. During the first few years of development there was no mention of a black hole at all. By 1977, there was a black hole, Reinhardt, etc. In the first few drafts of this story arch, there was a V style rise of hitler allegory/metaphor. Some aspects of this remain in the finished film (ie. the german looking goosestepping robots, and the contolling nature of Reinhardt etc..) However, in the subsequent drafts there was a strong PILGRIMS PROGRESS style religious under current in place of the nixed WW2 metaphors. All this comes to a head in the controversial filmed end. In the filmed version, MAXIMILLIAN is a demigod, Reindhardt is the devil, and the space travelers are caught up in a collosal tug of war between good and evil. In fact, the end is the classic biblical tale of wide is the road to destruction, narrow is the road to eternal life parable. In the end, Reinhardt, his droid, and the crew of the Cygnus end up in Hell, while the good guys escape the fires and are greeted to a vision of heaven. The crew of the Cygnus is symbolic of those who are duped into following the devil into hell's flames. Like I said, the ending was controversial....I couldn't appreciate it the first time I saw it....however, I do now. If you have the DVD version pay close attention during the hell scene....you can see the drone members of the Cygnus crew in skeleton outfits standing amidst the flame!.....Heavy handed imagery indeed!!!!!....Yet, interesting. "},{"Title":"No classic, but a good two hours","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is not a classic.  Disney might consider it such, but being that they think everything they do deserves that status, it's not saying much. Most of the time the movie can't seem to focus on what it's doing.  Most of the scenes seem composed simply to show off the at-the-time impressive visual effects and nobody cared if it helped the story or not.  The story is also destroyed by the requisite Disney elements, namely moronic creatures that only appeal to young children.  I find it disturbing when a living cartoon spouts off wisdom beyond the ages right after cutely widening his eyes at some so called 'horror'.  Images of Jar Jar Binks came to mind instantly.  Aside from the maddening waste of time given to Vincent and Bob (although it was nice to hear the great Slim Pickens again) and the damage they caused the script, this is still a very dark and haunting film filled with amazing images and sets.  Not a classic, but worth the time. "},{"Title":"A Ghost Story","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Most people feel the need to compare the Black Hole to Star Wars, and while it is probably true that Disney never would have greenlighted the Black Hole if not for Lucas' success, the Black Hole and Star Wars share little in common besides cute robots and a few laser fights. Indeed, the Black Hole appears to be more substantially inspired by Stanley Kubrick's 2001 than George Lucas' little space opera.The Black Hole is actually a rather bleak tale; a ghost story set on a spaceship instead of in a haunted house, but a ghost story nonetheless. The score is excellent, managing to be heroic and uplifting when it has to be, while remaining spooky and unsettling most of the time. There are indeed cute robots (visually cute, but their personalities are rougher than you'd assume just looking at them), yet the sinister red figure of Maximilian remains one of the most chilling villians in all of film.There are problems, certainly. Not merely with the science, but also with the script and the acting. Robert Forster looks annoyed, as if he's insulted that he has to do this material, while Earnest Borgnine hams it up. The action scenes are pretty weak particularly the fight in the hospital, although some of the gunplay is well done. The effects weren't even state of the art when it was filmed, and they suffer due to the twenty year gap between its initial release and now.Still, for all its flaws, the Black Hole is a good movie. It tries, at least, which is more than can be said for most films. Of course, I could just be speaking from nostalgia. "}{"Title":"A mixed bag","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Black Hole is an uncomfortable combination of Disney Cutsieness with dark adventure.It seems that they wanted to not only capture Star Wars's magic but also the magic of one of their earlier masterpieces 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea.The cornball characters/dialog, cute robots with LARGE cartoon eyes and an omninous theme of exploring the dangers of a mad scientist and black hole mix like oil and water.However, with all that said I really enjoyed the film as a campy oddity. It also happens to have very astonishing optical effects(especially for 1980). The music is incredible as well.It just should've made up it's mind on whether it wanted to be a dark Science Fiction film or a good kid's space adventure. "},{"Title":"Buy it for the music, stay for the movie.","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  THE BLACK HOLE made more money than any in Disney's history (considering THE LOVE BUG was 1969's most successful domestic film and the classic MARY POPPINS was a huge hit this is impressive).  In post STAR WARS moviedom however, unless a picture has returns that quadruple it' costs (THE BLACK HOLE cost $20 million)it's labeled less than a success.  The fact is the film was an also ran in a world of STAR WARS and STAR TREK (which faired about the same), but a nice one.  Disney has explored themes of Heaven and Hell before as in FANTASIA (Night at Bald Mountain sequence), 20,000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA (in which THE BLACK HOLE is essentially a remake), and even cat heaven and reincarnation in THE THREE LIVES OF THOMASINA,  but never so realistically (or surrealistically).  The ending which showed each astronaut's greatest dream of what the afterlife should be (and thus materializing itself as thus) went over the minds of most, but remember 2001 had books to explain its ending, and THE BLACK HOLE only had a paperback novelization.  Compared to STAR WARS the so-so acting is stellar.  The film's original theme is beautiful and haunting as well as the mat work (courtesy of Peter Ellenshaw--father to Star Wars FXpert Ellenshaw--which explains robots very reminiscent of R2D2 and Storm Troopers).  Despite some Disney adventure the film is slower paced attempting to be more than just a video game but without the plot to make it more.  Too bad the original beginning of the film which featured the weightless crew doing acrobats in the space ship has not been restored.  But then as now it's not beautiful crafted scenes that count it's how many times they blow something up that viewers look for.  Maybe the film would have made more money if they had the space station attacked by ships of giant bugs.  Wouldn't have hurt the thin plot.   "},{"Title":"Interesting parallels to Event Horizon","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Black Hole was the first Sci-Fi movie I saw when I was 8 years old (Yes, I saw Star Wars shortly after in it's re-release).  I am surprised to find that it holds up well for it's almost-20 year (and many sci-fi movies later...) review.  There is your resident Disney element there were the cutesy robots, Vincent and Bob, and the usual high moral elements of good vs. evil.  And even when Anthony Hopkins' character dies (Sorry, spoiler) there is no blood to speak of in that incident, considering the way he goes. What really got me was some of the parallels to Event Horizon, another movie referring to the time/space continuum.  The Palomino (the survey ship in The Black Hole) bumps into a long lost ship, the USS Cygnus, and when approaching the craft is in similar need of repair.  They even both explore the Einstein-Rosen bridge, though not explicitly explained in the Black Hole, in both of the movies (&#133;that black holes are wormhole style portals that transport you to a different part of the galaxy--correct me kids if I'm wrong on this.)  The fundamental difference is that The Cygnus and Palomino are dealing with a naturally occurring black hole, and that Event Horizon creates a black hole with its gravity drive.  Both scientists each movie wanted to prove their theories and both paid a great price for it. Naturally, Event Horizon had the Spook factor turned up to about 25 while The Black Hole had a Spook factor of about 6 or 7 (some of you may argue with this being much less.)  Also, the special effects seemed a little less sophisticated (lasers looked lousy but for all I know I had a seriously lousy copy of the film.)  But the set design and music could be considered very good.  Even the plot was pretty meaty for a Disney movie.  This could be a pretty good candidate for a restoration and re-release, but critics would probably pan this off as a poor knockoff of other sci-fi movies. The other biggest beef I have with black hole in the adult perspective is that the army of robots are a little to sixties sci-fi hokey.  With Star Wars having been out for two years (and yes, Disney was probably trying to cash in on the sci-fi mania that Star Wars created) they could've put a little more effort into the robots and the laser effects.  But maybe I had a lousy copy...-)  Vincent also had one too many cliches up his sleeve, but I could see Star TrekTNG's Data come to mind. As to the allusions of Heaven and Hell not having any place in a Disney movie (see other user comments), I'm not surprised at all that it was in there.  Morals have always been an element of Disney movies, and this was no different.  Like other commenters, this movie is so unlike everything they have ever came out with.  It was a pretty risky move for Disney to come out with a movie like this, and it looks like Disney tripped.  I am, however, able to appreciate this movie on more levels as an adult. "},{"Title":"A wolf remains a wolf, even if it doesn't eat your sheep.....","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" For five years the crew of the Palomino has ranged through deep space, searching for evidence of alien life. With their mission almost at an end, they discover the largest black hole ever encountered. Drifting perilously near it, is the long-lost legendary starship Cygnus. It's commander who designed the Cygnus and planned its epic voyage still survives, served by a horde of mechanical slaves. But Commander Hans Reinhardt has no desire to be rescued. He has a rendezvous with the incredible forces of the titular hole, and he plans to take the Palomino crew along on his doomed adventure.The Black Hole is a film that has to be seen to be believed. Not because of its wonderful story, narrative, or characterisation, it's the blatant ripping off of Star Wars that Disney has seemingly done......and it's a wonderful disaster.If Perkins had Switched roles with Schell, then it may have been a little bit more darker than it is here, it's odd to see Perkins looking threatening even when he's a seemingly harmless Doctor, and having Schell apologise every five minutes for his red hot robot.Story wise, the film sucks, and ironically, one of the main plot holes involves that word,so go figure.But, it's a technical marvel. It's the best Bond theme Barry never did, the effects are pretty cool for the seventies, and there's always the charm of seeing weightlessness depicted with people on wires.Forster looks permanently embarrassed as the Will Robinson caricature, McDowell is okay as the below par cowboy wannabe R2-D2, and the extras as robots look like something straight out of a Kraftwerk.It's an oddity movie for sure, not very good, but certainly not boring, and it has one of the most bizarre, psychedelic last shots I've ever seen in a film.A technical achievement, purely because it's pretty dreamy to watch. "},{"Title":"Underrated Gem","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's a shame The Black Hole was panned and largely forgotten after it's release. There's a lot here to enjoy. The story is interesting, with a spaceship that was lost 20 years previous being discovered next to a giant black hole, it's crew lost save for it's eccentric and possibly insane captain and his crew of androids. As you can imagine, perilous shenanigans ensue.The cast is a mixed bag. The big hitters like Anthony Psycho Perkins, Maximilian Schell and Ernest Borgnine are excellent, the lesser names like Robert Foster and Yvette Mimieux less impressive. The real stars of the feature are the three main robot characters, Vincent, Bob and the menacing Maximillian. Comparisons to the recent Star Wars were made, and with hindsight you can understand why this movie was seen as inferior. Where Star Wars relied largely on a young and aesthetically pleasing cast with the likes of Harrison Ford and Carrie Fisher, Black Hole's main core consists of actors the wrong side of 40.The effects are impressive for 1979, and the ship interior is just huge. It's a good thing they got the ship designs right because not much happens outside of the ship. The music score is phenomenal. The script is a bit ropey, throwing out silly Disney-esque fluff one minute and following it up with statements like Could this be an Einstein-Rosen bridge? the next. Huh? Exactly.The Black Hole is much maligned, and unfairly so in my opinion. It's well worth a revisit. It's dark, brooding and menacing and more cerebral than what I expect from a 70s Disney production. It's no masterpiece but if we must make Stars Wars comparisons it pales next to The Empire Strikes Back but it's certainly as good as Return Of The Jedi. "},{"Title":"Disney's best movie","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I call The Black Hole Disney's best sci-fi movie so far, and it's rather sad for Disney, since the movie was made back in 1979. The movie has a good story, and some really good special effects, considering when it was made.The only thing I didn't really care for was The Black Hole's more friendly robot from the original ship. You could really tell that the robot had Disney's sweet effect.I also have to ask, since the group got through a black hole, had the black hole really been a wormhole the crew had experienced going through? Oh well, I can still watch this movie today and see it listed somewhere up in the classic sci-fi movies (like the original Star Wars). "},{"Title":"Cute and dark at the same time","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" What was Disney's reaction to the Star Wars phenomenon in 1977? The answer make the Black Hole. The outcome? Not a phenomenon. Sadly. However, the film is actually pretty good, even though it never really set the box office on fire at the time.It tells of a story of a space ship's crew who discover a giant ship, holding orbit just out of reach of a menacing black hole. When they investigate this 'ghost ship' they find it's populated by sinister robots and a mad scientist.Perhaps one reason it never found its audience was because it is both 'ultra cute' and 'pretty dark' all at the same time. The good robots are designed to appeal to children (despite never being as annoying as you think they might be), but the overall tone of the piece is pretty foreboding and bleak. I won't give too much away, but it's not a happy-go-lucky affair, plus it has an ending which the younger audiences might not get (I didn't, until I grew up and confirmed it on the internet!).Also, whereas Star Wars was timeless (showing few signs of being made in the seventies), The Black Hole looks a little like 'old science fiction' with the uniforms and robots. Then you have the budget... I couldn't work out whether it had a big budget or a shoestring one. The set for the derelict spaceship is truly awesome, showing vast expanses and giving off a greater sense of space than either the Nostromo (Alien) or even the Death Star (Star Wars). Plus there are a few scenes near the end (i.e. the crashing meteorite) which are truly breathtaking. Maybe they spent all their money on the sets and didn't have enough money left over for stunt men? The bad robots are similar to Star Wars Stormtroopers, yet they are blatantly models - when they're knocked over, you can see there's no one in them and they just topple over stiff as a board. This kind of shows the film up as a lesser budget and is one example of a few which highlight a lack of budget.I'm not sure how many new fans The Black Hole will pick up nowadays. It's a product of its time. I think young boys (under 10?) will still like the robots and sense of good vs evil, plus people who grew up with it (such as myself) will always regard it fondly. Or, maybe it you're just looking for some nostalgic sci-fi, then this will certainly tick all boxes. "},{"Title":"They Don't Make Kids Movies Like This Any More","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" My generation were the luckiest when it came to children's movies - we had Tron, Watership Down, Empire Strikes Back, Flash Gordon and this - one of the best Disney films ever (and certainly one of the darkest).Great storyline, beautiful sets, cute robots, a fantastic soundtrack by John Barry and a superb cast - especially Maximilian Schell as a Demis Roussos from hell, who should have been nominated for an award.It's an intelligent picture that works for both kids and adults alike. And best of all - there's not a hint of CGI in sight. Just good old fashioned puppeteering and wire-work.Do they make kids movies like this any more? Abso-lutely Not! "},{"Title":"Botty Bots Steal The Show.","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Disney's trip into outer space may not carry much substance on the page, but it's an ambitious venture that's not without entertainment merits. Plot finds a spaceship crew going forth into a Black Hole and encountering a despot who was long since thought off as dead. The money spent is there on the screen to enjoy in 1979 terms, with the special effects and set designs really making time spent with the movie a solid experience. Unfortunately the writing is lazy, coming off as a collage of sci-fi classics that had previously enthralled the various generations of genre lovers. The cast assembled are reliable sorts - Anthony Perkins, Ernest Borgnine, Yvette Mimieux, Maximilian Schell, Robert Forster - but they are usurped by the fun robots who, whilst once again showing the film to be a lazy rip-off, are good company to be in and offset the confusing attempt by the makers to create a thought provoking family movie! 6/10 "},{"Title":"The Cygnus is the real star.","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I want this to be a better film, if for no other reason than to be a better showcase for the magnificent starship that was designed for it. The USS Cygnus is one of the most unique, most striking creations to come out of science fiction film during the 1970s and 80s, and it simply deserves a better venue.Unfortunately, this is just not the case. The Black Hole is a hot mess that infers more than it says and can't seem to make up its mind whether it's catering to adults or children. Its shortcomings include1. The robots (with the exception of the evil Maximilian) are cartoonish and campy.2. The lasers almost sound like ketchup being squirted from a bottle.3. In the zero gravity scenes, one can see the cables attached to the actors as they float.4. The rustbucket Palomino looks like a small-town water tower that's been launched into space. The only thing missing is graffiti.5. The seasoned cast perform as if they're bored with the whole thing. The best performance goes to Roddy McDowell for his uncredited voice- over of V.I.N.C.E.N.T.6. And the ending is so bizarre and incomprehensible that it leaves one scratching his head and thinking, What the what?The only bright spot here is the Cygnus (the scene near the end where the ship is smoking, buckling, and spinning into the black hole is a truly stunning sight). If the makers of The Black Hole had given as much attention to the rest of the production, the film could have been as magnificent. If only.... "}{"Title":"A different SF film, sometimes even breathtaking.","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" One of those Disney films (like Dragonslayer) that you didn't expect from the Mouse house.It's far from a perfect film - it suffers from some questionable design and/or story decisions. VINCENT and BOB - clearly inspired by R2D2 and C3PO - are offered as comic relief but stand out like sore thumbs in their big-eyed Disneyness. The stupid thing about having them in this film at all is that The Black Hole is never never never a children's film. It's far more frightening than Star Wars; children will be seriously overstrained by it. And the (kind of) open ending is not very satisfying either, in Reinhard's case even terrifying. Another design problem The Palomino. Just doesn't compute.Which leads us to the highlights (why the film still earns 7/10 and the occasional re-watch from me)- The cast. Ernest Borgnine, Anthony Perkins, Maximilian Schell ...- The story Quite original as far as SF stories go. No war, no space battles, no aliens, but subtle horror.- And of course The Cygnus. One of the immortal space ship designs, up there with the Millennium Falcon and the Star Destroyer and the Discovery (from 2001). They don't build them like this anymore. (Yes, they had to build these things in '79 ... the big Cygnus model was about 4 meters long). "},{"Title":"where is MST3K when you need it?","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this on Showtime, because I remembered it being promoted as Disney's venture into showing how SciFi should be done. It was the late 70's, Star Wars had paved the way for a new genre of film making and Disney was wanting to get into live action films. Unfortunately, this film is horrible. The actors are 60's/70's (not quite) stars, the special effects are a few steps below 70's network TV quality and the plot is bad in the few parts where it is understandable. There is even a scene where one of those slowly moving outer space conveyor belts is about to cut our heroine in half. Like in a Dudley Do-Right episode. She gets saved.The robots in this movie make Lost in Space seem like something out of Avatar. Yvette Mimieux looks fantastic for a 50 year old, but unfortunately, she is in her 30's. Ernest Borgnine looks like he is wishing he was back on McHale's Navy. Maximilian Schell looks ecstatic to be getting a paycheck. The only saving grace may be that Slim Pickens did the voice for the slightly retarded version of VINCENT (BOB)... it comes off like an early take on Larry the Cable Guy doing Tater on Cars. "},{"Title":"Intimidating Space Opera of Loneliness","Date":"22 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't even pretend to claim that The Black Hole is a great or even competent film. It's a badly plotted, overly talky mess with uneven effects, acting, and a tone which bounces back and forth from juvenile fantasy to sadistic thriller with stunning unease. Also I'm extremely biased, having been raised on this film and forgiving a lot that would turn a lot of people off, namely the kid-friendly design for Vincent and Bob.The Black Hole does stand out however with being one of the few expensive and fairly lavish films to present space not as an exciting arena for action but a cold and lonely place, populated by barely any humans at all. Also it deals with a lot of very adult and creepy subject matter, namely regarding the relationship between humans, robots, and cyborgs. It also deals with existential philosophy and the physics-bending reality of what bizarre powers could potentially exist in the universe. All this I really like but I have to admit is a lot to take in for most children.What young viewers may like is the large amount of tension and action all throughout the film. There's plenty of well-acted robots marching about the lonely corridors, and the atmosphere is well realized. I'd say Peter Ellenshaw's production design (especially that of the USS Cygnus) has to be 80% of the film and gives it a totally unique universe of its own. Major credit also has to go to John Barry, whose well-crafted and often-eerie music is spot-on with the exception of the overture, which I found a bit too bombastic to really fit the tone. Thankfully it only plays twice and later in the film.There's plenty to say about this film, but like most beautiful disasters I'd say to just try to watch with as open of a mind as possible. It's not nearly as exciting as STAR WARS nor as intelligent (or obtuse) as SOLARIS or 2001 A SPACE ODDYSEY but still a unique look at man's place in the universe, which is in my opinion what good sci fi is all about. "},{"Title":"Disney's lone horror movie","Date":"19 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I'm no Hollywood authority, but I have to wonder if The Black Hole doesn't rank as one of the more significant films in the history of the Walt Disney company. Not because it's a masterpiece or some landmark achievement in cinema. I could be wrong, but I think this movie was largely both the death knell for a type of live-action filmmaking that had been synonymous with Disney for decades and the inspiration for the development of a sort of sub-studio system where films could be produced and marketed without having to put the Disney name on them. Of course, I could be wrong about all that. In which case, this would just be an example of the sort of Disneyfied storytelling that some people came to absolutely loathe.As the spaceship Palomino travels between the stars, it encounters an amazing phenomenon. The lost exploration and research vessel Cygnus is found balanced perfectly on the edge of a black hole, seemingly indifferent to gravity so powerful that even light itself cannot escape it. Captain Dan Holland (Robert Forester) agrees to check it out, though he's not happy at taking the risk. Dr. Kate McRae (Yvette Mimieux) hopes that her father, a member of the Cygnus' crew, has survived its 20 years missing. Journalist Harry Booth (Ernest Borgnine) is more interested in the famed leader of the Cygnus' mission, the brilliant and egocentric Hans Reinhardt (Maximilian Schell). Lieutenant Charlie Pizer (Joseph Bottoms) just wants something to shoot at, while Dr. Alex Durant (Anthony Perkins) is entranced at what the Cygnus' survival and current circumstance suggests.Joined by a hovering, spherical, maxim-quoting robot named Vincent (voiced by Roddy McDowall), the Palomino crew ventures onto the lost ship. They discover Hans Reinhardt is alive and planning to take a voyage into the black hole and the great unknown beyond. They also uncover what happened to the rest of the Cygnus' crew and find themselves facing off with Reinhardt's mechano-minion, Maximilian. Can they escape before Reinhardt's fateful journey? What exists beyond the event horizon of the most destructive force in the universe? Do really huge sets and matte paintings hold up against modern CGI wizardry?What you need to know about The Black Hole is that it is the one and only horror movie ever made with the Walt Disney name on it. There are some deeply disturbing things that go on in this motion picture. Or at least they were to me when I saw it in the theater as a kid. It may bear a PG rating but compared to the expectations the audience had for a Disney film at that time, they might as well have slapped an R on it. And it's not just the substance. The whole tone and look of this movie is dark and cold and creepy and some of the sound track reflects that.Some. Not all. The rest of the music of The Black Hole fits with the corny, cloying, clownish, family friendly elements that have been jammed into the film because the people making it didn't understand that it was something different than The Computer Wore Tennis Shoes or That Darn Cat. There are scenes here that are positively Jar Jar Binksian in their badly forced humor and awkwardly intrusive sentimentality.While the special effects are primitive, the sets and overall imagery of the movie remains fairly strong. It's kind of in between the futurism of 2001 A Space Odyssey and the stylized fantasy of TV's Star Trek, closer to the latter than the former. The Black Hole succeeds in being visually interesting on screen, something sci-fi flicks in the decades that followed often failed at due to a fetish for realism.Ernest Borgnine is good, like that's some sort of surprise. Anthony Perkins commits to his small role and pulls it off. Joseph Bottoms is energetic and that's about all, which still places him above Yvette Mimeiux, who can be distractingly wooden, and Robert Forester, who frequently looks like he doesn't know how he ended up in this kind of production. Maximilian Schell is artfully restrained for this sort of part but, again, he's playing a very un-Disneyifed villain here. There's nothing about Reinhardt that lightens or alleviates his cold, menacing insanity.As I mentioned, I saw this when it first came out as a child and I think I can remember there being a negative reaction to it from generations raised to expect a certain kind of live-action movie from Walt Disney. The Black Hole is not that kind. It falls so completely apart at the end and resorts to some badly staged action scenes, so I can't call this a good film. It is enough of an oddity that it might be worth a look, though, if you've ever wondered what a Disney horror flick would be like. "},{"Title":"They were almost on to something here.","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Despite being almost universally labeled as a failure, The Black Hole is actually not that bad. Not bad at all. The film is generally pleasing to the eye, fairly well-paced, and touches on some interesting issues. The film is hamstrung however by the fact that it is still a Disney film (despite the PG rating) and it therefore has to pander to the kiddies too much.The story centers around a small spaceship (the Palomino) and her crew who are charting the deepest depths of space in the search for new life. Early on, they come across a giant Black Hole and notice a long-lost ship (the Cygnus) which seems to be parked right by it. The ship appears to be empty until closer inspection reveals it to be full of robots, humanoids made up of the old crew, and a mad scientist type of guy in charge of it all. He plans to take his ship through the Black Hole to see what wonders are beyond it. Needless to say, most of the Palomino's crew can tell what a nut this guy is, and they try to escape before he can take them with him. The story is paced by numerous shoot-outs between our heroes and the robotic army controlled by this lunatic. And what would the film have been without someone going through the black hole? Everyone ends up going through, and what they find might surprise you.The film has some definite strengths. The film is visually impressive considering how much of it was created with matte paintings and lesser f/x. The ships are particularly nice to look at. There are some truly memorable shots, such as the crew scurrying out of the way as a gigantic meteorite comes rolling after them. Outer space looks very detailed, and the object of record is always spinning away in the background as the cast recites grandiose lines about it. The sound effects are also top-drawer.There are some considerable faults, however. There are more than a few times where you can clearly see wires holding things up (particularly the robots) that should be floating on their own. This is particularly obvious on the DVD. The acting is passable at best with Schell coming off as the best simply because his character is so charismatic. The robots look like a rip-off from the Star Wars films, and are given cutesy Disney-like things to do and say.The ending is somewhat intellectual and even dark, considering this is a movie ostensibly made for kids. We are treated to a pretty cool-looking vision of hell where our mad scientist has presumably been sent. As far as what happens to the crew of the Palomino, we can only speculate, but we have a pretty good idea. Small children are bound to be left with numerous questions for mommy and daddy, and their parents may have some difficulty explaining what they've just seen. That may be the biggest problem with The Black Hole. There are some deeper issues that are worth studying, but they get glossed over by the kiddie elements of the plot. The film tries to please two audiences, but may not have pleased enough people in the end.At $18,000,000, this film had a considerable price tag for back then. It failed to make that back in theaters, but the market for home-viewing has more than made up this shortfall since then.The verdict 6 of 10 stars. The film is worth seeing, but it falls considerably short of the greatness its makers had in mind.The Hound has spoken. "},{"Title":"Very interesting sci-fi thriller","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black HoleA deep space exploration mission (4 men, 1 woman and a helper robot) stumbles upon a long lost spaceship parked next to a black hole. On board they find the solitary eccentric yet brilliant captain Dr. Reinhart with his army of helper robots who is on the verge of a revolutionary discovery regarding black holes. However as the explorers come to discover, there is something a bit off about what is going on aboard this re-discovered ship.Although this is a Disney film, do not let that fool you. Though there are some light-hearted moments of comic relief, this is overall a very dark and spooky space thriller. There is a sense of mystery as clues to what is going on are revealed one by one and this keeps you at the edge of your seat. The real stars of this film are the visuals. Made at a hefty cost of 20 million $ it was one of the most expensive films of its time and fortunately that money was well spent. The special effects are excellent (even by today's standards) and the sets are grand and well built. The film is a real feast for the eyes. This is all supported by a score from James Bond composer John Barry who's tunes, often reminiscent of 007, make a great addition to the film.Overall pretty interesting story and great visuals. "},{"Title":"Great trailer - shame about the film!","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember seeing the trailer for this and thinking Wow, what a brilliant film it's going to be!! To explain - the trailer featured Gravitation anomalies Detector - a grid on a display with (I think) the odd stretched-down point indicating the presence of a star or planet or whatever. Then there's a dirty great sink-hole appearing in the middle of the grid with no apparent bottom and that's when you see the title The Black Hole come up. After 30 years it still gives me the shivers! So, a couple of weeks later I go to the cinema to see this great film and what do I get? No cool Gravitation anomalies detectors, that's for sure. Just a load of standard Dismal crud. To put not too fine a point on it, I even deferred seeing Star Wars for almost another year after seeing the Black Hole as I was so dreadfully afraid that Chewbacca would be voiced by Slim Pickens (no respect to the late lamented actor and I loved him in 1941, made the same year) or some similar old-timer voice - in fact I planned to walk out of Star Wars had that been the case so I was most relieved when I heard growls instead. ANYHOW. The question, I suppose, is this had I not seen such a great trailer would I still have gone to see the film? Probably. And been almost as disappointed. But making such a great trailer then a film that's such a pile of cack; well..... "},{"Title":"A childhood favourite","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This was one of the first films I saw at the cinema and it has stuck with me ever since. My dad bought me the soundtrack (on vinyl of course!) so I listened to the music over and over again. The haunting soundtrack is now ingrained into me! It's a film that has not aged too well, the acting is pretty wooden in places,the effects are ropey in places,but the overall style and feel (as dreary and depressing as it is) helps to paper over the cracks enhanced with the John Barry soundtrack.It has some pretty iconic parts to it, Maximillian, V.I.N.C.E.N.T., the Cygnus and even the black hole itself.All of this aside, I still like it and think its certainly a great film to be remade! "},{"Title":"Neil DeGrasse Tyson Is A brilliant Astrophysicist, But As A film Critic He's A Dud.","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" with due respect to one of America's most brilliant thinkers and scientist, DeGrasse Tyson is a genius but he's no film critic.much of what DeGrasse Tyson has to say about Hollywood and cinema is informative and always so true. but while spending so much time on the rag about cinema's many cosmic mistakes, he really missed the mark about Disney's 'Black Hole' movie.sure a lot of the science is inaccurate, but give credit where credit is due. the 'Black Hole' is first and foremost a children's film and a Disney film. it is more faithful to Disney and children's entertainment than to science. but it was also the first time Hollywood ever attempted to tackle the mysterious entity we know as black holes.artistic license is justified in the case of this film. it's not 'Cosmos', it's Disney. and it's aimed at a very young audience. and that's just fine. there should be more sci-fi for children. and wasn't Disney the leader of space information in the 1950's for the masses. anyone who has seen Disney's brilliant 'Man in Space' series knows that.as a cinematic achievement and as a Disney film, 'The Black Hole' is just(ha ha)stellar. it's has vibrant Technicolor FX that are true to the very nature of Disney's wonderful, colorful world. it also has a smart script that is Disney appropriate and a lot of eerie darkness that is contrasted with the usual Disney cuteness.it also has some really good performances by name Hollywood actors like 'Jackie Brown''s Robert Forster and Ernest Borgnine.it also seems kind of limited to complain about science fact in a film that shows the crew of the Palomino climbing on the outside of the spaceship with no space gear on. obviously the filmmakers were more concerned with child-like whimsy then hard fact. i'm sure the Disney folks knew you can't breath oxygen in space without a suit.everything about this film looks and feels like Disney. thanks to all the Disney veterans that were involved in the production. not to mention it was pretty much the last film to be made at Disney's original Burbank studio.if you truly love classic Disney and his original studio and live-action unit, then you'll give 'The Black Hole' some credit. it's a great Disney flick and a good film. but people should never forget that above all things it is a Disney film first. and it's very true to Disney.while bitching about science inaccuracy, i find it funny that DeGrasse Tyson never mentions that they climb on outside of the spaceship in open space. i guess he figured it would make his claims seen somewhat invalid.Neil DeGrasse Tyson is a brilliant man and a great asset to the scientific community in America, but as a film critic, he needs to lighten up. especially in the case of this amazing kiddie flick. "},{"Title":"Is there yet light enough to see?","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's like being in the eye of a hurricane...what happened? Natural phenomenon....or....something from that ship? Yes, this movie have a lot of flaws... all of them are mentioned already by other reviewers here and i will not comment it again. And when i saw the movie again as an adult, it lost a lot of it's power that it had on me, when i saw it as a child in the theater long years ago...But there was one thing, that lost nothing of it's power... it was not the black hole, it was not the robot Maximillian... it was this incredible ship... the Cygnus!I never saw a more beautiful, eerie, menacing, gigantic, breathtaking and fascinating spaceship than the Cygnus. It hypnotized me as a child, and it do it until today...When the little Palomino discover the Cygnus and get closer to it, flying slowly around it, reached out with it's pale blue searchlight that slither over the massive steel-structures of this monstrous ship... then it seemed, the Cygnus is not longer a spaceship anymore, but a sleeping, hungry giant python, and this little tin can, the Palomino, is only a little curious rabbit, that did not really know in what danger it is. It was very good that the movie-makers spend a little bit more of running time for this scene. And then there was John Barry's fantastic score... slowly, menacing slithering along like a python too, that doubles the intense of this opening-scene... and when the searchlight of the Palomino reached out to discover one of the sensory-domes... and you see the light shining through this dull brownish-yellowish glass-dome, only for 1 or 2 seconds... this was one of the rigid eyes of this giant serpent... Dead? Perhaps... But here you can see that the designers of the Cygnus did really made a fantastic job The second sensory-dome is installed on the underside of the ship... perfect arranged for really 3-dimensional movements in space.You never see the complete ship in a bright light in the beginning, only the dark shadow of this monster before countless stars and some details in the pale searchlight of the Palomino structures of glass, steel, antennas, towers, pipes, cables... but suddenly the python awakes... and all the lights on the Cygnus was switched on and for the first time ever you see the whole translucent reticular steel lattice structure of this giant ship in all of it's eerie beauty... I remember the surprised, gasping Bohaaa!! by the audience in the theater as i saw the movie long time ago... and then silence again... all of them -and me too- stared totally hypnotized on this bizarre ship... Is there yet light enough to see? asked Kaa in Rudyard Kiplings The Jungle Book the Bandar-Log... and it seemed, this ship asked the audience the same question again...!The interior of the Cygnus continuing the impressions that are given by the outer style Giant endless corridors, bridges, monstrous rooms and halls, almost empty or filled with bizarre machines... all in this red/rusty color and mostly illuminated only with a pale, yellowish light. It looks more like a cathedral than a space-ship... there was almost nothing similar compared to all the other movie-spaceships before and after. The Cygnus had it's own somber, unforgettable design, that had later influenced the design of the Event Horizon too.Yes, in spite of all the flaws in the movie, it deserved at least 6 stars... the Cygnus as a stand alone i would give 10 stars! It is my all-time SF-spaceship favorite! "}{"Title":"This film...its...alive...its alive!!! Mwah ha ha ha ha!!!","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  We live in an empty decade. Its 'cool' to be like everyone else, being original is frowned upon. Creativity is at an all time low. This I feel is reflected in the films we watch, they all simply merge into one. Films have no soul. They do not exist outside of the 90 minutes we spend watching them. However, unlike these films that just fade away, The Black Hole haunts one's mind forever! I struggle to recall a film that is anything like this. In my opinion it is a very successful, well-crafted film that uses visual and musical elements to create something totally original. Comparisons to other films seem silly, it is unlike anything else and for that we must celebrate it. The effects are good, better than the 100% computer generated cartoons known as contemporary Sci Fi (Matrix etc). The acting is fine, no one is trying to win an Oscar and the cast all seem right for the film (unlike Samuel L Jackson & Star Wars.) Its legacy will remain forever because its not afraid to be itself, because it is a truly unique Science Fiction film that quite simply exists. May it for ever haunt my mind!  "},{"Title":"I would have to say that The Black Hole is one Hell of a great Live-Action Disney Movie!!!!","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I would say that The Black Hole is one of the best Live-Action Disney Movies that I have waited to see for a long, long time in the movie theaters when I was a kid. But, I did watch it with my folk's when I had an old tv thing called ONTV(that has been out of business for almost 20 years comin' in 2002), and I did film it before, but never had the chance to see how the movie ended until I filmed it from my Digital Cable sometime two-three month's ago. So, I would even let my kids(when I have them someday)or a friend of mine watch it with me to enjoy it. This is what I have to say about The Black Hole. It is One HELL Of A Movie that should be watched over & over & over & over again for All Eternity!!!! "},{"Title":"Underrated Sci-fi Camp Classic! Give It a Shot!","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Most science-fiction films seem to fall into one of two camps  One, the ponderous, serious, adult flicks a la 2001, CLOSE ENCOUNTERS and BLADE RUNNER; and then there are sci-fi flicks that TRY to take themselves seriously while dealing with utterly silly effects, dialogue, acting and pseudo-science and end up becoming camp classics.  THE BLACK HOLE is one such example, and yet it's just as entralling as the afore-mentioned classics.Don't get me wrong... when you get down to it, THE BLACK HOLE is not a great flick, but there are some elements and/or scenes that at least border on the VERY GOOD.Most grown-ups who first saw this film as kids, when it was released in December of '79, can immediately recall 3 major points that impressed them the most at the time  The 2 major robot characters, V.I.N.CENT (one of the good guys) and the evil Maximillian (easily one of the greatest cinematic robot creations this side of Robby); the haunting John Barry score (who DOESN'T remember that opening credits theme?); and the eerie, atmospheric way the spaceships were shot against a blue & green star-field (versus the traditional black).I always loved this movie growing up, and when I finally caught it again on cable a few years ago, I had to admit, it hadn't exactly aged well in my eyes as a late-twentysomething.  Any scene that requires someone/thing to float?  Wires are visible every time.  Looking for dirt-poor acting? Check out Joseph Bottoms and (the overdubbed) Yvette Mimieux.  Want a bogus, pseudo-profound 2001-like ending?  The last 10 minutes of this should fit the bill.Dialogue is horrendous, the evil robot army is inept, special effects are amazingly inconsistant and logic is thrown completely out the window; and yet why do I find myself constantly jumping to the defense of THE BLACK HOLE, even after more than 20 years?  I guess it just brings out the kid in me.  Adults seeing it for the first time may scoff, but younger kids of today may find a lot more to like.  If you happen to have children, use them as an excuse to see it yourself.  Who knows, you may find a fairly decent, entertaining flick underneath all the other junk that comes with it! "},{"Title":"Addmit it. you liked it","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember this movie as a kid, and I loved every minute of it. Now I realize (or maybe I'm just spoiled by newer special effects) just how corny this movie really is. The darned thing is I still like this movie! Is that crazy or what?I know how many laws of physics this movie breaks, or even how annoying Vincent really was, but Maxmillian was an awesome robot!It's scary after 20 years I still like watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Don't look too closely","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I always had a soft spot for The Black Hole. In 1979, when I saw it in the theatre, its special effects and set design were awesome. They still are, provided one doesn't study the DVD version of the film too closely.The wires suspending and moving the robots are all too visible, one can see the matte silhouettes surrounding the actors while they are standing in front of the Cygnus' windows, and the stars in the window of the Palomino are static; they're just a painting. With these now evident flaws, the film's visual appeal has suffered, and that makes suspension of disbelief vis-a-vis the glaring problems of science (Forster, Mimieux, and Bottoms climbing abord the Cygnus probeship and not wearing spacesuits of any kind even when the Cygnus superstructure has collapsed and they are surrounded by swirls of red gasses which can't be air) all the more difficult.It's still an enjoyable movie for the nostalgia factor, the colors are stunning, and the Cygnus sets still impress, plus the ending of the film, though pure phantasmagoria, is thought-provoking. But don't look too closely... "},{"Title":"Not for the dumb.","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Movie studios are run by marketing experts delivering the goods to the dumbed down masses so we get computer games instead of movies about real things.  The Black Hole tried to bridge that gap by using better actors and having them actually say things to each other.  Disney made a big mistake however by asking the audience to think at the end of the movie (ala 2001 A.S.O.). Hmmm.  Even for 1979 audiences that was too much to ask.  "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi for Sci-Fi Fans","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I think Andrew 31 said it best as this being an underrated classic. The Robot designs and the robot shooting gallery are some of the highlights for me, as well as the completely surreal ending, which I will never be able to understand. "},{"Title":"Disney's Version of Star Wars","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Disney's Black Hole is a very ambitious movie. Back then, it may have been a great disappointment, but through the years it has gained the reputation of an underrated classic. Unfortunately, that's the sad truth. There are a lot of good elements in this movie and for some reason not many people became attached to it. Sure Star Wars is much more popular but looking at space through Disney's eyes is quite a trip. As soon as the opening credits start rolling (or typing), the viewer is flown across what seems to be a plane or a grid. It almost seems like Disney's hinting at Tron (1982) is coming in the near future. It's odd but very intriguing. So what's there to like about this film? To start off, who's done a movie on one of the most powerful forces in the universe? Leave it to Disney to take on such a project. Although the special effects are dated now, they still make a lasting impression. The way the black hole is crafted in this film is really interesting to see. When I first saw it, I was thinking for a good five minutes of how they could have pulled off such a neat trick. To name a couple Maximillian Schell, Anthony Perkins, Robert Foster, and Ernest Borgnine star in this film. Perkins, Foster, Borgnine and some other actors are a crew that travel through space that stumble upon what seems to be an abandoned U.S. space shuttle called the Cygnus. But it's not abandoned - the only crew member still on board is Schell, who plays Dr. Hans Reinhardt. The traveling space crew soon realizes that the Cygnus is not far away from an enormous black hole, but they are not being sucked in. Why - because Dr. Reinhardt developed a stabilizer that keeps the ship at bay. Pretty nifty. Adding to the human characters are some friendly and unfriendly robotic individuals. One is sure to adhere to VinCENT (long format Vital Information Necessary CENTralized), a psychic droid who knows how to mix wit and humor into every statement he makes. Then there's Maximillian, Reinhardt's deadly weapon who has sharper hands than your regular paper shredder. These two droids and others are some things that have always stuck with me since I've seen the film and it probably has done the same for any other viewer. NOTE This is Disney's first PG rated film. This film can frighten little children.One last thing that makes this film so good to watch is its soundtrack composed and conducted by John Barry. There's a certain way Barry makes his music, and the way he does it is by cycling many parts of the same tunes. This is a good method because some composers make a theme for every song in the track list. Then you think, Wait, what's the theme song for this movie - oh right there is none. Barry makes sure you know what the main theme of this movie is.The Black Hole is definitely a dated movie but its dazzling visuals have lasting appeal. Adding to such a component is John Barry's haunting score, which will stick with the viewer for a good long time. "},{"Title":"The black hole has sucked all mystery out of The Black Hole","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" There's a lot of mystery to black holes. The Disney film, The Black Hole, does not have any of it. A group of scientists on a space craft which looks like a miniature water-mill discovers a black hole, the most powerful force of the universe. But that is not all they discover. A giant space-ship is hovering nearby, resisting the gravitational pull of the giant space vacuum-cleaner. And like the smart people they are, the crew decides to take a look inside the stranded space ship if anyone is still alive. Inside they discover robots in desperate need of some oiling, a seemingly sane but really insane scientist (they appear to populate even the remotest areas of the universe..), an evil robot and still some more creepy-looking robots, while wondering what exactly happened to the original crew. Take a guess.The money-shot, of course, is to see what the black hole looks like inside, which I am happy to report to you that you will find out. But the bad news is that the real mystery is was it worth the hour and a half to get there, and I must warn you that it is not. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi & Disaster Movie","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" In the late 1970s/early 1980s just about everybody in Hollywood (and the UK) was into the we-must-make-it-like-Star-Wars method of film/TV making. In 1978, Irwin Allen did a Captain Nemo show with a Darth Vader clone, lasers all over the place and it was/is a great deal of fun to watch. The following year came The Black Hole.Let me start by saying that the opening 10 or 15 minutes of this film would rank as some of the best stuff out! From the powerful John Barry music, to Art Cruickshank's outstanding miniature photography, to sexy Dr Kate McCrae, to the general feel of energy and wonder created...this was an outstanding start to a motion picture!However, once they all get onto the big bad spaceship and start talking and talking and talking, part of the energy and wonder is sucked down that Black Hole. But I do like this film. I own it on DVD and gladly watch it from time to time. It has a refreshing child-like quality with more than a hint of Lost In Space (1965). And I might add, Art Cruickshank also did some of the effects photography for Lost In Space and Land Of The Giants (1968)...so this film is very much a case of the old meeting the 1979 new.The Black Hole is just fine. "}{"Title":"Entertaining Walt Disney  Space Film","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This film is very entertaining dealing with a research vessel which has a great cast of actors namely Anthony Perkins, (Dr. Alex Durant), Ernest Borgnine, (Harry McCrae), Dr. Kate McCrae, (Yvette Mimieux) along with a Robot. This space vessel travels through space and discovers a missing ship commanded by a mysterious scientist on the edge of the Black Hole. The mysterious scientist gains control of the research vessel and when they all meet, they find out that these people were considered lost in space and that Dr. Hans Reinhart, (Maximilian Schell) managed to establish a great space station and how he controls the space ship with robots and human being transformed into robots. Dr. Reinhart feels like he is a god and intends to bring his space station directly into the Black Hole. Dr. Alex Durant wants to stay with Dr. Reinhart and the only female in this picture is also being abducted on this space ship into hell. "},{"Title":"To M.Lanza, agree it was a movie ahead of it's time!","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" But to claim Maximilian was the top villain at the time is sacrilegious. No character comes close to Darth Vader and keep in mind, evil always has no limits when the origins are human. I will admit that Maximilian would have been a good General Grievous type character in the new SW trilogy films. Only Al Pacino as Tony Montana began to border on ultimate evil when Scarface came out in the early 80's. Darth Vader is and always will be tops. His initial entrance at the beginning of Star Wars A New Hope and his subsequent strangling of the rebel officer was his stamp on assuring the kick start of the greatest saga of all time (Godfather, Lord of the Rings, included). Did Maximilian's character, scare me? Hell yes. Even the zombie/android looking characters sitting at the ship consoles spooked me. And yes, I watched it as a kid as well. Heck it was a PG movie and I wasn't going to pass up the opportunity when mom took my brother and I to see it. Now I have the privilege of watching it my sons both under 10 years of age. It's in my library of films and when I'm in the mood for a Disney favorite, its one of my first choices. Let's be fair and give this movie it's props but let's also have more substance when defining an all-time character Mr. M. Lanza. "},{"Title":"Flawed but entertaining","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Black Hole is Disney's 1970s attempt at a big budget sci-fi in the mold of Star Wars.  It tells the tale of an exploration crew in the depths of outer-space who come across the U.S.S Cygnus - a huge space ship which had been missing for years.  Once aboard the Cygnus - they find that a mad scientist is at the helm - who is hell bent on pushing space exploration to the limits - by entering a black hole. This movie is by no means perfect - there are plot holes (robot ESP?) and what's with those stupid cowboy robots?! But where I think the movie excels in is its design - everything (apart from those stupid cowboy-esque robots) are gorgeous - from the mile-long Cygnus to the cooler robots (Maximillian and co.). I find this movie an entertaining mind-trip - a trip down memory lane (childhood movie favorite) - I enjoyed it and its visual style had stuck in my head since. "},{"Title":"Silly but fun","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Sure it's kind of clunky in parts, and you have to assume no logic ever existed anywhere in the universe (I still haven't figured out that meteor rolling down the middle of the ship part), but it is good fun.  The acting's not bad, some good effects, one of John Berry's best scores ever, and just a plain 'ol creepy haunted house in space movie makes it a rollicking good time.  Better that most of the sci fi clunkers that followed Star Wars. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, but slightly confusing.","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" THE BLACK HOLE is quite entertaining, but may not be to everyone's taste. The performances are very good, the only real exception being the annoying Joseph Bottoms as Charlie Pizer. Roddy McDowall is very good as the voice of V.I.N.CENT., which makes it all the more a shame that the robot himself looks totally ridiculous. The big robot Maximillian is very menacing, especially with that glowing red eye of his. But his subordinates, the sentry robots are pathetic, walking as if they desperately need the toilet. Maximilian Schell makes an excellent villain, but the film could offend some German viewers as there is a lot of Nazi-like imagery surrounding the character of Reinhardt (the goose-stepping Sentry Robots, Reinhardt's Iron cross etc).The ending, which confused so many people, is pretty straightforward to me though. The Black Hole is a gateway to the afterlife (as had been speculated a couple of times in the film)and Reinhardt and Maximillian both go to Hell because they both 'died' before the Cygnus went all the way through. The good guys pass through Heaven and emerge unharmed because they were all still alive. But why did Reinhardt and Maximillian merge when they entered Hades? Who knows? Anyways, I definitely recommend this film! "},{"Title":"A must have movie,","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Several years ago I saw this movie, was beyond all my child expectations, but now, still the same. The dark sense, the loneless, the devil robot, and many things make this a very very good movie. We do not have to realize that there are some scientific errors, just see the movie and feel it is great! An unforgettable image the Cygnus ship stopped in front of the black hole...A must have. "},{"Title":"Journey into the land of über-cheesy effects...","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Ahh, I just love retro Sci-Fi! A true classic in the genre, The Black Hole is a fabulous (and downright creepy) view of deep space exploration and the endless possibilities of the universe. Just remember it was made in 1979 whenever you start to think that the special effects are über-cheesy. "},{"Title":"Not a classic, but an indelible stamp","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Black Hole is one of those films that one likes or dislikes.  I do not believe there is any middle ground.  The picture is off the scope for a Disney film (visions of Heaven and Hell?  Walt is being thawed as I type!)I saw this film in December of 1979, at age eight.  I loved it.  I got entangled in fierce arguements with my peers who were idolizing Han Solo. Star Wars was nothing to me.  At that age, the scope of the story was as vast to me as space.  A rip in the delicate fabric of space and time?  What a mystifying concept! Alas, I had to grow up.  Subsequent viewings began to reveal the tarnish on a silver movie event in my younger days.  A ludicrous story, wooden and scene-chewing acting, and lifeless direction destroyed an idea that could have produced a film of significant fascination.But the film made an indelible stamp in my memory.  As a youngster, I could not describe the closing imagery in the film, and still cannot, to a reasonable degree.  The visuals in the film as a whole are unforgettable. John Barry's score is haunting and unmelodramatic, considering the subject matter (I still own two copies of the LP!)  And yes, I hate the cutesy robots (but in my heart I will always love them). I have come out of the closet... I love The Black Hole!  Given its story and factual shortcomings, the film is entertaining, thrilling, and finally moving (yeah, it's cheesy, but it was Disney's first PG-rated film!).  I will purchase Anchor Bay's widescreen DVD release.  I cannot wait!  "},{"Title":"Remarkably good movie; severely underrated","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is one of my favorite science fiction movies, although I can't help wondering if I would have liked it as much if I hadn't first seen it at such a young age.  Watching it as an adult, everything about it seems first-rate. The cast delivers some excellent performances, and John Barry's haunting score combines well with the overall look of the movie to produce a very spooky and foreboding atmosphere.  However, I think it may be a little easier to take this movie seriously as a child than as an adult.  Of course it's impossible to tell because I already formed an impression at a young age, and you can't undo a first impression.  I think that may be what leads to the somewhat mixed reviews in the other user comments.  Most of the people who like the movie mention having first seen it at a young age, and having that first impression stay with them for a long time.  The robot character Maximilian, for example, is probably much scarier to a child than to an adult, although I still find him quite menacing even 20 years later. Despite all this, I think The Black Hole has some universal appeal going for it that both adults and kids will like.  It does a good job of creating a fantasy world all its own, complete with thoughtful touches usually not found in other sci-fi films, such as the way the laser beams appear instantly, rather than taking a perceptible amount of time to move (as in Star Wars, et. al). "},{"Title":"","Date":"5 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  My rating would be higher except for the hokey last half hour.  Heaven and Hell allusions have little place in a Disney flick.  I can't believe this came from Disney, its talky and relatively action-free for most of the movie.  Also, this movie scared me to death when I was about 8 when it came out, and even when I saw it recently (27 now) those black humanoid robots are no joy to behold.  I guess that's why they stuck in a big-eyed cute robot to offset the scary ones.  No wonder this one is hard to get.    "}{"Title":"not altogether un-enlightening, but dull filmmaking and acting sinks it","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black Hole was Disney's attempt in 1979 to try and cash in on the then current science-fiction movie craze that was kicked back into gear with Star Wars and would get some added sophistication in 79 with Alien. But The Black Hole tries to do two things at once be a smart-contemplative science fiction story in the mold of Forbidden Planet where a team goes to investigate something, finds a ship and its Captain that has been gone for so long, and finds the wonder and madness that lies therein. The other thing? Wacky robots for kids voiced by Roddy McDowell and Slim Pickens! Ho-ho.I wish I could go on about how smart or insightful the movie is about the nature of man's exploration into space, but it would not be so. It pays lip-service to the weird wonder that is a black hole - a thing that should defy description that can pull anything inside of it and have it trapped in a perpetual existence for a thousand (or thousands) of years, or more. Its mystery could make for a really intriguing book, or perhaps a movie by someone with the right eye. The eye and minds behind The Black Hole are less interested in how it works than what kinds of cool stuff can happen with it when a mad space-Captain who has his own group of scientist-zombie people working for him on the double.As happens in these sort of stories, the ship that discovers them, which includes Anthony Perkins, Robert Forster, some actress named Yvette Mimieux, Ernest Borgnine, and the asshole-ish robot voiced by McDowell, wants to help them out. Then they see how mad/genius they are, and they get split as to what to do. Without spoiling too much, things don't go quite as planned, and things turn to chaos... that is, the kind I wish I could give a damn about. Perhaps it's the passage of time of 30+ years, or that the story itself just isn't as interesting as its predecessors, but it's a dull movie. Even for kids the best that they can hope for with it is some bizarre robot-encounter scenes and McDowell's VINCENT so bitchy and snide you'd swear C-3PO and Marvin from Hitchhiker's Guide were meant to be one-upped.One of things I mean by the 'passage of time' isn't just the story, though that too is kind of brainless until the last ten minutes when it becomes a visual clusterf**k. It's the special effects. Some of the early space stuff looks decently laid out and modeled, but some of it hasn't aged well at all. It looks creaky and dark and the opening title sequence actually dominates as the highpoint visually for the film. The work as a whole isn't a total loss - it's fun seeing actors like Borgnine and Perkins and Maximillian Schell chew a little scenery (Forster, the professional he is, is the more relatable, boring protagonist here, but not his fault - plus the music by John Barry makes for spectacular listening at the least, and is comparable to the other great sci-fi movie soundtracks of its period).But it's a combination the dull plot, the uninteresting treatment or brushing past of the science of the black hole, the asinine treatment of the zombies, and that finale where all I can remember is the color RED and a lot of crazy happenings without any cohesion, that make it a forgettable experience. If it had focused on one or the other - a wacky-campy sci-fi trip for kids or a serious look at a black hole in the guise of a thriller, it might have had something. Only one death scene by a particular actor stands out as truly memorable, maybe worth checking out on Youtube. If I wasn't writing about it now, I'd probably lose sight of it within the next week. "},{"Title":"Old school Trek fans will love this!","Date":"1 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" What a beautiful movie with such a unique style of its own. One thing I hate about today's movies is that everything is so damn uniform. It feels like you're watching the same thing over and over with a slightly different feel and new visual effect. Sure this movie may be damn old but it has so much character. I love the very unique take on the characters behavior and dialog; from the robots all the way up to the humans. The character detail and development is really something to enjoy. At the end I understood and was drawn in by every single being on that ship; and felt their pain! Without getting into spoilers I can happily say for an old 1970's film it certainly leaves an important mark - even today. Trek fans are going to love this one so don't hesitate to watch!Overall, great movie 7/10. "},{"Title":"I can't believe it that this movie come from Disney","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" When this movie came out i have 4 years old and for a period of time,Disney produce a couple of very dark-adult-sci fi movies (Dragonslayer,Tron,Condorman)that beyond to look to be a great box office winner offer's an unique vision of Science Fiction.The black hole is one of them you see one of this movies and is incredible that pass the PG rating,in this time all the movies i mentioned at least one is PG-13,so was a very dark era for Disney.I not say it that was bad movies all this movies are now cult classics (Like Blade Runner,Krull,Battle beyond the stars,etc) what i say it is i was very lucky to see on of this movies in theaters.The black hole really is a sci fi GEMFirst the movie have one of the best ambietation i ever see in a sci fi movie,Second the effects are,for the time,awesome,Third the plot i have to say was very adult for a Disney movie but now years later is great to see why they took that way,Fourt the casting was incredible classic actors like Schell,Perkins,Borgnine,Foster are part of this great movie.What can i say of this movie?...Very dark,very Mysterious,very tragic and yes very unique are part of this sci fi movie.You wanna see something different in sci fi?...See this movie...you ve surprise. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Yes The Black Hole may have some silly dialogue and uneven acting, excepting Maximillian Schnell who is absolutely brilliant, but it is a very underrated film in my opinion. I love the story, it was an intriguing idea and it was compelling and moved at a good pace. The ending is wonderfully haunting and surreal, the direction is secure and the film's villain is one of the memorable ones I have seen in a while, twisted, tormented yet with a touch of humanity about him too. I did connect to the characters, yes even VINCENT and BOB. But what makes The Black Hole are the production values and music. The special effects, cinematography, design of the robots and set/scenery design are absolutely breathtaking and the score from the late legendary John Barry compliments the film perfectly. All in all, a very underrated film. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Disney enters the space race!","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The incredible success of 'Star Wars' ( 1977 ) prompted Disney to dust off an old sci-fi script, and throw a huge budget at it. 'The Black Hole' opened in late 1979, in competition with Paramount's long-awaited 'Star Trek The Motion Picture'. At the time I found the former a pleasant contrast with the latter, which seemed to consist mainly of the U.S.S. Enterprise drifting through green murk. 'The Black Hole', on the other hand, was lively and unpretentious.Research vessel 'Palamino', commanded by Captain Dan Holland ( Robert Forster ) encounters a ship called 'Cygnus' which went missing twenty years before during a project to study black holes. As they approach, the seemingly dead ship comes to life. In command of an android army is the brilliant if deranged Professor Hans Rheinhardt ( Maximillian Schell ), who is obsessed with the black hole and plans on venturing into it. He claims the others left years ago. Dr.Kate McCrae ( Yvette Mimieaux ) learns that her father ( one of the Cygnus team ) is dead. As Rheinhardt plays charming host, one of Holland's party notices a robot funeral taking place. The crew never left the Cygnus. Rheinhardt had them converted into androids... This is basically '20,000 Leagues Under The Sea' meets 'Star Wars', with Schell's 'Rheinhardt' replacing James Mason's 'Nemo'. The robot Maximillian is intended to be the film's 'Darth Vader'. I read Alan Dean Foster's novelisation before seeing the movie, and it occurred to me that this had the potential to be a lot more adult in tone. Alas, the film played it safe by falling back on stock Disney clichés - the headstrong young man ( Joseph Bottoms ), the coward ( Ernest Borgnine ), and the square-jawed hero ( Forster ). Accompanying them is Anthony Perkins as 'Dr.Alex Durand', who sides with the villain until he gets accidentally shredded by Maximillian. There's also a robot - V.I.N.C.E.N.T. - who looks like the illegitimate son of 'C3PO' and 'R2D2' from 'Star Wars'. It was voiced by ( an uncredited ) Roddy McDowall. The robot is used mainly for comic relief, and like 'Bubo' in 'Clash Of The Titans', spoils every scene he/it is in. Worse, we also get 'Old B.O.B.', a robot who sounds like an ageing cowboy ( voiced by Slim Pickens ). The special effects are good overall, with lots of nice laser gun battles with robots, but the highlight has to be the shot of our heroes running along a bridge with a giant meteor rolling towards them. Scientifically preposterous, but who cares? John Barry wrote the music, meaning that at any time you expect Roger Moore's 'James Bond' to appear. The climax has the Palomino crew entering the black hole and suddenly the film switches to '2001' mode. Though a sequel - 'Beyond The Black Hole' - was mooted at the time, it did not happen. Disney went back to doing what it was best at. "},{"Title":"Worst problem is the characterization","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Black hole is one of the worst movies i have seen in awhile. I think its worst problem is the characterization. The only Character that really had well development was Vincent that little plastic looking robot that was stolen from R2D2. It has those little peds that R2D2 sticks out to open doors and stuff. Maximilian the evil robot looks like it was also stolen but from battle star galactica witch came out a year previous to this movie. Battle star has cylon drones that have that long eye much like Maximilian. Overall, the idea of the story was great with the crazy guy who wants to go into the black hole to document what happens but it needed to be executed better. Towards the end were everyone is stuck on the ship... Dose that crazy guy really decide to go into black hole even though there is no one out side to document it? Another thing that confused me was how the people were out in space breathing. At one point one of the robots were frozen from the space and the human says are you OK? I thought that was the funnest thing. The end was Really really really bad i mean is the crazy guy in hell if so how did he get there and why is he in Maximilian? what happened to all the characters? Did they warp into another dimension? Are they still in the same time? or did they just go thew and nothing happened? what in the world is the significance of the end being a solar eclipse? This movie was not well thought out all. "},{"Title":"A Childhood Favorite...","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have fond memories of seeing The Black Hole during its initial theatrical release. I was about 9 years old at the time, and quite frankly it blew my mind. The action scenes were just as intense to my young eyes as the laser battles of Star Wars, the giant red robot Maximilian scared the ever lovin' poop out of me because on a big screen he looked like he was about fifty feet tall, and the scene where he killed Anthony Perkins' character with his spinning blades haunted me for weeks. I came away from the movie totally enthralled and my brother and I pretended we were the brave crewmen of the USS Palomino, blasting away at sentry robots in our backyard, for months afterward.I've seen the film a few more times in the 30 years (Gawd, has it really been that long?) since that first viewing and it seems my opinion of it changes depending on how old I am at the time. When I last saw The Black Hole I was in my early 20s and was in the midst of my jaded, seen it all before phase, and at that time I thought the movie flat-out sucked. However, my opinion has changed again after watching it last night (as I close in on 40 years old). It's a fun ride, though it is a hell of a weird one as well. I kept thinking, What would ole Uncle Walt have thought of this one? There's no denying that on a technical level, The Black Hole was a triumph for Walt Disney Productions. It was the most expensive film they'd ever made at that time (and their first to be rated PG as well). The set designs of the ominous Cygnus space station and many of the special effects still hold up surprisingly well today. Where it doesn't hold up particularly well is in the storyline. Watching it now, it becomes readily apparent that Disney wasn't sure if they were making a straightforward, eye popping sci-fi action epic for kids (ala Star Wars) or a deep, dark, brooding drama for adults (ala 2001). So they tried to satisfy both camps, though not always successfully.I was never crazy about the scenery-chewing performance by Maximilian Schell as the insane Dr. Reinhardt; even as a kid, I thought he was overdoing it, and I still find him irritating. Yea, OK, we get it, he's crazy as a sh*thouse rat, but Schell's performance is way too over the top. The rest of the non-robotic cast are basically cardboard cut-outs (even the usually-dependable Robert Forster and Anthony Perkins), though when I was a kid, I related most to Joseph Bottoms' young hotheaded crewman, Mr. Pizer (this film's version of Han Solo) and he's still the most fun to watch. Of course, the crew's handy dandy, quotation spouting robot V.I.N.CENT provides the comic relief, but he also gets to kick some mechanical butt as well, as seen in his climactic battle with the evil Maximilian.30 years on, I'm still not sure I totally understand the ending of this movie, which comes as quite a shock after an hour or so of fairly standard sci-fi shoot'em up mayhem. Suddenly the viewer is dropped into a hellish, dialogue-free sequence of bizarre imagery (the crew of the Palomino screams helplessly as they plunge into the Black Hole, while Dr. Reinhardt fuses with his evil robot and lords over a fiery underworld of humanoids...or something like that). That ending was pretty heavy duty for a 9 year old and it still makes me scratch my head today. I guess The Black Hole didn't make enough money to merit a sequel, which is kind of a shame, because I have always wondered What the hell was that all about, and where would they have gone from here? Judging by the message board here on IMDb for this movie, The Black Hole is still puzzling viewers and causing discussions to this very day, which to me is the sign of a good film. Back in the late 70s/early 80s, lots of sci-fi movies were released in the wake of Star Wars and most of them were (rightfully) forgotten. The Black Hole hasn't been forgotten, and it is still worth a look all these years later. "},{"Title":"At last a classic movie that is still highly watchable!","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" A couple of weeks ago I watched Tron, which I'd missed as a kid and only got around to watching now. I was really disappointed because it hadn't aged well. Imagine my surprise upon finally seeing The Black Hole, which I had also missed seeing as a child. (I did have the view-master of it though, which added to my desire to eventually see it).Some movies are more than the sum of their parts and this movie falls into that category. The plot is simple and the shocks nothing by today's standards, but there is so much more.Firstly, the script is actually really good. Tron's was really cheesy, reflecting its age, but this one was still holds - it's simple, doesn't try to be too clever (read that as confusing), seems natural (believable), and is suitable for children. The plot is simple and paced about right so the movie doesn't feel overly long.The acting was very good too. The cast were believable in their roles which combined with the good script made it even more enjoyable to see.The big surprise for me was the special effects. They were actually really good given the film is 30 years old! In fact, I've seen cheesier effects in recent TV movies.Usually, I look forward to remakes but I think in this case the original stands as a classic. I'll watch it when it eventually hits the cinemas but it'll be hard pressed to capture the feel of this gem. "},{"Title":"Bad Choices","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a movie with a great premise, a superb villain in Maximillian Schell as both Dr. Hans Reinhardt and his alter ego Maximillian the robot. Some of the staging and shots are among the best of any science fiction movie. And the ending comes close to the ambiguity of A Space Odyssey especially with its shot of the melding of Reinhardt and his robot ending up in a Dantesque vision of Hell, which is incredible given this is a Disney film. Do not forget the haunting music by John Barry which echoes a faint James Bond sound.The weakness, and there are too many to note, are best seen in the V.I.N.CENT robot and his mentor bot, Bob. These characters were obviously meant to appeal to the kiddies who were no doubt the target audience. I imagine there were some mighty discussions on the set of this film as to whether they should be making a classic or childish crap. Unfortunately the latter choice seems to driven the bottom line. "},{"Title":"A fatally flawed enjoyable film.","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Okay, there's a lot of bad science here, and for a space opera the effects sometimes require you to close one eye and squint with the other. The dialogue is stilted and the characters are pure stereotype. But the best--and simultaneously worst--thing about it is that it's so brutally derivative. It comes out of the chute with an Ahab/Nemo haunted house vibe chugging along ably enough as a suspense thriller, morphing regrettably into a bland shoot-em-up Star Wars wannabe in the late middle and catastrophically striving for 2001-style abstraction (unfortunately not making it past junior high sleepover theology) by film's end.But for a large fraction of its length, it really does capture the imagination. The design of the film--miniatures, set design, and costuming--are lovely, and the pacing is perfect right up until it isn't. "}{"Title":"A Failed Attempt for Disney to return to Science Fiction","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Considering Disney won the first Oscar for special effects for the Science Fiction classic Forbidden Planet, this movie put Disney out of the space adventure movie business. Special Effects First you have to consider that this movie came out two years after Star Wars, and the special effects of Black Hole look like something just ahead of Lost in Space. The cute robots Vincent and Bob would look more at home on a Saturday morning cartoon. The other robots look like guys in robot suits that could learn something from Lost in Space. The Cast The cast is wonderful, and I have enjoyed watching them for years before this movie came out. Howeer they look like their jobs would be in their retirement home play. They are old enough to Luke Skywalker's parents. Maximillion Schell was the only person who looked the part. The Plot I would put spoilers in here, but the plot in so lame there is no point. There is a robot gone wrong a la HAL 9000. There is a long lost ship with a crazy leader. Have you heard that before? Also why is the old space ship more advanced then the new one? I love Science Fiction. I can sit through and enjoy what most consider bad Science Ficton. One of the things I love about it is that it stretches the imagination. This movie is just insulting. "},{"Title":"It has to get worse before it can get better . . . Right!","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is one of those films I've been waiting to see for years. Almost 27 years. I love Disney, including their live-action films. I'm a sci-fi fan. I'm fascinated by the idea and theory of black holes. Over the years, I've come to be a fan of Robert Forster, and I like the rest of the cast alright insofar as I'm familiar with their work.Maybe it was all the anticipation, but I was extremely disappointed on finally watching The Black Hole. It's pretty much a mess that's transparently derivative of a number of other films. It feels like calculated product when you watch it. And it has a very odd cast for a sci-fi film. That could be a pleasant surprise, but here, it never stops feeling odd. You get the feeling that everyone got lost on their way to sets for other films. Or that it was some kind of quirky practical joke.The script is another big problem. You're plopped into the middle of the lives of a crew exploring deep space in a modest ship with little exposition. We don't know when this is supposed to be, what the crew is supposed to be doing, really, or what their relationships are. We just get plunged into a dilemma with lots of gobbledy-gooky dialogue and the kind of sci-fi physics for which many people would have nominated Armageddon (1998) for a Razzie, if only that were a category. Of course, I don't mind fictional physics, but the spinning and lurching and all kinds of other, later events just tended to be ridiculous in a way that I wouldn't call good.In any event, I could have lived with that, and even with having to fill in big gaps of exposition inferentially, but there are other aspects of the script and the film in general that are more difficult to smooth over. One thing that really drove me crazy was the floating R2-D2-ish robot whose speech capabilities consisted almost entirely of somewhat obliquely selected Bartlett's Quotations and clichés. Robert Forster's character kept saying, Right, in response to these, as if the robot had just explained some complicated scientific principle or otherwise said something profound. Other people and robots got into the Bartlett's and clichés act later.The script references a couple more technical aspects of black hole theory, like Einstein-Rosen Bridges, so someone had to at least crack open a book or a Scientific American article on black holes. But not only is this mixed with the ridiculous literary pretense, but certain characters can communicate with each other via ESP, and this turns out to be a plot hinge later on. So it's kinda new-age-fi as much as sci-fi.Many elements and even entire scenes are borrowed from popular films. For example, the robots, androids, and the atmosphere and militarism of Reinhardt's ship are straight out of Star Wars (1977), with a touch of 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (1954). The ending is straight out of 2001 A Space Odyssey (1968), ridiculously enough. To its credit, The Black Hole managed to beat Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) by two years with what's essentially the giant boulder scene, but that's not much to credit it with, especially given how much better Steven Spielberg uses the idea. Unlike many other films, The Black Hole does not feel like it's paying homage to artistic influences in the above references. It feels merely like it's trying to ape content that was commercially successful, to hopefully catch the tail end of a trend or two.Similarly, there was an attempt to make two of the robots, V.I.N.CENT. and Bob, cutesy in a way that would especially appeal to kids. Vincent likes to do loop-de-loops while he flies about uttering his bad dialogue and generally acting like a speech-capable R2-D2, with a similarly spinning head and various extensible and retractable gadgets. More than cutesy, a lot of this and other material winds up being unintentionally humorous. This is also true of the action sequences, such as the fight against the robots who can normally shoot moving targets with incredible predictive powers and accuracy, but when it's really important, who suddenly are unable to do anything but stand there like sitting ducks.I just realized I haven't said anything at all positive about the film. Hmmmm . . . well, even though it's pretty mucked up, the basic ideas in the film are intriguing--you can see them gleaming through the thick fog. There is a lot of admirable visual design throughout. I'm enough of a fan of Robert Forster that I still liked him here, despite the odd fit with the material, and Ernest Borgnine may seem lost, but he's a lot of fun--maybe because he seems lost. If you watch The Black Hole in the right frame of mind, it's a pretty decent So bad, it's good film. "},{"Title":"Classic Disney fun,impressive special effects","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Released in Christmas of 1979,The Black Hole also made history as well as being the first and foremost Disney feature to received an PG rating,which was at the time a resurrection of the Disney's family oriented conflicts that resulted throughout the 1970's and would emerge itself back to the top of the Hollywood elite in the mid-1980's. The Black Hole also was the first Disney feature to have full Dolby stereophonic sound and it was shown in 70MM print which was huge at the time. If you wanted to see it in those days,you have to be in a huge theatre with a huge screen to experience it. Anyways,about the story,it is okay,but its the special effects in its day were very impressive,but seem a little outdated to today standards and this was back in the late 70's. With a cast which includes Anthony Perkins, Ernest Borgnine,Yvette Mimimux,Robert Forester,and Maximillan Schell,giving a villainous performance as the mad genius Doctor Hans Reinhard. The plot maybe disappointing,but the movie itself is a must see. John Barry's musical score is very haunting and it is worth catching an ear for(especially from the composer of the James Bond films). "},{"Title":"A Near Miss...But Full of Possibilities","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember The Black Hole from my childhood very fondly,so when the Anniversary edition came out..I rushed to buy it. The nostalgia came rushing back in floods,however as an adult i noticed the flaws. Strong characters that were not developed further,a promising dark plot that did not go dark enough and a morality tale that could have had such possibilites. I recently re read the novelization by ALan Dean Foster and he was able to fill in many of the holes that Disney left open. I still enjoy the film but wish someone could remake this tale now.As far as the performances go, Anthony Perkins as Alex Durant,the leader of the expedition has a quite calm about him..his performance is one of the films best..balancing his quest for science and his boy like worship of Hans Reinhardt.Perkins was always perfecty at playing sympathetically, a flawed doomed character. Maximillian Schell as the deluded genius Hans Reinhardt plays the role close to the cuff...never overacting but adding just enough adreniline to fine tune his mad scientist and mark him as an unbalanced danger. The usually fine Erenest borgnine is miscast here...but to be fair the reporter role is the character that is  most need of a rewrite. an ivestigativer reporter would never be such a coward. Bland performances are delivered by the wooden Robert Forester and Joseph Bottoms..and Yvette Mimuex's Kate Macrae was the most in need of some better writing to develop her sub plot concerning her father's disapearance.John Barry's score sets the mood with its creepy and driving tempos and the site of death droid Maximillan is still enough to send a chill up one's spine.Overall the film is a Noble and facinating failure...but it holds a place in my heart. "},{"Title":"Cartoonish, borderline ridiculous, and a total blast.","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Watching Disney's 1979 release of The Black Hole again after many, many years since my last childhood viewing, I was struck by the fact that I shouldn't be enjoying this, and yet was VERY much so enjoying it.  Certain this was an effect of our mischievous friend, childhood nostalgia, I showed it to my 18 year old brother, who had no prior exposure, and who had nothing to compare it to other than the contemporary films that he enjoyed.His reaction was exactly the same.  Clearly there is something intangible about Disney's attempted space opera that, for some, overrides and negates all the static direction, scientific blunders, and the frequent flip-flops of tone between Saturday morning shoot-em-up and semi-cerebral space opera.Perhaps it is VINCENT, the cocky, know-it-all, Chinese fortune cookie spouting robot.  Or MAXIMILLIAN, the silent robot personification of Satan himself (and given the imagery in the film's ending moments, that description is rather accurate).  Maybe it's the bombastic, if repetitive, John Barry score.But the above elements aren't enough to account for the cheery feeling I receive upon viewing after viewing.  Clearly something is at work here, some underlying theme or subtext that makes it all work for me.  Something strong enough to make me forgive the ordinarily unforgivable.Maybe it's just the cool robots. "},{"Title":"After watching this film, you wish you were sucked down a black hole!","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Never in my life have i watched such a mediocre film! this film I just...ugh.. I can't even describe it.The plot goes like this; A bunch of space explorers find a ship that looks vacant. So they land and have a look around and find this man who has a crack-pot plan to go down a nearby black hole. The humans try to escape when they find out some gruesome truths about the man who runs the ship (I can't even remember his name). One nearly escapes but dies. The rest have this battle in the spaceship to escape with these annoying robots that you just want to take a hammer to.Rubbish, rubbish, RUBBISH! The acting is beyond terrible. I wouldn't be to surprised if they picked up some randomer off the street and forced him to act in it. I looks very like that! Now if you have looked at my lists and are saying to yourself This is rich coming from a guy who likes Batman and robin To me, this is worse. Just watch it and see how terrible it is! The ending is absolutely horrible and pointless and when the credits roll up you sit there wondering Why did I buy this pile of tripe . The affects are also very bad. they were trying to go CGI which was a very bad idea. The plot line tries to be interesting but no wit or originality comes out. All the characters are Cleche and No character really stands out. If the ending wasn't so horrible, they cleaned up the acting, came up with the movie 20 years earlier then maybe I might have liked it. Now don't get me wrong, I love B sci fi movies with low budgets that come up with imaginative story lines and inventive materials. B sci fi movies are My second favourite Genre and are a lot better than the modern ones. What I don't like is movies that you know have been fired out because the makers want to get every penny in your pocket. For a B movie, you need to have care and affection for the movie your making , not just wanting to make it for the money.I know I'm nit-picking but this is what i honestly think of the movie.If you want a good snoozer give it a watch. If not I can't recommend anything in this movie for you.(I hope I haven't offended anyone in this review and I mean no offence) "},{"Title":"Some stunning visuals in search of a plot...","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" What a sad waste of time to find people like MAXIMILIAN SCHELL, ANTHONY PERKINS and YVETTE MIMIEUX--and even ERNEST BORGNINE--wasting their time in a ripoff of Star Wars or any other sci-fi extravaganza ever made. None of them is the least bit believable in this silly effort to create a story around THE BLACK HOLE.The trouble is definitely the script--no one has lines that would sound believable coming from even the greatest actors. Schell shouts some of them as if he's doing Shakespeare, but nothing helps. The sets are huge, some of the special effects are impressive and the music is sometimes overwhelming--but there's no real plot. Nothing even begins to make sense until you've watched about the first forty minutes of the story--and by that time most viewers will be asleep.Highly unlikely I'll ever want to tune this one in again. It's hard to believe a major studio would thrust this kind of thing on the public when standards for sci-fi were so high at the time. "},{"Title":"Ah, them's proper spaceships )","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Well, the pacing is a bit sloppy, the acting is flat, and there are a couple of shocking deus ex machina moments towards the end, but boy, this has a proper BIG spaceship with BIG engines! The spaceship Cygnus, poised on the edge of a black hole, is a pretty unique and visually interesting creation, detailed and convincingly engineered. The hole itself is quite well visualised too. Unfortunately the smaller Palomino spaceship looks a lot like a tin can, but that's just the entree.Sure, it was created to cash-in on Star Wars but the plot, visuals and ideas are quite different. The Black Hole is it's own film, not a straight copy.Definitely worth a look for science fiction fans. Not a lot in it for others. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as made out to be....","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I have seen this move, believe it or not, over 20 times. The first few times I watched, it was just for the fun of it. In later viewings, as with most movies I watch, I looked for bloopers, effects flaws, etc., Yes, This film had it's share of flaws, (doesn't every movie?), but for 1979 I thought it was well made. It had the first digital music score (John Barry), the first non screen computer effects, the black hole at the first of the movie, and excellent craftmanship on the spaceship models and interiors.*****SPOILER ALERT!!********The ending sequence was in the crew minds. Everything you saw, from hell to heaven was an illusion. As the rocket ship was going through the hole, the forces played mind tricks on the crew. I figured this out when like so many of you, was thinking, What the heck just happened?. Too bad there was never a sequel, I did hear of a possible follow up, possibly in a comic book, but have never seen it.  "},{"Title":"Marvelous ode to 1950s science fiction","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Black Hole is a definite curio.  Disney Productions needed a sci-fi adventure to catch the buzz of the post-STAR WARS market.  What they ended up producing was something very unique a space fantasy that dared to confront new science theories with a 1950s pulp sci-fi mentality.  This has been seen by many as the film's biggest flaw; I feel it was the film's saving grace!  The approach not only allowed Disney to make a film that would intrigue adults, but also allow kids to get in on the fun.  Director Gary Nelson and Production Designer Peter Ellenshaw obviously had a blast creating this little gem.  With the years of technical support behind them, in the form of Disney animation and engineering, what ended up on screen was something even more awe-inspiring and homage-ridden than even STAR WARS. Biggest influences would seem to be FORBIDDEN PLANET and 20,000 LEAGUES, both of which Disney played major roles in.  The setting looks to be more inner-space than outer-space, with the hypnotic enigma of the cosmic whirlpool always lurking out the window and impressing itself upon every character in the film with its threatening and ominous presence.  One doesn't go into a film like this expecting the characters to take center stage, but what we actually get is more than we deserve.  Each actor puts out an admirable performance, given the technical angle of the production. Anthony Perkins and Ernest Borgnine stand-out especially.  As an undeniable wink to STAR WARS (or even SILENT RUNNING), the robots are even more interesting, as products of a future technology where Cybernetics are old-school and personality is just one more facet of the program.  With these designs and more, the Disney team put forth an effort that just wouldn't be practical in today's market.  The retro-approach would play more as parody, now, so it's thankful it came out when it did.  A unique experience that will entertain all ages and maybe even give one or two philosophical points to ponder.  See this one with a friend, in widescreen! "}{"Title":"Exciting Sci-fi romp from Disney!","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The crew of the spaceship Palamino known as Captain Dan Holland (Robert Forster), Dr. Alex Durant (Anthony Perkins), Dr. Kate McCrae (Yvette Mimieux), Harry Booth (Ernest Borgnine) and special robot VINCENT (Voiced by Roddy McDowell) stumbles across a lost spacecraft called Cygnus which is far from the edge of a mysterious black hole. While they investigate, they find a mad professor named Dr. Hans Reinhert (Maximillan Schell) with his crew of robots but he refuses to be rescued cause he must wants to find the secrets of the black hole and take them with him.Exciting Sci-fi epic from Walt Disney Pictures was their first PG-rated feature length movie! sure some of the effects are kind of cheesy especially the unrealistic cartoony robots VINCENT and ALEX but some of the effects were good for their time. It's a fascinating and dark epic into science fiction that the Disney company thought up in the wake of Star Wars making the genre popular again, unfortunately it bombed in theaters due to competition against December 1979's other Sci-fi movie Star Trek The Motion Picture as of today it has gained a small cult following due to it's scientific themes and nature, a must watch for fans of the genre.Also recommended 2001 A Space Odyssey, Event Horizon, Heavy Metal, The Fifth Element, Serenity, Lifeforce, Star Wars Saga, Star Trek Saga, Outland, Barberella, Flash Gordon, Lost in Space, Dark Star, Dune (1984 and 2000), Children of Dune, Transformers (1986 and 2007), Metropolis (1927 and 2001), Wall-E, 2010 The Year we Make Contact, Silent Running, The Andromeda Strain (1971 and 2008), Explorers, Total Recall, Alien Series, Contact, Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Forbidden Planet, 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea (Disney), Armageddon, Deep Impact, Apollo 13, Zathura, Battlestar Galactica movies, Logan's Run and Titan A.E.. "},{"Title":"Boring and Dated","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" In the deep space, the crew of the spaceship Palamino composed of Capt. Dan Holland (Robert Foster), Dr. Alex Durant (Anthony Perkins), Lt. Charles Pizer (Joseph Bottoms), Dr. Kate McCrae (Ivette Mimieux) and Harry Booth (Ernest Bornine), finds a huge black hole and the missed U.S.S. Cygnus close to the edge of the black hole. They go aboard of Cignus and finds that the only human is the scientist Dr. Hans Reinhardt (Maximilian Schell) and the rest of the crew is composed of robots and humanoids. Dr. Reinhardt intends to enter the black hole with the crew of Palamino, and they realize that he is actually mad.The Dark Hole is an absolutely boring and dated sci-fi. Ironically this flick was nominated to two Oscars (Best Cinematography and Best Effects, Visual Effects) and to five categories in some minor festivals (Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films, USA and Hugo Awards). The coward character of Harry Booth recalled me Dr. Smith of Lost in Space. My vote is three.Title (Brazil) O Buraco Negro (The Black Hole) "},{"Title":"okay, so it's not scientifically correct fiction, but it's a fun space movie nonetheless...","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  this isnt that bad a movie. it's gotten a bad rap. sure it isn't STAR WARS, not even close. but then there are many other folks who think STAR WARS wasnt any good (the originals not the sucky new ones), since it's not scientically correct fiction. THE BLACK HOLE has a great cast, led by Robert Forster, a great underrated actor who'd get a deserved re-boost many years later in Quentin Tarantino's underrated, though very popular, classic JACKIE BROWN. Maximillion Schell is very good, as usual a germanic baddie. his voice and manner and dreams captivate the audience. Anthony Perkins is... Anthony Perkins. Ernest Borgnine is... Ernest Borgnine. Yvette M. is pretty but suffers from one of the worst hairdos ever, making her look like a woebegone poodle dog instead of the hot beauty she was in the original TIME MACHINE. The only really corny actor is Joseph Bottoms, brother of Sam (APOCOLYPES NOW) and Timothy (LAST PICTURE SHOW); but still you cant help liking him despite his corny lines. Vincent and SAM are the robots. it's obvious whoever made this movie was banking on the R2D2 Robots as cute lovable loyal pets theory; and it works too. and the best reviews go to - named strangely enough, Maximillian, the bad robot, a giganic maroon colored metallic warrior who goes up at odds with Vincent from the beginning - at first humorously and then, with spite and action. okay, so this is no STAR WARS, but all the sci-fi nerds pan STAR WARS too, as i've mentioned before, for not being 'realistic enough', that is, scientifically  sound. but who cares about all that. what filmmakers set out to do, whether they make Westerns or crime noir or space fantasies or whathaveyou, is to entertain - by transporting the viewer to somewhere besides his/her dull existence... THE BLACK HOLE did that for me as a kid, and still does to this day... (great music too!!!!!)   "},{"Title":"Whacky and worthwhile product of the 70s","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" As a young boy, I had the pleasure to view this movie and it left an impression on me. Now 30 years later, I was lucky enough to track it down and view it a second time. It amazes me how memorable certain scenes and concepts were, as it replayed much like I remembered. Of course, when viewed today, most of this will appear silly to jaded moviegoers who have been spoiled to many sci-fi shows and movies who have refined the genre but the movie is really amazing in many respects and an excellent candidate for a remake.So what is it exactly? A crew of space explorers manning the USS Palomino, discover the long lost USS Cygnus with scientist Hans Reinhardt as the sole surviving member on board, surrounded by a bizarre crew of robots and intent on solving the mystery of black holes. The movie is a loose space adaptation of Verne's Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea but draws a lot of inspiration from the 70s. It will remind many of the whackiness prevalent in shows such as Battlestar Galactica, Space 1999 and of course, Star Wars. There are also several elements unmistakably borrowed from the classic 2001 A Space Odyssey.Cast and characters Our heroes, the Palomino crew has an air of cliché around it. You've got the one-dimensional, all-American hero played by the ever-so-bland Robert Forster. Anthony Perkins gives a solid but unspectacular performance as the overeager scientist, Ernest Borgine plays adequately the grumpy coward and Joseph Bottoms is sort of less stoic, younger version of the captain. The two last crew members are probably the most interesting. Yvette Mymieux plays Dr. Kate McRae. She is gifted with ESP abilities, linking her to a small, irreverent yet wise robot going by the name of Vincent. The classic, memorable performance here is given by their host. Austrian veteran actor Maximilian Schell is masterful as Dr. Hans Reinhardt. He gives his character much presence, an air of mystery and conveys adequately the feeling that his character is skirting the line between brilliance and madness. His crew of robots range from silly to creepy, the most notable being his sidekick enforcer, a giant, menacing robot by the name of Maximillian.Sets The Palomino is unremarkable. A rather small spaceship that really brilliantly sets the stage for the piece of resistance The magnificent, awe-inspiring USS Cygnus. The Cygnus is gargantuan in comparison. It makes your jaw drop from the outside and it doesn't let the viewer down once the crew gets inside. There is a feel of Gothic architecture to the Cygnus which is extravagant yet fits perfectly. It is imposing, bigger-than-life at times yet suffocating and creepy. The use of technology is very 70s, with computers and screens that don't make much sense but we have seen worse. The space scenes are for the most part very good. Many scenes are interesting, there are computer-generated sequences that are quite interesting for the time, the ship models are cool and you get a real sense of movement. The black hole is great and also holds up real well. It is as much of a character at times as the rest of the protagonists and antagonists. What's the weakest link? Definitely the robots. Vincent is silly-looking and probably the part that really betrays the Disney origins of the production. Most of Rheinarts' crew is forgettable, even though some of it had potential. Maximillian is one of a kind and his look is reminiscent of Battlestar Galactica's Cylons, which came out a year earlier. He is a memorable character and one of the highlights of the film. Certainly the coolest robot in this movie.Plot I hate spoilers, so you won't get that here. I'll just give my impressions. For the most part, this is very silly and 70-ish. Our heroes are cardboard clichés. And with all the depth Schell gives to Dr. Reinhart, we never get a real sense of his motivation for what has happened here and what is going to happen. The science used is also very 70-ish but that is what a lot of science-fiction is about, so it doesn't really bother me. What I found interesting was the bizarre yet elegant mix between fantasy, almost childish elements and horror. It brings you back to the time where Disney was not afraid to both scare and amaze children. Before all the sanitization that came with the right-thinking 80s. At a time where fairy tales, myths and fables actually were fully used as both entertainment and cautionary tales. In this respect, The Black Hole remains a visceral story. A lot of people still can't make sense of the final scenes, where the movie plunges into a sort of metaphysical acid trip. I do think it feels a bit tacked on and could have been refined. As it is, it looks more like a nod to 2001 than anything else.This movie is flawed, some of the parts (like the aforementioned lack of scientific rigor, the silly-looking robots, the wooden acting by Forster, etc..) are in need of a good overhaul. The plot could be extended by a good 30 minutes as well. But SO much of it has potential. The relationship between men and machine. The thirst of the unknown. What lies within the Black Hole. The really cool ideas such as sentient robots and the weird yet brilliant telepathic link between robot and a human. It is beautifully shot. What was missing most was a stronger vision from director and writer. Yet if writers were able to take the stupid mess that was original Battlestar Galactica and reboot it in a wonderful, thought-provoking modern series, I think The Black Hole has as much, if not more potential.Fans of old school sci-fi movies and shows should give this one a try. "},{"Title":"It iz time de vorld forgot about ids failures und learned about my successes!","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" In the late 70s and early 80s, Disney's rather unhelpful corporate motto changed from 'What would Walt do?' to 'Star Wars should have been a Disney film.' Unfortunately, rather than embracing pictures that went against the tide, they interpreted it as jumping on the sci-fi bandwagon and spending $17m on The Black Hole. The script famously went through years of rewrites (there was no black hole at all in the original drafts) and it's tempting to guess that most of the interesting ideas it may have started with fell by the wayside in the process. Disney's biggest problem was their own hype, pitching their first PG-rated film as a groundbreaking 2001-style adult epic rather than the Flash Gordon Goes 20,000 Leagues Under Space serial style shoot 'em up aimed at kids that it really is. Much was made of the finale, so secret that multiple versions were reputedly shot and none of the cast allowed to see the script's last pages, only for the black hole ultimately revealed to be little more than a live-action version of Fantasia's vision of Night on Bald Mountain before throwing our cardboard heroes out the other side in a rushed and underwhelming anticlimax.The human element wasn't exactly well developed, with Robert Forster, Yvette Mimieux, Ernest Borgnine and Joseph Bottoms playing stock cardboard characters while Maximilian Schell hams it up as the mad scientist and Anthony Perkins goes through his large stockpile of mannerisms and ticks as his star-struck wannabe apprentice in a competition to see who can chew up the most scenery (Max wins by a mile thanks to great egomaniacal dialogue like It iz time de vorld forgot about ids failures und learned about my successes!). A couple of mildly irritating anthropomorphic robots voiced by the unbilled Roddy McDowall and Slim Pickens are thrown in because, y'know, Star Wars had robot sidekicks so they should keep the kids happy.John Barry's score veers between effective and lazily repetitive, but on the plus side the film does at least throw in plenty of spectacularly silly action en route and Gary Nelson's direction is more than adequate, even pulling off one striking visual coup as a deserted spaceship suddenly springs to light. But the real star and auteur of the film is designer Peter Ellenshaw who gives the film such a magnificent look that you don't mind the absurdities too much (good job too, since this is the kind of film where no-one has difficulty breathing in a vacuum and where fiery meteors roll through the spaceships like a boulder chasing Indiana Jones). The giant spaceship Cygnus is a veritable Crystal Palace of girders, glass and lights while the black hole itself a marvellously unrealistic whirlpool of stars in the far distance. A travesty of science and engineering it may be, but when it looks this good it's a price worth paying. (It's also curious to note that, with its lost revolutionary spacecraft and its mad commander, it's easy to see the plot's unlikely influence on Event Horizon and the I'll-plagiarize-anything Sunshine.) Best watched with the brain on standby mode, but not without its incidental pleasures. "},{"Title":"A journey that begins where everything else ends.","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's a guilty pleasure at best. The special effects are great for it's time, and are still quite remarkable today. The crew of a space ship encounter a large exploration ship with a strange scientist who wants to travel into a black hole and discover what lies on the other side. This is one of Disney's best and most creative films ever, and it has a great cast, Anthony Perkins, Ernest Borgnine, Roddy McDowell as the robot Vincent and Slim Pickens as the robot Bob. This is one of my favorite science fiction films as well as one of my favorite Disney films, it's a bit dated by today's standards, but it's still epic. The ending really leaves you wondering where the black hole really lead. "},{"Title":"A great sci-fi adventure from the late 70's","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Again here's one of these movies that I have been watching since I was a kid and will enjoy always. I hadn't seen The Black Hole in many years and I wondered if it would stand the test of time. Well it did. The special effects are a little dated of course but they are still workable and the backgrounds in space are very beautiful, quite unlike the normal black space and white dots background of most films. The cast is excellent, not like the throwaway characters that you will find in most sci-fi movies. Robert Forster plays a strong Capt. Holland, while Maximillian Schell plays the sinister bad guy Dr. Reinhart as if he were born for the role. The robots in the movie add rather than detract from the movie. They aren't too cute and they aren't too annoying either. John Berry's score is very powerful and moving. I'd even go so far as to say one of the best scores in a Disney movie. The end is, without giving anything away, predictable and at the same time abstract and bizarre. I also love the trailer, it's on the DVD and the Jackie Brown DVD if you want to see it. Bottom Line I love this flick and it is one of the best that Sci-Fi had to offer in the 70's. A worthy addition to any collector's shelf.  "},{"Title":"This movie deserves it's bomb status.","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I rented the 20th Anniversary edition of this tape, just to be sure to get the absolute best version available of one of Disney's most expensive flops ever. Unfortunately, the only special feature is the fact that it's in widescreen. The cover sleeve admirably admits that this movie only exists because Disney wanted to capitalize on the success of Star Wars, but it also rats on Alien and Star Trek The Motion Picture for doing the same thing. It goes on and on about how ground breaking and impressive it was in 1979, and how it used every available technology to create it's 550 effect shots. But this is one of those cases where just because you can, it doesn't mean you should. The story isn't bad - a mad scientist (Schell) kills his entire crew, turns them into robots to serve him loyally and to live out his ultimate plan, to drive his massive ship directly into a black hole. The rest of the cast stumbles upon the ship, boards it and tries to muck everything up. Just like every sci-fi movie of that era, there's a cute robot that gets irritating fast. The effects can only be described as interesting... for their day. I'm sure it laid the ground work for the seamless effects we see today, but I refuse to be impressed by things I've seen done better just because they came first. Lousy performances by everyone except Schell, awful dialogue and scenes of the robots acting very human made me quickly realize that this movie deserves it's bomb status. "},{"Title":"The Black Hole (1979)","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Rating 4 out of 5Genre Science Fiction, Walt Disney, SpaceshipsDirector Gary NelsonStars Maximilian Schell, Anthony Perkins, Robert Forster, Joseph Bottoms, Yvette Mimieux, Ernest Borgnine, Tom McLoughlin, Roddy McDowall, Slim PickensSynopsis The year is 2130 and the space exploration vessel USS Palomino is out in space investigating a black hole. While searching the area they come across another ship in orbit impossibly close to the massive force of the universe. Upon closer inspection they find out that it's the lost USS Cygnus, a vessel though destroyed some years before. The Palomino crew boards the ship and finds the sole survivor Reinhardt (Schell) and a ship of robots. They must get to the bottom of the situation and survive the perils of the most perilous celestial phenomena known to man.Thoughts Sensing a good thing in the wake of 1977's Star Wars, Walt Disney's outfit decided to mine outer space for some material. Although it did no where near the type of box office success Lucas' film did. Still The Black Hole manages to be a fun family popcorn flick with a solid cast and decent special effects for the time. In Conclusion The Black Hole is a childhood favorite and a good time for the whole family. "},{"Title":"An excellent 70's sci-fi film","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This was one of my favorite sci-fi movies of the 1970's! It certainly doesn't stand up well to the 1977 Star Wars Saga, but it embodies some of the most important aspects of a quality sci-fi movie. 1.) It has a simple, yet mysterious music soundtrack. 2.) Very likable characters (robot and human alike). 3.) Not to shabby special effects. 4.) Great villains (Maximillian & Rhinehart). 5.) Finally, a truly great sci-fi story line (a black hole), which is a real astrological phenomenon! Oh, and don't forget that 'The Black Hole' stars one of the true legends of horror and thriller flicks...Anthoney Perkins. This movie was even accompanied by a pretty aggressive marketing campaign with toys and games via retailers. I remember putting together a full models from the movie! I highly recommend picking this movie up if your a true sci-fi fan!HVBOHIO "}{"Title":"Half a Good Film","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Like most reviewers I saw this when I was very young, but even at the age of four I was baffled by the idea that one could dare to travel in, through... and beyond! a black hole. But THAT is the least of this movies problems.Our gallant heroes, on a mission to find habitable life (!) in the the universe happen upon not only what is supposed to be the largest black hole ever seen (it can't be, since quite recently it has been discovered that not only are they common, but there is a REALLY BIG ONE at the centre of every galaxy in the universe. Indeed, and episode of HORIZON a while back discussed the matter and even used music from this film, but that sort of scientific accuracy does not matter here), but Dr. Hans completly off his raving nut Reinhard and his long missing spaceship the U.S.S. Cygnus. One of the crew of the Cygnus happened to be, by a coincidence beyond staggering when you consider the size of the universe, Dr. Kate McRey's father. Since she is on the explorer module that has found the Cygnus, they go aboard and find that not only is the ship apparently deserted of human life with only Rienhard left, but it is now run by robots controlled by the inexplicably psychotic Maximilian, a red, almost satanic-looking super robot.The real reason to watch this film, though, is not the plot, which mixes Star Wars with 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (I know EVERY review of this movie says that, but that's all this film is) but its frankly balmy finale. You can't make a film called The Black Hole without going into one, but this tries to be all things; a kid's space adventure (there are a couple of pointless, really annoying R2-D2 knock-offs) and intellectual science fiction at the same time (but Disney aren't famous for having much upstairs). See it for the spectacle of hell at the end. Sorry, didn't I mention it? Yes, folks. Black Holes are gateways to HELL! So to sum up then; this film is EVENT HORIZON set in a '70's disco. "},{"Title":"Hope that it will be released soon in Germany","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw it the last time when I was a child and I can't even remember the most of it. But I remember that the atmosphere of the film impresses me so much. I'm really looking forward to a German DVD release(hope there will be one). "},{"Title":"In the pits of the unknown!","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is great, and truly fantastic! It got superior robots that looks like thincans, and a plot that blows your brains away.. The devastating power of a black hole, and luckily the eye of an hurricane. Any Scifi wizz out there really should see this, no doubt. If you like the brilliant film Darkstar John Carpenters masterpiece, then turn off the computer and run and rent it!!now if you don't like true Sci Fi movies, don't see it, because chances are that you would not understand it.  cheers! "},{"Title":"Want to live with this technology and opportunity to explore...","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie influenced me as a child as much as any other. Great characters, with the possible exception of the one portrayed by Anthony Perkins. Wanted to have my own Vincent. The special effects are amazing for 1979 and better than those in the original cut of Star Wars. Has an impacting score. THE BLACK HOLE is a SCI-FI classic and a film any fan of the genre should see at least once. "},{"Title":"A Classic Restored","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I have epic, mind-numbing news for fans of this movie. Anchor Bay Entertainment (The Fine People who completely mastered and re-released The Evil Dead) have licensed The Black Hole from Disney and will be re-releasing it in February/March of 1999. They will release it in WIDESCREEN on VHS, DVD, and Laserdisc.I don't have info on the soundtrack, but theres a good chance it will also be released again.THis is the best news, for me, that I've heard this entire year. YIIIIIIIIPEEEEEEEEEEEEEE "},{"Title":"A hole in space. . . an adventure waiting to happen!","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" After years of searching unsuccessfully for other inhabitable planets, the U.S.S. PALOMINO heads back to Earth. But while on its way, it gets damaged and is in need of repair. Luckily, the crew discovers a ship that is, amazingly, hovering outside the grip of a black hole! It turns out it's the long lost CYGNUS! After landing, the crew meet Dr. Hans Reinhart and his bodyguard, Maximillian, a large and intimidating red robot. They explain their situation and are treated to dinner while the drones on board tend to the PALOMINO. But the crew quickly finds out that things aren't what they seem on this ghost ship, and when it's over, nothing will be the same! "},{"Title":"Rebuttal of complaints","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I can't understand why you are all so critical of this film (Yes, even you slavejuan!).  I like it, (partly due to the fact that it was the first film I saw at a cinema!). If this film was as bad as you lot seem to think it is, then perhaps you would like to explain to me why is it listed in Halliwell's Screen Greats? (The entry can be found at the top of page 48, right hand side).   "},{"Title":"The Black Hole Revisited","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Many years have passed since I saw that movie in my youth. In all those years some of the visuals of it reappeared in my mind. I remembered the creepy feelings when the lights of the Cygnus turned on, that big red brute appeared on the stage, and the terrible secret of the Cygnus' crew was revealed, all of this greatly enhanced by a sound track that easily beats the old Star Wars movies. Maximilian Schell as Dr. Hans Reinhard definitely had the most rewarding role as the mad genius and captain of the ghost ship. Yes, I remember discussing the ridiculous scientific plot holes AFTER leaving the theater, but thats not something you notice when you feel like being in that huge ship yourself while watching the movie on the big screen.Now that I dug up this gem again, I expected to be disappointed like with many other sci-fi movies from that era. I was happy that it didn't happen. Sure, the effects are a bit outdated these days, but most of the visuals and the music score are still stunning and invoked the old feelings.If you like atmospheric and creepy sci-fi like 2001 you might want to see this one, too. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!!","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I just saw The Black Hole and I'm pretty disappointed.  I appreciated the set decoration, which was very good, but the visual effects were only so-so. The acting was not good at all, and the two `cute' robots were far too fake and silly (EXCUSE ME, but those painted eyes were supposed to let the robot &#145;see' around?!?!?).  I can understand that the Disney was trying to make some money on the fortune of Star Wars and at the same time to satisfy its usual audience, but I think that if you do something different from your usual you should try to do it at your best.  I believe its better to make a good movie disappointing some of your fans than to make a movie so dumb and silly that your usual fans don't fully appreciate it and all the others just dislike.  I'm not surprised it didn't score at the box office.  I want even mention the screenplay, which is so boring and dumb, especially during the last half-hour, that it really makes you wonder why they even bothered making such a picture.  Believe me, stay away from this movie as much as you can!  "},{"Title":"First Movie to Use Computer Graphics FX","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I came across this film one boring evening and decided to check it out since the info said the movie had great special effects.  Of course, I was expecting another cheesey 70s sci fi film.  Considering when it was produced, I thought the FX was exceptional!  While the story line may seem predictable now (ala Event Horizon), I think again for its time it was a great movie theme.  Clearly, this isn't meant to be as irritatingly mesmerizing and thought provoking as Space 2001, but I thought the ending was satisfactory.  Did you really expect the writers to tell you what's on the other side of a black hole (well they sort of tried in this film)? "}{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was child & at that time this movie really impressed me! Then I saw it about five or six days ago & I can tell you with the exception of the special effects of that time (1979!) the movie is really good! It's amazing how black holes exists, works & that stuff & this movie give me another point of view about them! "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Granted, the special effects are not as grand as they once were, especially when compared with Star Wars, Armageddon, or even 2001A Space Odyssey. But, it's a visually strong movie, with good lasers, a neatlooking evil robot, and the spaceship Cygnus is a ciematic wow with it's radical gothic design. The only problem with the robot Vincent is that he 'looks' kiddish. But, he can fly by himself, he has two lasers attached to his body, and he has the wonderful voice of Roddy McDowall. The plot could have stood another half hour of extra development and explanations, but it is very entertaining. John Barry's scoreis good and creepy, especially during the title sequence(the first use of cgi for images). Also, get the widescreen vsion. It is the only way to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"A Disney film that's too metaphysical and murky for its intended juvenile audience.","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I first saw The Black Hole when I was a young kid and I just didn't get it. Sure, the special effects looked pretty neat to my young eyes. And occasional bits of the film got me excited - like the scene where the heroes are trying to get across a bridge while a huge fireball rolls towards them. But I couldn't make sense of the long, philosophical chit-chat that passes between Maximilian Schell's mad scientist and his unwanted guests aboard the spacecraft Cygnus. Furthermore, the final sequence in which the heroes travel through the titular black hole left me totally bewildered. Having recently re-watched the film as an adult, I found it rather more comprehensible and in some aspects quite interesting, but the thing I just couldn't come to terms with was the fact that a film made with children in mind could allow itself to get bogged down in so much complex talk, and could end with such a metaphysical final sequence.The space shuttle Palomino is travelling through space when its crew unintentionally stumble across along-lost spaceship called the Cygnus. Stranger still is the fact that the Cygnus seems to be parked on the edge of a huge black hole, yet is somehow resisting its tremendous gravitational pull. The Palomino's crew - Captain Dan Holland (Robert Forster), Lt. Charlie Pizer (Joseph Bottoms), Dr. Kate McRae (Yvette Mimieux), Dr. Alex Durant (Anthony Perkins) and Harry Booth (Ernest Borgnine), plus their droid Vincent (voiced by Roddy McDowall) - board the Cygnus to investigate. Dr. McRae in particular is keen to get to the bottom of its mystery, as her father was one of the Cygnus's crew when it was last heard from 20 years previously. Once aboard, they find that the whole spaceship is under the command of Dr. Hans Reinhardt (Maximilian Schell), an eccentric genius who claims that most of his crew left the Cygnus to respond to an order to return to earth. He says that he is the only surviving member of those who chose to remain. Dr. Reinhardt's plan seems to be to take the Cygnus into the black hole and to become the first man ever to learn what lies beyond....There are some dependable names in the cast, and they give enjoyable if undemanding performances on the whole. The special effects are generally quite impressive. John Barry provides a really memorable score which sounds similar to some of his work for the James Bond films. Where The Black Hole comes undone is in its very time-consuming and complicated talky scenes - in particular, a heck of a lot of time seems to be taken with Schell imparting his philosophies to his unexpected guests. Also, the final sequence reveals that black holes are gateways to heaven and hell. While this is an intriguing idea, it is very deep and metaphysical for kids to get to grips with.... and the sequence is rather clumsily put together anyway, so that it seems more muddled than clever. Adults will enjoy the film more than their kids, but whatever your age you're likely to find that the film just doesn't quite fulfil its potential. "},{"Title":"Most beautiful science fiction film ever made.","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was pleased to read the comments of Andrew 31. I was a 28 year old adult and quite familiar with science fiction films and with science when I saw The Black Hole. I was awestruck. It is an incredible work of visual art. It is not so much a science fiction film as it is a magnificent piece of art and fantasy. I never understood why The Black Hole was not a major success. When I left the theatre, I thought I had seen a true masterpiece of cinematic craft and beautiful visual presentation that set a new standard. Of course there were errors. But, I thought that the creators of this film chose cinematic beauty and spectacle over more believable cinematography and plot. Remember, that we must suspend disbelief even for the most realistic of science fiction films. It's just that we are more used to suspending disbelief in some ways than others. And, we are not used to science fiction filmed for shear beauty.It is nothing like any other science fiction film I have seen. I cannot recall another visually gorgeous science fiction film. Lots of spectacle, little beauty!I found Dr. Reinhardt to be one of the most disturbing characters in science fiction and Maximillian, with the rotating can opener hands to be truly terrifying. The Black Hole hits some primal chords of violence, fear, life, death, coerced and tortured existence more typical of a horror film than science fiction. I will readily admit that The Black Hole is an odd-bird that doesn't fit preconceived ideas of what science fiction should be. But, ever since seeing this film, I have wanted to have dinner in Max Reinhardt's dining room with the Chippendale furniture, oriental carpets, and an entire wall and ceiling of glass open into outer space.I generally prefer sci-fi that has an odd or new flair. So, I don't rank lots of good sci-fi in my favorites because it is simply the same old story done well.Here are some of my favorite sci-fi films. You may look at this list and decide that I have no taste at all. Then, again you may understand why The Black Hole is at the top of my list! (I got carried away, sorry.) Bladerunner, Naked Lunch, Altered States, Star Wars (the first one), Dark City, The Matrix, Mars Attacks, Manchurian Candidate (Frank Sinatra), Starship Troopers, Fantastic Planet (European animation), Enemy Mine, The Day the Earth Stood Still, Brazil, 12 Monkeys, E. T., Fahrenheit 451, On the Beach, Back to the Future, The Dead Zone, Brainstorm, Strange Days, The Invisible Man (1933), Earth Girls are Easy, Alien, Andromeda Strain, Planet of the Apes (original), Barbarella, The Fly (1986), Gattaca, Superman (1978), Weird Science, Ghost Busters, Wolfe, I Come in Peace, The Time Machine (1960), Johnny Mnemonic, Zardoz, Last Starfighter, Slaughterhouse Five, Beetlejuice, Edward Scissorhands, Sphere, Stepford Wives (the original and the remake!), Virtuosity, Wargames, Cat People (1942), Village of the Damned (1960), and Wild in the Streets. "},{"Title":"One of the BEST sci-fi movies of late 70's","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Black Hole,One of the darker movies Walt Disney had their name on.With over 550 visual effect shots,including over 150 matte paintings.For contrast,the original Star Wars contained just 13 matte paintings!This rather dark sci-fi kid's triller has had my heart since the day my mom took me to see it in 1979.And with the release of the new widescreen remastered edition,the colors and killer soundtrack come to life were a journey that begins where everything ends! "},{"Title":"Disney's best live action movie","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is one of the most underrated classics of sci-fi. The production designs are outstanding One really gets a sense of the immensity of the Cygnus from the shots of huge, miles long corridors. The story is very good, especially the ending (the vivid scene of Hell still gives me chills). The musical score is very haunting and appropriate. Overall, the acting is pretty good, with only a few stiffly delivered lines. Plus, Maximillion is still one of the most menacing robots in movie history. I'm glad Anchor Bay is re-releasing this movie on VHS and DVD.  "},{"Title":"Disney's Best and only science fiction film!","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Even though Walt Disney died in 1966, his magic continued to flourish. His company does a science fiction movie not even Disney himself could believe. The Black Hole is one adventure most ordinary men dread to follow. Here you got a crew in the future that has a highly resourceful robot named V.I.N.CENT, a crew lead by Capt. Dan Holland(Robert Forester), Lt. Charles Pizer(Joseph Bottoms), two doctors Alex Durant(Tony Perkins) and Kate McCrae (Yvette Mimieux) and Harry Booth(Ernest Borgnine). They head towards a ship commanded by Dr. Hans Reinhardt(Maximilian Schell) a bright, but disturbed man who wants to got into the black hole. His crew are only only humanoids composed of a deceased crew. They had to act fast to thwart this madman. They get help from another robot named BOB; a old robot with a great fighting spirit. That huge robot Maximilian reminds me of one thing The Devil. The movie mentioned Dante's Inferno which one scene almost resembled. The fight between the Captain and the other robots was amazing, and Bob and VINCENT packed a punch or two there. It's a shame that Dr. Durant fell victim to Reinhardt's ideas, and Harry got gutless in the middle, at least he did die a coward's death there. A fine gem from Disney, and a major keeper as well. Recommendable for all ages. Despite the small violence, though. 5 stars! "},{"Title":"It's unpolished, it feels unfinished, corny at times... BUT...","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" *Spoilers* This movie has the best ending of any film I can remember.Let me clarify my position. It doesn't seem to make sense the first few times you watch the film, and the official explanation (Heaven / Hell) isn't really very obvious. BUT - I just saw this film after 20 or more years of forgetting about it, and the second I thought of it, the image came - the ending.Just like the Demon in Fantasia, like the first time you see Darth Vader... the visuals of the ending, with Maximilian standing proud, and the Doctor being part of it, surely do end up burned in your subconscious in such a powerful way, you can never really forget it. It's one of the most powerful images I can remember seeing at the movies - Maximilian has to be the scariest, most horrific villain a child could ever see. It made up for the lack of a scientifically sound plot, wires seen everywhere (check out the DVD - count the wires - you could make a party where everyone takes a shot every time one of them is seen, and end up not caring about scientific inaccuracies!) and characters as flat as day-old Coke (except for the Doctor and Max, of course).BTW - Space Mountain was never designed as an attraction to go along with The Black Hole, as someone mentions in these comments. Space Mountain was built 2 years prior to the movie, and it was designed 10 years prior. The only thing they have in common is, well, space. "},{"Title":"Something of a morality play, building to a grand climax","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The cosmic forces of personal evil and the all-devouring black hole run inexorably together in the melodramatic, but impressive, Disney bid for science-fiction glory.  The dialogue is at times very clumsy, but the special effects hold up surprisingly well from 1979, and the film has a way of groping for and sometimes touching the deepest fears, terrors, and inspirations of the human psyche.People have objected to the cutsie robots, I found them fairly effective and well-thought out.  People refer to the film as derivative from Star Wars, it owes more, rather, to 'Silent Running' and, of course, '20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.'  Few celluloid starships have matched the majesty and eerie terror of the U.S.S. Cygnus, and the acting of all characters is no drawback to the film.  The ending is ambiguous and intriguing.The current Anchor Bay (NOT Disney) DVD is of superior quality to such products offered by Disney itself, and avoids the Mouse's rather disgusting parsimony in offering genuine bonus material. "},{"Title":"A great film dwarfed and forgotten because of Star Wars","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  ----	The Black Hole was released in 1979, when the Star Wars craze was  comsuming America. Walt Disney Studios, in a very un-disney like move, was  trying to grab onto the coat tail of the success of Star Wars and make  money. They Failed. The Black Hole Bombed. The reason it failed was very  simple The Empire Strikes Back had just opened. ----	The Black Hole is a good movie. Good special effects, music, set  design. Though I can't say much for the accuracy of the script or the  acting, I can say that The Black Hole is a very good movie. If you can find  a copy, rent it or buy it.  "}{"Title":"A touch of nostalgia and a very pleasant surprise.","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I must have seen this film over twenty two years ago now when it was shown at school as part of our Christmas fun. While I must admit I am nostalgic about this as it was an important part of my childhood I did think the film still has that certain something about it. I can't understand what some people want with effects these days, and I agree with some of the comments here; the effects in the film look better, stylistically, than many modern films. You still can't beat a good model and good lighting, there's something about the human eye that can still, at the moment anyway, tell computer generated graphics a mile away and they are never totally satisfying.As for the plot, I'd forgotten how dark it was and it's worth watching again just to get that feel for it. Also in those days, and I guess this may insult some of the people that have written comments here, but frankly when I was young, we could actually, like...sit down and like, actually...watch a film and take in the dialogue without getting bored. My generation could do that you know! That's what surprised me with watching it so many years later, all the intense action really is in the last twenty minutes or so and the film builds up pretty nicely up to the end. There is a sinister mood to this which must have influenced me as a child but was too young to fully pick up on what was happening, for those of you that are older and remember the black robots you'll see what I mean.As for the ending, what a bold move that was! I've read numerous points about what the end is actually supposed to mean but even so, you don't get many films that end as ambiguously as that these days. It's so much the better for it.If you haven't seen it in a while, take a trip down memory lane. If you're a Sci-Fi buff, give it a whirl as parts of if are thought provoking. If you're a modern film viewer looking for popcorn type entertainment it's probably best not to bother, you'll end up disappointed. But if you do, remember this was a Disney film, trying to strike a balance to ensure it was real family entertainment and yes, it does absorb a lot of ideas and styles from other films of the decade. Nonetheless there still is something creepy about Maximillian... "},{"Title":"Unfairly Criticized Gem of A Sci-Fi Space Drama","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD!!! As a kid of 7 when The Black Hole came out in December of 1979, I found it utterly fascinating and a unique movie going experience. Later, when I realized what a flop the movie had been, it sort of made me like it even more. Disney turned its back on this little gem of a movie and pretended it never existed, burying it and making all merchandise connected with it highly collectable.In viewing it years later, I can see the obvious mistakes made within the film(the crew being exposed to space with no breathing equipment, burning meteorites, etc.), but hey it's just a movie, and not nearly as bad as some have made it out to be. Sometime in the distant future, the starship U.S.S. Palomino is returning to Earth after a fruitless 18-month mission to search for life in outer space. The 5 crewmembers and one robot, V.I.N.Cent(voiced by Roddy McDowell) stumble upon a deadly black hole and a supposedly lost earth ship known as The Cygnus.  From here, the story is an adventure that tells the story of a madman, his henchman robot Maximillian(still looking ominous even today IMO) and an army of robot slaves known as Humanoids. The scene that has always stuck with me is that of Dr. Alex Durant getting cut down by Maximillian's blades and thrown into the elevator shaft. You saw no blood, but still a powerful scene left to the imagination. Atmosphere is everything in this movie, and it has plenty of it. I find it less a rip-off of Star Wars and more of a throwback to Sci-Fi Dramas of the 50s, particularly Forbidden Planet. The soundtrack by John Barry is eerie and fits the movie perfectly. Only the ending left me a bit dismayed, seeming to not know where to conclude, but taking us on a journey through Heaven and Hell(if only in the crewmembers' minds). The novel by Alan Dean Foster explains this a little more as well as other items such as character's motivations, etc.In closing I will say that I still really like this left-over treasure from childhood and am able to enjoy it even today despite seeing its flaws as an adult. The atmosphere, mood, and style of this buried gem has held up well. Worth another look! My Score 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie Worth Renting of Buying","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was really young even though I didn't understand it I still like Vincent and Old Bob and the Charactors.  Now that I am older (much older) I decided I would like to see it agian so I went to Best Buy and Bought it for only 9.99 on DVD and you can't beat that because every where else I have seen it is 19.99.  So I watched it and even for now it has excellent special effects and is very suspensful kind of like The Watcher in The Woods(1980).  This movie kept me watchful of everything because I wanted to Know what was going to happen.  I would recomend this movie to everyone over 10 who could understand this because it is a movie you will never forget.I rate this movie 10/10 "},{"Title":"Dark, Brooding and DISNEY?","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dark, Brooding and DISNEY?  Can it be true?  It's not exactly Disney's normal view-point, but it works.  I'll start with the robots, the dark & formidable 'Max' and the lovable & quirky 'Vincent', are both great, as is the majority of the acting.  The haunting theme sets the scene for what I can only describe as Disney's best live-action film to date.  There are scientific gaps in the story, but it is a kids film (I didn't know anything about astro-physics at the age of TEN).I understand that to some people, the subject of BLACK HOLES, is not exactly the most enthralling, but they have paid the bills of many a Sci-Fi writer.  If the school holidays catch you by surprise, and your kids still have some imagination, then this could be just the thing your looking for, you may want to watch it with them, if they are paticually young, but you never know, you may end up liking it yourself. "},{"Title":"classic fun","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  a seriously under-rated and sometimes tripped out movie. nearly impossible to find on video, i was happy to receive a LETTERBOX version!with this version, i can see the superb miniatures backed by breathtaking starfields in all their glory! all the fx in this movie are good- even by today's standards! sure, they didn't have the great computer graphics, but there's just something so... solid about miniatures.this being a disney movie,  it is somewhat campy in parts and silly in others. however, it's not really a movie for young kids. i'm sure some parts would terrify small children!if you disregard the disney factor and some of the antics of V.I.N.C.E.N.T. AND B.O.B. and some of the goofier aspects, it's a very cool and well made movie. above all, it's a fun movie with a great ending that is very... strange. you have to see it for yourself.the  performances are good as well. anthony perkins as the scientist captivated by the black hole is very good, as are all the actors.this movie, along with tron are two grossly under-rated classics from walt disney. both these films belong in any sci-fi buff's collection.do youself a favour and rent this movie. hell, if you see it, buy it. it's cheap. my widescreen version cost $12.00- canadian!go, witness a journey that begins where everything ends!! "},{"Title":"Like a scraggly mutant kitty!","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"18 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have actually gone in here and altered and added to my original comments to make them a little less one-sided.Did you ever have one of those mutant pets, like a cat with six toes on its front paws, or an extra ear? Well I didn't either, but you can imagine what it must be like. You'd love the thing all the more because of its flaws, because it'll never be perfect, and because it needs someone to love it. And such is my love for The Black Hole (1979). It is an interesting story that is rendered and explored in a mechanical manner--although visually, in terms of its set design and special effects, it is really stunning. It's a Disney product, and like Star Trek The Motion Picture, it was put on the slates mainly to cash in on the space opera craze that Star Wars had ignited. Movies are commercial art, they exist to make money (hopefully entertaining us at the same time); and the Disney people got their best film-making talent together, assembled a dynamite cast, and cranked this out, in a very lavish and polished way, production-wise. The money is slathered all over the screen, and everything is handled in the tried-and-true Disney Studios fashion of preplanning and choreographing everything down to the tiniest of details (actors don't even PAUSE IN THE MIDDLE OF A LINE unless it was dictated, planned and rehearsed that way)...this was very near the end of Disney's run as a major producer of live-action features, and The Black Hole is a fitting finish. It even features cute touches, like the way the nastiest demise is saved for Anthony Perkins. If you're gonna make a slow, mechanical movie, you can at least do it with style, and they did. It is an impressive production. In a certain way you might say I love/hate the movie. The methodical way it's constructed seems lifeless. But at the same time, it is a strange joy to see its methodical construction. It takes tremendous energy to create something so controlled. It's certainly not a film made by accident or unconsciously.The Black Hole, manages to be strangely trance-inducing. Once I put it on, it's hard to turn it off. "},{"Title":"Disney Movie Mania!  The Black Hole.","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"25 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black Hole (1979) was one of the first films that I can remember watching in a movie theater. A small cinema near to where I lived played Disney films and I saw this one there. A fun film about a group of astronauts and a robot who are welcomed aboard a gigantic spaceship manned by Maximillian Schnell. Sadly he's as mad as a hatter and has some unsettling plans for his guests. The leader of the space travelers is portrayed by one of my b-movie favorites Robert Forester. Creepy Anthony Perkins is also along for the ride as well as several other familiar faces. When I was a lad I was really into this genre. The robots were cool and the special effects were quite impressive.Not a bad film except it confused me a bit when I was younger (especially the end). Entertaining for a Disney film and I wouldn't mind seeing it again in the near future. I have to give this one a passing grade. Not one of my truly favorites but a great time killer. If this one was on video for rent at my local rental store I wouldn't hesitate to watch it. But stay away from T.V. or Cable versions because this film was shot in Cinemascope.Recommended for camp value. "},{"Title":"A true science fiction masterpiece","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"29 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  In a day when garbage like ID4 (Independence Day) and Fifth Element are considered good sci-fi, it's refreshing to see renewed interest in the overlooked classic The Black Hole. I have loved this movie ever since I first saw it in 1979. Is it a Star Wars ripoff? Of course. So what? It is still a classic in every sense of the word. Great performances and a script that is actually thought provoking. It has not only a morality tale, but some first class adventure. How many sci-fi films today have that? Finally, the visual effects are as stunning today as they were 20 years ago. The shot of the giant meteor rolling down the length of the Cygnus toward our heroes remains one of the greatest fx pieces of ALL time! I for one can't wait for the DVD of this movie to come out. With all the Star Wars hype going on these days, it's time for this classic to have its day in the sun too. "},{"Title":"Middle of the Road? You're soaking in it.","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"31 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie does fall absolutely dead center in the middle of the road for me.  On the one hand, you have decent F/X, great model work, some good performances (Maximilian Schell as the Nemo-like bad guy and Perkins as the obsessed acolyte), a willingness to get down and gritty (witness Perkins' on-screen death), and some nice concepts.  On the other hand, you have some bad performances (Borgnine and wooden-faced Forster), unnecessarily anthromorphized robots (no doubt inspired by Star Wars and Disney's desire to lighten the flick a bit), some sloppy science, and a very slow plot. It's good, but to me it just balances right out at a 4-6 rating, depending on my mood when I catch it.  "},{"Title":"Disney's first PG film","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"32 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This was Disney's big Christmas release in 1979--a big budget, the first PG rating and big stars.  It was a huge bomb which is too bad--it's pretty good.A spaceship's crew (Anthony Perkins, Robert Forster, Joseph Bottoms, Yvette Mimieux) find a mad doctor (Maximilian Schell) in outer space ready to enter a black hole.  He sets out to take them with him...or else.Great special effects are the main attraction here.  The debits are kiddie-like dialogue, bad acting, huge lapses in logic and two cutsey robots voiced by Roddy McDowell and Slim Pickens.  Still, I liked the movie.  It moves fairly quickly and there was always some impressive effects to look at--it's obvious that Disney spent a lot of money on this.This is fine for kids--the PG rating is just for someone saying damn and three non-bloody, quick deaths.  Adults should like it too. "}{"Title":"A film of two halves - Enjoyable, but it could have been so much better","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this film the other night, and although I enjoyed it for the most part, it could have been so much better.----Spoilers----I'll keep my review short.The film is about the crew of a deep-space vessel discovering a lost space ship stationed on the edge of a black hole. On entering, all is not what it seems!!!The production does well to build suspense and a sense of mystery throughout the first half of the film. The visuals are great for their time, and the story kept me wanting to find out what was going on.Maximilian Schell gives a fantastic and credible performance, and some of the concepts in the film I'm sure have been the basis for future sci- fi films and programmes.However, the film fell apart in the second half. I noticed more than a few plot-holes, poor character development of the crew, terrible dialogue, nonsensical decisions by the characters and questions which remain unanswered.I'm sure this could have been a sci-fi classic if the writers had spent a week or two more ironing out the plot, giving more depth to some of the characters and improving the dialogue.I gave this film 5 stars. I think if Maximilian Schell hadn't have given such a good performance, I would have rated it lower.The film had a good concept, but just failed to deliver in the end. I would recommend seeing this film if you are a sci-fi fan in order to further your understanding of the sci-fi genre. However, as a stand alone film, don't bother. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black HoleThe reason no human has travelled through a black hole is for fear the parallel universe on the other side doesn't have free Wi-Fi.This may explain why the spacecraft in this sci-fi film remains on the rim of a black hole.Returning to Earth after an exploration mission, the crew (Anthony Perkins, Robert Forster, Ernest Borgnine, Joseph Bottoms, Yvette Mimieux) of the USS Palomino encounters the disable USS Cygnus circling a black hole.Boarding the vessel, the crew and their robot (Roddy McDowall) are greeted by Dr. Reinhardt (Maximilian Schell) and his sentry Maximilian.The mystery over Cygnus' missing crew, however, becomes obvious when Reinhardt reveals his plans to enter the space anomaly.Disney's unsuccessful foray into the bourgeoning space opera genre of the late-seventies, The Black Hole is vastly underrated and unjustly maligned despite its groundbreaking concepts.Nonetheless, black holes remain the best place to hide incriminating evidence.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"I remember liking this as a kid","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's 2130 and Day 547 on board the USS Palomino with Captain Dan Holland (Robert Forster), Lieutenant Charles Pizer (Joseph Bottoms), Dr. Alex Durant (Anthony Perkins), Harry Booth (Ernest Borgnine) and Dr. Kate McCrae (Yvette Mimieux) with ESP abilities to talk to robots. Robot VINCENT discovers a large black hole and a lost ship the USS Cygnus. McCrae's father is suppose to be on board. The ship is not abandoned as first thought and is filled with robots run by the mad Dr. Hans Reinhardt (Maximilian Schell). He has been alone for 20 years refusing orders to return to Earth. His most formidable robot is Maximilian.I remember really liking this as a kid. Watching it now, the science is wrong. What's with ESP? I can even see some of the wires. I do like some of the designs. I love the VINCENT and Maximilian robots. The special effects is a mix bag coming after Star Wars. It's 50s sci-fi motif is actually quite interesting. I would love to see this story remade with the science redone. There is a fine mad scientist movie here. "},{"Title":"Could Have Been a Truly Outstanding Movie","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" While traveling in deep space the crew of the U.S.S. Palomino come upon a massive black hole. Deciding to scan the area before pulling back they happen to detect another spacecraft which appears adrift but is neither being drawn into nor pulling away from the black hole. Deciding to investigate a little further they attempt to pass by the spacecraft that they have now identified as the U.S.S. Cygnus--which has been reported missing for 20 years. Unfortunately, during their investigation the gravitational pull of the black hole causes damage to their vessel and they are forced to make an emergency landing on top of the U.S.S. Cygnus. Suddenly, the lights of the U.S.S. Cygnus turn on and having few other alternatives they decide to venture inside the spacecraft. Soon they come face to face with a renowned scientist named Dr. Hans Reinhardt (Maximilian Schell) and a very menacing robot he has named Maximilian. But that isn't all that they find. Anyway, rather than disclose any more of the movie and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this film was pretty enjoyable for it's time. I liked the special effects and the general flow of the movie which kept my interest from start to finish. I also liked the cast which included Anthony Perkins (as Dr. Alex Durant), Ernest Borgnine (Harry Booth) and the attractive Yvette Mimieux (Dr. Kate McCrae) along with the afore-mentioned Maximilian Schell. On the other hand, one thing I didn't quite care for were the two robots known as Vincent and Bob due to their less-than-serious caricatures which I felt ruined what could have been a truly outstanding movie. Because of that I rate it as only slightly above average. "},{"Title":"It's a Hole, Alright!","Date":"15 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" 35 years after its release, I finally sat down and suffered through Disney's idiotic The Black Hole. Now, I'm not a masochist, but I have to pat myself on the back for making it through this interminably awful and childish space junk, all with a nasty sore throat. I read the article about the movie on Wikipedia. It said that Roger Ebert gave it a 2 out of 4 stars while several other critics praised it.What exactly were they praising? Or was I being put-on by Wiki?Back to the sore throat. This is so awful, so NBC's Buck Rogers in its, its everything, that I think my throat got worse from trying to swallow The Black Hole . . . or get swallowed by it. "},{"Title":"Tunnel Vision","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is another under the radar gem and another relic from my childhood. This film was one of the first live action films from Disney that I've seen, and I had a blast with it because Disney tackled one of my specialties which is sci-fi. This is a unique gem because this came out at a time when Disney decided to take chances to reach out to a wider audience, and personally I felt they were on the right track despite not good with keeping on it.I like the story, yeah it's an absurd plot but at least it's a simple uncomplicated one. The plot could of been anything else or gone any other way if you've ever read the history on the writing of the movie. In a way it's sort of the creepy/haunted mansion scenario but in space. This film is more pulp sci-fi, it's not really concerned with logic, it's just being what it should be plain fun.Characters are good/decent they all serve their functions and are played by a good cast. Maximillian Schell as Dr. Hans Reinhardt I thought was a solid villain, he's the typical mad scientist you can tell physically from his messy hair but also just simply the feeling this guy hasn't gotten out much, just way too much time alone. Underrated actor Robert Foster I though was solid as Capt. Dan Holland, he's the typical daring protagonist but he's got a little charisma which is why I like him. Even his friend Lt.Charles Fizer (Joseph Bottoms) whom is the typical hotshot.However the characters that stand out the most for me are the robots. From the two cute robots, the up to date one Vincent, voiced well by t Roddy McDowall and the robot that seen better days Bob voiced by Slim Pickens. I like the designs of them small, unique look almost like hovering trash cans not that that's a bad thing, but I really like the eyes of both of them which are friendly.I really like the back and forth between them it's pretty much the classic collaboration between both old and young, how both have the best in values. Both have charisma I like how Vincent sounds sophisticated and proper when Bob sounds like an old cowboy which feels right considering the model types both are. Even feel sad when something happens to one of them.I like the antagonist Maxamilian, sure he doesn't say anything but he's an antagonist about presence. I really like the design of him, from the crimson red color, height, glowing red visor, just brings out intimidation and says unfriendly. Though to me what really made me nervous as a kid was the fact that he was hard to kill and was armed with those propeller blades that could cut anything.The first half is a bit of a slow burn but I really like it because it's a suspenseful mystery. Your in the characters shoes as their all trying to orient themselves with the enviorment their in and the many questions they have like, what happened to the rest of the crew, why such a high population of robots? You can probably easily guess the answer to these questions but it's really the matter of building up to the final result that keeps us on our toes.However what really made the film stand out was in both it's production value and the music. The production value I really felt was on par, they had a big budget which I felt they used well. I really like the design of the robots from the ones I've mentioned to the flunkies. But what impressed me more is the design of the starship which I think is great, it looks like a world of it's own; from the vastness to the multiple rooms it had like a biosphere, a shooting gallery room, just anything. But also the amount of darkness in the ship which give it a dark and foreboding atmosphere.Even the visual effects when the characters go into the Black Hole. Some have complained about this sequence, but even that could of gone either way once again it's in the history. Also lets face it do we really know what's in a black hole. Personally I thought it was a beautiful and trippy ride, though I'll let you be the judge of that once you get to the sequence.The action sequences are decent, from most of the shootouts but one sequence I really liked was the one on one between Maxamilan and Vincent, it was pretty much a David and Golith battle, you could easily guess who wins if you remember that story.And the music I think is superb it's one of my personal favorite movie scores that I feel is underrated. I really love the theme song which has that sense of mystery and almost sense of dread. There was also a remix of the theme by MECO which I think is great because it's a more adventurous tune. Overall, it a fun film, it's not one of best Sci-Fi's in my book but like any interstellar expedition it's worth a trip.Rating 3 stars "},{"Title":"A great big Disney comic book . . .","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" 'The Black Hole' is a little better then the standard sci-fi westerns released late 70s in the wake of the enormous success of 'Star Wars'. Maybe that's because it has a cast of very good actors and it features an impressive production design.The story A group of explorers happen upon a black hole and wonder why there seems to be a ship just sitting on it's edges. On board they find the ship run by robots and commanded by a Dr. Han Reinhart a scientist missing some twenty years. Only later do we find out that he has turned the entire crew into robots and that he plans to make the black hole his grave.The cast of human heroes aren't given much to do. We get Anthony Perkins, Ernest Borgnine, Robert Forster and Yvette Mimeux who are given the standard roles for this type of film and what they have they play to the hilt (they are after all real actors). The more interesting characters in the film are the robots.Reinhart's operation is guarded by a glowering red menace named Maximillian, who never speaks but his whose whirling metal wrist blades do all his talking for him. The heroes have the bulbous V.I.N.CENT (voiced by the late Roddy McDowell) who speaks eloquently and communicates psychically with Mimeux. Then there is a fellow bulbous trashcan named B.O.B. (who bears a striking resemblance to Cartman from 'South Park') voiced by the late Slim Pickins The best performance in the movie is by Maximillian Schell as Reinhart, as a brilliant but unstable man whose madness seems to have caused him to lose his sense of humanity.What I remember most from 'The Black Hole' is the production design by Peter Ellenshaw. Reinhart's ship looks like an interstellar aircraft carrier envisioned by Gustav Eiffel. The spacescapes are beautiful with the billions of stars all cluttered together across the blue-black infinity of space rather then neatly spaced pinholes in a black curtain. Always looming not too far away is the ominous black hole a swirling celestial whirlpool that we know will eventually have its big scene. I also love John Barry's ominous musical score, which give the scenes an air of dread.I have two problems with 'The Black Hole'. First, is that as much as I admire the production values it is hard to get away from the fact that the movie's story is so standard. The crew finds a madman, discover his secret, he tries to kill them, they shoot it out with his robots as the ship crumbles around them. There really isn't anything at stake in this film.The second problem is the almost fatal flaw of the ending in which inevitably the ship does fall into that black hole. We see this silly metaphysical trip through heaven and hell as Reinhart and Maximillian either make love or physically bond or mind meld &#x96; or something. This scene, stolen from '2001 A Space Odyssey', makes no sense, it looks stupid and doesn't fit with the tone of the rest of the film.'The Black Hole' isn't a terrible movie, and it isn't a great movie either. It stands somewhere in the middle of the road. It has its merits and it had its problems but one doesn't out-weigh the other. Do you have a good time? Yes. Is it memorable? Not really.*** (of four) "},{"Title":"On My Top 25","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Unlike the other space movies around the same time, this movie had a defined story and very fast paced. Wish Disney would decide to re-release on Blu-Ray and possible a reformat in 3D (like they did with Toy Store). Would love to see Disney finally give credits to Roddy McDowell (V.I.N.C.E.N.T) and Slim Pickens (Old Bob). This is one movie I can watch over and over again and not get bored. One of the best casts assembled including two Oscar winners (Schell and Borgnine). If you remember, when the movie was released, Disney put the actual black hole at the end of the Space Mountain ride in Orlando (why they took it out, I'll never know)! "},{"Title":"How can you not like it?","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" A deep space expedition finds a lost ship in orbit around a black hole. On board the ship they find scientist Hans Reinhardt (Maximilian Schell) with a crew of robots. This is an interesting science fiction movie from Disney. The silly robots would indicate this was meant for a family audience but it doesn't really have the feel of your usual family Disney movie. No, it's not 2001. It's not even Star Wars. But it's fun, likable, and charming. There's a lot to not take seriously about it but there's some meat on the bone as well. The trippy climax is wonderful. Good cast, interesting story, and some nice visuals. I know some sci-fi fans only have room on their palette for super-serious sci-fi with deep meaningful themes and lots of subtext. Personally I like some variety and a sci-fi movie that's just plain fun suits me fine. I hope I don't ever get so stuffy I can't enjoy mad scientists and silly robots. "},{"Title":"70% of the way to amazing","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Much of what we dislike about this movie comes as 20/20 hindsight, having learned from future failures. Here are a few 1) There is only one R2D2. Don't try to cutesy up a movie with kid friendly characters = ditch the nice robots and keep the means ones. 2) There is only one 2001. The What just happened? ending only works in very specific circumstances = shoot for something more akin to the Alien ending. 3) Dialog is important, even in sci-fi = perhaps just get rid of Earnest Borgnine altogether. 4) Sci-fi movies need somewhat tight pseudo physics = floating into the vacuum of space must be taken with a degree of seriousness. 5) Good protagonists are almost as important as good villains = you don't need Han Solo, Gene Hackman from Poseidon would have doneHad they gotten these 5 points right, this could well be one of the finest sci-fi movies ever made. Here is what they got right 1) The visuals - The movie is beautiful, straight up. Stunning in fact. Forget the fact that you can't see a black hole, it looks so good, you can forgive that. And the matte paintings of space are beyond movie making. The dark, shadowed foreboding aura of the film is appropriate to what space is dark, cold and dangerous. Anyone trying to argue the visuals is just being silly. 2) The Cygnus - Sci-fi is all about the ships and this one is perhaps the coolest ship ever created for the screen. Jules Verne meets I. M. Pei, a Gothic trellis work skyscraper of monstrous proportions. The massive bridge with its floating planets, ordered instrument panels and sweeping view of the rest of the ship against the space backdrop is yet to be matched in any other film. To all the movie makers out there, please, someone do a movie with models instead of CGI. All the fly byes and moving shots of the ship, properly shadowed by real light blows all the CGI right out of the water. No matter how good tech gets, nothing beats large scale models. 3) The Villain - Schell is fantastic. His character and performance are spot on. He is just the right blend of genius and crazy. 4) The Henchman - Maximilian remains the greatest evil robot ever invented. He is frightening and psychopathic, all without ever voicing a single word. Children were scared out of their minds when this movie came out. 5) The mindless army - Perhaps even better than Soylent green is people! A space ship essentially manned by zombies?! Come on, beat that! Imagine how scary the movie could have been if instead of being hunted by silly robots, the good doctor turned an army of zombies on our heroes as they tried to escape the sinking Cygnus. The Poseidon Adventure meets Dawn of the Dead. 6) The Scenes - some of the best scenes in sci-fi history, Maximilian roto rootering Norman Bates, the doctor trapped and dying while he begs his zombies to help him, and the rolling asteroid (stolen for Raiders by the way). 7) The Score - Few movies can claim a score that reflects the overall feel of the movie as well as this. The opening credits are worth the price of admission due to the music.And to those lousy critics who want to trash this film for silly reasons, let me help you out with a few items. 1) No, this film is not a rip off of Star Wars. Its nothing like Star Wars aside from having a silly robot. Please come up with something more original than that. It is much more closely associated with 20k Leagues, 2001 and The Poseidon Adventure. 2) The special effects are REALLY GOOD considering the time. Better in fact than Star Wars, and people of the time agreed. Sure you can see a few wires if you look closely, but that stuff is hard given what they had to work with. Watch the rolling asteroid scene some time, and find any fault with it. Its better than what we could do today. 3) The pacing is not slow when taken in context of the time, neither was Vertigo in case you want to level that criticism at Hitchcock. In fact the 1979 NY Times review called this movie snappy. The fact that your current attention span can hardly tolerate anything slower than The Fast and the Furious says nothing about a movie made before Reagan was president. 4) The acting, aside from Borgnine, is not bad. The dialog is bad and so it can be hard to tell, but most of the actors are passable. Schell and Perkins are in fact quite good. 5) The design of the Cygnus is not absurd. Keep in mind that we find out that the Cygnus is a gross expenditure of taxpayer dollars dreamed up by the doctor. Its reasonable to believe that if you have reached the point in time that you can create artificial gravity, then getting materials into space to construct a large ship is likely no longer a barrier. Without the constraints of drag or gravity, and driven by an over funded, likely high corrupt government pork project, space ships may indeed become ridiculously sized.My dearest hope for movie technology is to come up with something to fix old movies without wrecking them, because with a few tweaks, this one could be a masterpieces as opposed to being a punching bag. "}{"Title":"Disney Meets Star Wars","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Gary Nelson directed this alternately ambitious and childish science fiction tale set aboard the USS Palomino, which has located long-lost ship USS Cygnus near the Event Horizon of a black hole. The crew(played by Robert Forster, Yvette Mimieux, Joseph Bottoms, Ernest Borgnine, and Anthony Perkins) meet the mad scientist(played by Maximilian Schell) who is determined to take them all in, through, and beyond the black hole... Though this has big ideas, and impressive F/X, it is undermined by some poor writing, dodgy science, and derivative robots. Roddy McDowall and Slim Perkins go uncredited as the voices of Vincent and Bob, and they steal the film from everyone! "},{"Title":"Great Special Effects.  Otherwise, Quite Disappointing","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" A 7 for the special effects only, which, for the most part, are quite good but not exceptional. Like the first original Star Trek Movie, the plot is too watered down, to keep a family rating I suppose. In spite of the two adorable tin-can robots, it's really too scary for little kids. There is a nightmarish quality about the whole thing Maximilian the robot bully. The zombies running the ship. The S.T.A.R robots in their rubber suits marching like Nazi stormtroopers. A doomed ship.--They have to get off before the mad scientist destroys it. Poor Alex's violent death. Dr. Kate almost zapped into a zombie, wearing a tin-foil hat. (The scariest scene in the movie!) I can hear the gasps from all the moms and Dads in the theater now We thought this was a Disney Movie! The dream-like ending makes no sense; according to the DVD extra, it wasn't supposed to. Does the crew imagine these eerie images? What planet do they land on? No answers. Just that repetitive, numbing, musical score. Terrible acting from both Ernest Borgnine and Maximilian Schell with his bad accent. The badly-written script steals from several other movies and could have been called Dr. Nemo in Space. Also, how can they breathe? The atmosphere is being sucked out into space? The two good robots are a failed attempt to copy Star Wars. Strangely, it's fun to watch in spite of all its faults, but really bad science fiction. It seems unfinished, rushed-to-market, and too short. Not really a good kids movie A couple of mild scares and a nasty murder-The N.Y. Times. "},{"Title":"The Black Hole","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black Hole is an overly expensive, but tedious, film that has attempted to capitalize on the success of the Star Wars extravaganza. Yet while the people witnessing Star Wars happily return to the back of the line to watch it all over again, there is very little in The Black Hole to get excited about. The special effects may be fancy and expensive, but the characters that inhabit this sci-fi world are dull. The two small robots in this movie reminded me of R-2 Dittoo from Star Wars, except that they were not as fully realized or as amusing as the Star Wars robots. The characters are also uninteresting. The villain Dr. Reinhart is played by Maximilian Schell who is an excellent actor. But hobbled by a poor script, a substandard plot, and lacking physical presence, Schell's Dr. Reinhart cannot even compare with that of Darth Vader and Lord Sithius, who are infinitely more effective. Similarly the good guys in this film do not inspire the same sympathy or interest that Mark Hamil, Carrie Fischer, and Harrison Ford did in the Star Wars trilogy.The plot, moreover, amounts to no more than a few space explorers visiting a spaceship beside a black hole and then discovering that they are in danger. There is no interesting set up to speak of and there are no big memorable scenes for the actors -- and that includes Dr. Reinhardt's entrance which has to go down as one of the most boring introductions for a villain in movie history. So if you want to see a great sci-fi space movie with your drinking buddies, then give this film a miss and watch the Star Wars trilogy instead. You would be much happier that you did. "},{"Title":"Involuntarily funny...","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have to disagree here with the other people giving this movie a high rating. Offcourse tastes are subjective but I have to compare this movie with the scifi/space benchmarks of 2001(1969), Star Wars(1977) and Alien (1979).Black hole falls short on the realism of 2001, the philosophical questioning of 2001, the scares of alien and the action/humour of star wars.The characters are, as one reviewer put it, black holes in them selves. The effects are cheesy to say the least and the story also quite full of holes.There was hints of potential, maybe even big potential inbetween some lines but fully unrealised in this movie.Funnily enough I had been searching over 20 years for this movie since I could only remember a tiny 1 second part of it. In some ways it was a disappointment on the other hand I haven't laughed that much at a scifi movie in a looong time. "},{"Title":"Dubious science mars an otherwise engaging flick aimed at young boys.","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" With the success of Star Wars (success being an understatement!), everyone threw his hat into the ring to come up with another sci-fi blockbuster and this was Disney's attempt. A small spacecraft with a crew of five, whose mission is to discover life in distant space, comes upon a derelict ship that had gone missing many years before. Situated on the edge of a black hole, the ship suddenly springs to life, lighting up and drawing the smaller vessel to it. Once on board, the crew, led by Forster, is stunned to find long lost, renowned scientist Schell presiding over an army of robots. He has plans to enter the black hole, something that Forster's crewmate Perkins finds enticing. Before long, Forster & company realize that they aren't going to get a lot of say so in the matter and they are forced to fight their way out of the ship and away from Schell. Escaping Schell's army of robots and getting out of his massive spacecraft is easier said that done, however. Forster is adequately commanding and heroic in his role, though he has never been a particularly prominent leading man, but more of a well-regarded character actor. Schell is appropriately driven and almost maniacal, though it isn't always easy to discern what's he's saying. The part calls for a larger than life personality and he does deliver that. Perkins doesn't even try to avoid the tics and mannerisms of the various nuts he had portrayed prior to this (and after), but his final moments are interesting ones. Mimieux, as Forster's fellow crewmate and implied love interest, puts a fair amount of emotion into her part. Her character shares ESP with the crew's robot (voiced by an unbilled Roddy McDowall) in a way that is merely offered up without explanation. Borgnine is a reporter tagging along for the ride and he gives a committed if unspectacular performance. The crew is rounded out by eager and very handsome Bottoms who is not given a tremendous amount to do. A robot similar to Forster's, found inside Schell's vessel, is voiced by an unbilled Slim Pickens. The actors' voices are so distinct that they are instantly recognizable to fans of their work. Practically none of the science of the film is accurate which may rub aficionados the wrong way. Visually, however, the film is quite stunning, with the Disney technicians giving their all to the production design and matte paintings. One sequence, involving a fiery meteorite bearing down on the escapees, is very arresting. Another, when the derelict ship suddenly lights up, is equally memorable. A majestic air is lent to the film by John Barry's electronic-infused score, which is fairly mesmerizing at times, in line with the title phenomenon. What the film lacks, apart from a more basic truth in science, are dramatic punch and a sense of verve in the storytelling. Also, despite the obvious care and expense lavished on it, there is a sense of prepackaged ripping off in some respects, the most obvious being the robot, whose shape is similar to R2-D2 and whose voice is reminiscent of C-3PO. The ending is also quite a letdown. It contains some striking visuals, but feels rushed, senseless and almost tacked on, though it wasn't. Still, this is an interesting movie, deserving of a little spot in the sci-fi world. "},{"Title":"In, through... and beyond.","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Sometimes you just have bad luck. This was a good movie with dazzling cinematography and special effects. Unfortunately it lost the Oscars in both categories going up against Apocalypse Now and Alien. Despite that, it was worth watching for the action and science.Maximilian Schell (Judgment at Nuremberg, The Man in the Glass Booth, Julia) is always worth watching, and he certainly makes a good mad scientist. Anthony Perkins certainly showed that he can do something besides Psycho.And, it had the cutest little robots I have ever seen. they were adorable! I just thought that it stretched credulity a bit as the spaceship was breaking up. I just can't believe anyone would have lived. "},{"Title":"A Really Cool Movie When I Was A Kid...","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" ...but, like a couple others here have said, watching it again as an adult, you see all of the flaws wooden acting, (black)holes in the plot, cheesy-looking robots(especially Maximilian, what's up with that one big glowing red canoe-shaped eye?). At least the opticals and miniature effects are quite good. IMHO, the ending was regally lame.  They go through the black hole, come out the other side, and then what?  I've always felt that if when they emerge from the black hole, and it was the planet Earth that they cruise toward off in the distance, it would've made up for a lot of the flaws already present in the film.  "},{"Title":"Not bad for Disney, considering the year","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Every time I catch this movie, I'm always a little amazed.  The special effects really aren't that bad, considering that its a Disney movie made almost 25 years ago.  The well-known cast deliver a good performance by most science fiction standards.I don't know if I would go out of my way to own this on DVD or VHS, but if you catch it, its worth watching....  Two stars out of four. "},{"Title":"i respect this bad movie","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Scientific blunders, stiff acting and robot death scenes aside, I have to say that this movie has a permanent place in my heart.  People often discount it as a Star Wars wannabe, even though it was conceptualized three years before the release of the first Star Wars movie.  I forgive the movie for placing people in the vacuum of space without helmets.  I forgive the movie for using lame laser gun foley sounds.  I even forgive it for putting tinfoil on Yvette Mimeux's head and trying to cook it like a baked potato.  The Black Hole, like it or not, was ahead of its time.  It reached new frontiers in visual effects and it has a tastefully ambiguous ending, which can be interpreted numerous ways.  And I respect the fact that its box office failure nearly destroyed the Walt Disney Company.  (I guess black holes really do have ultimate destructive power.) "},{"Title":"Saw it as a kid about 17 years ago ...","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As mentioned, it's a long while since I saw this. It was showed one evening in my school's Movie Club, on an old projector. I remember being just old enough to follow the Danish subtitles, and a small pride that quite a few of the other kids couldn't keep up - my goodness, hope I'm a bigger person these days! ;o)Anyway, I became extremely fascinated with the thought of what might be on the other side of a black hole, if anything. It was probably the first time a scientific (in lack of a better word) curiosity for outer space was stirred in me; wonderful Star Wars is more of an all-out adventure that could just as well have been set in a Fantasy world (almost).I also remember something about cyborgs, quite the spooky concept for an 8-year old, actually!All in all, it's all a bit of a blur for me these days, but I saw the DVD on an Internet auction a few minutes ago, and now I'll probably have to go and bid on it. Don't really know if the special effects and tempo is too out of date for contemporary children, but I'd give it a try if you're looking for a scifi for your kids. "}{"Title":"One of those just bad enough to be good movies.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Disney's The Black Hole captures that moment in Hollywood history when The Walt Disney Company was tumbling in the wake of the major studios like an annoying, tag-along kid brother whining, Me too! Me Too!. It's hard to believe now, with the Disney media juggernaut having devoured the animation market as well as Miramax and Capital Cities/ABC, but in those pre-Eisner/Katzenberg days, there was a popular joke in Tinseltown that went Some people work in film, and some people work for Disney. Ahh, but the Black Hole comes from a tense period in Disney's history when the studio was till trying to find it's way after Walt's death, still trying to live down all those god-awful Kurt Russel/Joe Flynn movies, and was being run by the man Walt himself appointed as heir to the throne, Ron Miller. At the time, Ron was Walt's son-in-law, a former USC football star, and a future ousted Disney CEO branded with the unaffectionate moniker of Tron Miller.  The Black Hole was Disney's attempt to get a piece of the Star Wars action. The Black Hole follows the adventure of an exploration spcaeship that finds a long-missing space station perched on the rim of a massive black hole that is animated on twos. Upon investigation, the explorers find the station under the command of Dr. Hans Reinhardt (Maximilian Schell), seemingly the only human occupant among a ship populated with spooky robots with black robes and mirrored faces. Reinhardt, of course, is a space-going mad scientist, and instantly befriends the exploration crew's resident nutcase, Dr. Alex Durant (played by resident Hollywood nutcase, Anthony Perkins).  Of course, Reinhardt has a suicidal scheme to travel into the black hole, and wants the exploration crew's help...whether they want to give it or not. Also along for the ride are several funny robots that serve the purpose of showing the audience how far technology has come in the futuristic world of The Black Hole. The robots fly instead of walking or rolling, and if that isn't hilarious enough, one of the robots even has ESP!  Reinhardt even has his own pet monster (as any self-respecting mad scientist would), in the form of Maximillion, as scary, flying robot that looks a lot like a Transformer and has these unique blender-like attachments that are useful for killing visiting scientists. Maximillion does not speak, and emits an unnerving bass hum for extra spookyness. Rounding out the cast are Robert Forster as the Captain, Joseph Bottoms as his Lieutenant, Yvette Mimieux as the scientist,  and Joe Flynn as they befuddled college dean (just kidding!).  Of course, the film features a very Dineyesque moral message in which both the bad and good characters go to their just rewards There are some nice special effects (like the glowing meteors bounding through the ship) and some really lame special effects (like Maximillion obviously swinging on a rope to simulate his flying in the path of our heroes), and there are moments of pretentiousness and lame science that make this movie an entertaining snickerfest, if not totally engrossing. All in all, it's a fun movie for anyone with a ten-year-old's attention span but it suffers from the technique that a lot of Disney live-action films of the period did, which is talking down to the kiddies in the audience. Kids know when they are being talked down to, and it never works. However, taken with a grain of salt and looked upon as cheesy pop culture rather than science fiction, The Black Hole is fun to watch. It's just bad enough to be good, not so bad as to be unwatchable, and unintentionally funny enough to be entertaining. "},{"Title":"Okay movie, Great Effects!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The storyline is somewhat predictable - up to a point. But a few things stand out in this movie even though I rated it 6. Firstly the movie handles some things about space like they should be. More so than basically any other space movie. The extreme cold when air escapes through a hull-breach, quicker laserfire. (Laserfire head-on. Now where is that used elsewhere?) And the end is quite interesting too. Further the effects are pretty great for the era(1979) and this also rates with the other surprise movie from Disney - Tron. The robot Vincent in this movie is a great prelude to R2D2 of Star Wars. An actually useful, non humanoid robot. I quite enjoyed it too! "},{"Title":"SPOILER It was pretty good.(Spoiler)","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I forgot most of the movie, but what i remember that at the start of the movie, a crew of a spaceship flies toward a black hole, (I forgot why though) and find an ancient spaceship, thought to have been destroyed. When they get on the ship, they find the only person left on the ship is the crazy captain who made a troop of slave robots. The crews robot vincent goes of and finds the old ships vincent-like robot Bob, who tells the crew to get the heck out of the dodge before crazy capn. goes through the black hole.After a lot of boring talking and one of the crew members gets killed by the crazy captians security robot, they make a terrible discovery after Ernest Borgnine takes a robot slave mask off and discovers that all but about ten of the robots are the old ships crew. Ernest takes a ship away, and he gets blown up.then the old crew has to discover how do get away, but everyone is stuck on crazy guys ship, and they are going through the black hole. The capn. gets sucked in and for some reason goes to heck, along with the crew-robots. While the other crew on an escape pod is back at Earth. "},{"Title":"Different take at a different age...","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was 9, and I still remember how much I enjoyed it then.  The plot was simplistic enough for a child to understand, yet it was dark and edgy, making it frightening, but giving it substance even to a child my age.  The end was a bit confusing, but enough elements were there to let me grasp the basic jist of what happened.  I remember talking about the movie in school for weeks after.Looking at the film now, 21 years later, the effects look quite simplistic, the plot is pretty light, the characters a bit formulmatic.  If you are going to stack a film like this up against a film like Star Wars, of course it is going to pale in comparison, and it is an unfair one.  This film has all of the traits of a 50's B-rate science fiction movie, and maybe even was an intentional nod to that genre of films.  Looking at it that way, I get more of a nostalgic feel for the film than an urge to pick out the obvious flaws.  This movie has more in common with Forbidden Planet than modern Sci-Fi movies, and is really the last of it's kind that I can think of that was produced.It's simple, it's fun, don't knock it. "},{"Title":"LOVED THE CYGNUS!!!","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film, when looked at in an adult perspective, is very dated compared to films today. However, it was the first movie I ever saw and I absolutely loved it! (the ending completely bypassed my then-neural processors)The sets and miniatures in this film are (still) brilliant. The U.S.S Cygnus is the best ship model I have ever seen created for a science fiction movie and also the most original.   The huge red robot Maximillian, was particularly menacing. The two cartoon robots Vincent and Bob were little more than an annoyance which should have been omitted. The awful stiff-legged marching robot soldiers were a complete laugh. It's difficult to believe a ridiculous goon squad like that could overwhelm a crew of 400...Dialogue is hokey and smacks of ye typical Disney Fluff. Acting by the cast however, was good, especially Maximillian Schell's mad scientist Dr Reinhardt. The story was particularly spooky, given that the commander had his crew turned into robot drones, and the hospital is something out of a nightmare... definitely not a Disney norm.Although this movie is dotted with the standard cliches, they are forgiven by the sheer amount of effects which is laden throughout Disney's first real attempt at making a science fiction picture....I found this film far superior to the stinky Event Horizon. Only thing going for this awful flick was cliched blood-splattered gore.  Its story line was (obviously) lifted directly from The Black Hole.CONCLUSION? Watch this film - even just to see the beautiful scenes of the Cygnus!!! "},{"Title":"the symbology in the spacecraft engines.....","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Palomino should not have been destroyed...however. The ship the Palomino had three engines which were of man's design. This craft when piloted by the traitor Harry Booth could not stand up to the pull of the Black Hole....plus Boooth could not fly it alone. It had to be blasted from the sky. The space probe is indicitive of the Holy Trinity....God the father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. The probe's single engine is symbolic of the oly way to get to heaven is through JESUS CHRIST and that the technology used for the craft came from a source other than earth...perhaps heaven. The ideology that dooms the Cyfnus and her crew is the folly of secular humanism that states man is in God or can become a god or god himself. Chrisitianity states inorder to get toheaven you must acknowledge that the only way to get there is through accepting Jesus Christ. That's the end. The true freedom of God once they've cut through the confusion of Reinhardt and his military industrial BS. "},{"Title":"Disney rarely has bad moments, but this is an example of one.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I'm watching this movie right now only because it is holding my daughter's attention (she's only 3). She's also half asleep.I think they forgot to ask Kurt Russell to star in the movie. This movie should have been a thriller; however, it is like a stale action movie. The plot did not need a crazed person as the center of the plot. The robots look like they were a creation of The Absent Minded Professor ... the special effects people invested heavly in cardboard. The laser fx are good, but I can't understand why since everything else is so bad - they must have reached a creativity burnout after the laser fx.Ernest Borgnine does not belong in this movie. He has played too many characters of every day life. Anthony Perkins was at least a psychotic killer, and Yvette Mimieux was from the future. "},{"Title":"Cheesy but fun","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Indeed, pretty much everything about this film was wrong.  Especially the fact that the sound remastering on the DVD has no right front channel.  That having been said, this movie was a lot of fun!  I don't know how seriously this movie was supposed to be taken, and if taken too seriously would be a vast disappointment.  But it was a fun, enjoyable leave your brain at the door movie!6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Not As Funny As Space Balls","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" While I was trying to watch the premiere of this on Turner Classic Movies, someone walked by and asked, Is that 'Space Balls'? When I said No, it's 'The Black Hole, they replied, Wow, that looks incredibly bad. And it is. Incredibly. Bad.I remember the big buildup of publicity when this was originally released, but even from the ads I thought the robots just looked too dumb and the actors too wooden. So when I heard the bad reviews from others I passed it up (in favor of trying to sneak in to see 'Alien'?). Now that I've finally seen it, I realize that I've wasted a bit more than an hour and a half of my life that I'll never get back.Yes, it was cool to see that glowing space field of stars that no one has ever really done that way again. And some of the effects and models were pretty cool (though some were pretty bad). But the pluses are so far outweighed by the painful minuses that it's not even enjoyable in a campy way.The best part is the John Barry score, but even it sounds half-hearted. The often poorly-staged action scenes are not helped when the music that's turned up to heighten the effect sounds too much like a funeral march. "},{"Title":"Better when I saw it as a kid.","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I first saw this movie at the drive in when I was four years old.  I really enjoyed it then, but I didn't understand what was going on.  Now that I am older I know what is going on, but man there are sure a lot of visible strings.  It also doesn't have the pop it did back then either.  The story is rather interesting as it is a bit like that of the more recent Event Horizon.  A ship that has been missing is found near a black hole.  The doctor on the ship is preparing to enter the black hole as part of an experiment.  There are a few stars that people know in this one, but no one really big.  Anthony Perkins and Ernest Borgnaine are the biggest.  Schell is also in it and so is Robert Forster who was in the movie Alligator.  Perkins and Borgnaine aren't really in this one a whole lot though.  There are a few fights and other things in this one, as it was probably made because of Star Wars.  The effects though are definitely not the best as this film was probably rushed to be made.  Not the best movie in the world, but I could think of worse ways to spend your time. "}{"Title":"Disney's Failed Attempt to Cash in on the Star Wars Craze","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Considering the enormous expense (for the time) Disney shelled out for The Black Hole, not a lot of effort was made to find a suitable director for the project which was their intended answer to the phenomenally successful Star Wars. Like much of The Black Hole, Disney chose to go in house with Freaky Friday director Gary Nelson who's experience in the medium was minimal. But the real star of the show was the special effects which were quite spectacular at the time of the film's release including a lengthy piece of computer animation which foreshadows Tron. A spacecraft thought lost is discovered in a dangerous orbit near a black hole. The ship is commanded by an unstable scientist and his menacing robot. His would be rescuers find their lives in danger when they learn the madman intends to fly into the anomaly in space. Slim Pickens and Roddy McDowall lent their voices to the obligatory kid-friendly robots patterned after C3PO and R2D2. The Black Hole barely recouped it's budget in ticket sales and received mixed reviews. The screenplay was by Gerry Day who was known mostly for her television work on Peyton Place and Electra Woman and Dyna Girl before becoming a Eucharist minister for the Catholic church. "},{"Title":"Disney gone mad.","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" What Disney thought they were doing with this is quite beyond me.On the one hand it seems they wanted to make some kind of grandiose Gothic epic with Barry's wonderfully gloomy score, the beautiful cathedral like 'Cygnus', the macabre fate of her crew and a scene at the end reminiscent of Dante's inferno.On the other hand it seems they wanted to make some kind of silly Star Wars rip-off for kids with rubbish robots.No sane person would attempt to marry these concepts so I can only presume Uncle Walt's minions went temporarily round the bend and the results are predictably bizarre.First the good.The effects and cinematography are fantastic, the moment the Cygnus lights up is stunning and overall the film looks extremely impressive.The horrible fate of the Cygnus crew and Anthony Perkins being eviscerated by Maximilian are surprisingly gruesome for a Disney picture.Miximilian Schell chews up the scenery with splendid zeal.Now the Bad.Anything involving Vincent, Bob or the exceedingly useless robotic Storm trooper rip-offs. It's all embarrassingly awful.However awful as said rubbish robots are they have more character than the wooden humans, besides Schell.Very silly things happen which aren't explained (such as people surviving unprotected in a vacuum).Tediously resorting to Judeo-Christian imagery when they apparently couldn't think of how to end the film.So overall it's a very, very odd mix with much to like and much to cringe at. Had they stuck with the Gothic elements it could have been great but sadly this was Disney and they ruined it.Oh yes and look out for the scene early on where Vincent does a remarkable impersonation of Eric Cartman. "},{"Title":"Like a train wreck, it's hard to look away","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have always thought this movie was a tremendous downer. I agree with another reviewer that it's strangely fascinating and and is actually probably a good movie, but the lighting, the sets, the stone-faced serious acting by the principals, all add up to a heavy, depressing feeling by the end of the movie. And the scene at the end with Maximilian Schell trapped in his own creation, his eyes darting wildly back and forth as he spirals away from the camera, gave me horrible nightmares as a child. My parents wrongly thought that Disney meant okay for child consumption!!! I have a 10-year-old now and there is no way I would let him watch the end of this movie. "},{"Title":"Geeky, conveyor belt type movie","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" OK, I am passing this movie because it's from '79 other than that, it is the same offensive subject that you've seen in a zillion Hollywood movies insane genius meets the morality police.The script is full of false technical jargon and impossible science, but then again, not many people would have known the difference watching it. After all, this is a Disney production and just like they use Romanians in Serb roles and vice versa because no one in the US known the difference, they do with the language of science. The plot is silly, starting with the clone of captain Nemo that is the villain in the movie and ending with the clone of the human situation in robot world (good robot, looking like a toy; bad robot, looking like a Batttlestar Galactica cylon).In the end when you look back you see that there are some folks, seeing another ship, spending some time there, then destroying it. The rest is just details. Somehow they decide what sanity and madness is and start enforcing it on the poor villain, who, of course, is unreasonably aggressive and is surrounded by mindless robot goons.Ah, what can I say, don't watch it unless you need it as reference for sci-fi convention discussions ) "},{"Title":"wow.. you really have to be kidding....","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" i just watched this movie again, second time in 28 years.. and it was just as bad now as it was then. I remember that as a kid I was more interested in the pop up book than the movie. I can still see why. Better plot development, better special effects, and better acting. I really thought this movie was horrible throughout. It was very evident that Disney tried to jump on the bandwagon with a big budget sci-fi flick to compete with Star Wars, but it is more than obvious that there was no heart or depth behind the story (not to mention a ridiculous premise). This movie represents EVERYTHING I hate about big budget Hollywood. Tons of hype with no payoff. Watching this movie actually made me angry. A robot with a southern accent?? named old bob even??? the robots that had AI, yet could only make right angle turns, maxi's blender blades of death.. seriously, I really hated this flick.. I know I'm rambling, but seriously, Star Wars was proof that a good movie with decent effects could be made in this era, with even a small budget.. Notice Disney quit the whole space thing after this monstrosity... ugg.. "},{"Title":"The Big Black Plot Hole","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Throw together a little bit of Star Wars, a few robots straight out of Battlestar Galactica, top it off with some 2001A Space Odyssey mysticism and what do you get?  A big mess known fittingly as The Black Hole.  After George Lucas showed the world how successful a space opera could be with Star Wars, Disney apparently decided they wanted a piece of that action so they came up with this concoction of space antics.  Apparently there were some people who would watch anything in outer space at that time while waiting for Lucas to finish his next Star Wars installment. That would help to explain why it was able to obtain what I consider a more than generous gross of $35,841,901.  It certainly had nothing to do with film quality.To make a short story even shorter, the crew of a spaceship called the Palomino happens to run across the Spaceship Cygnus which had been reported missing sometime back.  It seems everyone except Captain Hans Reinhart(Maximilian Schell)has met their maker (well they have and they haven't watch the film to understand that one).  Now Reinhardt uses an army of robots to keep his ship running and to keep it from falling into the same Black Hole that the script of this movie came out of.  The head robot and most evil of them all is named Maximilian, just like the actor playing Reinhart.  Isn't that clever?  Of course as it turns out, he only temporarily wants the ship to stay outside the hole until he's ready to take the journey inside the hole on his own good time, and so that the crew of the Palomino can find him in time for there to  be something more to this film than us sitting there waiting for Reinhardt to make up his mind.  This plot is just full of holes though so that shouldn't surprise you.Disney managed to assemble a fairly decent cast for this film.  Unfortunately, assembling a cast is one thing, having them give something more than perfunctory performances is quite another matter. It's hard to say who the worse offender is.  You could draw names out of a hat and probably not be wrong.  Maximilian Shell as Reinhart, sporting the shaggiest hair and beard any barber would love to take their scissors to, plays Reinhart as if he were Hamlet.  I don't see any Shakespeare in his resume so maybe he thought now was a golden opportunity to strut his stuff.  Anthony Perkins as Dr. Alex Durant  tries to fit his Norman Bates persona into his character, hoping we won't notice the lame silly dialog he's forced into here (ex There's an entirely different universe beyond that black hole. A point where time and space as we know it no longer exists. We will be the first to see it, to explore it, to experience it!) Poor Norman, uh I mean Tony. Robert Forster walks through the film as if being a Captain is a demotion rather than a promotion.  Yvette Mimeaux showed more emotion as Weena in The Time Machine, a film where she wasn't required to show any emotion.  Joseph Bottoms did better work on the daytime soaps and acts as if he were still there.  Ernest Borgnine collects one of his starring academy award winner paychecks, and acts as if he can't wait to take the money and run. The only ones passable in this film are never actually seen.  Roddy McDowell plays the good robot V.I.N.C.E.N.T and Slim Pickens provides the voice of Bob who turns out to be Vincent's best buddy.  Pickens is the better of the two as Roddy McDowell as forced to recite more witty slogans than a bowl full of fortune cookies   There are three basic types, Mr. Pizer, the wills, the wont's, and the cant's. The wills accomplish everything, the wont's oppose everything, and the cant's won't try anything.   All sunshine makes a desert, the Arabs say. Anyway you get the idea as there are plenty more where those come from.Despite all that we might have overlooked much of it if the special effects had been a bit better.  At times, they are passable but for the most part not much to look at.  Granted, Lucas's Star Wars, may have spoiled us by the time this film came out but knowing that, a better effort could have been made.  There are times when the inside of the Cynus looks like nothing more than the inside of a giant warehouse without set decoration.  The Black Hole itself looks as if someone dumped some black dye into a toilet, sprinkled it with fireflies, flushed it and photographed it.  The robot Maximilian is so unoriginal I'm sure he walked over from the set of Battlestar Galactica.  Worst of all are the two robots Vincent and Bob.  They are nothing more than cylindrical painted metal with what looks like official Space Exploration Decals pasted on them.  The whites of their eyes are painted on with black rubber stoppers put in them for the pupils.  Oh yes, and their heads do go up and down.  Quite a come down from R2D2 and C3PO.Then of course there's the musical score by John Barry.  It is one of the most distracting film scores I have ever had the misfortune to listen to.  It at no time compliments anything on the screen, and at other times so bad you wish you could hit a button that says turn the background music off.  During one particularly hectic battle scene involving the crew of the Palomino and some evil robots, the score is so distractingly bad that it makes it that much more to become involve with what's going on during one of the supposedly more intense moments.After a few minutes into this film you'll probably guess where we're all headed in the end.  It was the opportunity for a big payoff but what we get is....well that would be a plot spoiler and we don't want to do that.  I can only say that when they got to the end, the studio must have cut off their funding and what you got is what you got. I'm sure over the years Disney managed to put a few pennies in the bank from this Space Joke.  Some people even seem to admire it somewhat.  It's amazing how warm childhood memories can fool one into think what a great time they had at the movies.  Of course when you're a kid, any space film is probably somewhat passable.  I'm so glad I'm a grown up.My Grade D            "},{"Title":"Do you hear a big, sucking sound?","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  That's the sound of this movie.  I was morbidly fascinated by the bad acting and the positively awful dialog.  I had the feeling I was watching Mystery Science Theater 3000 without the three little guys down in the front row.  I've never seen so many well-known actors all suck so badly at the same time.  It would be easy to just say 'Avoid this movie at all costs', but anyone who is interested in film should sit through it just to see how wrong things can go.  This movie sucks so bad that it makes you appreciate the talent that goes into mediocre movies. "},{"Title":"A Disney dud.","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" 48/100. What a pathetic rip-off of Star Wars and other sci-fi films. That robot, the one with Roddy McDowall's voice, is so stupid, and it degrades the film. It even looks cheaply made. The lame attempts at humor in the film fall flat, but I did laugh at parts I wasn't supposed to. A lot of money went into it, and the special effects are good. The score is good also, but after awhile it gets irritating. The cinematography is quite well done. As for the acting, no one seems to be into the film, like they are all reading their lines and that's it. Academy Award nominations did go to the special effects and the cinematography. The lack of originality - shame on Disney! "},{"Title":"Action Packed! Now on DVD! Yeah...uh...Action!","Date":"30 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The recent 'Robot Chicken's 10-second blurb/parody on the action packed 'The Black Hole' probably won't discourage anyone from seeing this. But they weren't too far off. There's barely an action segment until the finale. In the time of 'Alien' and especially 'Star Wars' (that this took a lot from), I would expect a lot more action, suspense and special effects. It even had one of movie's oldest plot lines involving a mad scientist's diabolical plan vs. true-hearted people. So, it appears to me, that Disney was just nervous about putting more money into this and simply dumb down the recent boost for space-adventures for a family audience. It's harmless, and not a terrible flick, but predictable and though some of the effects looked good, most were comical (even for 1979. Foil paper hats anyone?) And always keep in mind (like the 1950's B-movies this resembles) it's science FICTION, emphasizing on the fiction part. I guess, not only can no one hear you scream in space; they can't die there even without a suit. Space travelers with a floating R2-D2-Ripoff unit stumble across, you guessed it, a black hole, but also a rouge, lone scientist bend on unlocking the secrets behind the hole's deep, well, hole. They need to repair their ship, which always seems to break down at the most inopportune times, or when these types of plots call for it, and they have dinner with the scientist as he reveals only the good about his evil plan. Despite my early fear that the R2-D2 rip off would be like Snarf from Thundercats and annoy the heck out of me, he was actually funny and actually had the most depth of any human in the movie. And I remember as a kid, that big, orange ball rolling had me mesmerized.I would recommend it, but for people that grew up with it or very small children. Despite the literal roller coaster these people are on (at times) it certainly wouldn't hold up for today's kids or adults, and it is definitely a movie I wouldn't mind seeing remade. With a budget, of course, and a lot more interesting things to keep us going until the finale. "},{"Title":"What a title","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" An absolutely horrible movie, but I really like the title.The acting in The Black Hole is sub-par, very choppy, lines delivered flat and lifeless, much like the script that the actors had to use. The direction is comical with close ups on the expressionless eyes of a poorly designed robot character (who is surrounded but other boring robots that are motionless and do relatively nothing, much like the film itself). The music and gunfights are clearly Star Wars rip offs while the climax is something not even Stanley Kubrick could enjoy.The only positives to The Black Hole were some of the set designs. Otherwise The Black Hole is a waste of time. "}{"Title":"Interesting concept, that falls flat.","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black Hole is a rather peculiar movie. Basically, it's an adventure sci-fi movie made by Disney company and as such it's clearly aimed towards kids, as far the dialog, length and the little silly hero robot goes. But then, after the movie gets into the ending climax it has pretty abstract and weird, almost 2001 like elements in it, that probably go way over the heads of the target audience, as the resolution of the story can be interpreted in more than one way.The Black Hole is a story of deep space explorers, who happen to locate a long lost space ship near a huge black hole. When they go investigate, they find out, that the ship is manned by robots and a mad scientist, who is planning to enter the black hole in order to find out if it really is some kind of a portal to another time and space.The best part of the story are the massive looking sets, which work extremely well. There's a feeling, that the explorers are inside a huge space ship. The robot designs are 50/50, as there are some aspects in them that look cool, yet some stuff that just looks childish. The best design is Maximilian, a huge sentry robot, while the two more heroic robots are just plain childish.The Black Hole tries much, but as the direction and length are lacking, it really doesn't succeed in rising above a typical kiddie film. It has the ingredients, but the dinner never gets made. "},{"Title":"That Giant Sucking Sound","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The 'U.S.S. Cygnus' is perched precariously at the edge of a Black Hole - the vast, empty nothingness where space and time end. Anything that crosses its border enters a universe of the complete unknown. And so begins a story that only Disney's film magicians could tell. A story of robots and humanoids. Of human genius and madness. And a spectacular descent into nature's ultimate mystery - 'The Black Hole', according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis.Peter Ellenshaw, Frank Phillips, and the Disney crew create some marvelous visuals, but this story is mind-numbingly dumb. It seems to be a combination of Star Wars (a combination Jack Kirby and Lost In Space), 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea, and (last, but not least) The Bible (?). Whatever they were attempting does not work. The story is laughable, unfortunately; at least, Roddy McDowall (as Vincent) and Slim Pickens (as Bob) manage to save face.**** The Black Hole (12/18/79) Gary Nelson ~ Robert Forster, Maximilian Schell, Yvette Mimieux, Anthony Perkins "},{"Title":"mild Disney flick","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" and i do mean mild. this movie reminded me,in a lot of ways,of the 1960's show Lost in Space.the acting was similar,the characters seemed similar,the special effects seemed similar.the dialogue was pretty bad at times.or at least i thought it was.the one really good effect was the black hole itself.it looked really magnificent.otherwise,though,you could tell it was a Disney flick by the cheesiness of the rest of the special effects.the movie did have some mild comic relief in it.the musical score was actually pretty decent.the only problem was that it seemed ill timed.it would be in scenes were it wasn't necessary.as for the acting,some of it seemed hammy.overall,though,this wasn't a bad movie.just don't expect too much in the way of excitement.for me,The Black Hole is a 5/10 "},{"Title":"nonsensical science","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" All the components were here for a spectacular space saga, part-Jules Verne, part-'Star Trek.' The premise is certainly nifty a deep-space science team comes across the huge ship of a lost earlier mission, somehow sitting stationary on the fringes of a black hole. What's it doing there? Is anyone still aboard? Unfortunately, the potentially-interesting answers to these questions become lost in a muddle of vague writing, nonsensical science, dull performances, sluggish film-making, and too many desperate attempts to mimic 'Star Wars.' The only things that work are John Barry's impressive score and the truly spectacular production design of the creepy derelict ship. The optical effects and matte paintings are also quite good for their era, although the goofy-looking robots aren't so hot (visible wires abound). In the end, however, it's the endless laser-battles and bizarre resolution that prove to be the movie's ultimate undoing. The Disney studio clearly had high hopes for this, but the imaginative visuals alone can't compensate for the slack everywhere else. Interestingly, the later film 'Event Horizon' followed this one's plot line quite closely (and turned out even worse). "},{"Title":"Visually impressive but incoherent and ultimately boring space Disney misfire.","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's supposed to be about a black hole. It's not supposed to BE a black hole. Produced two years after George Lucas's space opera adventure STAR WARS conquered the box office, this 1979 Disney feature was made as an answer to that film. It was budgeted at a then staggering cost of $20 million, and boasted superior special effects as well as spooky production designs, and to this day they remain among the highest points of THE BLACK HOLE.Which is more than what can be said about the movie as a whole. For a production designed to be an outer space epic, THE BLACK HOLE -- which involves a crew (accompanied by a floating and talking robot, V.I.N.CENT., voiced by an uncredited Roddy McDowall) trapped in an impressively immense vessel called the U.S.S. Cygnus perched dangerously on the edge of the titular mass -- plays out very much like Disney's own 20,000 LAEGUES UNDER THE SEA in space. In particular, the commander of the Cygnus, played with scenery chewing glee by Maximillian Schell, is very reminiscent of James Mason's Captain Nemo from that film, only more ruthless.Contrary to that Disney production about the travels of the Nautilus (and, yes, Lucas's FLASH GORDON-style space romp), however, THE BLACK HOLE is narrowly devoid of many important qualities required to even make it a near classic. The concept of exploring a terrifying force in outer space is an interesting one; however, the script handles it clumsily not only in numerous grievous errors in terms of space logic (Did any of the writers know that you can't survive in outer space with no suit on?) but with the lack of a compelling or interesting narrative to drive the whole show by. In particular, the secret revelation about the Cygnus and its captain are not hard to guess.Incidentally, although Disney commissioned a high-profile cast with names such as Schell, McDowell, and PSYCHO's Anthony Perkins, few turn in anything in the way of an inspired performance (Schell and McDowell fare best, but Perkins, along with his co-stars, is surprisingly stiff and lifeless). As such, the audience does not connect with the crew or even feel more hatred for the villain, despite Schell's commanding performance.The only characters to rise above this exception are the robots, particularly McDowell as the heroic and kitschily named V.I.N.CENT and Schell's ominous, scarlet-colored giant dubbed, funnily enough, Maximillian. Although much of the dialogue V.I.N.CENT spouts consists of groan-worthy one-liners, he and his companion, battered up Old B.O.B., liven up the screen with more personality than their human counterparts. (Although there are those who found them to be pretty cloying; my real issue is that they look like Fisher-Price toys!) And of course, Maximillian is a very formidable villain, his presence invoking terror to the audience. That he doesn't say one word in the film makes him all the more menacing.It is widely agreed by many that the special effects I mentioned earlier are what hold THE BLACK HOLE together, although some of them reek of age, particularly some bad matte painting, but aside from that and the robots, the only other positive is the foreboding musical score provided by John Barry. Although repetitive at times, it suits the dark tone of the film very well and is hard to forget.The real problem with THE BLACK HOLE is that it's droningly dull for more than two-thirds of its ninety-something minute running time. Much of that time is spent exploring the Cygnus with the cast spouting stiff, uninspired dialogue. Things finally pick up in the latter third, but again, there are some serious flaws in the conception of several action scenes. Most notably ridiculous is when a giant asteroid crashes through the hull and rolls down a massive hallway. While this sequence is very memorable, it only serves as yet another example of the incompetence of the writers' lack of knowledge about outer space.When everyone finally descends into the black hole itself, we get a disturbing and powerful sequence involving Heaven and Hell. It's surreal and vaguely similar to the climax of Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY, but while it's an engrossing highlight, the whole sequence comes completely out of nowhere. Worse still, it sadly undermines the epic premise and provides for a very baffling and frustratingly unexplained conclusion.The special effects, robots, and music prevent THE BLACK HOLE from being a complete waste of time, but considering how this movie was Disney's response to STAR WARS, it's unfortunate that it fails to provide even a spark of excitement. Had it been in more experienced hands, who knows how THE BLACK HOLE would have turned out? As it stands as a whole, however, it's only so-so. "},{"Title":"Laughable, but quirky enough to enjoy","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember that a big deal was made when this movie came out in 1979. I had never seen it until now, although I had always wanted to. A movie with Anthony Perkins is always going to hold a lot of promise. I must say, I think that acting was okay for the most part. Robert Forster is a very disciplined commander of a ship, long before his role as Max Cherry in Jackie Brown. Maximillian Schell and Anthony Perkins are also watchable. I was most disappointed by Ernest Borgnine. He had won as Oscar for Marty, and here he was playing this diminutive role. His character was pretty much a flake and a distraction. I wasn't that impressed by the special effects. The people who made this film didn't know much about science. You could get nowhere near a black hole without being instantly demolished. The robots were from the 50s. They fell down like props in an Ed Wood film. The crew would have been incinerated instantly when exposed to the outside space during the destruction of the space station. The explanation for the humans being turned into robots was never explained. At first, the commander insists on rescuing them, then completely abandons the idea. Were they human enough to still be human? There was never any explanation provided. The deaths of Perkins' and Schell's characters were sudden and anti-climactic. The travel through the black hole at the end was not very conclusive or explanatory. However, this movie is mainly watchable, because there is nothing like it. I liked the R2D2 type robots. It was especially funny that one of them spoken with Slim Picken's voice. You wouldn't expect that in a science film. I liked the earthiness of Forster's role. He wasn't the prototypical space explorer. As bad as the props and special effects were, at least they were original. I think if I were to have made movie in 1979, I would have studied more about black holes. In addition, I would have found more investors. The props and robots look like they were done too much on the cheap. I would have made them more realistic and lively. I would have made the laser guns better. I would have also not cast Ernest Borgnine. He was too well known an actor to play such a minimal role. Plus, an older guy would probably at least be minimally more respected than he was. I wouldn't have rushed the ending. I would have explained things better to the audience, instead of letting the plot spiral out of control. Overall, it was a mediocre movie, but it did have some uniqueness to it. "},{"Title":"Any point that was there is lost after 20+ years","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie never was very popular to begin with. And so it is never going to be. The effects can't compare to 2001 or Star Wars. The characters have become cliche - we've seen that many times now. Add to this the lacking character development.The photography in general is decent, but that doesn't help, since stunts and special effects look extremely dated and poor today. And the sci part of this sci-fi movie is as bad as in Armageddon.On the positive side, there are no stupid jokes. Also the script and the story are quite decent, but unfortunately that doesn't really help much. All in all, there remains no reason to see this movie today, unless of course, you are a fan of cheesy sci-fi from the 1970s. I haven't paid anything for it, but I still feel robbed of 90 minutes of my life. "},{"Title":"Disney guns for a Star Wars, ends up with a Space Balls","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  In 1979, Hollywood realized how marketable Sci-Fi can be, thanks to the sensation caused by George Lucas two years eariler.Films like Alien ,Moonraker and Star Trek The Motion Picture followed the growing demand for Good Sci-Fi.Disney came up with The Black HoleThis is the story of an astronut crew who are searching for habitable planets.  They are lead by the diligence of Capt. Dan Holland (played by Oscar Nommenee Robert Forester).  In addition to the human crew members, the crew of the Palameno are aided by their own rendition of R2-D2, named V.I.N.C.E.N.T. (voiced by the immortal Roddy McDowall)The crew realize why there is no life at that area of space.  Because a vortex the size of Montana is swallowing everything there.  When the Palamino ,narrowly escapes this black hole, they set down for repairs on the a ship that they have identified as a long last research vessal The Cygnus.To make a long story short (too late) the crew spend the rest of the movie trying to escape the Cygnus from it's relentless mad scientist (played by Maxamillion Shell) and his army or robot foot soldiers. His key enforcer (ironically named Maxamillion) is an intimadating metalic-red beast that reeks of a silent Darth Vader.The film has the astronuts spend too much time debating what they should do about Reinhearts' doomed journey into the black hole. The film also plays more like a horror then a sci-fi adventure. The look and backdrop of the movie is not easy on the eyes.  The costumes ,sets and even hair styles of this film leave something to be desired.  The shoot-outs seem tame and uninvolving.  The characters were kinda dull and flat.  This situation may have worked better with a group of misfits , like the Rough-necks in ArmageddonThe end of the film is somewhat cryptic and vauge, that seems to be leaning toward the memerable climax of 2001This film does have it's moments.  Roddy McDowall has some good one-liners like Too much Sunshine makes a desert  and Are you here to annoy me? No sir, to educate you  Some of the visuals are hit and miss, but there is one scene when the team are running past a catwalk before it gets crushed by an asteroid.  This sequence works well.To sum up, Black Hole is tolerable, but no where near delectible as far as Sci-Fi goes.  Disney did prove that they learned from their Sci-fi mistakes with their release of Tron. "},{"Title":"Corny rip off of the Star Wars era","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  At the time this movie came out, the special effects were good, but the rest of the movie was lame. I saw it again today on cable and cringed at the cliche' lines and numerous factual errors. That robot Vincent was too corny. A rip off of the Star Wars duo of C3PO and R2D2. What amazed me the most when I first saw the movie in 1979, was the reaction of everyone else....people actually cheered when that lame Vincent robot saved another robot from death. I looked at my brothers and asked what bizarre. Lawrence Welk influenced place we wandered into?. Turns out it was Omaha. "},{"Title":"What could have been a brooding masterpiece is just a hokey let-down.","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film has an interesting theme, is well-designed and has one of the most moody and atmospheric soundtracks in the history of cinema (a score which ought to be released on CD/audio cassette).  The robot Maximillion is also well-made and suitably intimidating.But what lets it down is the fact that the characters are all so bland. We have the sci-fi cliches - the evil villain, the clever scientists, the trigger-happy military type - and they all come across as waxworks. Borgnine's scheming journalist is the only believable human being in the film, the main villain being no more than an attempt to imitate James Mason's version of Captain Nemo.But the worst aspect of the film are those irritating robots Vincent and Bob, obvious Disney creations which sink the film to kiddie level.  And did 'old Bob' have the voice of a geriatric Texas Pete since the beginning of his life?  The 'trooper' robots aren't much better.  They seem to have been fashioned after the Keystone Cops and make you wonder how they could ever have 'rounded up the ship's original crew'.  Laughable. "}{"Title":"Unbelievable, Un-Scientific and Un-Disney","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw this film when it was new. At the time I was 32 years old, a lifetime sci-fi fan as well as a lifetime Disney fan. This film failed as a sci-fi film due to its blatant disregard for SCIENCE. It also failed as a Disney film due to the brooding and somewhat boring acting.I was going to rate this 2, but I gave it a 3 due to my fondness for the Disney studios. Still, it's not really worth watching in my opinion - unless you just have to make sure you've seen everything from Disney or everything in the sci-fi genre (though I dispute this film being sci-fi, I believe it should be categorized as fantasy).Muskrat / Hawaii "},{"Title":"awful Disney sci-fi","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" 'The Black Hole' was Disney's entry in the late 70's sci-fi sweepstakes, the others being 'Star Wars,' 'Alien,' and 'Star Trek- The Motion Picture.' In terms of box office, it came in last. One reason might be that it's a pretty bad film. It is poorly written, directed, and scored. I don't normally make a point of mentioning film scores, as they are usually at least adequate and many times are not even noticed, because they're effective. More on that in a moment. 'Black Hole' comes across as an attempt to cross '20,000 Leagues Under The Sea' and 'Forbidden Planet' (which Disney also had a hand in), with a large helping of 'Star Wars' stirred into the mix. Maximilian Schell is the Nemo-esqe captain of a spaceship presumed lost for twenty years, but which actually is stationed not far from a black hole, Schell's Dr. Reinhardt having refused orders all those years ago to return to Earth. The once-in-a-lifetime cast also includes Robert Forster, Joseph Bottoms, Yvette Mimieux, Ernest Borgnine, and Anthony Perkins (!). Put that in your pipe and smoke it, George Lucas. There is more of a similarity to the two fifties films mentioned than just story; 'The Black Hole' has a curiously old-fashioned feel to it, as though it had been filmed twenty years earlier, with only the more sophisticated special effects giving away its true era of production. There are so many things wrong with this film, it's hard to know where to begin. The idea of a funny little robot (a la R2D2) is fine, but what were they thinking when they designed 'Vincent?' With his huge painted-on eyeballs, he literally looks like a comic book character out of a Bugs Bunny cartoon. It's impossible to take any scene he's in seriously. The movie suffers from a lack of continuity; it doesn't even seem to be one whole movie, but lots of little ones, made by different people. The first fifteen minutes or so are hokey but not terrible; setting up the story with poor dialogue and wooden performances. Poor Anthony Perkins has never had to recite such awful lines. Once Dr. Reinhardt is introduced, things improve slightly, and briefly. The real shame of 'The Black Hole' is that there are several good ideas thrown out here and there (the exploration of the black hole itself is one), but none are explored beyond the shallowest sort of exposition. For instance, it is revealed that the androids serving as Reinhardt's crew are actually the original human crew, transformed and lobotomized. Now that is a spooky thought, bringing to mind H.G. Wells' 'Island of Lost Souls.' And yet the idea is never pursued, in fact it is barely mentioned. And about that horrible music score- the usually reliable John Barry (of James Bond fame among many other films) really comes a cropper here. The music is alternately pointless, annoying, or completely inappropriate for the scenes it's used in. In particular, an intense battle scene between Forster's crew and robot sentries (who are yet another direct swipe from Star Wars, this time the imperial storm troopers, right down to the fact they never hit anything they shoot at) has music that seems lifted from another movie about something else entirely; it just doesn't fit at all. Anyway, moving along... the movie lurches toward its climax in fits and starts. Reinhardt is determined to take his ship into the black hole while Forster's character and his people plan an escape. Out of nowhere and apropos of nothing, a meteor shower suddenly hits, causing much destruction. (Throw in the kitchen sink, why don't you guys?) Forster, Mimieux, and Bottoms make it to their ship but are sucked into the black hole. We get a variation on the ending of '2001- A Space Odyssey' for everyone to sit around and speculate on later. 'The Black Hole' is a huge misfire, its disparate parts never coming together and not even enjoyable in and of themselves. "},{"Title":"Proof that special effects don't carry a movie","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The special effects in this movie, for its time, were outstanding. The plot was laughable and clearly geared towards 10 year olds - people 15 or over were for the most part either laughing hysterically or snoozing, and I was doing both. And the soundtrack is one of the whiniest blundering scores I have ever heard. It's a small whiny melody repeated infinitely. There's blatant errors in physics that children who learned physics from Warner Brothers cartoons can spot, such as a meteor which is half the width of the ship rolling down the length of the ship without having any seeming impact on the ship, including any apparent release of air whatsoever. Ed Wood would laugh at the acting, it's so bad.Ugh. "},{"Title":"Bad in almost every way","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Saw it for the first time ever last night. I was young when it came out but always remembered the trailers and have always wanted to see it. Wasn't so much disappointed, more of a bemused amazement. Special effects are hysterically bad except for the way the robots floated around and still looked pretty realistic...putting aside the fact they were ridiculous looking robots. The normally stellar cast looked as if they were being forced at gunpoint to be in this movie. The score gave me a headache. The script was entirely cliches. But all of that wouldn't have been SO bad except the story...they didn't even try, it's pathetic! It feels manufactured in an attempt at amusing simple minds with some bright and flashy lights and witty cliches. I guess it gets a decent rating on here for sentimental reasons? Or alot of sci-fi fans desperate for anything. I think Donald described it best, Mystery Science Theater 3000 without the 3 guys. "},{"Title":"feeble rehash","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Take the plot of 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea, add a generous helping of Forbidden Planet and stir vigorously while adding Star Trek to taste. Add a pinch of 2001 A Space Odyssey and - whoops it's curdled!I watched this movie just after watching Galaxy Quest, a moderately funny parody of Sci-Fi, and, in particular, Star Trek. By comparison this movie is also a parody of Sci-Fi, though it did not set out to be and does not even have the saving grace of being funny.The Black Hole is basically a remake a previous (and far superior)Disney live action movie The leaden and plot limps along at a snail's pace, the scientific errors are glaring and totally unnecessary. The special affects, much publicised at the time compare poorly to other films of the era.Another comparison Plan 9 From Outer Space, often cited as the worst film ever. It isn't and neither is this on but The Black Hole comes a lot closer to it. Though silly, the plot of Plan 9 is at least original and keeps moving along at a brisk pace and keeps you watching to the end.The only reason I watched the Black Hole to the end was in the forlorn hope that it would improve. It didn't.In short this is the perfect film get for Thanksgiving. A monstrous turkey!     "},{"Title":"Wooden acting, hokey plot, bad science make this soo campy!","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It would probably be best for mankind if this movie was sucked into a Black Hole.   However, if you are looking for something to show your kids, and are able to stifle your laughter at the unbelievably cliched plot, the Black Hole may be for you.  This is the worst kind of Disney fare.  A mismatched crew of explorers happen upon a ship poised at the edge of a Black Hole. The ship had been missing for many years, and is commanded by an over-the-top Maximillian Schell.  The exploration crew has some truly hideous non-acting but perhaps the worst part are the ESP,  homily spouting robots, voiced by Roddy McDowall and Slim Pickens.  Slim's robot is named (prepare yourself) - Oldtimer!  If this isn't an indication of how bad this movie is, I don't know what is.  My wife and I hurt our stomachs from all the groaning we did during this movie. The Black Hole is somewhere along the line of just bad to unintentionally funny.  See it at your own risk! "},{"Title":"Clumsy, synthetic movie deserves its obscurity","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  After STAR WARS, everyone wanted to get into the act, and the misbegotten BLACK HOLE was the Disney studio's attempt at jumping onto the bandwagon.Although the production design is generally good, and the effects are excellent, everything else misfires one way or another.  Vincent and Bob are designed to look funny, which ruins the scenes in which they have to be heroic.  The dreaded black hole just hangs there in space, having no plot function until the incomprehensible last few minutes of the film.Bottoms and Forster basically play the same character; Borgnine, who's very bad, turns into a villain solely to provide plot functions.  Not enough happens, there's way too much gab, and all in all, it's very badly written. "},{"Title":"An instantaneous placement on my manure flick list","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" After seeing this for the first time , I cannot but conclude that everything in this movie stinks. Forget about the miserable state of effects industry at the time , but then again Star WArs had been made three years before this manure , so no excuse here stands the test of pure illogical, non existent , tiny-weeny shred of screenplay. Obviously , everyone was in a frantic race to cash in on the Star Wars craze , so , to hell with the dialogues , and the unnecessary excess baggage , called cause and effect ,which were the first to go overboard into the bottomless pit of,yes, its namesake, the black hole &#x96; the back end , maybe ?! And to achieve something ,the producers added a star cast at the time , ( E. Borgnine , A. Perkins ,etc. ) ,undoubtfully regretting every second they had to spend on the set of this Walt Disney 's flick . And the so-called story- there is some dude , crazy scientist that is , who supposedly disappeared with his spaceship on some mission , now found by some other space ship with one of the most atrocious and off-putting ,incomprehensible and reprehensible names in history , residing on the edge of the universe on some space station , run by robots , and some of them look exactly like your good old trash can with gigantic bug - like eyes, and I think , one of them , who 's driving you crazy with his slurred voice and clunkiness, is voiced by none other than J. Pesci, while the other can will kill you with his deep , Zizek-like philosophical proverbs and brainstorms that he 's constantly popping out, and they are not humorous , no, this is , I mind you , an utterly serious piece of cinematic product , based on pre - R.Thorne and S. Hawking's theories of the black hole , and -to make everything as short as possible,after some fight,somehow , the befuddled escapees unwillingly and unwittingly get sucked into the very same black vortex , and ,according to the title , when you have finally awaited the great revelation , namely the events beyond the event horizon , the film ends ! The end credits &#x85;And it lasts one and a half hour plus some change &#x85; Jeez , what a disaster &#x85; "},{"Title":"I'd sooner go to see Star Wars!!","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" If there has been only one movie made in the history of all sci-fi movies that comes across as a complete rip-off of Star Wars, then I would have to say that The Black Hole is most certainly it!! Wathcing it when I was younger, it looked pretty cool, but nowadays, it makes me just cringe to watch it.If any proof was needed that the makers of The Black Hole was ripping of Star Wars, just take a look at all those gun-toting robots in black armour, and that annoying R2-D2 clone, V.I.N.C.E.N.T-speaking of which, I found this character to the major annoying aspect of the entire movie. His smart-aleck quips sometimes sometimes really got on my nerves, plus his sickly-cute appearance. I ended up wanting to throw V.I.N.C.E.N.T into a car-crusher.That said, though, there were only three important things about this film which I thought were cool. First of all, there's that wireframe animation of the vortex which is shown during the opening credits which kind of lent an air of cutting-edge design to the proceedings (although it would probably look dated in comparison to today's technology). But secondly, (and most importantly) there's the rather sinister knife-wielding main robot henchman, Maximillian, which I thought (and still think) to be downright intimidating. Lastly, there's that hellish dream sequence at the end, which looked like the kind of thing you'd expect to scare the hell out of more younger viewers.Compared to other sci-fi blockbusters from 1979 such as Star Trek and Alien, The Black Hole comes a very poor third, although there are far worse films than this about. "},{"Title":"Upon seeing the film for the first time since childhood, it sucks!","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As a child, in the sci-fi starved late 70's and early 80's, the prospect of a big screen space movie was fantastic.  So, just being in space was enough for the 7 year old version of myself to give this film two thumbs up.Today, as I pop in Star Trek The Motion Picture, Star Wars, Empire Strikes Back or Alien, I am still pulled in, all of these films hold up nicely.  These films all had minor flaws, but all are watchable as an adult.The Black Hole plays like a boardroom of idiots rewrote a relatively spartan script about a mad scientist.  Much of the film was totally unnecessary - like the shooting gallery bit, the meteorite bit, and the evil robots standing in a row getting shot at bit, and were clearly added in.  Why?  Because boardroom mentality says you can't have sci-fi without laser wielding fights.  The boardroom wants cute robots, just like Star Wars, and the boardroom thought that getting pulled into a blackhole wasn't dramatic enough, so they did some group think and came up with a bright red meteor shower that is described by the cast in the same way you would talk about a thunder storm.This film is absolutely worthless.  I can't believe I actually liked it as a child.  The acting is horrible, the robots are very lame, the special effects suck, and basic facts about space are completely lost here (like everything freezing and snow starts falling when a compartment is exposed to space).  Just remember, this film came about 10 years after 2001, two years after Star Wars, one year after Star Trek, and came out the same year as Alien.  I don't remember seeing any strings holding up the Enterprise, the Odyssey or Luke's X-Wing.  Even BattlestarGalatica looks better and that was made for tv on a shoestring.The film plays like a bad episode of Lost in Space, with a 2001 ripoff ending.  Every aspect of the film is extremely poor, viewed against contemporary films.  After watching this film, I am very embarrassed to admit that I owned a Black Hole lunchbox as a kid.  "}{"Title":"hopelessly outdated and boring","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  In the first 10 minutes of this futuristic film, the characters encounter a black hole - and mention that black holes will someday eat the whole universe.Apparently they forgot about Hawking Radiation. Well, of course they did...because in 1979 when this movie was written, Hawking hadn't thought of it yet. So, although it is cringe-worthy, that is excusable.But then, they proceed through worse-than-original-Trek acting, decently-pretty-but-nonsensical special effects and set pieces, and a premise that just Makes No Sense.To make it worse, there's almost no plot, no romance story, and the characters are pretty much all undistinguishable, except for two cute robots who have more personality each than all the human characters combined.Terrible. And yes, it's old, but not as old as Star Wars, and not nearly as old as Forbidden Planet, which, although it was fake-looking, at least touched upon some interesting issues and had an intriguing plot. Disney could have done better.Some old movies are classics that withstand time. This movie is barely good enough for an MST3K treatment. "},{"Title":"This was a terrible movie","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This was terrible the person above me is either a idiot or is 6 years old. The physics of the film were completely off, gravity in any levels of the film were constantly changing direction and the fact that a ship was remaining outside a black hole is impossible, by any means. There is no way that can happen. The special effects were equal to that of a child's ability. The research vessel crew were a bunch of c-line chorus actors that couldn't provide anything to the story. Which the story was completely backwards and inside out. There was a no story, it was terrible, plot twists were unrelated and often just pieced together the random ideas. Vincent the robot in the movie was a complete waste of money that lended nothing to movie other than it proved they were somewhat in the future, often the robot would break the laws of robotics, and it was capable of love and passion, something isn't lining up. This movie is sometimes used by physics teachers to show their students that Hollywood is full of crap when it comes to physics. This movie was awful and isn't something that should be bought or watched, pass it by. "},{"Title":"They wanted Star Wars; they got Space 1999.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This was originally going to be my 14th birthday movie in 1983 (I realise it came out in 1979, but this was Barbados in the early 80s, when movies took a lot longer to get around than now, and videos and the Internet had yet to strike hard) but it was delayed due to a double-bill of Herbie Goes Bananas and The Gnome-mobile being held over (this was also in the days before Disney's recovery of the late 1980s), so I ended up seeing those instead.Several years later, I finally saw it - having learned of its poor reputation, and far from undeserved it was too; a thrilling opening credit sequence with a computer reading of a black hole in space accompanied by John Barry's music is totally undercut by the ensuing idiocy. Walt Disney Productions was clearly eyeing the audience for Star Wars, but with its hopeless writing (even *I* know more about science than the credited scribes), performances that guarantee Slim Pickens and Roddy McDowall - both in voice mode - steal the movie (something McDowall usually did anyway), a crippled pace and remarkably non-special effects (the robots are particularly useless), the whole thing's a lot closer to Space 1999; it's not even worthy of Battlestar Galactica on a good day.21 years later, Disney - via Touchstone - proved that Tron notwithstanding (the effects on that one have dated, but the story basically makes the movie) they hadn't lost their knack for laughable SF movies with Mission To Mars, which despite improved special effects and a decent cast was saddled with scripting and directing not that much more competent than The Black Hole. But it's almost worth sitting through for the shot of our heroes running across a bridge with a fireball rolling towards them; the equivalent of Alison Krauss singing on an average edition of Top of the Pops. "},{"Title":"No Wonder It's Called The Black Hole- IT SUCKS!!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I recently developed a theory. We believe there to be only three basic types of movies Good movies (movies that are really well done), Bad movies (movies that will never appear on a list of greatest movies ever made, but fun to watch) and Ugly movies (movies which are so bad, so can only watch them if you're with a friend and you're mocking it). In test of this theory, some a friend of mine and I watched three movies, one Good, one Bad and one Ugly. Titan A.E. was the Good movie and City Heat was the Bad. Black Hole was, of course, the Ugly movie.Few films could fail so completely.The first thing that annoys you when watching the film is he music. Music is supposed to support the scene, not contradict it.Then there's the revelation about the woman's father. It wouldn't have saved the film, but that revelation should have come later into the film.Then there is the telepathic robot. How a machine can be telepathic is beyond me. This robot, Vincent, becomes more annoying through out the film by quoting people. Sadly he is the character with the most character in the film.Once on board, the villains ship, you meet robots who can shoot fast moving balls of light. Yet later on, they are unable to hit stationary objects...After that, the films descends into a series of physically impossible feats. Physics? We ain't got no physics. We don't need no physics. I don't have to show you any stinking physics. Memorably, in the final scenes the wall of the space ship is breached and yet the fleeing heroes are not sucked into space. I know it was made in '79, but everyone knew that was impossible.The final scene is meant to be interpreted by the audience. Normally, that would be really cool, but with Black Hole, you wonder what was the point of watching the film.I try to be fair when judging movies, so while it may seem like I'm ranting for the sake of it, I think I was fair to this movie. Sadly my friend died of internal hemorrhaging from watching this movie, and I was only able to survive but gnawing my left leg off.So, take my advice, if you're thinking of watching this film, DON'T. I you want to watch something with essentially the same plot watch Doctor Who The Impossible Planet/The Satan Pit. Sure there is some blatant disregard for physics there to, but at least it doesn't insult you're intelligence. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst , Big-Budgeted Sci-fi Movie","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Not since Starship Invasions has there been a science fiction movie as awful as television director Gary Nelson's The Black Hole. Nevertheless, the House of Mouse blew something like $20-million on this loquacious melodrama.As Walt Disney's first PG-rated movie and entry into the space race, The Black Hole generates little if any excitement. The Jeb Rosenbrook & Gerry Day screenplay is typical yet unusually tame Disney fare. Clearly, Jules Verne's 20,000 Leagues under the Sea and the landmark film Forbidden Planet inspired Rosenbrook and Day, while the many laser battles and villainous robots imitate George Lucas' Star Wars. Of course, the story is simple-minded. The action occurs in space near a black hole. No controversial questions are raised about our future, and the number of swear words in the cliché-riddled dialogue can be counted on the fingers of one hand. The drama of a Nemo-like scientists (played by a long-haired, bearded Maximilian Schell) determined to enter and emerge from a black hole is predictable. You never feel like the heroes (Robert Forster, Yvette Mimieux, and Joseph Bottoms) are really threatened. And the friendly robots are used much too much for comic relief. For example, former rodeo star Slim Pickens voices the robot named Bob so you can expect to hear a twang in his voice.Dr. Hans Reinhardt (Maximilian Schell of Avalanche Express) commands the spacecraft U.S.S. Cygnus with the help of a number of robots and human slaves. The Cygnus is poised near a black hole. Another spaceship, the deep space exploration vessel Palomino commanded by Captain Dan Holland (Robert Forster), discovers Cyngus and dispatches a boarding party. Dr. Reinhardt invites them to join him as he plunges into the black hole.The chief problem with The Black Hole is the special effects cannot measure up to the demands of the story. If you don't look too closely, you won't see the thin, black wires holding up the robots and performers as they float through the air. You can spot the ersatz artwork the moment that you see it, and there is really nothing here in the way of special effects that can match either Ridley Scott's Alien or Robert Wise's Star Trek The Motion Picture. Incredibly enough, Peter Ellenshaw and the visual effects team received an Academy award nomination for their handiwork. Thrills and chills are missing, too, along with any insights about black holes. The most Disney can muster is the idea that when you enter a black hole you can see visions of Heaven and Hell and emerge unscathed. Gary Nelson's helming adds no luster. Preteens may find this nonsense entertaining, but hardcore sci-fi buffs will be inevitably disappointed. James Bond composer John Barry does deliver a worthwhile orchestral score. "},{"Title":"Some dark ideas and images undone by a sense of it being cheap and a bit too childish","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" When a research vessel manned by Dr Alex Durant and his family come across a long-missing vessel they board it and find it deserted. It appears to be populated entirely by robots but, on investigation they find that it is commanded by the scientist Dr Hans Reinhardt. His plan is to guide it directly into a black hole, through it and out into whatever lies beyond. Durant and his crew do not believe this is possible and attempt to leave, only to find that they are not free to do so.I had vague memories of this film from childhood &#150; specifically the robots &#150; but not really enough of an impression to state an opinion on it. As a result (well, more of my anally retentive viewing habits) I decided to watch it again the other day and see how it played. For the vast majority of the film the answer is not well because the very simple plot mostly involves running, lasers-firing or comedy robots failing to be entertaining or endearing. This is how it goes but I do acknowledge that part of this is me watching a 30 year old Disney film as a man in my 30's as opposed to a child. I was tempted to switch it off but I stuck with it and found myself surprised by some of the content.For a Disney film it is remarkably dark with some very creepy images and ideas making their way into it. The ending is of course the best example of this and, although narratively unsatisfying, it is really very weird and unnerving &#150; even as an adult. It feels like these parts are a different film though and the failing is that they are not woven into the film so much as feeling stuck on. Had this darkness been expanded and perhaps the many scenes of lasers been reduced then this could have been a much better film. The script is where this needed to happen but sadly the limited dialogue is mostly poor and there are no dialogue scenes that match or support the visually darker moments. Speaking of matters visual, the film has a mix of special effects. Some are impressive and imposing but then on the flip side we also have these kiddie-friendly robots (Disney's attempt at C3PO and R2D2) that look cheap and don't appeal as characters.Unsurprisingly given what I have said, the cast don't make much of an impression. Perkins, Forster, Mimieux and Borgnine all run around but the only one that sticks in the memory is Schell. Well, perhaps I should say that the only person that sticks in the mind is Schell since the robot Maximillian also makes an impression and is a pretty good creation even if his body is a bit too clunky and his weapons look a little like comical egg-whisks.The Black Hole is not a classic Disney film and it feels very much like what it is &#150; a rather opportunistic attempt to get in on the back of Star Wars' success. Mostly it is a bit too basic and childish to offer anything of interest to older or even modern viewers &#150; but I do say mostly. It is mostly because the film has dark ideas and visuals that cry out to be fleshed out and spread across the film and it is frustrating to see really engaging and creepy ideas and images tacked on in the way they are. Worth a look for these and the nostalgia value but as it is, The Black Hole is not that good a film. "},{"Title":"Unfortunate film for Disney","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Truly, a poor addition to the sci-fi genre by Disney. However, it first must be clarified that this script was in development before Star Wars was released, or even filmed. Granted, they threw in some items to feed off the frenzy surrounding that film, but the style and plot of this film clearly relate more closely to the classics (and duds) of the 50s, not the 70s.I watched this as a 17 year-old in 79, and hated it. I just caught it on TCM, and yes, I still hate it. The $18 million budget is not visible on screen (TCM stated $40 million, including the promotional budget). The soundtrack by John Barry is jarring. The acting is wooden, and direction by Gary Nelson reveals his almost exclusive background in TV.The plot is ridiculous, as is the 'science on display in nearly every scene.The ending is indeed muddled. I agree with a previous poster, who questioned the hell aspect of one character's demise, and the fact that the poor roboticized crew members apparently joined him in this eternity. I'll guess that Disney hoped for a franchise, and planned on exploring the far side of the black hole in future installments. However, the eventual box office barely paid for the production and promotional costs, and the reviews were quite bad.Disney's experiment, neither bold nor impressive, sank to bottom, and to this day holds little memory in the collective whole of sci-fi, save for the fact that Anthony Perkins was gored to death by twirling blades in a Disney film. "},{"Title":"A decent film, SORELY in need of a REMAKE!!","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The effects are excellent, and so is the music, the story? Well also pretty good, but could be made MUCH better!The Disney 'Suits' blew $20 Million on this thing, TWICE the amount for 'Star Wars', and due to their meddling in the production, put in lame dialog, dumb devices (Robots with ESP), and gave it the typical 'Disney' touch of death; adding dopey dialog and cutesy crap!It begins right from the start, 'Vincent' starts blathering totally non-sensical dialog, and from there on out, the dialog goes into the black hole faster than the Cygnus does! Roddy McDowell probably had a vision from 'beyond' to let his name be left out of the credits!An example from Vincent's opening dialog Unscheduled course correction due at 2200 - Well, if it is Unscheduled, then HOW can there be a time for it to be DUE???All he does is orate countless proverbs and sayings, and, if that's not bad enough, 'Old Bob' (Slim Pickens) provides more camp to the soup of poison.Tony Perkins puts in a decent performance, coming off as the fan of the antagonist, kissing his behind at every available moment.This film fell WAY short of what it could have been! Don't even get me started on the physics shown in the film! HORRIBLE!!This film was boiling over with potential, but the Disney Suits, who were, at the time, looking for a way to keep their jobs, picked this up and produced it, and also pushed for a 'PG' rating, realizing that the 'G' rated films weren't drawing as much money then. What is too bad, is the Disney Suits couldn't leave a sure thing alone, NO! They had to stick their fingers into the magic cake batter while it was in the oven, thereby making it fall, and in the end, releasing this half-baked mess. WHAT A SHAME!!! "},{"Title":"A Great Premise that Disney Destroyed","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Okay, so it was the last gasp of Ron Miller as head of the studio, but the premise of passing into a black hole was very badly handled. The characters were, well unreal, the science was non-existant, and Ernest Borgnine wasn't exactly Marty. Still the trailer, if you ever get a chance to see it, is one of the best ever made. Somehow, they ruined the picture.If you're under 12 it's a romp; if you know anything about science you'll want to vomit. I give it 3/10 because Ron Miller had to give back his Corniche when the studio fired him and replaced him with guess who? Michael Eisner. A genuine mogul who learned as did the great Roman emperors that all glory is fleeting. "},{"Title":"Cinematic Trauma","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The late Seventies and early Eighties were traumatic times for young sci-fi fans such as myself. This was pre-megaplex stadium seating no THX Surround Sound or cupholders on the arms of your chair. Movies were viewed in dark, humid theaters with threadbare seats, dusty curtains, and extra sticky floors. It was in such surroundings that I found myself exposed to the horrors that were to make up my post-Star Wars cinematic experiences.So there I sat, size fives swinging inches above a glutinous coating of old candy, becoming emotionally scarred by transporter accidents turning people inside out, hands getting cut off by dark and evil fathers, and a strangely erotic Flash Gordon parading around in leather short-shorts to a soundtrack by Queen. None of these, though, could hold a candle to that grand-daddy of all Eighties childhood nightmares the big red robot blending up Anthony Perkins' guts.I suppose I should have been expecting it. If they were going to go through the trouble of putting in a scene that made a big deal out of the fact that Maximillian had cuisinart hands, you knew that somebody was going to get chopped up sooner or later. But what gradeschool kid knows about sophisticated plot devices like foreshadowing? Besides, this was Disney! I had read the picture books and all they said was that the robot killed Tony. I simply assumed that he bonked him over the head with a two-by-four.All trauma aside, the Black Hole is a big old hunk of Disney cheese. the dialogue is embarassing, the acting wooden, and the storyline a thinly disguised collision between the Tempest and 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. Concepts like science and basic physics are thrown right out of the apparently unpressurized window.Despite all of that, you can't ignore a film that has the ability to haunt your dreams for an entire decade. I don't know if it's because of the evening news, the discovery of R-rated movies, or getting beat up in gym class on a regular basis, but the blender scene has lost its impact and is, by today's standards, pretty tame. This is now one of my favorite moves to watch; I try to view it and remember a time when implied violence could spark such a radical emotional reaction in one who is now so thoroughly jaded. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as I remembered it","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Seeing this movie again many years after my first encounter - which was a big disappointment - I was surprised to almost like it. Sure, the actors are hamming it up, the special effects are quite cheesy and the story is quite forgettable. But the science is actually less bad than I remembered - if one forgives the common misconception of gravitation as vacuum cleaner - and some of dialogue even funny. Enjoy with a big bag of chips and some beer... "},{"Title":"Worst Big-budget SF Film, Period","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I don't know that I have ever seen a more inane or insipid film, especially considering its huge budget and reasonable cast.  The annoying robots (typical Disney creations) were the twin torpedos which sunk this hideous 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea clone.  The ending was so ludicrous and predictable .  Over-the-top acting (Roddy McDowell excepted, as always) didn't help.  The score was magnificent, but it would take much more than that to elevate this film out of the trash receptacle where it belongs (which, incidentally, the cutesy robots resemble).  A definite waste of time, lacking even nostalgia value. "},{"Title":"the audience was wrong!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  reviews of many films inlcude comments as, underrated, misunderstood, etc., indicating people buy tickets and criticize a movie they did not enjoy, or that few people saw the movie at all. movie critics say those who did not see the film missed a very good one. i believe these comments are wrong. movie-goers are never wrong about whether a film is a success or a failure. people buy tickets to have a good time watching a good film. those who criticize the film afterwards offer their opinion, which is their right. movie-goers may not see the film in the same light as the director, writer or others who worked on the film, but this goes to the abilities of the production crew to translate the film's purpose into a work which is accepted by the audience on the same terms as those who made it. audiences are not obligated to understand a film in order to insure the film's success or the production crew's reputation. they must only show the price of a ticket. those who made the film had months to see that their work would be viewed in the best light and the best technicians to help them in a mutal effort. they are professionals; they do this for a living; they should know what they are doing. audiences have no say in this. all they can do is put up the money and the time to see the finished product. afterwards, they will have a positive or negative impression of their experience. that's all there can be. there can be no feeling that a film's viewer misunderstood a film and must examine himself for the inability to understand the film as the producers intended. this isn't what movies are for, and the view that a boxoffice failure was due to the audience's failure to comprehend the work is ludicrous and glorifies the importance of the production crew. "},{"Title":"Disappointing!","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw the Anchor Bay widescreen edition of this movie. The print generally looks and sounds great, though there are some black spots here and there. And in scenes near the end, when there is red lighting, it looks real bad. But overall, the print looks great.The movie? Well, I'm sorry to say I was disappointed with it. The beginning was okay, a little slow, but intriguing. However, when they got on the ship, it became very dull. The actors can't hide that, for most of the movie, NOTHING HAPPENS!The last 30 or so minutes do add a little life, with the destruction and f/x, but this is drawn out. And the ending? Um...well, I would have appreciated a little more explanation.Movie is not all bad. There are some good special effects, some even excellent by today's standards. The meteor sequence is a knockout! "},{"Title":"Best left in the past","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time recently (April 1999) and it was very odd.  First of all, the woman communicates with the robot via telepathy. HUH?  The robots look Ed Wood quality.  Anthony Perkins is billed second but is hardly given anything to do.  The post-Star Wars laser blasts look about as high-tech as those at the end of Rocky Horror.The movie is boring since most of it takes place on one ship.  If it were released today, the robots alone would get it laughed right out of the multiplexes.  Still I can't say it was worse than Wing Commander. "},{"Title":"Disney's attempt to Cash in on Star Wars","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The late 1970's/early 1980's might have been remembered as a golden age of science fiction if it was just remembered for the good parts- Star Wars, a resurrected Star Trek, Alien. Unfortunately, it had a lot of attempts to cash in by the questionable operators, like Glen Larson and Roger Corman, as well as a few people who should have known better. Like Disney.One almost imagines the conversation. Hey, This Star Wars film just made boo-koo bucks. We need to make one just like it! Yeah, but don't we need, you know, like a story? No problem. We'll just take the script from '20,000 Leagues under the Sea', rework it with a Science Fiction angle, and go from there. So you have actors who made good films, Maximillian Schnell, Anthony Perkins, Ernest Borgnine, actually trying to keep a straight face while their characters blurt out utter nonsense. Or the French Chick, who I guess was attractive in her day, but looks kind of old here. The special effects work is kind of interesting, as it was the last of the studio FX work of its kind ever done, before the ILM method of blue screen FX took over. The whole thing ends with an ending I defy anyone here to explain on a bet. Somehow, I imagine the Disney Suits saying, Well, the ending of 2001 A Space Oddessy didn't may any sense, either. Let's go with that! Is it a good film? No. Is it a good SF film. Definitely not. Is it fun in an MST3K kind of way? Yes. "},{"Title":"Star Wars sent every major studio into the space-age; think of this as Exhibit A...","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Attempt by the Disney Studios to partake in the newest rage, science fiction, was hotly anticipated in 1979, but the results are much closer to 20000 Leagues Under the Sea than to Star Wars. A Captain Nemo-like misfit, obsessed with black holes (vortexes in space with incredible suction), risks his life and those of his space-exploration team when he decides to intentionally venture into a black hole with his spacecraft. Plodding direction, pedestrian script, and lackluster performances from a B-list group keeps this adventure in the cosmos firmly planted on the ground. The special effects are the only aspect of the film worth praising, and even those aren't quite what you're hoping for from the Disney people. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"STAR WARS, Ed Wood style.","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is one of those movies where the viewer thinks, HEY!  I COULD MAKE A MOVIE, TOO!  With the exception of the Cygnus, the derelict ships our heroes discover hovering near a black hole (which looks the exposed negative of a flushing toilet), there isn't a single aspect of THE BLACK HOLE that couldn't have been done better by monkeys.  Disney would have been better off throwing the millions it cost to make this out in the street -- the ensuing greedy mob would be infinitely more entertaining. But...I LIKED IT!  Funniest movie since NIGHT OF THE LEPUS!P.S.  The DVD version merely emphasizes how bad the visual effects really are, like the actors hanging on tethers to simulate weightlessness. Hilarious!    "},{"Title":"Horrible movie, one of the worst I've seen","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Black Hole is horrible.  When talking to people, I can clearly tell when they last watched it.  If they were pre-10, then they remember it as a great movie, very scary.  for those that have seen it recently, they all say it is a horrible movie, not worth the time to watch.The acting is horrible, the plot is boring, and (even though I know it is old) the special effects are pathetic.  The ending made me fall asleep, it was more bizzare than 2001, a Space Odyssey.  I hadn't heard of this movie until my roommate received it as a gift, and we both wish we hadn't watched it (but don't tell that to the gift giver!) "},{"Title":"Some movies are better unwatched like this!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I would've rather watch a painted wall dry than watch this it is so boring so uninteresting and the ending is so abysmal that a two year old could've come up with something better. A one for this is like giving blues brothers 2000 a ten.It should get a minus for how bad this is.Only watch this to see how movies shouldn't be made.-10/10 "}{"Title":"A movie made by people who had no idea what they were doing!","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Warning, may contain spoilers as best my memory can remember... The Black Hole was an attempt by Disney to cash in on the Science Fiction craze that followed in the wake of the first Star Wars movie. Like other bad entries in this Genre, such as Battlestar Galactica, that awful Japanese movie I can't remember the name of, and even the first Star Trek movie, the people who made it didn't understand SF, but knew they had to make an SF movie to cash in. What you had was a collection of otherwise good actors trying to act in a movie that was cobbled together from other people's ideas like Frankenstein's monster. You had Maximillian Schnell, playing a Nemo-esque (the Jules Verne character, not the cute Clownfish) mad scientist in his lonely ship at the edge of space. You had the too-cute robots, stolen from Star Wars. Then you had the ending, where they went threw the black hole, and had some kind of cosmic revelation, sort of like Dave Bowman in 2001 A Space Oddessy. I don't think Disney ever made another Science Fiction film after this, and you can see why. "},{"Title":"A terrible film","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  In the 1970s,the Disney executives had a habit of interfering with their movies,and every time that they did(the Black Hole,Something Wicked This way Comes etc),the films flopped.An article in Starlog magazine shows the original 'good' robot.This great robot design was changed into a simple 'box' robot and we have the awful and ridiculous 'death scene' involving a 'box'robot with a Slim Pickens accent doing a death scene(truly terrible writing).The Disney Execs decided to do what they thought would be commercial and ruined the film.Only the ending retains the atmosphere of what the movie could have been,had they not interfered. "},{"Title":"33 years haven't changed my opinion.....","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I said it when I saw Black Hole at its initial release in 1979, and I've had no reason, from repeated viewings over the course of the twenty eight years since, to alter my opinion. Black Hole is one of the worst movies I ever paid money to see. The acting is nothing but wretched and lifeless caricatures; the special effects look like $20, not $20 million; the science is skewed and half-digested synopses from Popular Science; and its conclusion is the most clumsy, unbelievable pile of rubbish imaginable. None of these problems have anything to do with the passage of time or the development of better special effects techniques. Maximillian Schell should be ashamed of this film (I long ago learned that Ernest Borginine is beyond embarrassment as an actor). "},{"Title":"ernest borgnine gets blown to bits and another gets chopped up by Max","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  My favorite part was when they removed a mask from one of the bad guy's slaves and the face starts moaning from a green skinned little puckered up mouth. They was also a cool part when one guy tries to fend himself off from the main robot's attack with an encyclopedia and gets chopped to bits by his revolving fans. Another cool one is the little floating sidekick automaton that makes little funny comments and gets himself around. He can also shoot lasers from his nipples. Check out this corny edition.  "},{"Title":"For the love of god..","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Can't Disney do anything properly? This is IMHO one of the worst sci-fi movies ever made. What were they trying to achieve? The go back and forth between those awful and silly robots to some sort of evil plot and heroism. If they just had stuck to one of them.. Remember, in the same year Ridley Scott released Alien. This was also in 1979 and just 3 years after Tron hit the theaters. Just two other sci-fi movies that in their own ways changed how movies in this genré would be made ever after. And I haven't even mentioned the movie 2 years before this one; Starwars ANH.Avoid it at all costs. It's not even funny. "},{"Title":"Horrible movie, one of the worst I've seen","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Black Hole is horrible.  When talking to people, I can clearly tell when they last watched it.  If they were pre-10, then they remember it as a great movie, very scary.  for those that have seen it recently, they all say it is a horrible movie, not worth the time to watch.The acting is horrible, the plot is boring, and (even though I know it is old) the special effects are pathetic.  The ending made me fall asleep, it was more bizzare than 2001, a Space Odyssey.  I hadn't heard of this movie until my roommate received it as a gift, and we both wish we hadn't watched it (but don't tell that to the gift giver!) "},{"Title":"O, The Horror!","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw this pile of dreck in the theatre when it came out. I was 15, & went with my older brother & two of his friends. They all had the benefit of being on LSD, which is probably why they enjoyed it.Warning Some Spoilers Follow ... though, seriously, watching the movie is spoiler enough.It's 3 a.m. on New Year's Day, & I'm not inclined to wrack my brains as much as I need to, in order to properly review this thing, but I'll say this much my 15-year old brain rebelled in agony throughout nearly every minute. The scene in which the good guy robot (a worker droid, basically) displays its incredible prowess with weaponry, out-shooting robots that are clearly designed for combat, is pure Disney nonsense. The scene in which the giant space rock hits the ship, punches a hole in the side, & commences to roll down the middle had me goggle-eyed with disbelief. The ending would have left me utterly mystified, if I could have figured out what had actually happened, but since the movie wasn't worth paying any attention to in the first place, I couldn't be bothered to be mystified. Acting? Script? Intelligence? Hello? Anyone home???? It's not the worst sci-fi turd I've ever seen -- there are plenty of Sci-Fi channel originals contending for that title, as well as the entire second Star Wars trilogy -- but still, 30 years later, this movie remains painfully etched in my mind as one of the worst pieces of garbage ever devoted to film. "}]