[{"Title":"Mad Scientists Use Alien Kids","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a fine sequel to one of Walt Disney's better family projects Escape from Witch Mountain. The adult stars are Bette Davis and Christopher Lee as an old dowager financing a mad scientist in some nefarious experiments.These two happen on the alien kids from Witch Mountain, Kim Richards and Ike Eisenman, when the kids are on holiday to Earth once again. They kidnap Ike after seeing an example of his powers of levitation and seek to use him and fit him with a mind control device that Lee's been perfecting.Lee's dreaming some big dreams and Davis has some more mundane schemes like a trip to some gambling house or racetrack. Both of them looking like they are having one grand old time hamming it up for the cameras.Of course the film wouldn't work at all if it were not for the winning personalities of Richards and Eisenman. Both come across as real kids, not sure of the extent of their own powers rather than Hollywood juvenile actors.The whole of the film is Richards pursuing and trying to rescue her brother and in the process she recruits a gang of juveniles escaping from a truant officer played by the ever deadpan funny Jack Soo. Eventually Soo joins forces with the kids and proves of some help.Both Escape to Witch Mountain and this sequel are fine family entertainment, some of the best that Disney studio produced. "},{"Title":"Well done follow up to the original","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very well done sequel to Escape to which mountain Tony and Tia(Ike Eisenmann & Kim Richards)are back! This time, they come back to LA(they come via space ship and land on the 50 yard line at the rose bowl!)for a vacation.On their way to the motel, the cab they are riding in runs out of gas. When the cab driver leaves to go get gas, Tony and Tia have visions of a man falling from a tall building. Tony goes to help him. Enter Letha and Victor(Bette Davis & Christopher Lee)who are testing a mind control device that Sickle(Anthony James)is wearing. The test goes wrong when Letha grabs the remote control from victor and drops it on the ground.When Victor and Letha see Tony's powers, they repay Tony for saving Sickle's life by kidnapping him. Meanwhile, when Tony hasn't returned to the cab-she goes looking for him. He is nowhere to be found. After a short while, a pre-teen group of kids(Whom they call themselves The earthquake gang)are running away from another gang-Tia helps them escape from this gang. They then help Tia look for Tony.I like the earthquake gang. These kids, despite how they dress are not really a violent gang-I think they have a tender side of them-they want to help people. Now I realize that this is not based in any real reality, it's only a movie-they are not to be taken seriously. I get a laugh out of them. Although, they try to act tough they don't scare anyone.Victor and Letha are in their Lab testing this mind control device on Tony. After seeing the success of their tests, they both use Tony for their own evil ends. Letha wants money, she takes Tony to the museum in an attempt to steal 3 million dollars worth of gold which is on display. Things of course go wrong when they underestimate the weight of the gold bars. Victor on the other hand wants to rule the world and he uses Tony to take over a plutonium processing plant.Tia then shows up-and a show down between Tia and Tony ensues-you will need to watch the film to see how it ends.Although not the best sequel, it's better than most(Esp. by Disney). I recently got my DVD copies of both films. It's been remastered in THX, Dolby 5.1 surround sound. It sounds better than ever. "},{"Title":"Nice for a sequel","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's not perfect, and the wardrobe makes me shudder (Tia's poor clothing she never changes the entire movie!), but it's a nice Disney movie with some rather humorous parts.  Eddie is particularly funny talking to the goat Alfred.  Being a Tony and Tia fan, I thought this movie wonderful as a kid.  As an adult, I see it as good fodder in the world of Spiderman, Hulk and the rest of the movies that have words that I have to remind my son not to repeat.  Movie-makers seem to have forgotten the word family.The two siblings are deposited on the 50 yard line of the Rose Bowl 3 mos. before the next game, and escorted to the hotel by Eddie the Cabbie who drives more like a New York Cabbie.  After Tony visions a man falling off a building (Davis' Letha's nephew, Sickle), he takes advantage of the cab's running out of gas to go help.  As things do in the movies, the rescue wasn't as easy as he thought, and the good Doctor saw a golden opportunity to take control of molecular manipulation by enslaving Tony with his mind control device.  Tia after feeling the prick of the hypodermic, goes to find him, and the chase is on with Tony vs. Tia the rest of the movie.  The minivan is my favorite portion of the whole movie.  *** out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"EFWM commentary......","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When this movie came out I really, really, enjoyed it and it was so much fun to see because I was about near the age of the actors (younger by 3 or 4 years) and to see them wielding powers that I found fascinating because I had read about telekinesis and telepathy and it was so wonderful to see this in a movie with kids and these powers on top of that at an age where what ifs was something I would engage in or daydream about. What if I had these powers.....? Really fun movie. I somewhat recognize the great American actress Betty Davis and I somewhat recognized the great British or English actor Christopher Lee and thought nothing whatsoever about whether this was beneath them or not. Why should I? I enjoyed their participation in the showing of this story. Now here comes Die beste freudin and his miserable seeming know it all comments ( I know this is an open forum). What I don't understand is why do you suggest having to view another work of said actor's repertoire when this was the work said actor or actress was involved in? I am critical of what I watch. But, the two movies, and this coming from a Disney in the mid-70s and post-star wars, were/are two films that somehow brought in those necessary elements one it has to have participation of the viewer and 2 it has to be fun. I'm talking about Escape from witch mountain and the unexpected sequel, Returm from witch mountain. I enjoy these two very much and the young actors portrayal or performance or work Ike Eisenmann and Kim Richards and the supporting actors and actresses. Why do yo find it unbecoming or beneath you, I don't know. But you are entitled to your comments and opinion and therefore I share mine to differ from yours or from others..... "},{"Title":"The fine performances from Davis and Lee help save this film from being bland, instead it is one worth watching","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I heard that there was a sequel to the charming 1975 film, I was a little worried. But after seeing it, I enjoyed the film. The effects are outdated, the plot is nothing particularly special and the script has some weak spots. But it is definitely worth watching, as the film skips along nicely, is well directed and there are some humorous scenes with the juvenile group. Not to mention the lively car chase. But the acting is the best asset of this film. Jack Soo is hilarious in his supporting role and Kim Richards and Ike Eisenmann reprise their roles and very well might I add. Christopher Lee is a finely sinister lead villain, but it is the legendary Bette Davis's picture all the way, as the actress brings a touch of colour into a film that could have easily been bland, and with that colour it made the film worth watching. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Good cast and interesting teenage characters sacrificed for yahoo thrills...","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disney's sequel to their not-bad 1975 hit Escape To Witch Mountain brings back Ike Eisenmann and Kim Richards as the teen-tykes from outer space, here battling wits and powers with villainous Bette Davis and Christopher Lee (and their chauffeur, Anthony James, who also played a chauffeur alongside Davis in Burnt Offerings!). Well-enough made, but the movie loses sight of what was so special about the first film (a kid's flick with the emphasis on character, not overtly outlandish special effects). Davis is alert and anxious, but she's practically smothered under the gaudy make-up and is left to chew the scenery without benefit of a strong script. Poor Christopher Lee has it even worse, blending into the foreground action while the kids steal all his scenes. The plotting gets too heavy in the final third, what with Los Angeles about to be decimated and delinquent children running amok, but the worst decision was to separate siblings Tony and Tia for much of the movie. Some good sequences, Jack Soo does nice work in a warm supporting bit, and a goat nearly saves the day (and gets a big thank you to boot!). ** from **** "},{"Title":"Two children extraterrestrial are chased by evil persons  who want use their magic powers for his own aims","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disney fantasy full of adventure , tension , intrigue and spectacular images . Engaging Walt Disney Sci-Fi/fantasy in which we meet Tony (Ike Eisenmann , in 2009 recent version played by Alexander Ludwig ) and Tia ( Kim Richards , subsequently performed by Anna Rob ) as they are arriving along with their uncle (Denver Pyle) in a flying saucer at a stadium called Rose Bowl . They have special telekinetic powers which make getting along with the rest of the kids difficult . After that , the clairvoyant kids with special powers meet a Cabman getting into a car across the streets . Some baddies discover their supernatural powers and effect they can have on humans while the children being pursued . As Tony is abducted by the evil Dr. Gannon (Christopher Lee), his spinster pal Letha (Bette Davis) and hoodlum (Anthony James) who want to use his powers for his own objectives . Gannon puts him an artifact into the neck that allows him to control Tony's brain . As Tony will brainwashed into helping them commit several crimes , hoping to put his special faculties to evil .This mystery-fantasy is packed with amusing action , thrills, suspense and spectacular scenes with abundant but primitive effects. The two children with mysterious powers played by Kim Richards and Ike Eisenmann are enjoyable and phenomenal , as always , Christopher Lee as mean villain and likable Bette Davis as old nasty . The picture results to be the sequel to ¨Escape to Witch mountain (1978)¨ also by John Hough that holds a recent take on titled ¨ Race to witch mountain (2009)¨ with The Rock , Carla Gugino and Ciaran Hinds as government agent and as homage to former adaptation appears Kim Richards as Sara and Ike Isenmann as sheriff in a brief roles .This funny picture is well directed by John Hough . He has an eclectic and long filmmaker career , beginning in television series ( Avengers, Protectors , The champions ) , making Hammer film (Twins of evil) , classic terror ( Legend of hell house ) , average horror movies ( Howling IV, American Gothic, Incubus ) , adventures ( Island of treasure, Black arrow ) until wholesome Disney family fare ( The watcher in the woods , Return and escape to witch mountain) . The flick will appeal to Disney film buffs and wholesome entertainment enthusiasts . A good children's film with acceptable special effects by that time though nowadays corny . The motion picture is professionally made though with no originality because being a simple remake , being an agreeable fun from Walt Disney productions . "},{"Title":"Silly Harmless Disney Fun!","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sir Christopher Lee as the mad scientist and Bette Davis as Cletha play the mad scientist and his business partner in a plot to take over the world and make money. Anthony James plays Sickle, Cletha's nephew and only living relative. One day, they go searching for a perfect location and end up with gold. Sickle has the mad doctor's commands in his ear and he hurts him if he doesn't do exactly what he wants like climbing to the roof of a building in a deserted Los Angeles area. He's about to fall but is saved by Tony, a boy with special abilities. Tony and his sister, Tia, were headed to return home but their cab ran out of gas. The cab driver goes to get gas. Tony sensing trouble tries to stop and saves Sickle's life. Unfortunately, Tony is tagged and taken away. They have other plans for him. It's not a bad film and the special effects are way outdated but the acting isn't bad and the cast does make it worth watching. "},{"Title":"You can't be tough and educated, too.","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sequel to Escape from Witch Mountain has the two kids from that film returning for a visit. It doesn't take long before they're once again in trouble with people interested in them for their powers (which are called 'energizing' in this one). Decent follow-up to a great film that unfortunately doesn't match up to the original. Returning from the first movie are stars Kim Richards and Ike Eisenmann, as well as Denver Pyle. Pyle's full-on Uncle Jesse at this point with his look. The movie sadly does not feature the return of Eddie Albert, Ray Milland, and Donald Pleasence. Albert is especially missed. His character was the emotional connection between the kids and this world so it would have made sense if they returned for a visit, it would be to see him. So it's disappointing he isn't in this or even mentioned. What we do get are screen legends Bette Davis and Christopher Lee, as well as a group of street yutes called the Earthquake Gang.Richards and Eisenmann are fine but they're outshone by the vets in this one. Lee and Davis are both good, with Davis turning in a particularly fun performance. The movie's never dull when she's on screen. Director John Hough helmed both the first film and this one. He would later direct the Disney horror movie The Watcher in the Woods, which also starred Bette Davis and Kim Richards' younger sister Kyle. The special effects aren't terribly impressive but most of them aren't embarrassing, either. A lot of wire work and rear projection stuff. It's a kids movie, so go in expecting a certain degree of corniness. The first one was, too, but it had a little more maturity about it than this. All the kid gang stuff is a little silly but harmless and amusing. Like I said before, it's a decent sequel but not as good as Escape to Witch Mountain. There's more goofy comedy this time which might turn off some grown-ups. But it's worth a look if you're a fan of the first movie or a fan of Bette Davis and Christopher Lee. Also worth a look to see Barney Miller actor Jack Soo having fun in his last movie role before his death. "},{"Title":"sequel toEscape to Witch Mountain and a bit better movie","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" in this follow up to Escape to Witch Mountain,Toni and Tia Malone(Ike Eisenmann,Kim Richards),leave the safe confines of their home on Witch Mountain,to visit New York.They are a few years older and their psychic abilities have grown.once again an evil madman finds out about their powers and will stop at nothing to gain control of them.there is bit of a twist in this movie,which i liked.there is more humour in this than the first movie and there is more action.there are also a few scenes of mild peril,compared to the 1st one.the stakes are a lot higher in this one,not just for Toni and Tia,but the world.Toni and Tia are less naive this time around,so they provide better resistance against the bad guy.i really enjoyed this film,a bit more so than the 1st.if you liked Escape to Witch Mountainyou should not be disappointed with this film.a strong 8/10 "}{"Title":"Two children with special powers.","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this film when I was about 10 years old and loved it. Now 30 years on, it is still one of my favourite films. I have just bought both 'Escape to witch mountain & Return from witch mountain for my kids as they love it as well. They sure don't make good old movies like this now.These films are a must when they are shown on TV. There are no swear words or violence which makes them suitable for all the family whatever the ages. Good family fun. My mum took me to the pictures to see this film and I always wanted to have 'powers' like Tony & Tia. Mind you the child in me still does. Perhaps thats why I have a passion for anything supernatural now. "},{"Title":"Very different from the first, but good in it's own way","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Those who like Escape to Witch Mountain will be glad to know that Return From Witch Mountain is a direct sequel with the same two main characters, Tia and Tony. And thankfully they are played by the same people, Kim Richards and Ike Eisenmann. But don't expect to see Jason O'Day, or any of the other characters from the first movie, because unfortunately Tia and Tony are the only characters who return, with the exception of their Uncle Bene who is again seen just briefly, this time mostly at the beginning. All the other characters are new.Anyone who has seen the first one will know that it was about two kids who have special powers which some wicked men want to use. But realistically there was really no way that they ever would've been able to, because after all how could normal people ever force people with powers to do what they want them to do? But this time, that's exactly what happens. This time a mad scientist type person named Victor Ganan has invented a device that controls peoples minds, making them so that they can't think, or do anything besides what he tells them. And it works on Tony too, who he manages to capture near the beginning. So for most of the movie, he and two others are using Tony's powers, while Tia and a group of street kids are trying to find and stop them. This makes it very different from the first movie, and gives it a totally different feeling.It takes place a few years after the first one. Tia and Tony are now teenagers and more powerful than before.Note that this section contains a few spoilers, but anyone who is sensitive to frightening scenes may want to beware of a few parts. Though the movie is rated G, but in my opinion some scenes are almost a little too intense for that, and even slightly graphic.Near the beginning when Ganon captures Tony, the way that he does it is that he actually injects him with a needle from behind. It doesn't actually show him do it, but while Tony is speaking, suddenly he faints and falls to the ground. It's then that the needle is visible that Ganon just used on him. Tony is then carried away unconscious.Later they set up a trap for Tia in which they have Tony call her telepathically and lead her to their laboratory. When she see's him and starts walking towards him, suddenly a guy grabs her from behind and covers her mouth with a cloth. She faints before she can stop him. She is then left nearly unconscious in a small gas box. She's OK though.Another thing that is rather disturbing is the fact that Tony is seemingly against Tia for most of the movie. Though he doesn't do any of it on purposely, but it's still disturbing to have him doing bad things. Sometimes he even tries to kill her. Perhaps the most disturbing part of all is near the end when Ganon has Tony pretend to remember her, and then try to crush her. To me this was quite troubling the first few times I saw it.I'm not saying that the movie is violent or inappropriate. I just find it to be a bit more intense than most movies like this. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching for Davis and Lee","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Return from Witch Mountain (1978) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Aliens Tia (Kim Richards) and Tony (Ike Eisenmann) return to Earth for a vacation but soon Tony finds himself kidnapped by an evil scientist (Christopher Lee) and the woman (Bette Davis) who funds his experiments. The evil duo plan on using Tony's powers to take over the world so it's up to Tia to try and stop them. This sequel to Disney's ESCAPE FROM WITCH MOUNTAIN isn't nearly as good but fans will at least get some entertainment out of the supporting players. I think, for the most part, this is just a rehash of the original movie and the imagination level isn't nearly as high nor is the adventure as good. What we basically get are a lot of mildly amusing scenes where the kids are forced to use their power against one another and this does lead to a few good scenes. One of the highlights of the film happens when Tony is forced into a museum where Davis tries to get him to steal three-million in gold. This includes bringing the museum to life and this long sequence turns out to be the most memorable. The ending is also quite fun as Lee plans on blowing up the world and Tia must try to fight off Tony's powers. Unlike the first film, this one here actually contains some rather dark moments as the kids are constantly in danger and this gives the film a tone that isn't nearly as enjoyable. The special effects are just as impressive as the first one and they really get to shine during a car chase where certain objects magically move to try and ruin the chase. Both Richards and Eisenmann are very good in their parts and add a lot of charm even though their characters aren't written as well as previously. The main reason to check this out will be for fans of Lee and Davis who appear to be having a great time together. You can tell that both actors are enjoying these lesser roles that certainly didn't require them to do anything other than have fun. I found the two of them worked very well together and made for a great duo. Lee gets to be a good villain while Davis gets to show off some of her comic timing. In the end the film isn't nearly as good as the original but the cast and special effects make it worth while. "},{"Title":"Lacks the mystery of Escape but still a fun ride","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a kid I LOVED this movie. Tony v.s. Tia! Watched again as an adult , its still ok, but I noticed the kids acting is pretty bad. As young children in Escape To Witch Mountain they were very convincing, as pree-teens not so much.....alot of the first movies appealfor me was the mystery, where do these kids come from? How did they get these powers? I loved Tias flashbacks and the fact that both kids had similar but different powers (Tia could talk to animals, open locks, move objects without help, Tony could see future places and needed his harmonica to move objects) in this movie they are both basically telepaths and telekeneics, although more powerful. I did like the fact Tia was the hero of the picture and I loved the musuem chase scene............ "},{"Title":"Silly and surprisingly uninteresting","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape was better for the way it dealt with serious issues like prejudice and family tragedy. Tia is taken in by a fun-loving street gang and Tony is taken in by a typical Disney-type group of villains including Bette Davis and Christopher Lee. As an adolescent, I fell in love with Kim Richards after watching this movie, but that may be its only redeeming quality. "},{"Title":"All Deposit, Little Return","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The intergalactic kids who charmed Escape from Witch Mountain (1975) - telekinetic Ike Eisenmann (as Tony Malone) and telepathic Kim Richards (as Tia Malone) - return to Earth for a vacation. They land their flying saucer at a deserted Rose Bowl in Pasadena. Elsewhere in Los Angeles, mad scientist Christopher Lee (as Victor Gannon) demonstrates his mind-controlling invention for greedy partner Bette Davis (as Letha Wedge) by commanding her vertigo-suffering nephew Anthony James (as Sickle) to scale a skyscraper. An accident causes Mr. James' to fall, but young Eisenmann has sensed trouble, and saves him from certain death.Impressed by the teenager's powers, Ms. Davis and Mr. Lee kidnap Eisenmann, drug him, strap him to a lab table, probe his chest, and take control of his mind with an ear contraption. Among other things, they want Eisenmann to levitate some gold from an exhibition. Left behind, young sister Richards tries to rescue her brother, with help from a truant gang of boys. They are pursued by educator Jack Soo, in his last film role. Mr. Soo wants kids to stay in school.If you haven't figured it out by now, this is an obvious production-line sequel to the unexpectedly imaginative and successful original. Writer Malcolm Marmorstein, who stirred up trouble in Dark Shadows and Peyton Place, didn't get many opportunities to add a goat named Alfred his story lines. Everyone here deserved better.**** Return from Witch Mountain (3/10/78) John Hough ~ Bette Davis, Christopher Lee, Anthony James, Ike Eisenmann "},{"Title":"Starts of promising, but quickly goes downhill after that.","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Credit IMDb) Tia and her brother Tony have supernatural powers, can communicate and move things with the power of their mind alone. They arrive on Earth for a visit in Los Angeles. When Tony uses his powers to prevent an accident, he gets into the hands of Dr. Gannon, a ruthless scientist who's constantly striving for power over the world. He puts him a device into the brain that allows him to control Tony's will. Tia gets help from a kid's gang to free Tony and save the EarthI thought the original was OK but not anything noteworthy, so I really didn't set my expectation bar that high for this one. I was enthralled with the beginning. Watching Christopher Lee order around a person on the top of the building had me on the edge of my seat, but after that I quickly became bored. The two kids don't do enough this time around to maintain my interest, and the only thing I enjoyed mostly about this movie was Christopher Lee's performance.Performances. Kim Richards and Ike Eisenmann are OK but rather bland as the kids this time around. Christopher Lee is an utter menace, and I loved it! It lagged whenever he was off screen. His intensity did wonders for this movie. Bette Davis adds class, but her part was thoroughly under-written.Bottom line. Dull follow-up, which I struggled to get through. This may have been solid for it's time, but it's clearly dated now days. Recommending it for a rainy day watch is even pushing it. Stick to the original, and that's not even that great.4/10 "},{"Title":"An enjoyable sequel to the excellent original","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Psychic alien siblings Tia (a charming performance by the adorable Kim Richards) and Tony (a solid turn by Ike Eisenmann) go to Los Angeles to check out human life in the big city. Trouble occurs when Tony gets abducted by evil, arrogant scientist Victor (the always fine Christopher Lee in smoothly sinister form) and his greedy accomplice Letha (a perfectly wicked portrayal by Bette Davis). It's up to Tia and an amiable gang of scruffy delinquent kids to rescue Tony from this dastardly duo. Director John Hough, working from an eventful script by Malcolm Marmorstein, relates the absorbing plot at a constant brisk pace, maintains a pleasingly lighthearted tone throughout, makes nice use of the gritty LA locations, and stages the thrilling action scenes with considerable flair (a lively and lengthy car chase rates as the definite exciting highlight). Richards and Eisenmann are both excellent in their roles; they receive sound support from Lee, Davis, Jack Soo as jolly truant officer Mr. Yokomoto, the ever-creepy Anthony James as cowardly flunky Sickle, Denver Dyle as the gregarious Uncle Bene, and Richard Bakalyan as gabby, irritable cab driver Eddie. AIP biker flick regular Adam Roarke has an uncredited bit part as a museum security guard. The street gang members are a genuinely likable bunch of harmless minor league miscreants. The special effects are pretty nifty. Lalo Schifrin's funky 70's TV cop show-style score totally hits the groovy spot. Frank V. Phillips' polished cinematography is likewise up to par. A fun family feature. "},{"Title":"Round two in the Witch Mountain series stresses effects over feeling.","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following the success of Escape to Witch Mountain, Disney went to the well once again with this follow-up, three years later. Telekinetic, alien preteens Eisenmann and Richards return to Earth for a vacation following the presumably tough job of gathering together all the wayward people from their displaced planet. They haven't even gotten to their hotel yet when Eisenmann foresees an accident involving a man falling from the top of a building. The man (James) is part of a test that scientist Lee is conducting with his sidekick Davis in which people do as they are commanded to do following the implantation of a device behind their ear. Once Lee and Davis see Eisenmann save James through his powers, they decide to kidnap Eisenmann and make him their pawn, allowing them to steal things and extort money from whomever they choose. Richards, left alone in L.A. following the kidnapping, falls in with a gang of misfit kids who hang out in an abandoned house. They try to help her, but ultimately she must take on Lee, Davis and even her own brother in order to stop the crimes. Eisenmann and Richards are surprisingly more mature in the couple of years that separate the two films. Their performances are more assured and they are appealing, the one quibble being that the script separates them throughout nearly all of the running time, thus their considerable chemistry together is not given a full chance to shine. Lee is suitably suave and dangerous as the villain with Davis cackling her way through with somewhat less success. She gets a decent line or two, but mostly doesn't seem fully comfortable in the film. It has to rank as one of her lesser screen showcases. Soo, in his final film appearance before succumbing to esophageal cancer, appears as a beleaguered truant officer attempting to round up the gang of hooky players. The gaggle of kids is a fairly negligible bunch. One is played by Tina Yothers' brother and should be easy to spot. Juttner, whose voice has a shrill quality to it, later appeared in The Swarm before quickly ending up out of the biz. Pyle again appears incongruously as the alien uncle of the siblings. This go-round is far more action and effects-oriented than the first film. Some of the action is amusing (such as the silly goings on in a museum) and some of it is even a bit thrilling (some car chases and the adventures of a goat!) One neat stop-motion effect involves the impromptu repair of a wrecked van. There's a notable lack of heart in the piece, however, especially compared to the first movie. It might have been more entertaining had Davis been allowed to go the usual route of being the one in charge rather than a hapless flunky. While not a great movie, it has a certain level of entertainment and might even be more accessible to today's kids than the first one thanks to the emphasis on effects and the urban setting. Interestingly, James, who plays Davis' relative here (and chauffeur) played the very creepy driver who drove her over the edge of insanity in Burnt Offerings a couple of years prior. Also, the poster for this film was far scarier looking than anything in it, especially the VERY unflattering rendition of Davis! "},{"Title":"Kids will like it and parents won't totally hate it.","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I will be honest about this one--I really don't like the Disney live action films of the 60s and 70s. And, I never saw the original film Escape From Witch Mountain. So why would I watch Return From Witch Mountain? It stars Bette Davis---and I'd watch anything with her in it...anything (except porn...EWWW!).The film begins with the two children from the previous film returning home with an adult of their species. The boy is a bit of a knucklehead and uses his amazing powers and then is sharply reminded NOT to do this again on Earth. However, moments later, a guy is falling to his death from a building and the boy uses his mental powers to stop the guy only a few feet from the ground--where he stays suspended! Needless to say, the folks watching (Davis and Christopher Lee) are amazed. And, since they are evil, they drug the boy and decide to take him with them to try to exploit him and his gifts. Then, they implant a mind-control device and turn the boy into their own personal weapon! However, his sister understands through her psychic connection with him that something is amiss--and she must go in search of him.The film includes a bunch of annoying little jerks who call themselves 'the Earthquake Gang'. Without them, the film might have had more appeal to older audiences but Disney was clearly trying to appeal to the kids. It also might have appealed more with less broad humor. It's a shame actually, as the idea of the film isn't bad and the special effects are awfully good for 1978. I was particularly impressed with effects such as the broken glass containing the gold, the UFO landing as well as the floating items (it looked pretty seamless). I also liked the gold going into the car--it was a clever little scene. Overall, it's a film strictly for kids but one the parents won't hate if they are forced to watch. Not exactly a glowing endorsement, but it is what it is--a kid's film from Disney. It's a shame, though, as Davis wasn't particularly good or useful to the film--Lee was clearly more interesting and integral to the film. "}{"Title":"Return from Witch Mountain","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you remember seeing the original Walt Disney Pictures film about two twin kids called Tony (Ike Eisenmann) and Tia (Kim Richards) who are witches escaping to Witch Mountain, then you'll probably like this sequel. The two twins have come back from Witch Mountain for a short vacation. Tony unfortunately gets caught performing magic by the really good villain Dr. Victor Gannon, played by the excellent Christopher Lee, along with his spinster partner Letha (Bette Davis). He now uses his new mind control device so he can get Tony to obey his every command and perform magic for him, e.g. to rob banks. Tia meanwhile tries to snap him out of his control with the help of a load of kids. Good! "},{"Title":"A great film for the family","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" an excellent family movie i thought. brilliant for children up to the age of ten or even older like me i am 17 and i must say i still love this film as much as i ever did x 2 teenagers with special powers who are somehow turned against each other is a good story line and i love the way a 'mean' gang help get them back together and Alfred the goat is a great character. This film portrays 2 incredible children who are endangered when 1 of them goes to save someone's life who helps to capture him for their own purposes. It is up to the captured boy's sister and her new friends to save him. The sister receives help from Alfred the goat too. "},{"Title":"Pale sequel; stick to the original","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape to Witch Mountain is not a perfect movie, but has a good plot, well-developed characters, and beautiful scenery. Return from Witch Mountain, unfortunately, has none of those. In this contrived sequel, Tony and Tia are left to fend for themselves while on vacation in Los Angeles (all the better to save on the budget!), where they become mixed up with a mad scientist (Christopher Lee), his partner (Bette Davis), and various other Disney stock characters. What charms the original had are completely absent from this sequel, which seems to borrow every cliché from the scores of middling-to-bad Disney movies which littered the movie landscape in the 1970s.Much of the dialog is cringe-worthy; you'll actually be embarrassed watching it. You're better off re-watching the original. "},{"Title":"Should Have Stayed Home","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Hough directed this sequel that sees both Ike Eisenmann and Kim Richards return as psychic siblings Tony & Tia Malone, who try to take a vacation in L.A.(with help from Uncle Bene, once again played by Denver Pyle) but are immediately targeted by evil adult siblings Victor & Letha(played by Christopher Lee & Bette Davis) who want to use their powers for world conquest, and after Tony is captured & brainwashed, Tia must enlist the help of a gang of kids to rescue Tony, and stop the criminals. Silly and contrived film has a good cast working with inferior material. Has little of the charm of the first, though kids may like it. "},{"Title":"Sequel-Bad","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It seems like the makers of this movie took a look at everything that made Escape so great and decided to forget it. Obviously they couldn't re-use the mystery about the two children (where do they come from? Why do they have these powers?). Still, they lost a lot of charme on other points.The special effects seem hopelessly dated. This is easy to say in 2013 but they already seem hopelessly dated in comparison to Escape - which was made three years before. It doesn't help that Return shifts more focus onto these special effects - and puts less effort into it.Escape had those two cute kids which worked great together. The first thing Return does is dividing them and letting Tony be a mindless zombie for (most of) the rest of the movie. Tia doesn't do much better. Her part of the movie mostly gets lost and divided between the four members of the Earthquake gang. At parts the movie feels like it wanted to showcase an epic Tony vs Tia-battle (with one having to be mind-controlled for that to happen) and maybe some viewers like their confrontations but at some points it is plain boring - showing both of them concentrating and a heat gauge going up and down. Keep in mind that during Escape the children had slightly different abilities (playing into their different characters). This is dropped in Return; they are interchangeable.Mr. Yokomoto doesn't feel like an adult ally but more of a tool, somewhat pushing a school is important-morale down the viewers' throat. I believe he is meant to be similar to Jason O'Day who helped the children in Escape, yet he lacks the backstory, character and sympathy that Jason had.The name seems cheated, too. There is no Witch Mountain in this movie. It gets mentioned only very briefly and Two psychic kids have a week of adventure in LA seems more suited. This is even more obvious in the beginning when Uncle Bene drops those kids off, telling them to have fun. No adult supervision, no safeguards, the dangers of the Escape are completely forgotten. Just like the conflict between Tony and Tia is forced and Tia meeting the Earthquakes is forced (and seems random) plus Tony meeting Dr. Dracula is forced, even the beginning of everything seems forced and plotted.Return drops the fun. This is even more obvious once you remember the puppet scene from Escape or the cat Winky or the haunting at the sheriff's office. Those were scenes with the kids having fun and laughing and smiling. Don't expect that stuff in Return - the fun is gone. "},{"Title":"I TRIED to like it. I really did. But...","Date":"22 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This review may contain SPOILERS.One praiseworthy note before the coming necessary diatribe Christopher Lee, who played the antagonist, succeeded admirably in this movie; despite wading through the cinematic muck, he came out clean.For true fans of this movie's actors or admirers of the original movie (Escape to Witch Mountain), this sequel may be worth watching. MAY. For anyone else, uh...no. This sequel is all about the How could theys. How could Disney have approved such a lame script (the dialog sounds like it could have been thought up by the actors on the set)? How could director John Hough have gone from applying fine skills in working with children, in the original, to practically ignoring them and focusing on his classic camera angles (on the DVD commentary, he's full of praise for his brilliance)? And how could the formerly delightful Kim Richards and Ike Eisenmann (who, in all fairness, was asked to be unconscious or silent through most of the movie) have gone from riches to rags in acting ability and cuteness? (Could the answer be...acting lessons?) The answers to all of these questions are truly beyond me. But, the root of the problem might lie in Disney's choice of producers they must have been the lamest, most inept, and least caring in the history of Disney. And that's saying something! There's more Bette Davis. What a shame that Disney would disrespect her by surrounding her with garbage and expecting her to dress it up. Instead, this brilliant actress unavoidably rose (read fell) to the level of her cast, director and writers.A brief synopsis of the plot (it can hardly be called that) Tony (Eisenmann) and Tia (Richards) are back from the mountain. They have undefined plans, run into trouble, and, well, they survive it. You'll find this summary more interesting than the movie. But...I'll tell you why I can review it. I watched it all the way through. You see, I am, indeed, a true fan of the original. Can't you see the teardrops of disappointment on this page? "},{"Title":"another hit for disney","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorite disney movies as a kid. Kim and Ike are great as the brother and sister with supernatural powers.However I dont think bette davis really cut it as one of the bad guys.Despite that I thought the car chase from the museum was good and the earthquake gang were quite funny at times. If you want a good family movie then this is it.  "},{"Title":"Stupid but palatable.","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This corny sequel to Escape To Witch Mountain is full of stupid and convenient plot devices (smart goat!), the performances by the kids are awkward, Bette Davis and an obviously slumming Christopher Lee are here only to lure some adults into thinking the movie might have some interest for them too (it doesn't) and the special effects run hot and cold (some good, some embarrassments). Despite all that, the film does have a few good ideas, such as pitting the two magical kids against each other for much of the duration. Of course, they are both so obnoxious that I was secretly hoping they would go ahead and kill each other off, but no such luck; this is Disney, after all.    (**1/2) "},{"Title":"not quite the material for a screen legend","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SF-kidsmovie with cartoonish quality, lots of action and some painfully dated special effects. Pretty entertaining, but not quite the material for a screen legend. To see Bette Davis in other post-Baby Jane roles, more worthy of her talent, watch ´Death on the Nile´ (1978) and ´Whales of August´ (1988). "},{"Title":"Excruciating!","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a disappointment! Dull, uninteresting, unfunny, and badly acted by all - including Davis and Lee. The first film was a nicely-constructed fun light comedy only marred by Eisenmann's complete inability to act (I'd love to know how he was picked for these films - did they just pluck him off the street?) As a homeschooling family, we did get one good laugh at the warning given by the truant officer a child can either go to school or become a bum - no other choice! Now that there are millions of homeschoolers, we shouldn't see that ignorant belief voiced in any more films, at least. Sequels are rarely as good as the original, but this film could hardly have been any worse. Save your sanity and skip this one. "}{"Title":"*Spellbound(again)*","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The two magical kids Tony & Tia return for another adventure in Disneyland! Tony finds himself powerless & abducted... so sis(Tia) comes to the rescue! Fun, cute, family movie. Bringing it only like Disney can. Don't see one without seeing the other... personally, I liked the 2nd one better... due to Tia (played by Richards) being the star and the hero! (8) If you like these Watch Bedknobs and Broomsticks "},{"Title":"Escape from Sequel Mountain","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What was mildly entertaining in Escape to Witch Mountain turns into patently stupid and mind-numbingly ridiculous in its sequel, Return from Witch Mountain. The principle characters, two kids with an earnest lack of skill, named Ike Eisenmann and Kim Richards return to dazzle us with their ability to read lines and stand where directed, but the real excitement is how many wheezy Disney-fied clichés--cute critters, stereotypical cab drivers, harried cops, and megalomaniacal mad scientists--can feed into this dull, under-plotted kiddie flick.Christopher Lee, the mad scientist and his compatriot, Bette Davis, are involved in some sort of mind-controlling, plutonium-stealing plot to make Lee famous and Davis rich. They kidnap one of the kids and the other kid uses telepathy to find the first kid and . . . why am I writing this? I don't care. Christopher Lee is still making movies and being cool. Davis is as dead as the careers of the two kids who are now, respectively, 44 and 42.By the end of the movie, the good guys have won (ohmigosh, now there's a headline!), the baddies are suspended in on a scaffold (highly comical, eh?), and a truant officer, played by Jack Soo, gets to transport the heroic mini-gang of kiddies--who helped Eisenmann and Richards--back to school in his bright and shiny Ford Econoline van.If none of this makes sense, don't worry your head about it.Neither does the movie. "},{"Title":"Help i think there is a similar version of this","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" when i was little i remember in addition to escape to witch mountain and return from witch mountain that there was another similar film it had the same idea where two kids(boy and girl) figure out they're twins with special abilities but in this one it has them as teenagers and the boy arrested and sent to some camp (like on a farm kind of camp). There he meets a girl and they have some sort of connection. eventually they meet and discover as they touch each others hands a eerie purple light glows from the touch and then they can cause things to happen. They later pass this copy machine place and they see a purple light appear from the windows. they go check it out and see this guy (sorta looking like Christopher Lloyd). they talk to him and learn about witch mountain and how everyone has a twin he tells them to meet him at this location(unknown possibly near or at witch mountain. they stay at camp and experiment a little. the counselors figure out somehow and try to contain them they escape with the help from a few camp friends and they ride a horse out. from they its a bit fuzzy but they end up at this location and meet the copy store guy. They see a small crowd of twins that are putting their hand together and disappearing(supposedly going to witch mountain(possibly in a another dimension). then some of the camp staff and the kid's friends get to the location. Then the twins take their turn and disappear. I even think a few of the camp people tried disappearing like the twins and it worked. ---end--- But if anybody knows of this movie and its actual title my email is tallguy91@sbcglobal.net "},{"Title":"A nice family movie","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tony and Tia come back from there home area, and then when a person interested in controlling the world finds out about their powers, Tony is captured. He takes control of Tony's powers, but Tia and her friends rescue him. This is a good movie, but I think 'Escape to Witch Mountain' is a little better. "},{"Title":"THE ALL-TIME GREATEST MOVIE OF EVER AND EVER OF ALL-TIME!!!!","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WHOOOOO!!!!!!This is my favorite movie of all time.Honestly,I don't know why,but it is.So there.I would like to add that this movie is better than any other movie.Ever.Even Pocahontas 2.It's that good.No really.It is.Seriously.This movie is the cinematic equivalent of eating a bucket of chocolate,doing heroin,winning an Olympic gold medal,and having sex with say...Molly Holly. "}]