[{"Title":"Great movie.  If you don't mind all the pot!","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"38 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Of all the Cheech & Chong movies made, I think this one, their first, was their best.  There's no real story line you have to follow.  The point of this movie was to make you laugh.  No messages or extra drama.  It's the kind of movie to just sit back and laugh at. I do realize that this movie is definitely not for everyone.  Some parents might not want to let their children see it and some people may not want to watch it themselves.  The movie features a lot of drugs and some drug use (In case you're not familiar with Cheech & Chong movies). However, if you're not offended by that, and you've never seen this movie before, you should check it out for a good laugh! "},{"Title":"THE definitive stoner flick","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  First of the Cheech and Chong movies is probably the best overall, with the duo involved in a plot to drive a van constructed entirely of pot across the Mexican border into the US and featuring Cheech singing Earache my Eye. Lots of laughs (especially for the inspired viewers), but definitely not for everyone.  The whole movie revolves around drug use, so not a movie for young children, obviously.  However, if you don't mind this, you'll probably laugh your you-know-what off. "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"32 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This one of the movies I never get tired to see, it gets better for every time I see it. There are a lot of enjoyable characters, like Anthony Stoner, Strawberry, Harry, Stedenko, Jade East, The Ajax Lady and of course The Man and Pedro, you name it, the whole cast is excellent and there is great chemestry between the characters. There is also a great rhythm and great music in the movie. Sadly it`s seldom that this kind of movies are being made to day. "},{"Title":"Cheech and Chong will never get old","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Basically an excuse for Cheech and Chong to get into a series of marijuana adventures, Up in Smoke is a hoot from beginning to end. Pedro De Pacas (Cheech Marin) and Anthony Man Stoner (Tommy Chong) are a pair of slackers who wonder So Cal and Mexico looking for some weed, while the narcs look for any excuse to arrest them. There are some scenes that will probably make your eyes pop out, just due to the surprise factor. You just watch this sort of movie and think The '70s...those were the good old days. Also, it was interesting seeing Strother Martin and Edie Adams as Chong's character's parents. Seeing as to how they were part of my grandparents' generation, I wouldn't expect to see them in a marijuana movie. "},{"Title":"Another one of the funniest films of the 1970's","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This 1979 Paramount release introduced the controversial radio comedians Richard Cheech Marin and Thomas Chong to the screen for the first of six major film teamings and cameos together in several other films. This first teaming is the best teaming. The duo portray stoners who travel together on a road trip down to Tijuana on a mission to pick up a fresh new drug supply. However, they're being pursued by frantic cops all the way. A cult spoof classic and a film that began a new kind of wacky film comedy.  "},{"Title":"The Show","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" The counterculture was long dead and ripe for retrospective satire. Into the opportunity stepped two pro comics who after trying other things, built these characters. When comics work up a world for years and then brings it to a movie, it bodes well. Mike Myers would follow almost precisely this formula later with Wayne's World.The jokes are still pretty funny, many of them. Not the stuff with the flumoxxed cops or the folks who inadvertently get stoned (and get the munchies). But the bits of comic timing associated with the guys as if they were on stage.Two bits to watch out for. One is two incidental women. The first has a scene only a minute long. A girl comes in, mistakes scouring powder for coke, snuffs it up and has the most comic facial expressions I have even seen on film. This is one of those priceless moments in film. I hope IMDb at some point figures out some means to vote on particular scenes. This girl would in life become an addict and a bag lady.The second girl has a bigger role Zane Buzby is one of the hippie stoner cheesecake babes that join the trip. She's got a less flashy role, but in ad libs created most of the situations in which she appears. She would go on to become one of TeeVee's most attuned comedy directors.So you can see this as two stage personalities that are good, with these two women, who are also as good, surrounded by some disposable situations and jokes.But there is another something interesting. The end of this comic show is a comic show within, the guys as a rock band in possibly the best Cheech and Chong sequence of all their movies. Everything from about 20 minutes into the film to this is a journey to this show, I suspect that The Muppet Movie of the following year was influenced by this.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Cheech and Chong's Screen debut!","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Up in Smoke (1978) was the comic team of Cheech and Chong's big screen debut. After selling a ton of albums during the early and mid-seventies, the duo finally got a chance to star in their own picture. Anthony Man Stoner (Tommy Chong) is a rich kid who's still living the hippie life and enjoys pot. Pedro De Pacas (Cheech Marin) is a kid from East L.A. who's into three things gaudy car upholstery, rock music and finding smoke. This would be the first of several movies starring these two characters (or different variations of them).Anthony Stoner leaves his rich parents house after a falling out over getting a job. His car breaks down near the ocean. But his savior arrives in the form of Pedro De Pacas. Pedro is cruising for girls when he meets Anthony. Th two strike up a friendship and the movie goes off in several different and bizarre directions. What kind of adventures do Anthony and Pedro get into? You'll just have to find out for yourself when you watch UP IN SMOKE.A funny film that'll keep you laughing from beginning to end. Tommy Chong and Cheech Marin play the ultimate slackers. All they want to do is partying and smoke a lot of dope. This movie was followed by several sequels.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Stoner Comedy Classic","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is one of the greatest stoner comedy classics of all time. I rated this movie a 10 because it's current rating of 6.4 is an injustice to the comic genius duo that created it. It has it's weak moments but the overall strengths have influenced everything from Dumb and Dumber to Half Baked to Harold & Kumar ad infinitum. Cheech and Chong put their strongest stand up material on film and created a masterpiece of counter-culture satire that has yet to be surpassed. If you've never smoked weed, this movie probably isn't for you, though you still might find it humorous. This is a film for anyone who's been there and done that. It encapsulates a moment in modern Americana where drugs offer freedom and punk rock is the only redemption for alienated youths. These points are driven home with Abbot and Costello style absurdity and slapstick shenanigans as well as some very witty and inventive dialogue. I highly recommend this movie to anyone seeking drug related humor or a look into the mindset of young people in the late 70s. "},{"Title":"Classic of drug comedies","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Basically all Up in Smoke movies are about watching other people getting high, actually all the drug comedies are about that. It sounds kinda boring, but not when those people are Cheech & Chong. The scene where they were smoking in a car in the beginning is still funny to me, though I watched it many times. This movie is making fun more from the cops and other people who fight drugs, than from the drug addicts who just want to get high. This film shows how ridiculous those fighters against drugs look like, though this is a comedy, in my opinion, there is a lot of truth in this film. Maybe other Up in Smoke movies aren't that good as this one, but as I remember there is always at least few hilarious moments. "},{"Title":"You don't have to be a stoner to give this movie high praise","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" When this first came out in the theaters I passed on seeing it as it seemed like Cheech and Chong's time had come and went. I was a big fan of their comedy albums of the early and mid 70's but the movie version of their act would have been logical then but by 1978 it's time had past. Of those who did see this in the theater I couldn't get a proper read on a critical review since I could find no one who saw it in a theater that wasn't high when they went. A year or two after it came out it showed up on one of the cable movie channels and I was expecting a typical movie that takes a funny five minute skit and stretches it out to a painful non-funny 90 minutes. Director Lou Adler had never directed a movie before. He had produced the documentary rock film Monetery Pop and the cult classic Rocky Horror Picture Show and Robert Altman's quirky Brewster McCloud but he was Pop music entrepreneur as a music producer, publisher, manager and record company founder. He would only direct one other film which is too bad because with his industry connections and reputation and his natural feel for talent and getting the best out of talent being a director worked very well for him as with the help of Cheech and Chong he turned out a very very funny movie with Up in Smoke. The counter-culture stoner comedy duo take a simple theme for a story outline but the great comedic timing and sight gags and fast pacing and an their inventive approach at film making takes what should have been a low budget stoner comedy to the next level of lasting cinematic comedy. Like a Marx Brothers or WC Fields or Charlie Chaplin comedy this movie has lasting power to entertain generations. Cheech Marin and Tommy Chong star in the first of series of funny movies from the duo. A strong character cast includes Strother Martin, Stacy Keetch, Tom Skerritt and Edie Adams. Look for Gary Muledeer and Ellen Barkin too. This movie had such broad appeal that some of the most red neck, anti-counter-culture, anti-hippy/freak/doper people I have ever ever known loved it. I would give this a 9.0 out of 10. "}{"Title":"surprisingly fresh","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" While Up in Smoke isn't one I can watch every time that it is on (why would I want to watch this one on T.V., anyway?), I own it, and watch it, at least, once a year.It's amazing that a major studio would make such a risqué comedy. Surprisingly, most of the dope use in the movie is entirely accidental; in fact, our character's entire motivation for just about all that happens is that they are in constant search of dope that is always out of reach (so they think). While it looks dated, Cheech and Chong knew what makes a slacker buddy comedy work.This may be the best one note comedy yet. Bevis and Butthead Do America was good, but the original series was better, and I have yet to see Harold and Kumar Go to Whitecastle. A good supporting cast makes a above average comedy, and this one has Strother Martin and Edie Adams who are probably in it for a priceless minute and a half. But, Officer Stedenko (Stacey Keach) and his bunch steal the show. And, I think, they use a reoccurring character from their albums--Right On Washington as a incompetent scam artist that almost gets away with his cons. Besides lacking gratuitous nudity (c'mon, admit it. what's a R-rated comedy without it?), this movie isn't loaded with memorable quotes like the movies that one can always watch no matter how many times they've seen it, but you can find them. SHOOT THE MOON! comes to mind Ohhm, ohhm, ohhm, mellow, mellow. . .AHHHHGH!!! is another one. This looks like Peuruvian Flake. fiberweed Harry, get over here! This is codename HARDHEAD Bye, Lardass! And the battle of the band song will get stuck in your head da da da da da da DUNT DUNT DAAA! "},{"Title":"if this isn't funny to you,you're thinking too much","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" i saw every cheech and chong movie and i must say that up in smoke is definitely the greatest achievement.every part of this movie was hilarious.from beginning to end.memorable lines and characters,good storyline and location.and the whole movie i got a really good vibe.its pure marijuana B.S. and its awesome.like who would think of something this outrageous involving marijuana than cheech and chong.and who else who say your mama to a pig,excuse me,i mean police officer.its all about not caring letting go and just having a good time and trying to score some weed so everyone can kick back and just chill.nothing really to understand.no confusing storyline,no unexplainable characters,no deep far out meaning,just fun. "},{"Title":"Hilarious moments, and yet...","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This movie starts out brilliant and has some of the funniest gags ever filmed. And yet I was dying for it to end and turned it off for days at a time. Don't get me wrong, I love stoner characters and have a fond memory of those times. And don't get me started on the nonsensical and draconian War on Drugs.Ultimately, there are just too many long stretches of dumb dialog, pointless action, and missed opportunities. It's a tough one to rate, but I'm being generous at 6/10, just for the sight of that police dog... "},{"Title":"Some of the funniest material ever put on film","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is a very funny, very well casted movie. Who will ever forget Cheech's panic attack, the Ajax lady, the glass of vodka or Chong's leg cramp. This is comedy at its very best. Cheech & Chong are just plain hilarious. Even their facial expressions crack me up.The movie transfer to DVD is in wide screen format and includes a very good commentary plus some interesting clips. This is one of those movies that stands up well under repeated viewing. If Hollywood has forgotten how to make a good movie, here is a lesson for them. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Cheech and Chong movies will honestly never get old. This is the original movie that started it all and it is honestly the funniest of all they're films. This movie is entirely what the comedy of Cheech and Chong always was. This movie is the only movie in which Cheech and Chong do not play themselves as the titles characters, but still this movie is a laugh riot. A definite classic for all comedy genre fans to see. It may seem old school and not all teen sex related like todays comedies, but this is really what comedy is all about. This movie really hit it big and is still enjoyed today. Now that Cheech and Chong have reunited are we in for Up in Smoke 2 soon? Hopefully so.10/10 "},{"Title":"Cheech and Chong's Up in Smoke","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I first heard of and saw Cheech and Chong featured in the South Park Episode Cherokee Hair Tampons, and then I heard about this 1001 Movies You See Before You Die recommended film. Basically slackers and getting nowhere musicians Pedro De Pacas (Richard 'Cheech' Marin) and Anthony 'Man' Stoner (Tommy Chong) happen to meet on a Californian highway, and instantly find a connection with their love of marijuana. They are pulled over by the cops, and end up deported to Mexico, but in court they are let off lightly by the Vodka drinking judge, and they start a road trip to go back home, and try to score some drugs along the way. This includes a trip to dealer Strawberry (Alien's Tom Skerritt), a little house party snorting some wash powder as cocaine, and the big hoot of the film, unintentionally steal a van made entirely of hardened weed. Along the way Pedro and Man pick up two women, who convince them that they should enter their band in a Battle of the Bands contest, and the final scene sees them win with a very high audience. Also starring Batman Mask of the Phantasm's Stacy Keach as Sgt. Stedenko, Strother Martin as Arnold Stoner, Edie Adams as Mrs. Tempest Stoner, Ray Vitte as Bass Player James and Michael Caldwell as Guitar Player Duane. Cheech and Chong with their man catchphrase creating smiles and stoned foolishness are a great double act, Keach does make a good deranged cop, and there are some good songs in it. I will say, the film started hilariously, it then loses a tiny bit of steam, then it picks up with the fiberweed van, and the last few scenes are quite funny, so overall, it a most watchable cult comedy. Good! "},{"Title":"A laugh a minute and close to a comic classic","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Cheech and Chong have a flair for slapstick outrageous comedy. Their every move and statement had just enough to keep anyone with a sense of humor going throughout the movie. It is one of the few movies they did that kept me focused throughout without any problem. It is amazing how well everything was so well directed, played and carried out. Even with the obvious drug-infested scenarios, it still had all the basics of great laughs and didn't make me want to go out and buy a brick of marijuana. Stacy Keach did exceptionally well as the fall-guy to Cheech and Chong's outlandish antics. Just when you thought the movie would slow down it only got better by the second. Unfortunately, subsequent sequels to Up In Smoke were no where near the quality and rib-splitting humor, they have proved themselves to have an uncanny talent to bring about a ton of laughs. I would watch it anytime over and over and still maintain the same enjoyment in watching this movie. I would recommend it to anyone who would like to watch a movie that simply entertains. The music is quite good too. This movie will most likely make the list of comedy greats not unlike Young Frankenstein. It is really a work of whimsical proportions. "},{"Title":"Far Out Man !","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT This is the movie that started it all for the duo comedy act of Richard Cheech Marin and Thomas Tommy Chong. You get just the right mix of sex, drugs, and rock'n roll plus one pound of seedless stemless comedy that will leave you in stitches. This movie is actually based on the stage act created by C&C called Cruising with Pedro DePacas and Man. But in the movie version Pedro meets Man and they smoke a giant joint, Pedro and Man go cruising for more weed and can't find any, they get accidentally deported to Tijuana and drive a van back across the border but they don't know that the van is made of 100% pure weed. They enter their band in a Battle of the Bands at The Roxy Theater and win and still they don't find any weed. Cheech and Chong's first film is totally far out. If you want to have a groovy time get a few buds together and plop this video in and let the high times and the good times roll.  "},{"Title":"A paradox????????","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The first thirty minutes of Up In Smoke may be the best film sequence in pot smoking history. However, its greatness provides us with a paradox nearly as mind-boggling as it is funny. Is it possible that Cheech and Chong can really be acting this well, or is this movie actually an improvised skit by two thoroughly baked comedians? But if they were high, how could they possibly maintain their composure long enough to be intelligible on camera? But if they weren't, how could they pull off these scenes with that authenticity? But if they were, how could they have the patience and stamina for the endless hours it takes to shoot even the most standard of scenes? But if they weren't, how could they have the spontaneity that so obviously permeates the performance? If you can figure out how these two pulled off thirty of the funniest minutes in movie history, then you are truly a better man than I. "},{"Title":"Best Weed Comedy Ever","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Back in 1978, the comedy duo Cheech and Chong, famous for their marijuana induced social commentary, arrived with UP IN SMOKE, one of the funniest films ever, that is, if you're a pothead.I'm not a pothead, but I definitely smoke some weed here and there, and after first watching UIS, all I wanted to do was rinse and repeat. There are other stoner comedies that are funny, and then there are others that aren't, mainly because they are actors portraying high people. This is not the case with Cheech and Chong these guys are baked all film long, and some of the pothead banter is just unforgettable stuff; unless of course you suffer from short term memory.There's a nice and bizarre cameo by Tom Skerritt as a Vietnam vet with a fondness for the green stuff, and Stacey Keach is hilarious as the detective hot on the duo's smoky trail.Awesome film for fans of cannabis; others may disagree. "}{"Title":"Holy Cow...","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Now here's a good time thats not waiting to happened. Their off and running, my two favorite stoner's, Pedro and the man, on the first and most fun of their adventures together. For the reference sake, these two should and probably did 'Win' awards for this full firing token express moving toward 'band' greatness! Getting ready for F.M. radio and plenty of women!!! But first they got to make it over to Strawberry's place, so they can score some mean smoke, man. Strawberry (Tom Skarrett ) was a strange dude himself, you know? He just needed to be a little more mellow, for sure. But the real up-tight dude was that policeman guy, Sgt. Stedankko. His brave crew of ' rookies ' by his side looking and looking all over for those out landish dope fiend's. They hardly work and when they do it's almost disastrous! But at least they are good at their jobs, getting' high, by the wayside. Tommy Chong and Cheech Marin made everyone enjoy the hippie and Mexican experience. Since Dave's not ever home anyway, these two are out on a road trip to nowhere, via or should we say 'Viva' Mexico! Upholstry has a 'hole' new line of business now, with our fearless, but somewhat freaked-out pot heads in the driver's seat. Chong isn't going to stay and live off his mom and dad anymore...-because he can't, they have kicked him out after him defying every last job offer they have made to him. And as far as Pedro is concerned he's just a hard working' guy living with relatives sleeping on the couch. But again, now Pedro is the Man with that 'heavy' Chevy impala with custom etching on the side window, just behind his head. And they could cruise all day Tom, that is if they aren't parked on the side of the road, wasted and small-eyed laughing at each-others wacky antics. All in everything, these two may make it yet, with a little help from the last whole brain cell. that together they possess. This is off the wall and crazed fun, one of the funniest I've ever seen... They have a 'crack' team of officers following and surveying them. Follow the freak, the freak with the basketball. Which basketball?? And let's face another fact, the cops have just not been this fun in a long time.Recommended for comedic pleasure, of the far-out, tune in mellow out then laugh, till you gag, then get the munchies and do it all over kind of time. (***)Thx--IMDb.com "},{"Title":"A stoned comedy...","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This 1978 comedy is a classic, and it is one of those comedies that will leave a fond, lasting memory. I even remember this movie from my childhood, watching it at my friend's home back somewhere in the 1980's.Very little explanation is necessary for Up in Smoke. The title fairly much is self-explanatory. Yes, it is a story about two potheads.The comedy in the movie is good and thrown at you at all the right places. And there is a good ensemble of cast members, starting with Cheech Marin and Tommy Chong, of course, in the leading roles. But it was also great to see Tom Skerritt in that hilarious role, as well as Stacey Keach as the police detective.There are so many hilarious situations and things going on throughout the entire movie, that it is just a great joy to watch the movie. And it can be watched more than once, as it does have that kind of contents to its storyline and characters.Up in Smoke is a fun and entertaining movie, and if you enjoy comedy and has not already seen this 1978 movie, shame on you! It is a good movie and well-worth your time and money. "},{"Title":"The Definitive Cheech and Chong Film","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Two stoners unknowingly smuggle a van -- made entirely of marijuana -- from Mexico to Los Angeles, with incompetent Sgt. Stedenko on their trail.Although Cheech and Chong made several films together, they will probably always be best remembered for this one, their first. There are so many moments that have since become a part of pop culture. The use of War's Low Rider, the smoking of the Labrador... when watching it for the first time you might feel like you have seen it before.Those into drug culture may appreciate the film more, but being a stoner is certainly not required to laugh at the antics of these two luckless losers. "},{"Title":"Good stoner jokes","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Anthony Stoner (Tommy Chong) is an unemployed slacker who is his father's disappointment and threatened with military school. He drives off with his VW Beetle with the Rolls grill but his car breaks down. He is stranded until fellow weed smoker Pedro de Pacas (Cheech Marin) picks him up. Pedro is tripping on acid with his car parked on a traffic median. The cops arrest them. The guys get released when the judge is found to be drinking vodka. They visit Strawberry (Tom Skerritt) and barely escape the cops (Stacy Keach). Immigration comes to take Pedro's cousin and his wedding party to Mexico after he called them himself. His cousin just wanted a free ride to his wedding. The boys get deported as well. They stumble onto a secret weed factory and wrongly picks up a van constructed with weed.This is filled with stoner jokes and some of them are hilarious. The guys are good together. I wish the movie is just the two guys hanging out together. The best scene is when the guys are out of their mind alone in their car. They don't actually need an outlandish plot. They really only need each other. The meandering plot is actually quite tiring. It's a downer to keep track of the story. I would think that their target audience shouldn't be asked to keep track of such a rambling mess. The movie devolves into a mess instead of simply having fun with the two guys. "},{"Title":"Fun movie, I watch it all the time.","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is a great movie, I always watch it when I'm sad and it's turns my frown upside down. I really like it what Cheech and Chong live in their own world where everything is alright and almost everyone is happy and everything turns out okay. Cheech and Chong are funny they remind me of my neighbors, I wish Cheech and Chong lived next door so they could come over smoke a bowl and watch their movies with me. I liked that this movie took place in Los Angeles, because all movies are being in other countries. I think that Cheech and Chong Movies are good because they show the good that Latin people can be. People complain about this and other Cheech and Chong movies, but I think that they are extremely entertaining, if you watch a movie based on anything else you are missing the point. "},{"Title":"Hey, Man! Like, Get Legally High, Man, With Cheech & Chong, Man!","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Hey, man!... (uh)... You know, man, like, Up In Smoke, man, is, like, actually so bad, man, that it's, like, you know, man, almost good, man!... Yeah, man!I'd say that Up In Smoke is probably the one and only one-note-joke movie out there that actually doesn't even try to pretend to be anything else, but just that - A One-Note-Joke.And as a one-note-joke (some of it funny, some of it not), Cheech & Chong sure got plenty of mileage out of being 2 of the biggest and most bungling dope-heads you're ever going to encounter in any blinding cloud of marijuana smoke.From smoking dog crap, to picking up jail-bait, to snorting Ajax, to being hotly pursued by the laughable Sargent Stedenko & his narcotics squad, Cheech & Chong (as those 2 bong-headed bozos, Pedro & Stoner) ultimately become a rock'n'roll sensation when they appear live on stage in The Battle of the Bands at the Roxy Theater.And, hey, man, you don't have to be stoned, man (but it might help), to enjoy this nearly plot-less movie. But, hey, try to be at least in a fairly good frame of mind and don't expect anything Oscar-worthy from Up In Smoke and that way its disappointment-factor won't amount to too much.You know, this is actually a kinda tough movie to rate - The best way that I can describe Cheech & Chong is to say that they were the Beavis & Butthead of the late 1970s and Up In Smoke is certainly a prime example of their bad-ass brand of stoner-comedy that boasts no rivals. "},{"Title":"Back in the good ole days before being a psycho or a sociopath was the norm","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Weed used to be great and mellow. Nowadays after they started lacing it with strychnine and PCP to turn everybody who smokes it into a complete idiotic psycho I started to feel a little uncomfortable smoking it. back then they made movies about it where no matter how f**ked up you got everything turned out alright. Now getting stoned is as dangerous as buying stocks on wall street. You never know what your going to get but if your Forrest Gump level retardation don't worry, you'll probably like it and they'll have you dressed up in green, spouting the national anthem, and killing what passes for commies nowadays (I think they're called terrorists)in oil-saturated deserts in no time while bankers back home will be sleeping with your wife, stealing your paychecks, and pissing people off enough to fly planes into skyscrapers while homeless people starve and die on the streets because that's the American way.Oh yea, this movie is about two stoners who go around getting f**ked up and laid with no money, no clue, and no reason. Somehow it's more entertaining, insightful, and intelligent than all the self-important serious movies in the world. A masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Very amiable comedy classic.","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Legendary comedy duo Cheech & Chong's first and best cinematic outing is a hoot the entire time, just what this reviewer would recommend for those people who just want to turn off their brain for about an hour and a half and relax. One certainly doesn't have to be a stoner themselves in order to appreciate it. There's not much of a story here, mostly a series of easygoing, sometimes hysterical vignettes as Pedro (Cheech) and Anthony (Chong) go on the hunt for good grass, although Pedro's main ambition is for his band to achieve some fame and fortune, and, recruiting Anthony as a drummer, he and his bandmates get their chance in a battle of the bands for the movie's finish. Great sight gags abound; the fact that Pedro and Anthony end up driving a van that's actually made out of marijuana is priceless. Hot on their trail is flustered narc Stedenko (Stacy Keach), who's stuck with a bunch of incredibly inept detectives. Cheech & Chong are hilarious as always, and incidentally, one can see how Chong's Anthony would get the nickname that he has, MAN. A spirited supporting cast adds to the fun, although I personally would have liked to have seen at least a little more of Strother Martin as Anthony's fed-up father. But Tom Skerritt is great as Pedro's Nam flashback plagued cousin Strawberry (I'd advise you not to look at his neck), Louisa Moritz is in fine bubbly form as luscious cop Gloria, and Zane Buzby is fun as stoner babe Jade East. The cast features such familiar character players and celebrities as Arthur Roberts, Donald Hotton, Ray Vitte, Gary Mule Deer, Mills Watson, Val Avery, and Rodney Bingenheimer, with lovely ladies Cheryl Rainbeaux Smith and Wally Ann Wharton adding to the entertainment value. It's just too funny to see, among other things, a group of nuns get detained by the cops, and the cops getting the munchies as they get stoned. The cool soundtrack (including the classic Low Rider) and the bright, sunny look of the film are big bonuses, and the laughs keep coming at a consistent pace. Up in Smoke is good natured in spirit, and is definitely too hard to resist. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Slam-Bong Comedy","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" The first Cheech & Chong stoner comedy of errors Up in Smoke consists of gags lifted from their comedy albums about marijuana usage tacked onto a rolling paper thin plot about smuggling a fortune in pot into the U.S. by two dopers desperate for some weed to puff. The message is that if our heroes get high enough that all their troubles will disappear in a purple haze of smoke. Freshman director Lou Adler learned on the job with this occasionally funny comedy that never advocates the legalization of pot. You won't find anything remotely subversive and Up in Smoke doesn't take any chances. Adler and scenarists Tommy Chong and Cheech Marin may have gotten high when they contrived this harmless nonsense, but they have no lofty aims. They ridicule their own clueless characters as well as a cadre of hopelessly inept but zealous narcotics police officers who pursue them. Up in Smoke amounts to a stoned version of the Keystone Kops, except that the cops are narcs. Of course, Pedro De Bacas (Cheech Marin) and Anthony Stoner (Tommy Chong) are a pair of misguided stoners who encounter each other after Anthony's intolerant father Arnold (Strother Martin of The Wild Bunch) threatens to pack him off to military school if he doesn't get a job. Anthony's Volkswagon Beetle conks out on him on the highway and he winds up spending the night in a ditch before Pedro mistakes him for a woman and tries to pick him up.Several mildly amusing scenes follow without apparent much apparent motivation. Everything centers on the efforts of our duo to find some good marijuana. One of the funniest scenes in the first 30 minutes shows them smoking a hilariously huge joint that consists of Maui-wowie strained from the turds of Anthony's Labrador. According to Anthony, he caught man's best friend chowing down on his stash and then followed him around with a baggie. Smoke pours out of their car as Pedros cruises the freeway. Inevitably, the police pull them over and pack them off to court with Anthony the worst for wear. During their arraignment in court, Anthony partakes of water from the judge's carafe. He spews the contents and announces to everybody that the judge has been drinking vodka. Our heroes are released after this alarming incident.Later, they visit one of their friends, Veteran-veteran Strawberry (Tom Skerritt of M.A.S.H.) who has a huge discolored birthmark looking scar on his face. Before Strawberry can goad Anthony into confessing that he is staring at his skin problem, Pedro gets him to embark on a search for some reefer. They leave Anthony at Strawberry's house and Anthony monkeys around with some Comet so that it appears to be cocaine. Party girls snort it up and raise hell. Strawberry has a Vietnam flashback and dons his combat gear, while Pedro warns Anthony of an impending bust by Sergeant Stedenko. No sooner do our heroes escape from the cops a second time than they are caught in a raid organized by INS agents and bussed back across the border. The catch is that the rest of the Mexicans deliberately informed on themselves so they could get a free ride to the border prior to a wedding.Pedro and Anthony go to an upholstery shop run by an uncle to acquire the means of getting back across the border. Predictably, they enter the wrong shop and find themselves in a massive pot smuggling enterprise. They are given a van to drive back to L.A., but what our protagonists don't realize is that they are driving a van constructed of fiberweed. Meaning, the dope smugglers have converted the THC resin found in marijuana in a fiberglass-like substance. Just when it looks like our heroes will be busted at the border, Anthony thumps a roach into a station wagon full of Catholic sisters. The authorities allows our heroes to pass through, but they bust the sisters.Once they are back in L.A., Pedro and Anthony decide to compete in a battle of rock bands. They dress themselves in outlandish costumes and manage to sing a ridiculous song that turns the entire audience into a raving room of fans. The general idea here to keep our heroes off balance as they look for pot and Alder and company shun any political positions. No, this is not an imaginative comedy, but it marked not only their debut but the biggest depiction of a counter-culture duo that spawned a number of lesser films. "},{"Title":"The Start To Stoner Comedies","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Cheech and Chong meet up by chance on the highway somewhere in California. They go in search of some dope and are accidentally deported to Mexico where in their desperation to get home they agree to drive a van back to the States so they can get back in time for a gig they are due to play. Unaware of the properties from which the van is constructed they make their way back having acquired a couple of female hitch-hikers whilst all the time avoiding the cops whom they are not even aware are following them. Tonight I Decided To Give The Mother Of All Stoner Comedies A Go. This Is Not Just The Mother Of Stoner Comedies...Its The Father Of Dumb Comedies. I Loved Every Minute Of It...I Was Adimant Not To Turn The TV Off When Cheech & Chong Smoked Dog Crap That Came From A Dog That Ate Chong's Marjuana...I'm Laughing Now As I Type It Up.I Also Have Some Of Their Recordings Like Dave, Up In Smoke(I Was Familiar With The Movie Before Tonight), I Even Had Earache My Eye Which Is My Personal Favourite So I Didn't Mind Hearing It In This Film But I Would've Loved It Even More If After The End Credits The Sketch That Goes With Earache My Eye Would Play. I Also Loved The Fact That They Were So Dumb That They Had No Idea The Hard Hat Cops Were After Them. Overall If You Like Stoner Comedies In The Same Vein As The Kevin Smith Comedies Of...Well His Entire Career Than This Movie Is Definitely One To Buy. "}{"Title":"Where it all began...","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Richard Cheech Marin and Tommy Chong debuted their Mary-Jane fueled humor with Up In Smoke. While Reefer Madness was the first notable film to promote weed, it's this film that set the template for stoner films.Not really much of a plot here Pedro De Pacas (Marin) meets up with rich-kid Anthony Man Stoner (Chong) and find out they both like getting high. Their search for pot takes them all over Los Angeles and Tijuana in a wacky road-trip in a car unknowingly made out of grass.On their trip, they have to deal with Sgt. Sedenko (Stacy Keach), an over-zealous police officer trying to clean L.A. of druggies.The movie is filled with crazy situations drug-filled parties, performances at a punk rock contest and a trip through a upholstery factory that is just a front for drug trafficking. Crazy people, the kind you would expect in a film like this, are everywhere.Both Marin and Chong are very good in the film but Keach steals the show. He is an absolute hoot in this film and he comes off as the most interesting character in the film.It's still very entertaining to this day as a curiosity piece. Check it out.BTW, one of the ladies Pedro and Man picks up looks remarkably like Sharon Snow of NTV. "},{"Title":"The First & Best Cheech and Chong Movie","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Cheech and Chong were already insanely popular with their comedy record albums and were contracted to make a movie. Hoping to make the big score they go to Mexico and end up driving a van built entirely of Weed back across the border. Many reviewers have already commented on the classic stoner humor, and I won't add to that. If you get this movie get the DVD with the extended commentary. In it you find that they were on the cutting edge of the Punk Rock revolution. The battle of the bands features some of the earliest LA punk rock bands.My favorite gags. 1) Cheech and Chong get in their car, do a U - Turn, park on the other side of the street and get out.2) The Van Scene - This literally made the phrase If this vans rocking, don't come a-knocking part of our popular culture. Whats so amazing about this scene was that it wasn't even in the original script! The actress, who played Chongs girlfriend was telling the story of a roommate who was a screamer, while they were on lunch break outside of the battle of the bands show. Cheech and Chong said that sounds funny, lets film it. It just goes to show you that sometimes the best comedy can be the spontaneous type.Finally students of film comedy should rent this movie for an unusual reason. Watching this movie in 2010 is like a going into a time warp. This movie could never be made today, and I'm not referring to the drug humor. The pacing of the gags is so slow compared to today. It's weirdly funny when you watch and notice it like I did. Sadly most comedies today don't give their actors time to develop their gags. If you wan't a harmless (except for the drug humor) movie, buy this movie. It is the best of the Cheech and Chong movies "},{"Title":"Everybody must get stoned","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I added to my collection the Double Feature DVD with Up in Smoke and Still Smokin like two months ago but just last night I finally saw the first one so also last night was my very first encounter with Cheech and Chong and for sure won't be the last. So here Cheech Marin and Tommy Chong are Pedro and Anthony (his father call him Anthony yet in the credits Tommy Chong is just man) respectively and basically they will meet just by pure causality. We have the sort of introduction and we see a moment with each one, we see the first funny moment with Pedro pissing and on the other hand we have the classic situation of a guy who at the age of what 30 or something still lives with his parents, certainly the father is just tired of having his lazy son doing about nothing during the entire day. Both Pedro and Anthony are out with cars yet only Pedro will be able to continue driving, to continue looking for a lost babe or maybe babes but he will have only kind of a really big disappointment but after all there he meets who will be his best friend. Certainly these two have a lot in common but mainly two things will keep them together drugs and rock and roll. Is just amazing and hilarious the first joint they smoke together, Pedro was like I been smoking since always, I can smoke anything but the Led Zeppelin is something else, heavy s***, dog s***! And that s*** will give them some troubles and certainly we will laugh and laugh. Up in Smoke is one of those movies that are just so damn enjoyable since the very first second till the very last, essentially Pedro and Anthony are just looking out for some s*** but of course things will happen. The police play here a big role, they will be close to Pedro, Anthony and company and they deliver also a lot of fun. We have the police chief and three of his sons (is also a great show with this guys, of course the one who will suffer most is the chief, he even loses his dog that was the best cop he ever saw!), they are after those who are transporting a really big quantity of drug from Mexico to the US, they will be after two hippies with a van. And certainly we know who those hippies are, we know that the van they are driving would be a damn treasure for them but they don't know, actually they don't know a damn thing. Is really funny what Pedro's cousin (not sure is his cousin but sure is a relative) do to get a free ride to Tijuana, very funny and Pedro and Anthony will be in Mexico also and in THE van they will return to the US. At one point we know what will happen with the van if the police finds it, actually is not that different to what will happen with the van if Pedro and Anthony realize about the truth. By this time our dudes have company, finally the company of women and now they have another thing in mind the battle of the bands at the Roxy. And will be for a moment like a little Monterey or Woodstock, every single soul in the place was connected! Those like me who saw first the great Coen brothers film The Big Lebowski (that is my second favourite Coen bros film) certainly will remember it. Terrific fun with these two DUDES! "},{"Title":"You don't have to smoke to like this","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Okay going into this movie I had no idea what this was going to be. All I knew is it was a stoner movie. Little did I know this movie was going to be absolutely hilarious. Cheech and Chong are brilliant in their protrayals of stoners. Completely oblivious to their surroundings Cheech and Chong relax and smoke weed while the world unfold around them. This is movie contains brilliant lowbrow humor that you can laugh at completely sober. The weed jokes are there but they are not needed to keep this movie rolling. This movie unfolds itself while you watch Cheech and Chong try to have a good time. From the opening scenes where you learn about each character to the classic stage scene finale this movie will have u laughing all over. "},{"Title":"Weekend fun with Friends","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Possible spoilers. Chong When we get back to town,lets get serious about our music. Stacy Keach Harry you stupid, stupid man!!!This is the perfect movie to watch if you are having friends over for the weekend to watch TV. Mindless, silly fun with a joke for everyone.Cheech and Chong, searching for the perfect high, never realize that their van is made of pot, what irony. Good acting too from the supporting cast,especially the red headed stoner chick and Stacy Keach as the inept cop. This movie is the best one of the Cheech and Chong series of movies, it is a shame that the duo never made a really good picture after this one.  "},{"Title":"A true comedy classic","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie is excellent. It was the first Cheech & Chong film, which started a whole generation of wacky comedies and other films about pot. The films Half-Baked, How High, and many others would not exist today if it wasnt for this film. Cheech & Chong are two hippies who are looking to buy large amounts of marijuana so they drive to Tijuana, Mexico. They steal a truck there and drive back to L.A., not knowing that the truck they stole is made entirely out of pot. Many funny stuff happens on the way, including a hilarious seen when Cheech throws the end of his joint out of the car window and it then lands on the lap of a nun who was sitting in a car next to them. When the car is stopped on the border crossing by customs agents, the nuns are all arrested for drug possession. This movie is very funny. While it was boring at some parts, it was generally very funny and one of the best movies of the '70s that gave a clear view of the pot-loving hippie generation. SEE THIS FILM. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"....what?","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Man, I just saw this awesome flick, it,...uh...what was it called? ...man, I just saw it!...oh, I know, it had those two dudes in it, you know...those two dudes?...the one dude who's in that show with that other dude?...what's his name?... that dude that was in Miami Vice, yeah that dude! Man that was a great show, Miami Vice! How come it's not on anymore?...they always do that, take off the best shows, like, uh...what was that one show with those dudes that lived in that house...you know, one guy was rich, I think, and they had a car...that car was awesome! I saw it at a car show once but some dude gave me a hard time when I tried to sit in it...Magnum P.I.! That's the show! yeah, that show was awesome...I can't believe that dude wouldn't let me sit in the car, man, I wasn't gonna hurt it... "},{"Title":"The original stoner flick(I think)","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Throughout film history, there have been plenty of films involving the use or talk of marijuana.Because of marijuana, there have been plenty of hilarious films such as Harold & Kumar showing the misadventures of people who smoke it.I believe that Cheech and Chong's Up In Smoke, was the first film to portray the positive use of marijuana.There have been other movies beforehand such as the 1936 Reefer Madness.This is the first of a series of films which continued on into the 1980's.Before this film, they were comedians/musicians.Anyway, this movie is about two guys who try to smuggle a van made out of marijuana across the Mexican border while the narc cops led by Sgt Stedeko are hot on their trail.The duo gets into many misadventures during the film, while they must win the battle of the bands contest.Overall this is a great stoner film. "},{"Title":"Mellow Californian Gold","Date":"4 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I finally got to see the definitive stoner comedy, and I wasn't disappointed. No, sir. This 'un has it all, two dudes in a haze, some equally hazy babes, and the fuzz in hot pursuit. Generally, the use of recreational drugs is depicted in a warm, glowing sort of light. Unlike many movies of the same ilk that followed, there is a barrage of good jokes, excellent acting and dialogue (Hey, double bubble!), and real chemistry between the actors (modern movies of this genre would have all the same trimmings -- there'd be some dudes, some babes and the supersized comical joints, but would be just gimmicky and have none of the humour). Also the production is excellent, this movie was filmed on a surprisingly huge budget (for example, there is a brief but very elaborate scene which shows us how an entire car is made from -- weed, man!). The plot is very ambling but also very suited if you happen, for whatever reason, to have temporarily acquired an attention span of about five minutes. Warning, you will find yourself using the epithets dude and man a lot more often after watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Bye, Bye Lardass!","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Ah, yes. Cheech and Chong's film debut. Up In Smoke is something else.ReviewUp In Smoke stars our regular potheads that live life just relaxed. The movie starts off with some hilarious laughter and does not stop for a break. Cheech and Chong are going to Mexico with a van made out of pot. On the trail is the hard-nosed and very tough cop, Stg.Stedenko. This movie is filled not only with decent stoner humor, but is surprisingly intelligent. The plot is really good. This movie has actual depth to it. This is a stoner movie with some brains. Other times don't be afraid to leave your brain on autopilot. The comedy always works and never gets old. (One awesome scene is in a police station with C&C using the police radio.) Just so funny! The acting is quite good. C&C are normally hilarious. Stacy Keach is excellent as Stg.Stedenko. The best thing is that Cheech and Chong wrote this movie, proving that Cheech and Chong are not a couple of brain dead potheads. Up in Smoke is a funny and clever movie. Unlike stoner comedies of today, the humor here is not juvenile. This is the ONLY stoner comedy.The Last Word Excellent. "}{"Title":"I just hope you're not busy for about a month...","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I'm looking at the rating and it saddens me. I really believe this movie to be one of the greatest of all time. It seems to me now days that people are looking for great acting and challenging shots, but if a movie works it works. This movie has a classic feel to it. From the start to finish you are completely involved in this crazy ride. Even if you don't smoke or ever have you will still find the humor. And if you are to dumb to laugh well then you shouldn't be watching movies anyways.The team of Cheech & Chong will never been seen again, and I find that to be a great thing.COME ON ICE CREAM!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A stoner classic","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Of all the stoner films this is the best.Of all the Cheech and Chong films this is the best.Cheech and Chong never did top this film. Never even came close. This demented and hilarious film is best watched after, well, smoking something.The real star of the show however is Stacy Keach as an FBI agent who will stop at nothing to get his man or in this case men. He is the straight man of the film, yet ends up coming off the funniest.This film is well worth watching but really you need a taste for it.A brilliant nights viewing... "},{"Title":"Hey open up, it's Pedro!","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Everybody knows cheech and chong by now and they've smoked their way through several movies since the 70's. Cheech and Chong's Up in Smoke is definitely the best of the batch. It has really funny, subtle jokes and a lot of dope-based humour. If you go out and buy this movie do your self a favour and get the DVD. If you don't like the movie the deleted scenes (Roach Clips they are called) are worth the purchase all by itself. They definitely should have added the scenes with Stedenko & co. which they cut out of the movie, they were HILARIOUS!! Have you finished your homework harry? No, sir. The library only had books that were written in Spanish Well where do you think we ARE, Harry?!? ......Spain? "},{"Title":"doesn't get any better","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" this movie is the most popular stoner comedy of all time for a reason, and that is the chemistry between cheech marin and tommy chong on the screen.now i know they don't get along so well nowadays, but it is still great to see them back in their prime when they were one of the best comedy duos of all time.if you're an extremely straightedge person, this movie might not be for you, as there is a lot of drug use (obviously) and some nudity. but if you have an open mind and don't mind R rated films, you can't miss with Up in Smoke, even if you've seen it before.i'm thinking about renting it again right now. "},{"Title":"low budget, great film","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This legendary film is possibly the best stoners film ever made. Most brilliant is the fact that it is clearly a low cost film, and these guys managed to make a cult out of it, both for stoners and for normal people. Even though there's not much of a story or plot behind it, the film is hilarious from the very fist scene. With absurd characters, exaggerated stereotypes, and clever quotes you will certainly laugh 'till you're out of breath. PS NOT Recommended if you're a defender of the no drugs morality and/or if you are someone who always expects to get a message out of films. PS#2 definitively NOT Recommended to bring in your parents, your children or a prospect to watch it together, hahhaha "},{"Title":"Quite a funny piece","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Those bogus adventures of these two hippies are quite funny and relaxing to see, and it surely reminds me of summer days with nice music and just the vibe of being free. There is no famous actors here, just the purity of  a good vibe with a good message despite the regular story of some evil guys being chased by those foolish cops.It feels sort of sometimes that this movie is made by some hippies, since they don't really make it anti-marijuana propaganda but still they don't promote legalization, they just make fun of everything, cops, drugs, everything! I like it that way, more chilled and relaxed vibe please!See this, it surely gave me a smile upon my lips anyways. I just got to see the other two movies in the trilogy to feel complete! "},{"Title":"some funny s**t","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  although  many parts of this movie were kind of slow and not that funny, it was one of those were if 95 % isnt funny, the other 5 percent is worth sitting through all of it. I think that the car scene, especially if you see it for the first time, is one of the funniest scenes ever created. the first time i saw it, i was high and laughing so hard i thought i was gonna burst and had to wipe away the tears from my eyes, but also let me clear up some misconceptions among the weed naive crowd, first of all its impossible to smoke a joint that big and finish it, even the biggest potheads, those 2 included, would take a few hits and pass out, that much weed, looks like about an ounce, , is very expensive, up to $300 in some places,  and can last you for months even smoking every day, nobody would put it in a joint, which wastes weed rapidly, and waste it all at once,   and also its not cool to drive high, ive done it too many times, stupidly,  and its not fun, i havent done a bit of laughing, only constant fear of a dwi stop and hoping the whole time there are no cops between you and home, the fear of driving stoned and passing a cop set up right there, its happened to me (going 20 over the speed limit) and its scary as hell, is something you dont want to go through. but since this is a comedy that isnt supposed to have a reality base, know the facts, please, but hold them aside for when you stop laughing.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is the best film I have ever seen and one of the funniest, but to appreciate it you have to like that sort of film, If you liked it you might also like the film Twin Town it's based In Swansea South Wales and it's about a set of twins who are not really Twins and a couple of dodgy coppers!! "},{"Title":"The best Cheech and Chong movie yet!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Even though Cheech and Chong have made over 10 films together, I still think that there first film, Up In Smoke, is their best. Directed by Lou Adler and written by Cheech and Chong, there is no way that anyone will be displeased with this classic. The constant use of drugs is very prominent in this film and that is what makes it so funny. What's especially funny is when Chong lights up his giant joint and smokes it with Cheech. The film really gets good when Cheech and Chong get a van made out of pot to drive back to the States when they accidentally get deported. The film gets better and better, and I guarantee that if you rent it, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Timeless, perfectly-executed comedy; soundtrack rivaling 'American Graffiti'.","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Of all the movies I own, few withstand watching several times a week. After 30 years, this one does. It's like a 'favorite album' you can always play and enjoy no matter how many times you've heard it.Not that Cheech & Chong are timeless on their own--their other stuff wears pretty thin, if you could sit through it the second time. Not that Adler's stuff is timeless on its own--the oldies station still plays 'Monday, Monday', but do you? But the triumvirate manages to strike a synergy here that's often sought and seldom achieved.Who knows? Maybe the magic was the editor's or the casting director's or the sound editor's. Or the hairstylist's. The soundtrack romps--secure loose objects and crank your subwoofers. Like 'American Graffiti', it doesn't grind through entire oldies, it plays hooks from them as transitions. Unlike 'AG', the 'Up In Smoke' track is half original material--some Rasta riffs, some covers like The Coasters' 'Searchin' (who knew it was a drug song in 1956?), and one verse each of 3 original 70s LA proto-punk groups in live performance. Oh, and Cheech's inimitable butchering of some rock standards lyrics (guacamole in my chooz).A few strong, fairly-recognizable supporting character actors appear briefly (Strother Martin, Tom Skerritt). A host of unknowns, relatives, acquaintances, and aspiring nobodies rounds out the cast. The 'nobody' characters in '-Smoke' are a lot more memorable than Harrison Ford was in '-Graffiti', and as transparently convincing in their roles as a Dustin Hoffman or a Meryl Streep would be.The locations are real southern California--you can almost smell the smog despite the fog of burning recreational flora. The timing of both the performances and post-production is flawless.If you're morally or ethically offended by depictions of contraband consumption, stick to the features that have rides named after them at Disney Whirl. If you have memories of the early 70s, wish you were there, or kinda forgot that you were, 'Up in Smoke' will evoke a simpler time when the clouds had cannabis linings. Porque all of the time get hi kine. "}{"Title":"This Movie still makes me laugh...almost 3 decades later!","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This was the 1st rated R movie I got to see without an adult present back in the 1970's. The funny thing was this was my first exposure to the whole Drug Culture (late bloomer).And it was my first exposure to the Rock Scene that was happening in California at that time (I was living in Chicago). I am in my late 30's, and I am forever cursed/blessed with their brand of slapstick humor!!! I am a Rocker/Musician and wish to be as crazy as these guys(minus the Drugs) however, I would like to keep my brain cells still intact! CHEECH & CHONG are a part of American cinema history. And I am glad to be a part of their legion of devoted fans. I may not party anymore but, I have not lost that amazing sense of humor!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great Classic Film","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Viewed this film years ago and never forgot the great acting and comedy scenes between Cheech Marin,(Pedro) and Tommy Chang,(Anthony). Anthony is a rich kid who simply will not go to work or conform to anything his parents want him to accomplish in life. His dad tells him to get a job or else he is on his very own. Cheech manages to pick Anthony up along a highway and is even carrying his complete set of drums. There is one scene when a gal drives me crazy with laughter, when she sniffs up AJAX like the real Stuff and makes wild faces and tongue expressions you have never seen before. This is a film you need to see over and over again, it is great entertainment and a true Hollywood Classic. "},{"Title":"Low Rider","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Whether deliberate or the product of budget constraints, the resulting episodic, disjointed structure nicely reflects the stoned experience. Put some ice in your bong, pack some munchies and join this low ride! A not-so-random thought these days, the MPAA will bump up the rating to R for any innocuous recreational drug use. Consequently, your average PG-13 comic duo such as Carrey and Daniels in Dumb and Dumber is genetically, not pharmaceutically mentally handicapped. Or maybe our parents are right the generations are just successively dumbing down. I mean, look whom we chose for President. At least Cheech and Chong's idiocy was excused by rampant toking. "},{"Title":"Hilarious MAN!!!!","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Pedro Man, what kinda s--t is this man, I ain't never smoked no s--t like that before man!  Man Stoner Well, it's supposed to be Maui Waui, but it's mostly Labrador.  Pedro Labrador? What the hell is Labrador?  Man Stoner I left my stash on the table man, and the little f--ker ate it man. I had to follow him around with a pooper scooper for a week man. Pedro You mean we're smokin' dog s--t, man? Hee hee! I wonder what Great Dane tastes like?--------------------------------hEY Man those LABradorS are AWESOME! jUST as G00d as THAT Cheech & Chong movie UP in SMOKE!!!! THAT movie is HILARIOUS MAN! that cheech and chong CRACK ME UP so much! gotta cheCK out that MOVIE MAN! it's some crazy s--t!****4 out of 4 StArS****  "},{"Title":"Still the most superb *and funny* drug film ever","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" You notice how Ebert has his great movies section in his site, well if I was to have a section like that, this would be the first film to put in it (among a couple of dozen though, so don't be nervous). While of course there are other great drug films Traffic (which deserved best picture), Boogie Nights, GoodFellas (which even though is my #1 is in many other genres), Half Baked, Blow, and any other Cheech and Chong movie other than The Corsican Brothers. But this one gets on the top of my list by just telling it straight. While of course some is exaggerated for comedy, C& C represent the average Joe who wants some dope and has trouble usually getting it around town (unlike say Half Baked, which was a little unrealistic in that they were hallucinating and always getting pot.Richard Cheech Marin and Thomas Tommy Chong in the 70's made many funny albums, and this was they're first movie. And within the first 15 minutes of the movie is classic comedy cinema, truly a contender with such moments as the Woody Allen Gub or the Springtime for Hitler scene in The Producers. In these minutes, the two (Cheech playing his character Pedro and Chong playing his character Man Stoner from the famous albums) meet by a hitch-hiking feat and when Chong pulls out a monster joint and the two smoke it (followed by Cheech eating so much acid he would be out for a month), the two become best friends. The following then in the movie contains various segments of how they try and get grass from a crazed Vietnam Vet, in Mexico, and other places. Along the way they are hunted by a police sergeant (Stacy Keach, who would give one of the 80's best comedic performances in Nice Dreams), and get mixed up in a punk band. And don't forget the Ajax lady who makes Martini in Cukoo's nest look normal. Overall, the film is a triumph of the American comedy, but it also has some deep meaning (some you might only be able to find when you start to light up, but hey). The 70's were a time when people were snorting coke, going to discos, getting the Aids, etc. But what a change of pace to see 2 goofy yet very optimistic guys going about as they probably would in real life in that time getting grass and playing music. One of the most outstanding 70's films and comedies. A+ "},{"Title":"Stonertasitc","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Potheads rejoice! This is a funny as hell movie full of stoner's, pot jokes and awesomeness. I love the dope van (a van made of dope!). Funny. I may just quote some dialog. I didn't know your name was Alex! My dog ate my stash! Its got Labrador in it! Funny stuff. If you do drugs you'll definitely love this film, if not you'll still love it. It's actually pretty well made! Low Budget classic and a movie you'll love if you have a sense of humor. A definite watch and a great way to spend your time laughing at those two legends, Tommy Chong and Cheech Marin.8/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoy this laugh a minute with the minute brains of the hippie dippy sub-culture.","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Based on the Alter Egos of Cheech Marin and Tommy Chong, who started out as a double act during the sixties, and continuing through to the late seventies. Cheech, the son of a Los Angeles Police Officer, was born in 1946 L.A., during his education he graduated at the California State University Northridge. Tommy Chong was born in 1938 Canada, before entering into his Chong Persona; he was a songwriter and guitar player for the Motown Label. By the mid 1980's he became an American citizen, even to the extent, in September 2003, of serving nine months in a State Prison, for distributing drug paraphernalia. It seemed he was made an example, as others were only given just fines and some ordered with Home Detentions. Up In Smoke is a highly funny movie, with Cheech Marin playing the poor Latin American and with Tommy Chong, as the Upper Middle Class self-inflicted drug addict. The plot is simple, one druggie meets, by accident, a Latin American, it is the antics of both as they search for a score of Grass. In the mean time, both get a job of transporting a van from over the Mexican border to the USA, which is made completely out of marijuana. Their inability to realise this, as they continue still, to try to score, is what makes this an observation of blind stupidity and dazed intelligence, if there were any to begin with. Were these guys intelligent before their little vice became habit? I doubt it.The third main character in Up In Smoke is played by Stacy Keach, as Sgt. Stedenko, the incompetent and highly-strung Narcotics Officer, waiting for his big break. With great contempt for the Law, Up In Smoke does its very best, and succeeds, to ridicule and embarrass the Authorities. Being a movie targeted for the Underground Drug Culture, Up In Smoke was bound to have a certain success. This movie, if it were to make it Mainstream, would only be by word of mouth. As someone who heard about this movie by word of mouth, and expecting a basic losers and work-shy layabout druggies movie, this turned out to be something more, something fantastically funny and so over the top, that it makes Up In Smoke open to all audiences. You may have watched the movie, but it does not mean you have to play the part. Up In Smoke is a movie to warn us all, in the usual inept way that is the Cheech and Chong style, as to why they call it dope. Watch, and have your sides spilt, you won't regret it, and at least it's legal. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Uneven but good.","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is a movie that's really uneven. Some parts are so funny that they will make you laugh out loud while others are just dull.Anyway the good parts are often so funny that they make up for the errors and the actors are really entertaining to watch.Oddly enough, this movie is actually banned here in Finland. A bit sad because it's a good movie.Rent it! "},{"Title":"I love Cheech & Chong","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is a really great movie, but it's not their best one.  Their best movie is Next Movie.  Though most of this material has been covered on their earlier albums, it is put together in such a way that it seems fresher than that.  How classic is it that they are searching fer weed while they are driving around in a van made of it? "},{"Title":"You've never seen Up in Smoke??? What are you doing here, go get it!!!","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The drug culture comedy, period. Even people who might not get into gratuitous drug films (such as some of C&C's later work) should find Up in Smoke a hilarious watch. Not exactly the most subtle film ever, though. "}{"Title":"I love this Movie.","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I still think this movie is great! and NO I am not a POT HEAD! Cheech Marin is my favorite actor. Plus he's into Chicano Art! YOU SHOULD LOVE THIS MOVIE TOO. WATCH! THIS! MOVIE! OR BUY! THIS!  MOVIE! A! S! A! P! "},{"Title":"A ten out of ten!","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The first eleven minutes of this movie must be the funniest in the history of comedy. I don't know if I've ever seen anything funnier in my entire life! Evertime I watch it, I laugh so hard that I think I will puke and die. Uh, but in a GOOD way. "},{"Title":"Mama talking' to me try to tell me how to live...","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Hands down, Up In Smoke is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen and by far is my favorite of the Cheech and Chong series. I think these guys were probably the best improv comedic duo that I'd ever seen. And if you're into weed-sploitation, this is going to be some funny sh!t.Up In Smoke is the first of the Cheech and Chong films. Here you got Pedro and uh...they never really say Chong's name. They're two pups scouting some hash, but the city is dried up. On a quest to load up, they find out about a battle of the bands and Cheech has the grand idea to enter their Mariachi band in this punk show. Meanwhile, a couple of Narcs are trying to track down Cheech and Chong, who couldn't be more oblivious. It doesn't help either that the cops are nothing but a bunch of fumbling morons. These are good times. If this wasn't Stacey Keach (he plays the police seargant) at his best, well I don't know what is. Just watch the scene where he and his partners spot Cheech and Chong in the green truck made of weed, and in an attempt to stop them, one of the cops shoots out his own tires instead of aiming for their target. And Keach says, to think of all the money and time I've wasted on your training.Not only were they fantastic comedians, but they were pretty damned good musicians, and contribute nearly all of the music on the soundtrack. My favorite is the I Was Framed and the finale performance of Momma Talking To Me Trying To Tell Me How To Live performed by Cheech in a pink tutu and Mickey ears (hey, he's competing in a punk show, what'dya expect?)These films have definitely produced a cult classic. And if you haven't seen them, what the hell are you waiting for? "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This movie is one of the funniest, coolest movie about drugs and stoner's i've seen..!! i recommend this to any stoner . All of the Cheech and Chong movies are great ... When i saw this movie i was completely high and i could not stop laughing and i have to stop the movie 4 times !! i saw a hour and a half movie in 4 hours!well i don't have anything to add my comment , only this  WATCH THE MOVIE!!!! IT'S GREAT............ .............. ................ ............. ............. ............... .............. ............. ........ ............ ........... ............ ............ ......... ........... ........ ........ ... ........ "},{"Title":"The grand daddy of all stoner movies","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" You know How High, Friday, Half Baked and all those other stoner flicks that are out there? Well Cheech & Chong are to stoners what Jimi Hendrix is for Rock, this is what I know of the first stoner movie ever, and it's really great. These guys are so stupid that you not only laugh because of the dialogue or the jokes or the plot or whatever, you laugh when these two just move or let out a sound because they sound and look high all the time even their facial expressions are that funny, the acting is just so good. They really move and sound like stoners, and it's funny as hell! You should really check it out even if you don't like stoner flicks, it's funny as hell! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films i've ever seen!!!!!","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" If you like Jay and Silent Bob, you have to watch this film. Cheech and Chong are the blue print for most modern American comedy duo films from the awful Dude Wheres My Car, Harold and Kumar Get the Munchies, the Jay and Silent Bob films and even Bill and Ted. But there's something different about the Cheech and Chong films esp Up in Smoke, they're miles ahead of their modern day counterparts in terms of both the ridiculousness and unbridled comedy genius. Only Kevin Smith (Silent Bob) is capable of writing more clever films as demonstrated by Dogma.If you think stoner jokes are even remotely funny then you have to see this film, it is the bible of stoner films!! Then you can watch these two crazy geniuses on their wacky adventure that they are only vaguely aware is happening! "},{"Title":"Very well done movie","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is Cheech and Chongs first movie where they both drive across the Mexican border with a van completely made out of marijuana! This film has a lot of good jokes in it, that is slightly above the normal Cheech and Chong films. rated R "},{"Title":"Mindless, harmless, slapstick fun","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Cheech and Chong's humor and onscreen goofiness may be compared to the manic, ranting antics present in Ace Ventura Pet Detective.  The difference here, however, is that it is an endearing goofiness and not an annoying one.Cheech and Chong bumble their way through this film with a plot that is almost non-existent the dimwitted duo are simply looking for the best possible pot/high of their lives.  Not much more can be said, except that laughter ensues, ending with some the most bizarre and inane concert and costumes.It's not Shakespeare, but thankfully it's not Ace either.6 out of 10    "},{"Title":"This is a funny film about a couple of drop-outs in the late 70s who become acquainted on the road. Their common interest is smoking marijuana and taunting the law.","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This film is funny from one end to the other, even if one is not a smoker. Chong is a hopeless drop-out who wants nothing to do with convention. He poses in drag (the top half) hitchhiking on the highway. Cheech sees him (her) and turns around and picks him up before he realizes that Chong is not a female. This sets up the film and away it goes. Each scene is funny. The one with Strawberry (Tom Skerritt) is especially funny. Of course, all these scenes are virtually implausible, but that makes them funny. Stacy Keach and his crew of officers are totally incompetent, but funny. The final scene at the Roxbury doesn't follow the genre of the movie, but it is nevertheless funny. I agree with others that there is no plot, but then who cares in a movie of this ilk? "},{"Title":"I feel guilty for enjoying this MAN!!!","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I would not like to praise a movie that encourages the use of drugs. I don't want to praise a movie that starts and ends with vulgar humour. But Up In Smoke is so bloody funny! There were several scenes that had me roaring with laughter.There is absolutely no plot so please go ahead and ignore the plot summary you may have seen on IMDb. This film is about two stoners who say Man 250 times in the movie and whose sole aim in life is to get high.This is the first and as I understand the best of the Cheech and Chong movies. At various moments while enjoying the film, I was reminded of This Is Spinal Tap and The Big Lebowski, both of which I'm sure got some inspiration from this movie.You know, I wish I could bad-mouth the juvenile humour of this film but I really did find it funny against my better judgement. "}{"Title":"I was laughing and I wasn't even high.","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" If there's one thing I know about movies like this, it's that ANYONE can like them.When I saw this movie first hand, I was cracking up before I even knew what was going on... that's the beauty of this movie.I saw this when I was 14 and I had to take several breaks to calm down from laughing so hard... especially from this line Strawberry... aw man, he's on another of his 'nam trips! This is truly the ultimate stoner movie! You'll like it even if you're not high... take it from me.10/10 "},{"Title":"Capturing the zeitgeist of the 70's before it went 'Up in Smoke'.","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Warning RANT UPCOMINGConsidering that Cheech & Chong will more than likely never be mentioned in the same breath along side the greatest film comedy duo's of the past 100 years, or that any of their films, let alone the one film considered by many (their fans) to be their best, 'Up In Smoke', will ever make it onto a proper list of the greatest comedies (unless of course its for the greatest 'pot' movies of all time), it should be noted that Cheech & Chong, as popular as they and their movies were, missed a golden opportunity to make it into the world of film earlier in their career while the timing for their brand of humor was ripe. During this ripened time Cheech & Chong were riding a huge wave of success on the strength of their many popular albums released on Warner Brothers Records. Their records still hold up very well to this day. You can hear bits from their records recycled into their movies; in fact the best bit in 'Up In Smoke' (Earache My Eye) comes directly from one of these great records. The thing is, this should've been the time for Cheech & Chong to be making great films, not just records.When I think back to the FM rock radio play lists of the early 1970's, I can remember hearing in between the rock blocks of Zeppelin, Floyd and the Stones, the comedy bits of Cheech & Chong. Their popularity among the impressionable rock youth was staggering. They were to the youth of the 70's what Beavis and Butthead were to the youth of the mid 90's. The difference being that Beavis and Butthead made a movie while their popularity was rising. If you could hypothetically start Cheech and Chong's film career in 1972 instead of 1978, you may have still seen them take their nosedive in the early 80's, but I think you would've also seen them hit their mark with a lot more impact during the mid 70's while they were still relevant. Mind you, this hypothesis doesn't take away from whatever brownie points 'Up In Smoke' merits; it's just that this film was released as their partnership was at their highest (no pun) point going down rather than when they were ascending the ladder of success. Although 'Up In Smoke' is largely considered to be their best film, it still comes off to me as nothing more than 90 minutes of material culled from 8 years of overnight success. By the time Cheech & Chong released 'Next Movie' one could sense that their humor was already starting to stale as it passed into a new decade. The transition from the drug culture of the turbulent 60's and 70's was turning into the 'Just Say No' moral America of the 80's. Cheech & Chong were fast on their way to becoming comedic dinosaurs. It's too bad they didn't start the film career a little sooner.NEW WARNING FOR C&C FANS Rant is overAfter viewing 'Up In Smoke' recently I came away from it shaking my head in wonder, why did I find this movie to be so funny back when I was a teenager? Was it because the humor seemed subversive to my teenage head? Was it their non-conventional lifestyle? Back then I thought the judge getting busted for drinking Vodka was hilarious. Today, I think the bit is extremely lame. A woman snorting Ajax and making a face had me giggling like the young boy I was back in the day, but today it hardly registers a chuckle. I smiled during the 'Lardass' scene because I remembered that my friends and I repeated that line ad nauseam while coming out of the theater back in the 70's, not because I thought it was funny now.However, what I did find most amusing in 'Up In Smoke' are the many moments of chaos provided by their supporting cast. Seeing and hearing Strother Martin in fourth gear is always a treat, no matter if it's 'Cool Hand Luke' or 'Up In Smoke', Strother Martin always gives a unique and memorable performance. Strother and Edie Adams do what they can for the short time they have together in the film. Besides the 'Earache My Eye' battle of the bands part, the funniest part, at least the part the held up the best to me was the 'F*ck me Alex' part. Although that was another favorite for my friends and I at the time, I still laughed at that scene almost 30 years later. This film is the best example of what Cheech & Chong were able to do in Hollywood at that time. Personally, I think things could've worked out better had they started some years earlier. Ultimately, I think 'Up In Smoke' is a film riddled with a few hits amongst a ton of misses. However, the hits will grow in number depending on how many hits you bring into the mix.Only because I loved it so as a teenager&#133; 7/10. Clark Richards "},{"Title":"Hey, Man!","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This was an appropriate movie for the 1970s where long hair, drugs, wild clothing, war protests and just all-around rebellion against authority was the cool thing to do, although that's been a part of society since Adam and Eve. In this film, we have the famous Hippie brothers of the era Cheech Marin and Tommy Chong (Cheech and Chong, as they were known back then) with a story strictly about getting stoned.Actually, there are some very funny scenes in here, such as these two clowns smoking the huge, huge joint while driving down the road. Then, we see the car almost white with smoke and the two guys so stoned they don't realize they are parked. That, and a couple of other scenes were funny but overall it's predictable in the negative aspects language (Strother Martin uses the Lord's name in vain four times in the opening minute of the film); sleazy sex and nudity (I think gratuitous is the word) and the general irreverence of the period ('60s and '70s counterculture).And...oh, yeah, the two boys finish every sentence with the word man. Well, all I can say is the film had it's day, man, but is a bit dated by now, man! "},{"Title":"Mediocre effort.","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" SHADOWCHASER REVIEWS UP IN SMOKE Capsule synopsis Two dope-heads attempt to smuggle a van constructed entirely of marijuana across the US/Mexico border, with an obsessed narc in hot pursuit. This cinematic debut from Cheech and Chong is considered by many to be the definitive stoner film. It is not exactly an enjoyable film, as many of the jokes center on drug taking. The pacing is very slow and the jokes are badly timed. Stacy Keach gives what is by far the best performance in the film. Lou Adler does not appear to know much about directing, no wonder that he was replaced by Thomas Chong for the next few films.The Verdict Only for Cheech and Chong fans and dope-heads. "}]