[{"Title":"an important and neglected film","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"92 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I was nine years old when I first saw 'Breaking Away', and I think the book adaptation may have been the first more-or-less novel-length thing I ever read. My wild enthusiasm after leaving the theatre was similar at the time to my previous reaction to 'Star Wars', a fact that I attribute to the natural electrical charge of the endings of both films.Of course, a nine-year-old lacks the world experience to empirically understand the central messages of this film, and at the time my primary devotion to it was centered around Dave Stoller's orange Masi racing bike, a thing that I coveted with the passions of a kid on Christmas Eve.The movie made me mad with bicycle lust, and I frowned on every Huffy I saw at school. I used to draw pictures of Masi, Bianchi and Olmo bikes all the time after seeing this, and I shamelessly begged my parents for an Italian-made, Campagnolo-equipped racer - a futile thing to do, as my parents knew not to purchase something that expensive for a boy who would physically out-grow a pair of Levis within a school year. Ultimately, I was propelled into the worship of Eddy Merckx while all my classmates were digging into their Terry Bradshaw Topps cards, unaware - as I'm positive they still are - of who the hell Eddy Merckx even is.BUT...'Breaking Away' is not just a bicycle film - not by a long-shot, and I knew it then too, but that just wasn't very important to me at a time when bicycles were all-important.Despite my youthful energies, I never did pursue bicycle racing,(although I am definitely a touring enthusiast whose passion for Italian-made bicycles has finally seen fruition) but 'Breaking Away' never left me. It was the REST of the film that eventually got to me - and somewhat later in life - when my emotions and experiences with the world ran deeper.In short, this film explores many strands the aimlessness of youth colliding with the responsibilities of adulthood; the often heartbreaking romantic fantasies of people who wish they could be something else; lying and cheating and the false nature of gains made through them; the importance of strong family relations and friendships; and life in small-town America - and it does all this with extraordinary craft, honesty and sensitivity. It's beautiful, and more importantly, it is soulful and original. Although certainly dated in appearance, I'll even toss in the cliche that it is *timeless*, because the themes and characters are so.The characters themselves are all wonderfully brought out by the  perfect casting - it's been said here, but the fact that Dennis Christopher never achieved star-status is truly a shame and a waste of a potentially amazing talent. He played the lead role with a believable intensity and a really quite perfect understanding of his character. Dave Stoller's painful self-realization after the Cinzano race was as memorable a job of acting as I can think of. Paul Dooley and Barbara Barry were also wonderful, as were Quaid, Stern and Haley - every one of them created a personality for their characters, both in dialogue and physical reaction. The rest of the cast was likewise fine, each actor doing the best they could with what were sometimes stock roles (the college kids, for example, including Robyn Douglas, the female romantic role)The direction, story and, most especially, the dialogue were great as well.I also picked up a love of Mendelssohn and Rossini when I was just a kid after seeing this - the film score was superb, all the while taking the Stanley Kubrick/Woody Allen approach by choosing some choice compositions of a time long past, rather than belabor the audience with the refried horrors so typical of modern film-score composition.I hope this movie doesn't become a relic - it seems its own sleeper status has kept it shelved over the years. Mention it to just about any American born before 1975, and they'll know what it is, but only in the way I did when I was nine they'll usually say something like, oh yeah, the bicycle film! I remember that one, and then they'll likely have little else to say about it, which is a shame. I still whole-heartedly place this movie among my very favorites every time, and I trumpet it whenever I get into discussions with other people about the movies I love. "},{"Title":"Getting it figured out is like a bicycle race","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"65 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  In a bicycle race, breaking away describes the often-desperate solo move a rider makes in a bid to win the race.  Most riders are bunched together for shared protection against the wind, and to keep an eye on their rivals--a group is always more efficient than an individual.  But in moments of confusion, a single rider might just get a jump on the group and, with superhuman effort, beat the odds against going it alone and emerge victorious. In Breaking Away we follow the exploits of four misfits just out of high school who contentedly contemplate a future as dead-enders.  They aren't particularly smart, athletic, or good-looking, and they lack any sense of direction in their lives.  Moreover, as townies, or cutters in a college town, they wear a spell of invisibility in their dealings with the students--the differences are painfully obvious.  When they hang out on campus or lamely try to chat up the co-eds, they might as well be ghosts haunting a town they used to inhabit.  Something happened when they graduated from high school and didn't go on to college  they became cutters, no better than servants, in their own confused eyes.   When we meet Dave Stoller (Dennis Christopher) we think, here's a guy who might be able to break out of his own rut.  He seems to be a kid with a little more on the ball than the others.  But then we see that he's also the most confused--by far.  Dave is wrapped up in a fantasy world where he's an Italian bike racer, a champion of a sport virtually unknown in America at the time.  That Dave's charming misfits of friends take him and his delusions in stride shows us the bond of their friendship and shared misery, and just how far off the map they've all slid.After a chance encounter with a beautiful sorority girl (Robyn Douglass) Dave pretends to be an Italian exchange student in an effort to woo a girl he believes would otherwise be way out of his reach.  He draws on his obsessive knowledge of Italian culture and his own quirky charm to fool the girl into seeing him as someone fresh and new, an outsider, but not a misfit.  The romance seems to be going somewhere, and Dave feels he's finally breaking away.While Dave is conducting his fraudulent personal life he also has an opportunity to race with the Italian bike racers he had worshiped from afar.  It's his chance to get recognition from the masters of the sport.  He may not have much going as a cutter, but he's certain the Italians will see his racing ability and welcome him as one of their own.  But when he shows that he can keep up with them in the race, naively hoping for their approval, they throw him into a ditch.  Dave's fantasy world comes crashing down.When Dave realizes that the Italians will fight to protect their turf just as much as the Americans he resents, his first reaction is to give up--everybody cheats he says resignedly.  And he rejects the friends who had looked to him for something more--his three chums and their own struggles, and the sorority girl, who had seen in him something special.Only Dave can save Dave, but it is his father's hard words that prompt him into action.  To Dave and his friends, a cutter is someone who doesn't measure up to the college kids who are going somewhere in their lives.  They affect being misfits because a misfit is one rung on the ladder above how they see themselves, which is as losers.  But Dave's father points out that cutters were the original stonecutters who built the grand buildings on the campus.  They may not be college-educated, Dave's father says, but to them cutter is a badge of honor for the hard-working men who built something real out of the flat earth.  Dave will never be a cutter, he says, meaning a man of accomplishment, unless he finds something equally real to do with his own life.The Indiana Little 500 is a bike race the university holds that is taken very seriously by the groups that participate.  At the time, it was the largest race in America, and fraternities counted some of the best American bike racers on their squads.  But to Dave and his friends who are invited to race, it is a chance to prove to the students (and themselves) that their lives so far weren't just wasted time.Yes, Dave is a gifted bike racer, but we already knew that.  But the Little 500 (and life) requires that one rely upon not just inner strength, but the creative use of the strengths of others.  It is a team race.  What Dave learns when testing himself against these college students that he never felt would give him the time of day, is that the biggest obstacle to his own success was himself.  Breaking Away  is a rich visual tapestry of life lived outside the spotlight.  The characters are not fancy or sophisticated, and their life goals are simple and well within reach.  It is themselves they struggle with, and their perceptions of themselves.  Breaking Away is the story of kids who had let their own self-image degrade to the point that a fantasy world, and a life of bitter resentment, seemed like their best option.      "},{"Title":"A film to treasure!!!","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"48 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Breaking Away is a picture that is better than the sum of its parts.  Oh, its parts are wonderful.  The writing is sharp, observant, and funny (It won an Oscar!), the acting is superb (how Paul Dooley was nixed a nomination never mind the award I'll never know), and it is a well shot film.  But its charms go even deeper.  It is the story of four young men in their late teens, who are staring adulthood in the face after a year of leisure in the small town of Bloomington, Indiana, and how they deal with watching successful college kids pass them by.  It is also about a young man in search of an identity (including that of a Italian bicycle racer), and of a family that is loving and supportive, almost in spite of itself.  All these add up to a richly enjoyable, deeply moving family picture that gives us many moments to treasure (a large number include Paul Dooley as the frustrated and confused, but eventually loving father).  Like other sports movies (the lead character races bicycles), it has a contest at the end, and like many much poorer ones, it ends with triumph.  But we cheer not only for these immensely likeable cutters, but for ourselves, for being treated to this bittersweet, touching, and wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Charming Sleeper","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"44 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I went to see this movie when it first came out.  We had decided to go to a double feature of two movies that we had never heard of, knowing that in that day and age, a double feature meant that at least one, if not both movies, had to be pretty awful.  The first film was Starting Over with Burt Reynolds, and it was fairly good.  So my friends were sure that the other would have to be terrible, but we had nothing better to do, so I convinced them to stay.  Before three lines of dialogue I was absolutely hooked.  I have seen it at least twenty times and the witty dialogue and rapport of the characters gets me every time.  The music accents the film beautifully. The cinematography is gorgeous.  But the story is what really matters. Four guys finding there way in a place where they feel little hope for the future, one a dreamer whose dreams are crushed, but he finds the spirit to pick up and start dreaming again.  Delightful all the way around.  "},{"Title":"Sweet but not saccharine","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This film was a pleasant surprise.  No sex, no violence, no special effects.  Just an incredibly literate and humorous script (which won an Oscar for Steve Tesich) and fantastic performances by the four leads.  This is a film for those who still believe that good cinema requires meaningful dialogue and acting that is achingly real in its sincerity.  Don't get me wrong sex and violence have a very real and justifiable place in film; but this movie would have suffered from such a gratuitous inclusion.  Peter Yates, the director, has done a fantastic job of pacing the film, and the score, consisting mostly of Rossini overtures, and excerpts from Mendelssohn's Italian Symphony (#4 in A Major, Op. 90), is an inspired touch, adding precisely the right atmosphere.  This is the kind of low-budget triumph that the film community constantly extols for P.R. purposes, yet never supports with actual awards. "},{"Title":"Captures a Moment","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Do you remember that time in your life when you were no longer a teenager but not yet an adult? That time in your life when, for the very first time, you had to begin to make decisions that could affect the outcome of your life. There is no movie that captures this time, the transition from teenager to adulthood, quite as well as Peter Yates' superb film Breaking Away.The story takes place in Bloomington, Indiana,  (home to Indiana University) one of the bigger college towns in America. It concerns the rivalry between the rich, snobbish college kids and the local townies (called cutters because there fathers cut limestone in the local quarries to build the college, among other things.) The cutters are played superbly by Dennis Christopher, Dennis Quaid, Daniel Stern and Jackie Earle Haley. There is not a false note in any of their performances with Quaid and Christopher special stand-outs. It is interesting to note that of the four, only Quaid and Stern went on to bigger and better things.What really carries this movie though, are the universal themes that everyone can relate to. We can all relate to at least one of the stars, everyone has gone through what they are going through. Most people realize it as one of the more difficult times in their life (as it is for the characters portrayed in the movie.) What carries them through is their friendship with one another, and the support that that gives them. The movie also touches upon family and how hard it is sometimes to communicate with parents, who always (hopefully) love but sometimes just don't understand. Special mention must be made of Paul Dooley (who plays the father of Dennis Christopher), how he did not receive an oscar nomination much less win the coveted statue, for his performance, remains a mystery to this day. Barbara Barrie is also excellent as the mother.The story follows the cutters as they try to prove to the college kids that they are real human beings, not outcasts to be looked down upon. As one of the cutters is a champion bike rider, the climax of the film and the contest to prove their worthiness, comes down to the Little 500 Bike Race. This is an annual bike race that is still held at IU and is one of the seminal sporting events of the college year (the screenwriter Steve Tesich, who won an oscar for his screenplay, actually won the Little 500). It is the perfect ending for this remarkable and uplifting film.Praise must be given to everyone involved with the production, there is not a false note throughout the movie. Peter Yates did a superb job of taking relatively unknown actors coupled with tough subject matter and turning it into a minor classic. "},{"Title":"Simply the best.","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Dennis Christopher stars as a local cutter in a small college town. He and his friends enter a crucial bike race that can make them or break them. This film offers great insight into its characters. Christopher is exceptional, and has never been better. He is supported by a first rate cast, especially Barbara Barrie and Paul Dooley as his mom and dad. Brillantley directed, edited, and scored, plus the film makes very effective use of its beautiful cinmeatography. The ending will have you on the edge of your seat. Now this is what movies are all about,    This moving drama is on my top ten favorite films of all time. And it should have won the best picture Oscar in 1979, instead of Kramer vs. Kramer. Rating A PERFECT 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Hidden Film Gem","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  How could anyone not like this movie?  It's one of the few realistic coming of age stories.  The characters are really likeable and the acting is great too.  What is so bad about being a cutter?  To me it seems kinda cool. Don't forget to punch the clock shorty! "},{"Title":"Really captures what it means to be young...","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" ...and unsure of your future. Other reviewers have given good summaries of the film, so I won't go into it. It's interesting though that of the four principle actors, only Dennis Quaid had any kind of career after this, which is very surprising since they were all such strong performances. Breaking Away really captures that limbo period right after high school when you're not sure what the future holds. I identified strongly with Dennis Christopher's character - I though I was going to just pump gas or flip burgers for a year before my mom pushed me to go to college. In other words, this is a realistic, character-driven movie - you'll probably find a bit of yourself in one, or several, of the characters. There's also real chemistry here between all the actors. And the photography really captures the beauty of the Midwest (some of you, no doubt, are scratching your heads after reading that). This is a gem - don't pass it up at the video store or when it appears next on TV. "},{"Title":"Four men try to cope with the growing pains of living in smalltown USA.","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"     This movie is a wonderful depiction of four Indiana men who try to grow  up and make decisions about their futures.  They all have their own  problems to deal with but all need each other in dealing with their  situations.  Being outcasts in town, they turn to each other for hope and  understanding.  Being less privileged than others their age, they learn  to make the best of what they have...each other.  This is a great movie  about growing up and how everyone deals differently with the obstacles they  are dealt with.  Dennis Christopher leads this all-star cast in a movie  that should be watched by the young and old.  It is a compelling saga of  how these young men conquer the everpresent problem of trying to fit in.  "}{"Title":"Interesting story","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Even though I've lived in Indiana most of my life and in Bloomington since  1996, I never saw this film until 1999.  I was going out on a first date with this girl and we happened to walk by the Indiana Theater on Kirkwood avenue.  We noticed that they were having the 20th anniversary celebration for Breaking Away inside and decided to join in the fun.  Not only where they showing the movie projected, they also had guest appearances by Peter Yates (the director) and Dennis Christopher (Dave).  I had the oppurtunity to meet Dennis afterwards.  While watching the movie during this event  Dave and his friend (in the film) walk by the very theater we were watching it in.  Everybody in the theater just kind of said huh altogether.   Great film.  Why don't they make more like this. "},{"Title":"Endearing hero, fabulous music, heartwarming coming of age film","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" This is my absolute favourite coming of age movie! It has an endearing teenage hero, an engaging story, a touching theme, an amazing musical score, and an abundance of humour. The story revolves around Dave Stoller and his three buddies, four misfits who have just graduated from high school. Dave recently received a bicycle as a gift, has become a good racer locally, and his heroes are the Italian Cinzano racing team. To the consternation of some, his life begins to revolve around his dreams of becoming a racing champion, to the extent that he basically tries to turn himself into an Italian. He learns the language, absorbs the culture, listens to its operas, and gives his cat an Italian name Fellini! He even pretends to be an Italian exchange student in order to impress a pretty sorority girl named Katherine, whom he calls Caterina and feels would otherwise be beyond his reach.Dave makes an appealing hero, wonderfully portrayed by Dennis Christopher, vulnerable but with an amazing joie de vivre. His hilarious attempts at becoming Italian, for example shaving his legs like their men but not their women, proved one of the highlights of the movie. The scene where he serenades his Caterina at her sorority house has to be one of the most charming in all filmdom. I was also bowled over by his endearing enthusiasm when he discovers The Italians are coming!, that his racing heroes will soon be arriving in his hometown of Bloomington, Indiana where the entire tale is set, culminating in the Indiana Little 500 cycling race.Dave is a kid who doesn't think he is good enough for college, lives in a fantasy world of Italian cycling, and wants to break away from his own aimless, mundane life. This is a typical coming of age movie in that he learns a lot about himself and the realities of life, especially from the behaviour of his heroes, the Cinzano racing team. His three sidekicks are a sympathetic bunch -- the rebellious, angry Mike, the short, feisty Moocher, and the goofy, appealing Cyril who seems to have no family. Through competing against the college crowd in the Little 500, they learn lessons in self esteem and team spirit, believing in yourself and striving toward reachable goals.Breaking Away is a movie with obvious social class themes. Dave and his friends are townies called Cutters, named for the stonecutters from the town's quarries. The students at the nearby college campus look down their noses at these Cutters. However, Dave's father, who is a car salesman lacking a college education himself, teaches his son to take pride in the name, that it was stonecutters who built these impressive college buildings.The film is refreshingly unusual in having a major sympathetic role played by Dave's parents. I absolutely loved the father, portrayed by Paul Dooley, the source of much of the film's humour, announcing for example that he doesn't want anything in his house that ends with 'ini'! Mr. Stoller despairs of his son's Italian phase, fearing verbally that Dave is going to wind up an Italian bum! Both the marital relationship between Dave's parents and the bond between father and son are captured with poignancy as well as humour.When I first saw this movie after its original release, the thing that remained with me besides the charming joie de vivre of its hero was the wonderful Italian music, from Mendelssohn's Italian Symphony and a Rossini opera. This musical score provides magnificent accompaniment to the bicycle racing sequences, especially one in which Dave is racing the Cinzano truck on a highway heading toward Bloomington! This is a heartwarming movie that no one should miss. It may be almost thirty years old but its characters and story are as engaging as the day it was released. I won't give it away, but that last scene is priceless! "},{"Title":"Classic coming-of-age film","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  <Warning Minor spoilers cometh.> I first saw this movie in a theatre right after it came out in the fall of 1979. I was like 11-years old and trying get into a Saturday night showing of Apocalypse Now with a few other friends during a b-day outing.That night (I still remember quite vividly 24-years later), the cashier at the Golf Mill Theatre in Niles, Illinois (a suburb of Chicago) was being a total wench and wouldn't let us -- a bunch of well-groomed, fresh-faced, albeit unaccompanied 11-year olds -- into an R-rated flick. So, the only other option playing that night was Breaking Away, which we reluctantly decided to see instead. Being the very last ones in the theater, we were seated front-and-center in the very first row -- just feet from the bottom of the screen. And although we spent the entire two hours of the movie with our eyes skyward and our necks bent at an obtuse angle in order to see this movie, Breaking Away proved to be one of the best coming-of-age movies that I have ever seen. Anyways, it was great watching this movie in a theatre. During the entire showing we laughed, we yelled, we screamed, we snickered, we guffawed, we threw popcorn at the screen -- we did it all. And when Dave (played by Dennis Christopher) brought the Cutter Team home in the last lap of the Little-500 Bicycle Race, we cheered -- boy, did we cheer -- along with the rest of the theatre. Those were the days, and this film is now one of my top-10 feel-good flicks of all time. Side note About two years after the film came out, I happened to bump into the inimitable Robyn Douglass (who played the hot coed Katherine/Caterina) at a sporting goods store in downtown Wilmette, Illinois. I wanted to say something to her, but I couldn't b/c I was tongue-tied due to my teenage hormones getting the better of me (I was 13 at the time). Come to think of it, that just about summed up the totality of my teenage existence back then, but I digress. Memorable characters in this film were Dennis Quaid as Mike, the aging ne'er-do-well townie living on his past successes as a high-school football quarterback; Daniel Stern as the bucolic wiseacre Cyril (in his first cinematic appearance); and Jackie Earle Haley as Moocher, the volatile clock-punching runt. There was also the unforgettable performance by second-city veteran and co-creator of the inimitable 1970's children's show, The Electric Co., Paul Dooley, portraying the disaffected used-car salesman Raymond -- Dave's father. Some of the most memorable scenes in this movie are set to classical scores -- especially the fantastic racing scenes. For example, my personal favorite is when Dave finds out that Team CinZano is coming to Indianapolis for a big cycling race. He immediately kisses everybody in sight, crosses himself, and says Santa Maria -- even though his family isn't Catholic. He then hops on his racing bike, and proceeds straightaways to the outskirts of town, where he intercepts the Team CinZano truck (how likely is that?) on the Interstate passing through town. Dave then goes head-to-head with the speeding semi-truck until he overtakes it at 60 mph, with the old-timer truck driver egging him on every step of the way as he calls out his speed with hand signals out the window. The entire scene has outstanding long-shots of Dave racing a semi on a highway set to Mendelssohn's Italian Symphony No.4 in A major, opus 90.The other great racing scene is during Dave's starcrossed participation in the Indianapolis 100 cycling event where Dave fatefully endeavors to strike it up with Team CinZano. The entire race is set to Rossellini's rousing William Tell Overture, and is simply riveting -- as well as shocking. The funniest scene, though, is when Dave serenades his pipedream sorority chick, Caterina, whom he's infatuated with to Flotow's aria M'appari, tutt'amor -- MAARTHA, MARTHA -- in front of her Chi Delt sorority house. To die for -- especially, when he gets the girl and they ride off into the night in the middle of campus, albeit with Caterina precariously perched atop the handlebars of his ten-speed. Incidentlally, of all the Breaking Away cast members, Dooley and Quaid had the most prolific and successful careers afterwards. Dooley would go on to play Molly Ringwald's goofball dad 7-years later in Sixteen Candles, and Dennis Quaid, of course, has been in everything from The Right Stuff to DOA to InnerSpace to The Rookie. (Sidebar I graduated from a land-grant state university myself that was virtually identical to I.U. Bloomington -- complete with townies and everything. I did a lot a cycling at the time, and every time I did, I couldn't help but feeling exactly like Dave Stoller.) Hat's off to a primo, nummero uno coming-of-age flick!  "},{"Title":"Refund?!","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Isn't it great when you find a movie that you'll plan to watch for the rest of your life? I knew it a long time ago. Dennis Christopher was strong in his performance, especially the parts where he talks with his father about whether or not he should go to college. When I was a kid and watched this for the first time, I knew it was going to be my favorite. I soon became obsessed with cycling as well, and managed to enter one of those races and win second place! I love the screenplay, which definitely deserved the Oscar it won, and the chemistry between all the characters is undeniable. It really makes you believe that they all are good friends. My favorite part is when Dave says, Everybody cheats, I just didn't know. and as a 13 year old, believe me, that was really philosophical. If you want to watch a movie that will really blow you away, or help you remember what it was like to be a kid, this is the movie for you. All the actors were amazing, and you find yourself relating to a lot of the problems they face. I even wish I saw it much sooner, because after I saw it, my entire look on life changed. It's a real masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Breaking Away is my Willoughby.","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I recently saw this on the big screen here in Tokyo (July 2012). I hadn't seen it for years, going back decades probably. I saw it originally when it came out, as I was only a couple of years junior to those portrayed on the screen. Like others have mentioned, the acting was superb and true to life. Not one second on screen do you feel anyone is acting. Dennis Christopher as lead character David Stoller is really a joy to behold. His enthusiasm is never forced or fake. He pulls it off beautifully. And Dennis Quaid's Mike character is probably all too common in this world of high school stars peaking with graduation. His story is quietly repeated among so many who saw their best years in high school only to watch others get the longer lasting glory. The speeches he gives are poignant, deep and yet perfectly fitting of his character. He does a wonderful job of showing the frustration of change. Daniel Stern's Cyril is perfect as the more comical of the bunch - simply perfect casting. Some of his lines are just priceless. And Jack Earl Haley and 'Moocher' looks like so many of us looked like back then, me included (though I wasn't short). Long straggly hair, t shirt, jeans and string-bean skinny. Paul Dooley and Barbara Barrie were wonderful. As were the brief shots of others at the Little 500. I can only imagine they were locals hired as extras. Hart Bochner (Lloyd's son) did a fine job as the snob jock. Gotta admit, they didn't come better looking than that back then. I sometimes wonder if Paul McTiernan didn't intentionally subject Hart to that somewhat comical but deadly ending in Die Hard out of payback for being such a jerk in Breaking Away.Katherina played by Robyn Douglass was wonderful. She had that perfect look of girls you would just die for back then. She even resembled a girl me and my pals were all in love with back in Chatham Township high school. I loved her scenes and her moment when she finds out the truth. Really jolts you out of your seat. Choked me up. Watching this film really made me aware of how we've changed, not just in our clothing or hair styles, but in our entire lives. Everything is brand-name now, everyone is so conscious of who made the object they desire and how much it cost. The more expensive the better. Everything is new and shiny. Every single element in a movie is examined from eyeglasses to shoes to pens. Everything is measured for its affluence and brand quality. Back then, we had Schwinns, Huffys, Raleighs, even Sears and whatever else we could afford. We wore clothes just like those kids in the move wore, T shirts, old jeans cut-offs in summer, and ripped up sneakers. We had fishing holes or swimming holes and spent enormous amounts of time riding bikes, or just laying in the grass or on rocks in the sun, or up in some tree house, just thinking or talking or planning out the universe... and also about girls, which none of us had actually had any meaningful contact with yet. A magical time in a boy's life. Reminds me of the time we discovered an old playboy in the woods under a fallen tree. It was a huge deal with us at the time. We'd hide it back under the tree trunk wrapped in some plastic and go back to it when we were back there. Nowadays, the most descriptive and graphic porn that even Ripley wouldn't believe is simply a click away 24/7. It's a different world, indeed. (Ironically, as a side note, the Playboy issue, we found out years later was the one that highlighted the ill-fated Dorothy Stratton.)Nowadays, can you imagine anyone, especially a 19 year old kid sitting still out in nature or anywhere else for that matter for even ten seconds without whipping out a smart-phone or some other gadget? Or being seen not having just the right clothes, just the right Nikes or Adidas sneakers? We had converse back then, and they were the cheap sneakers. It's just sad that such a time in life is gone forever, not just in the styles which were, yes, sloppy, an unkempt, but in the way kids lived. It's an entirely different world today and I wouldn't trade my childhood in the 70s and early 80s with any kid today for all the money in the world. I sat through the film twice, loving it so much and knowing I'd probably never get a chance to see it on the big screen again. Watching it with tears in my eyes, I really felt such an urge that if I could have, I would've climbed into that screen in a second to go back to that time once again that is never more. Just like Willoughby must've been to Rod Serling. "},{"Title":"Amazing movie that really touched me","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Along with Hoosiers, in my opinion, Breaking Away is one of the better sports movies out there. It is beautifully filmed with the cinematography and scenery both outstanding. The story is touching, brilliantly written and refreshingly unpredictable, while the script is truly remarkable with a perfect blend of wit and sensitivity. Peter Yates does a wonderful job directing, the pace never lags, all the characters are credible and I'll be honest, this film does have an impact on me emotionally. The performances are all marvellous, as good as Daniel Stern and Jackie Earl Haley were, the best are from Dennis Quaid and especially Dennis Christopher. Overall, this is a wonderful movie. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Should Have Won Best Picture","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" As my ex brother-in-law said, who wants to watch a movie about divorce, even a good one? Kramer v Kramer is a good movie but hardly covers the range of emotions and angst felt by the characters in Breaking Away.Every performance by the kids is spot on as well as the parents. You feel for Dave and his friends as well as understand why his parents do what they do. Nothing in the movie feels forced, even the race at the end. Yeah, you know Dave will win but it still makes you want to stand up and cheer.A friend of mine that grew up as a townie in Illinois said the movie was exactly as it was when he was growing up as regards the interaction of the students and the locals.The thing I liked most about this movie is that Tesich and Yates don't make the townies saintly good guys and the students evil baddies. They are all humans with various motivations and foibles like the rest of us.As much as I admired this movie I had the bad feeling K v K was going to win best picture. Maybe most of the members of the academy could relate to divorce (that's for sure) as opposed to understand growing up in a college town. Watch it and appreciate a rare movie that is perfectly written, acted and directed. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, a working class fools masterpiece","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I saw this film at the theater when it was first released. Coming from a blue collar town I don't believe there was a kid alive in our neighborhood who didn't want a 10 speed bicycle after seeing this one.I also come from an Italian family so this film especially hit financial and nationality cords with us. Although the lead Wasn't Italian his desire to be was humorous and brought haunting familiarity to the film for us.That however is not why I have been a HUGE fan of this movie for the last 26 years. The characters are... They are portrayed by the actors with such intense realism that to deny this films significance to every single person who comes from a blue collar background in a somewhat large city would be ludicrous.I dare anyone from a working class family who was coming of age in the late 70s and early 80s to deny this films relevance. I knew every single one of these characters personally growing up from the used car salesman father to the Marlboro smoking muscle car abusing bad ass. From the quiet yet forceful mother to the tall skinny goofball ceral...Moocher to Dave I knew them all every single one of them residing in or near my neighborhood.This film touched our hearts. It spoke of the emotional struggles we went through as children and adults being in a blue collar world. The fantastic part? It did this with humor, a sense of friendship(regardless of how dysfunctional) and an innocence on the brink of realization. Just the way it was. We cheered loudly at the end of this movie as we ate our goobers and popcorn then sighed silently as we left the theater squinting to take the city bus home... "},{"Title":"Townies can's accept or be accepted","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Good little picture featuring 4 wayward boys trying to find their way in life. They hang out at the local swimming holeand what a great place it was, cruise about town, bitch about the college kids, cause trouble, and whine about how rough their lot in life is. Although the bike race at the end was a tad predictable it was still exciting and realistic looking. Both funny and dramatic, this was well worth the watching. Look for Paul Dooley to steal the show as the put upon Dad; he had me rolling in the aisle.  "},{"Title":"The Oscar winning script is so good that no matter how many times you watch the video there is something interesting to be discovered.","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Yates (Curtain Call) directed, the Oscar winning screenplay was written by the late Steve Tesich (The World According Peter  to Garp).  Dennis Christopher (It's My Party, The Profiler (Jack)) plays Dave, who likes to pretend to be Italian, calls his mother Barbara Barrie (Suddenly Susan) mama, and his dad papa, shaves his legs because bicyclists in Italy are supposed to do that, and his friend Mike says weird country, the men shave their legs but the women don't.  Dave also calls his cat Fellini. Even his ashtray is Cinzano brand. He is so entertaining! He sings Italian songs, pretends to be a Italian student to date one of the sorority girls, Katherine,  Robyn Douglass is to Dave Catherine. High school graduates do not know what do to with their lives. Dave is a local and is not even in college, yet. The college students call the locals kids pejoratively Cutters, because their parents or someone in a generation back used to be stone cutters. Dennis Quaid (Parent Trap, D.O.A.) is Mike. You get the chance to hear Dennis Quaid sing!  Quaid used to have a band. Mike is somewhat rebellious and sometimes annoying but over all just a young adult coping with being a cutter and trying to compete with all the rich college students. He feel jealous of  the college students and is annoyed that  he does not know what to do with his own life.  He drives this land yacht which is the ugliest car you will ever see! Daniel Stern (City Slickers, D.O.A.) is Cyril and Jackie Earle Haley (Nemesis) is Moocher are the rest of the quartet of friends. They have fun, know each other really well. But they are competing with the college students from Bloomington, Indiana.Paul Dooley, (I'll Remember April) is the Dad who hates all those Italian things that his son likes so much. He says that all Italian foods end with an ini such as zucchini, liguini, fettuccine, and so on.Dave is a bicyclist who is looking forward to meeting the Italian team that is coming to town. He seems to naively think that the Italian team will welcome him with open arms. Boy, does he gets disappointed! The Italian team groups up against him and one sticks a bicycle pump in his spokes.  Later the four of them decide to race in a college race as a Cutter team and the university kids make fun of them.  The cutter team, the little guys win. We all like that!  Dad them decides to bike also, and to his surprise the son gives up been Italian and now turns French and passes dad on the street and says Bon Jour! papa.  He goes go to college, where he is now after a mademoiselle and no longer cares for the bambina.Favorite Scenes Dave racing the Cinzano truck, the four of them swimming in the lake on a lazy summer day, the cutter team winning the race, Dave singing to Catherine. Favorite lines Son Did you know that fly in Italian is Mosca!  Dad Did you know that fly in English is pest.  Dad All Italians food end with an ini zucchini,  liguini, fettuccine.  Darn, I want some American food! I want french fries! Oh! Dave, please do not turn Catholic on us!This a fun movie. I have the tape and every once and awhile will watch it. The script is so good that no matter how many times you watch it there is something interesting to be discovered.  "}{"Title":"When the bitterness of disillusion gives victory its sweetest taste ...","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" If there was one film I've been dying to watch for many years, it is the fifth Best Picture nominee of 1979, the 8th most inspiring American movie from AFI's Top 100, the 8th sports movie from AFI's Top 10, the gem that has been impossible to find in my usual DVD stores Breaking Away. The first of the many satisfactions the film provided me was the magical moment where I finally found it&#x85; and God, I wasn't disappointed.Breaking Away opens in a small town of Indiana, with four friends and as many personalities to identify with. Mike (Dennis Quaid) is a former athlete venting the bitterness of unfulfilled athletic dreams on local college' upper-class students. Moocher (Jackie Earle Haley) is hung-up on his height, trying to repress his insecurity while enduring derogatory nicknames every day. Cyril (Daniel Stern) a tall and lanky former basket-ball player and guitar apprentice cares as much about his future as his own father cared about him. And surprisingly, Dave (Dennis Christopher), the central protagonist is the most upbeat of the bunch.Breaking Away is one of these miracles that only the New Hollywood era could provide, something that cuts straight to your heart without you even noticing it. It carries the authentic realism of its Best Picture co-nominee Norma Rae, with a more heart-warming effect you smile, laugh and embrace the friendship between these boys who don't know what to do with their post-high-school future, and keep reinventing the world when they go swimming in the abandoned water-filled quarry. And there is something in Peter Yates' directing, that invites the viewer to seize the present with enthusiasm.And the enthusiasm is embodied by one of the most engaging and lovable characters I've seen in a long time. Dave is so obsessed with the Italian cycling team he translated it in his own life. He talks and sings in Italian and in English with Italian accent, infuriating his Dad (Peter Dooley) who must endure food ending with '-ini-' all the time instead of something American like French Fries. The portrayal of Dave's parents is far from the stereotypical detachment, the mother (Oscar-nominated Barbara Barries) cares too much while the father believes a 19-year old shaving his legs, listening to opera must have some serious issues &#x85; While watching Dooley, I kept wondering what happened to his Oscar nomination, he's hilarious to a Walter Matthau-level.The story goes on, Moocher gets a job but finally leaves it after one 'shorty' too many, Mike keeps clashing and competing with the rich college boys who call him 'cutter', a reference to the working-class that built the college and Cyril is the eternal victim of his helpful nature. Drama always works as a misleading safeguard. Many times, you expect an accident to happen, in the quarry, during a fight, but Dave's excitement to compete against the Italian team, in a local sporting event, makes us lower our guard. Amazingly, Dave isn't your typical bleak and disenchanted underdog hero, his cheerful attitude towers over his friends' struggles as we would all love to do with ours.And in one of the film's most exhilarating sequences, he follows a semi-truck in a freeway with the perfect music in the background, Barber of Seville's Overture. Dave grabs our heart like Opera our feelings, it's so genuine that many stereotypical situations work like serenading Katherine, the girl he loves, or courting her with an Italian accent, we believe Catherina would fall for it, because we would too. And while I loved watching Dave's adventure, I kept wondering what exactly made Breaking Away in the AFI's Top 100, no Top 10 most inspiring films &#x85; was Dave going to win over the Italians? Big deal! There had to be something.And that something is the pivotal moment that made me realize there's much more intelligence in Breaking Away than your average Sports film, something I could relate to, and that made the ending so emotionally rewarding. Dave finally races with the Italians, he approaches them with an insolent ease, speak Italian with them, but they're obviously irked by that local clown, and finally, the very team he admired jams a tire pump under his wheel and make him crash&#x85; and at that moment, we witness with shock the collapse of Dave's dreams. The sparkle disappears with the Italian posters, he talks normally, again, asks his father for help and finds him, he embraces his friends' mood and feels like a loser&#x85; naturally, he tells the truth to his girlfriend.As painful as the fall was, I felt a deliverance to see him act normally, to become himself again. It provides the necessary taste of disillusion and the discovery of cheat in grown-ups world as the obligatory coming-of-age. When he competes in the Little 500 race against the college boys, he's got determination, self-confidence and three other 'Cutters' to take a few leaps, 'Cutters' stop being an insult, it's their identity. The final victory doesn't surprise us because the real victory is over our demons, it's not just winning but winning by being true to yourself. That's the kind of stuff great stories are made on, and it earned Breaking Away a well-deserved award for Best Original Screenplay.As a screenwriter myself, I was fascinated by the film's narrative and the way it rode back and forth from comedy to poignant drama, as a screenwriter it reminded me how happy I was to work with an author, putting all my sweat and blood into a six-month promising project before he would dismiss me after receiving the first draft. I felt cheated exactly like Dave felt when he was kicked off his bike. But you know what they say about what doesn't kill you. "},{"Title":"Breaking Away Races to the Front","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" One of my favorite genres of movies is sports movies. Usually there is drama, comedy, and often surprising results. For me Breaking Away is certainly one of my top ten favorite sports movies, and quite possibly on my top five list.Breaking Away is a story about a teenage cyclist growing up in Bloomington, Indiana. Somehow he has become obsessed with the Italian cycling team. And whether his motivation is a unique way to meet young coeds at Indiana University or something else, he is an incredible cyclist.The fun part of this movie is his interaction with his mother Evelyn Stoller, who seems very understanding about his Italian cultural ways, and his father Ray Stoller, who doesn't understand why his son thinks he's Italian. Give credit to writer Steve Tesich whose script takes viewers on a humorous and believable adventure in this wonderful small-budget movie.Add in three friends who just graduated from high school, and this story is a fascinating jaunt with coming of age. Dennis Quaid plays a former high school quarterback, Jackie Earle Haley plays the short and defensive Moocher, and Daniel Stern plays Cyril, a student whose father likes to encourage him when he fails. Each of the supporting actors does a great job in helping to convey the story, but you can really see Daniel Stern's strength in comic acting in his first major movie role.The sports rivalry is actually established by the city kids called Cutters, competing for dates against the college male students. Eventually, the two rival groups compete against each other in a bike race called the Little 500. But honestly, the joy in this movie is the journey with all of the characters in the Peter Yates directed movie.As in life, there is humor and sadness, friends and family, rivals and conflict brought out on the big screen. This movie was surprisingly good the first time I saw it, and still enjoyable 30 years after its release. How good is Breaking Away? It won an Oscar in 1980 for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen with Steven Tesich doing a tremendous job in wordsmithing the script. The movie also received Oscar nominations for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Supporting Actress (Barbara Barrie), and Best Music, Original Song Score and Its Adaptation or Best Adaptation Score (Patrick Williams).Perhaps my best recommendation for Breaking Away is that I consider it better than that other famous Indiana sports movie about High School basketball. That's probably a minority view, but if you haven't seen Breaking Away, you have missed a jewel of a movie. "},{"Title":"A classic that is 32 years young","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" We now have more than a decade of reviews on IMDb of Breaking Away, going back to 1998, enough to conclude, as do many of the reviewers, that this is a classic that has passed the test of time. I would dare say that there will be viewers watching and loving this film 10, 20, 50, 100 years from now. Its theme and message transcend time.Breaking Away was popular when it came out. It was mentioned in three different college classes within the context of the professor's lecture to illustrate a point. So don't underestimate the depth of concept of this film. It effortlessly works on many different levels, and different people see different things in it. You need to watch it carefully, more than once, to appreciate this. But it has become somewhat forgotten, a sleeper. However, tears come to my eyes when I think about one of the key messages, explained by the father, after Dave's encounter with the Italian team. It has proved all too true, with the result that the America of 1979 is crumbling around us. In short, if you haven't seen this movie, watch it. If you don't own it, buy it, because you will want to watch it again, perhaps even 10 or 20 years from now. I've been watching it now and then for more than 30 years.Jackie Earle Haley, who plays Moocher, was also in Bad News Bears, the original with Walter Matthau. He has some pretty funny lines. --- On a bicycling note, I happened to find a mint condition Ciocc Itallian racing bicycle from around this period with full Campagnola components and sew on tires. It was a dream to ride, far more agile, yet stable, than my other expensive road bikes. I can see why Dave developed a love affair with his bike. What I learned is that a well-maintained drive train is nearly silent, at least using modern dry lube. Yet in the movie you can always hear the chain and gears grinding away, especially in the group scene with the Italians. It makes me wonder if bikes back then were really so noisy. Or whether the director or foley man thought too much silence would seem unrealistic to viewers used to cheap bikes, so they added in gear noise.Also, it becomes amusingly apparent, on close viewing, that Dave is in a very low gear moving slowly, pumping and huffing away, when he appears to be tearing down the road. But most people don't notice this. The bottom line is this movie often inspires an impulse to get a road bike, and this is a good thing if you have some relatively quiet roads to go long distances, like Dave. On terrain like in the movie, many people could ride 50 or more miles in a day once you get into condition, but with a road or comfort bike, not a mountain bike. It's a great form of recreation. Go for it! "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" The story of four high school graduates, devoted friends who reinforce each others' self-doubt while dealing with the presence in town of a major university (which serves to remind them of their lack of motivation), makes for a very touching movie. Even if a person sees himself more in the college students, pursuing professional endeavors as they enjoy the first experiences of independence from parents, s/he would have to possess a very limited capacity for empathy not to feel affected by the fears and regrets of the four boys whose working class heritage has conditioned them to feel unworthy of attending college.Breaking Away will probably move too slowly for some, who may expect to see fast-paced and high-risk bicycling from the start. For the person who enjoys feeling his interest and tension build as situations and relationships between characters develop, however, Breaking Away will not bore him.Besides the stigma felt by the four friends for having fathers who spent much of their working lives cutting stones at the town's rock quarry, predestining the boys to underachieve, each contends with his own personal struggle. Moocher must deal with his tiny stature and the people who mock him for it, Mike, with his regrets for having not pursued football further, in addition to his overall angry disposition, and Cyril, with the basketball scholarship he could have had as well as his undermining father.Dave Stoller has the most complex inner conflict, I think. He attempts to live out his fantasy as an Italian cyclist in part because he does have the appropriate talent. Breaking Away reminds young people that they must sometimes give up something they do legitimately well when they make realistic and practical choices about their future as independent young adults. "},{"Title":"The best film of 1979","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Few low budget ensemble films (or any films, for that matter) have ever clinched the love that fans hold for Breaking Away. No one should really care about the stinky humid summer Bloomington, Indiana drama peopled with down and out townies who despise, and alternatively long for, the harbored, segregated collegiate life of the Indiana University student populace sneering at them from their own backyards. We witness a most unlikely story of comeuppance, an even more unlikely college administrative act of altruism and fraternal good-sportsmanship the townies are invited to compete in the Little 500 (a cycle race which has today earned it's own enormous velodrome). Venture to guess that the little guys face foes insurmountable, grievances, the derailment of woman's lure, bad luck, discrimination, infighting and reconciliation. Loosely aw-whateverly, they band together in a duel against an enemy insurmountable. Even in the final act, they fight, poke, punch, and holler at each other, never changing and never ceasing. If you don't love this underdog film, and shed cheering tears for it's gift, you don't love life nor film. Period. "},{"Title":"a solid coming of age film that holds up 30 yrs later","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I saw this film in 1979 with my three best friends from high school, probably right after we went swimming at the quarry and before cruising Marymount College for girls and getting into fights with their West Point boyfriends. Though it was a virtual reproduction of our lives, we were serious movie buffs and were able to distance ourselves and give it an objective review a damn fine coming of age film with a smart script and solid acting all around.As I watched it again recently, I noticed more funny bits than I had previously, especially in the scene when Dave's parents get romantic she plucks the flower from her hair as she drops into bed, and he sheds his pocket protector full of pens... I also appreciated more the nuances of the relationship between Dave and his dad, and the scene with them after Dave's race with the Italian team wasn't as mushy this time around.Not quite an 8 out of 10, but I think the current 7.6 rating is well-deserved, and would have given it a 7.5 myself if I could have.Whether still young or now old, many small-town and college-town guys who grew up with a tight circle of best friends will relate to this movie, but it's not so much a guy-flick that their girlfriends and wives won't enjoy a look into the lives and emotions of young men that women rarely see. "},{"Title":"Man, what a good movie...!","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" One of those forgotten classics! Fairly well acted but it adds to the overall aura of the movie; not all polish and slick acting like I fear would be the case if made these days. The acting is just rough enough to be realistic within the context of the movie and there is some really genuine humor in here. As an aside, the book is almost verbatim with the movie; I don't know which came first, though. This movie made me run out and buy a Schwinn Le Tour (understanding that 'Le Tour' is french, not Italian...) and start riding all over Indiana(Fort Wayne, not Bloomington.) An A+ B movie that deserves a spot on the video shelf. "},{"Title":"Best Cycling Movie Ever","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This film avoids the many cliches that often occur in sports film.  The acting in the film is great especially Christopher and Quaid.  I just watched it the other day for the 4th time and it still holds up well over the years. "},{"Title":"A minor-key delight.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I saw this film around nine months ago, and I feel I ought to comment on it really. It is a genuinely enjoyable, winning little slice-of-life film, acted, written and directed very competently. This is a rites-of-passage movie that plays the nostalgia just right, avoiding the easily sentimental. There are many deft touches and oddball moments that help the film to be as unique as it is. Performances are uniformly fine I'd say, with the main character, the young man with a penchant for the Italian, exceptional, and Paul Dooley really likable as the father. Excellent, contrasting senses of melancholy and warm, good humour, are adeptly evoked in this film. I must say Peter Yates' direction here suggests he's rather better than the mere jobbing helmsman he seems to be considered as. The locations used in the film are beautiful, and finely filmed. The music I recall as being wonderfully embellishing. The optimism, disappointments, whims and friendships of late-adolescence find full and fine depiction and realisation with Breaking Away, I must say, from a personal point of view. The scene where the protagonist rides alongside the Italians is superbly apposite, and the aftermath brilliantly underplayed, as everything seems to be in the film. The ending I do like, even if, maybe, it wasn't what I was expecting, it still fitted the film's tone and brought it to a happy climax. A summery and autumnal, wistful and modest charmer of a film.Rating- **** 1/2/***** "},{"Title":"Inspirational, Relatable, Fun, and Somewhat Quirky","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Breaking away is an inspirational sports film, but also a coming of age story or four young men trying to find their way in life. The friends have graduated high school but are unsure of what to do when considering college, jobs, parental expectations, social pressures, and being looked down upon for being cutters. The plot mainly focuses on Dave who is obsessed with cycling and everything Italian. This comes to an end when he realizes that everyone cheats and he sees the world through new eyes. His friends urge him to be in a 500 lap race and they all enter as a team. What comes next is the race of a lifetime. The plot focused on real-life problems of growing up and was relatable to an audience yet had a good, exciting, and capturing story. The movie was inspirational, had an excellent cast with good acting, and was surprisingly funny. It will keep your attention and is sure to entertain cyclists and non-cyclists alike. "}{"Title":"Breaking Away","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" This is definitely one of those films I never would of heard of without being in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, and it was also because of some good names in the cast and an award win, from Oscar and Golden Globe nominated director Peter Yates (Summer Holiday, Bullitt, The Deep). Basically best friends Dave Stoller (BAFTA winning, and Golden Globe nominated Dennis Christopher), Mike (The Day After Tomorrow's Dennis Quaid), Cyril (Home Alone's Daniel Stern) and Moocher (A Nightmare on Elm Street's Jackie Earle Haley) have all just graduated from high school in Bloomington, Indiana. They are all deciding what to do next in their lives, but until then they spend a lot of their time swimming in an old abandoned water-filled quarry, and they clash with Indiana University students. Dave, who has a passion for Italian music and the culture, which concerns his father Ray (Paul Dooley), has an obsession with competitive bicycle racing, his mother Evelyn (Oscar nominated Barbara Barrie) is very supportive of these things. Dave has a crush on university student Katherine (Robyn Douglass) and puts on an Italian accent to romance her, but she is does already have boyfriend Rod (Hart Bochner), and he has his gang beat up Cyril after mistaken identity. Soon after this there is the announcement a professional Italian cycling team coming to town for a racing event, and Dave is keen to participate as well, but the team cause to get depressed after a crash. He does come back, and he gets support from his father, and after some incidents in the race Dave has his feet taped to his bicycle pedals, Moocher, Cyril and Mike all watch in hope, and on the last lap he overtakes Rod to win the race, and after the trophy glory he decides he'll enrol at the university. Also starring Amy Wright as Nancy, Peter Maloney as Doctor and Halloween's P.J. Soles as Suzy. Christopher is a talented young leading character, Quaid, Stern and Haley who would all go on to bigger things do really well as they are young as well, and in her scenes I can see why Barrie was nominated an award, the material that would inspire the Brat Pack genre are all amusing, the cycling scenes are good watching, and the dialogue is witty and also sensitive, so all in all it is a likable comedy sports drama. It won the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen, and it was nominated for Best Music for Patrick Williams and Best Picture, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy, and it was nominated for Best Screenplay. Good! "},{"Title":"Breaking away is pretty good for commercial standards.","Date":"2 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Peter Yates's film Breaking Away is a movie made for the average human, not for art houses or award shows. Just for the audience. Normally when a filmmaker sets out to make a film like this, the results are lacking. Breaking Away is an exception to that however. This film works as a commercially oriented story without misusing a bit of talent on display here. It is a relatable story for not only cyclists but also just people that have had problems in their life. A real gem of a film with great performances from Dennis Christopher and Dennis Quaid. No one says it is a masterpiece, but most everybody that sees this will take something worthwhile from it. "},{"Title":"What a great movie then and still.","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I was in a bike shop today selecting a new model for myself. The sad part is I now require easy entry, lots of gears and so forth. But still Breaking Away maybe the best and most uplifting film I can remember. Humor and humility are equally balanced. Loved it then, still do. The characters are heartbreakingly sincere and naive. No gratuitous( or any other kind of) sex scenes. No questionable language. Nothing but good. AND,Mendelsohn's Fourth symphony doesn't get sufficient (or any) credit as the urgent, driving and melodic background music. How come they don't make good, clean movies anymore? Okay, I'm an old codger, but really, why not? "},{"Title":"Ciao, pappa!","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I liked this film a lot but whenever I get on IMDb, I like to look at the comments where people HATE the film I like just so I can think, yeah, that's true, right, I didn't notice that and CRAP, why didn't I think of that? Call me Holden Caulfield but I liked that this film was sort of all over the place, with the Boys, with Dave, with the girl and Dave and the races and everything. That makes it seem more life-like to me when you're not quite sure where it's going and if/when the CLImax is coming.This is a pretty charming film with Dave being romantically and innocently in love with his life while everyone else is unsure and depressed.The script, the dialogue, the parents, the cat, the old woman on the porch, the one-liners by Stern, Haley's charm and passion, Quaid's facade and insecurity, the breeziness of Dennis Christopher and his loss of innocence to those free-wheeling italianos- everything comes together to make this a fun, inspiring film.When the pimply short guy jumps on the bike because the tall, well-built ex-quarterback doesn't have the guts then rides for his life, barely able to reach the pedals- it makes you want to cry.This is an excellently charming, inspiring film. "},{"Title":"Sweet","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I thought that was the whole plan. I thought we were gonna waste the rest of our lives together.If you left a small town, you know what that last summer means, and how it feels to watch your circle of lifelong friends drift into an ever-widening ring of disparate strangers. How did Bryan Adams put it? Jimmy quit, Jody got married... It's freeing, and it's very sad. Most of all it's terrifying.And if you grew up a townie next to a swank university, you know how it feels to be outclassed on your own turf... until you learned how to get into fraternity parties by bringing girls, then steal all the liquor while the girls set fires in the kitchen as a diversion. Ah, youth running out the Chi Omegas' front door with a case of beer, screaming Save the Bud! as you stumbled down the steps, then not stopping until you passed all the parked Mercedes and Saabs and got to your beat-up Plymouth Duster. Then you and your townie friends went and had your own party on the top of the drawbridge at Mossdale Crossing, from which you could see the lights of the whole county. Of course, that fire-in-the-kitchen thing only worked twice, and the third time you were lucky not to get slapped with an arson beef on top of a black eye and bruised ribs. And by the time you'd drunkenly fallen off the bridge into Whiskey Slough and swallowed a sunfish - just a little one, but man it hurt coming up - it was time to head off to your own college days.Uh, too much information?Anyway, this movie seems to have been distilled from the pure life experience of such a small-town boy. Steve Tesich was a Yugoslavian immigrant who didn't get to America until his teens, but then I guess he did live a version of this story. The whole thing feels true, even colored as it is with some mildly hokey family hijinks. Paul Dooley and Barbara Barrie are exactly the parents you want and hardly ever get. But somebody got 'em. I bet you even knew somebody who had 'em. Coming of age is a bittersweet series of traumas, and if this movie wants to focus on the sweet, what old crank is gonna stop it?Whatever happened to sweet, anyway? John Ashton as Mike's cop brother is a perfect example of what I mean a very real guy acting human. That's sweet. Or the cutters jumping in the water to save Mike from drowning, and the confused look on Rod's fascist face as he experiences compassion. Or Dave's dad saying, You're not a cutter. I'm a cutter. Or Moocher marrying that girl who looks exactly like the girl from PEEPING TOM. Sweet is great. Sweet reminds us that life isn't all bad news. It isn't, you know. Stop watching television and maybe you'll find out. "},{"Title":"Go Out And Get It","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Most coming of age films can't come close to this masterpiece.The story is fun and engaging right from the first minute. It's about four friends just out of high school avoiding life in general (and especially jobs). The funny part is, they are convinced that it's the cool thing to do. Or are they? It centers mostly on one young man who has a talent and a passion for bicycle racing. Especially Italian bicycle racing. So much so that he adopts a fake Italian accent much to the chagrin of his father. He's a smart, athletic young kid who knows what he should do, but tries to pretend he doesn't.Well, like most films, you know where it will go from there. Naturally, it comes down to a big bicycle race and our heroes the Cutters enter against overwhelming odds. However, what sets this one apart from most is that even though I knew what was going to happen, I felt just a little sad when it did because the movie was over.10 out of 10. And you can watch it with your kids. "},{"Title":"Quarries, 'Cutters',Bicycle Racers, Indiana University, and Meandering Souls, Adrift and Lost, but are Back on Trail after Big Cycle Race!","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Before viewing this Little Gem recently, then looking up its info on our IMDb.com, it had skipped the old memory that a Small Screened Network TV Series BREAKING AWAY(1980-81). It ran on ABC for that one season, before being dashed against the rocks by the powerful breaker waves; like so many other spinoffs of feature films, like MR. SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON, NORTHWEST PASSAGE, DELTA HOUSE(from ANIMAL HOUSE), NINE TO FIVE, NO TIME FOR SERGEANTS and most recently, MY BIG FAT Greek LIFE(from MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING).But the feature film, BREAKING AWAY(1979), now that's a different story, all together! (ALL)Now that's a different story. When Director Peter Yates, a Brit, was asked what his making this film was all about, he said that he wanted to do a movie about 'Class Distinction in America.Horrors! What, you say; we have no such thing here! After all, this is America! Well, whether or not we agree, and we and our sensitive, thin-skinned 'Yankee' feelings are hurt; the idea of getting a neutral outsider's view of things may prove very interesting, even enlightening.Anyway, Bligh me, Governor! Mr. Yates has been around and by the time of this BREAKING AWAY project, he had turned in such quality, $uce$$ful movies as THE SAINT TV Series(1963-65),DANGER MAN TV Series(1965-68), Steve McQueen's vehicle BULLITT (1968),Peter O'Tolle in MURPHY'S WAR(1971), Robert Redford's THE HOT ROCK(1972), Robert Mitchum starring in THE FRIENDS OF EDDIE COYLE(1973),FOR PETE'S SAKE(1974), MOTHER,JUGS & SPEED(1976) and Peter Benchley's THE DEEP(1977).All in all, this is a very fine Resume for any Director, and it's only a partial list of his credits! So many films, so un-alike and all were directed by the same Limey! Well, if we're to have an objective look at our own short-comings, Mr.Yates sure looks like our guy! BREAKING AWAY could be broken down to several very important terms. To start with, Middle America is our location. Bloomington, Indiana is the town, the home of Indiana University. Ordinary, for the town folks we meet, the young, the middle aged. Their occupations could be described the same way. Stone Cutters, Store Clerks, Used Car Salesman, all working day in and day out. Perfect examples of what the Nobel Prize Laureate, Saul Bellow, once described as living their lives in quiet desperation. These decent folk are the real backbone of America and as they go, so goes our Nation. In our Land we have an upward mobility, like nowhere in the World, ever. But, there's no guarantee, for anyone! We all have to gain access to these social stepping. We have to work for it.All of the possible scenarios are represented by our various characters those who will advance, those who will live in relative working poverty and some who are sort of stuck between, unknowing of any future, or any plans to get to a higher station in life.We are also privy to the trials and tribulations of the older generation. The parents Raymond Stoller(Paul Dooley), a Used Car Salesman's Used Car Salesmanand Mother,Evelyn Stoller(Barbara Barrie, Oscar winner Best Supporting Actress)are at that middle age, but still have a spark of youth left. She proves it on one romantic evening and guess what? Dave's gonna have a little brother or sister!(At their age, yet!)The main thrust of the story involves their son, Dave Stoller(Dennis Christopher)and his fantasies about Bicycle Racers and his romanticizing the Italian Racers in particular. To compete as a cyclist is his ambition;and when the opportunity for a local off campus team of local boys is allowed to enter the Big Annual 4 Man Cycle Team relay, Sponsored by and held on the Campus of Indiana University.Dave enlists his 3 buddies in a Local CuttersTeam.(Cutters being a derogatory term for the locals used by some of the University Crowd, the snobbish ones.) So he is joined by Former High School Jock Mike(Dennis Quaid), Future College Boy Cyril(Daniel Stern) and Newlywed Moocher(Jackie Earle Haley). The compete in the race, which is exciting and well staged & filmed. The race proves to be having been a cohesive effect on all, but is not the climax of the story. Also, Dave has a propensity to extend his fascination with the Italians and the French to maintaining a dishonest foreign accent in his dealings with women, especially Katherine(Robyn Douglass). Like any Director, Mr. Yates knows how to wrap things up and leave us laughing. And in the process, he seems to put his own Imprimatur on our way of life, one that does bear the imperfections of class distinction. But it also has rendered these blemishes on our way of life as correctable, if you work at it. "},{"Title":"one of the best coming of age movies","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Breaking Away is one of the best coming of age movies. After high school four friends led by a young Dennis Quaid, try to find their place in the post-high school world.Not quite adults and yet not children either,the four young men begin to drift apart. The one thing that keeps them together is their competition with the towns college kids, and Daves'(Dennis Christopher) obsession with bicycling.Eventually a bicycle race gives the group a chance to prove their worth.The sub-plot involving Daves father is unusual.Raymond Stoller(Paul Dooley) is having doubts about his own life as his son struggles to find his way.Breaking Away is an excellent movie about growing up, without the mindless sex and profanity that saturates most movies directed at young people. "},{"Title":"A truly American, yet universal classic","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I was on a plane from Calgary to Frankfurt, unsuccessfully trying to sleep. I knew they were gonna show a movie next, called Breaking away, but I had never heard of it and so didn't know what to expect. From the very first minutes, though, I was hooked.At first, it was simply because these four sexy guys - walking around, basking, swimming - really turned me on; but after a couple of scenes I wasn't only interested in them physically, but also emotionally. Who couldn't fall in love with Eric, the energetic cyclist who dreams of being Italian and sings Figaro while shaving his legs? His vibrant spirit and unceasing pursuit of his desires are a charm that on its own could have saved an entire movie from oblivion.But there is so much more to enjoy here. As an example of one of the finest eras in American cinema, it is a masterpiece. It captures the summer, the city, the time, the people. It is as much a film about universal themes - the price of dreams, the hunt for love, the clash of generations, the bonds of friendship - as it is one about an America that is lost forever.When my plane had landed, I had forgotten most of it - I had had breakfast, some rest, and listened to music. I still had one last plane to catch to Amsterdam. But flashes of a beaming Eric on his bicycle kept coming back to me. Reading only small bits here on IMDb about this film brought everything back to me, and I felt compelled to share in everyone's enthusiasm. And encourage all of you who haven't yet seen this gem, to go and do so. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A long lasting triumph","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I have loved this movie since the first time I saw it in college in 1979. It has held surprisingly well, which I cannot say about many of the movies from my youth.The writing & story are top notch, the acting, especially by Paul Dooley and Barbara Barrie, are on the mark.I won't recount the plot, but, in a nutshell, this is a movie about choices and sticking to what you believe, and in the end, the consequences that you reap from those choices.No grand special effects, and no epic implications, just a movie about everyday people told in an engaging way that allows the viewer to be drawn into the story, which is laced with humor, drama and some fine music.UPDATE (July 2013) Interesting to note that my older children, especially my older sons, have watched this movie repeatedly and have found elements of humor and reflection that I either missed or forgot over the years.In my mind, this film and story make the case that by early 21st century standards (over the top special effects, highly stylized musical scores and trendy movie genres), this movie still merits viewing, which proves that a good story and acting will always find an audience, regardless of when and by whom it was produced. "}{"Title":"Simply Amazing","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" This movie is truly an underrated classic and very deserving of 4 stars, it has a great cast, Daniel Christopher as Dave, who really did think he was Italian and someone we can all relate to when it comes to accomplishing out dreams but having something that holds you back, and his friends, a group of charming misfits, the kind've guys who seem nice but most people just pre- judge them as a bunch of freaks. The four make up every kind've person, Dave, the dreamer, Mike, the washed up one with many past regrets, Cyril, the silly one, and of course Moocher, the runt. Next we have Jackie Earle Haley of Bad News Bears fame (but you don't understand, that's Kelly Leak!) as Moocher, playing the only one you could actually consider normal in that four. Cryril, the silly one, but deep down you could sort've tell something in his life depressed him and he covered it by wisecracks and jokes at the worse times. And Dennis Quaid as Mike, he was a bit of an ass, but you can't help but feel sorry for him and all the mistakes he's made.There are supposed coming of age stories all the time now, but this is a true one, there at the time where everyone is most confused, after graduation, the first big step in life. And they all stuck together. At the beginning, they are completely different from who they are at the end. There are also great yet subtle comedic bits (Cyril saying something about these two people getting together on a rock and rants on and on and Moocher just says Their married now, when Dad says I'm not papa I'm your god damn father!. When they run over the frisbe, etc.)In general it's got the recipe for a perfect movie, great acting, realisticness, just the right bit of intensity added with a pinch of comedy. "},{"Title":"Grazie, everyone!","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" We all know that eventually, the children are going to want to do things differently from the parents. Breaking Away portrays that to the extreme. Having graduated from high school in Indiana, Dave Stoller (Dennis Christopher) is very much into bicycling, and specifically the Cinzano team in Italy. So, hoping to become a cyclist himself, he begins acting as Italian as possible - even putting on an accent for a female classmate. His parents are uncomfortable with this, but his friends (Dennis Quaid, Daniel Stern, Jackie Earle Haley) like it. Only Dave himself knows what to do with his life.This movie will probably teach you all that there is to know about the bicycle world. You might even feel like getting on a bicycle and riding around town yourself. Very well done. "},{"Title":"Breaking Away is an Excellent Film","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" It is a wonderful thing when you can make such an awesome film for only 1 million dollars. Even in 1979 that is next to nothing when making a Hollywood film. The entire cast is incredible in the film, portraying the struggles of American life during the switch from the period of physical labor to that of intellectual careers. Main character Dave Stoller played by Dennis Christopher shines as a biker/dreamer. He idolizes the Italian society that is perfect and does a great job portraying every emotion. His father played by Paul Dooley is a great character. Often times brutally honest and blunt, he struggles with his own lack of education and status through his son's success in life. He is fed up with Christopher freeloading off of him and wants him to live the hard life that he has lived, but at the same time he knows he is made out for college and has to try to let go of exerting his own personal pain on his son. All in all, the film is an excellent examination of the teen spirit, at the same time adding the interesting worl of bike racing and competition into the mix. Not the best movie I've ever seen but far up there. "},{"Title":"Highest praise!","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Timeless movie that hits the timeless social themes.  Rich/poor, educated/uneducated, close knit family/broken home, protestant/catholic, dreaming of/settling for, pragmatism/altruism, all these were expressed.The movie uses the term cutters as a derogatory term used by the college kids towards the townies.  It is developed later in the movie that cutters refers to the many quarries and stone cutting that used to employ much of the town, and which supplied the stone to build the college.  The most powerful scene in the movie is when the used car salesman father explains to his son why his son has opportunity he never had.  The father also has the funniest scene in the movie which left him incapacitated muttering refund, refund!.Forget the cycling.  They could have been riding lawnmowers and this movie would have been worth watching.  If you enjoy character driven movies, this is one not to miss!  "},{"Title":"Great coming of age story.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Breaking Away tells the story of four teenagers on the threshold of manhood and the troubles they have in adapting to the pressures that are increasingly coming to bear upon them. Dave, Michael, Cyril and Moocher spends their days in the water filled limestone pits ruminating on where their life is taking them. To the local college students they are nothing more than cutters, townies hanging onto to the past glory of their high school years. However, they see themselves in the prime of their lives, enjoying each day as though summer will never end and only sometimes fearing what the future may hold for them.Things are brought to a head through Micheal (Dennis Christopher), a cycling phenomenon obsessed with all things Italian (much to the chagrin of his father). His misadventures with his cycling bring him into contact with his hopes, fears and the future. His experiences bring him closer to his friends and his father and show him a world beyond the small town in which he lives. To paraphrase his father (an actual stone 'cutter') during one touching scene in the film I don't want to see my son grow up in the holes we cut..Breaking Away is a wonderful film that is beautifully shot and treats the trials of a teenager on the verge of adulthood with respect and dignity (something that cannot be said for most teenage films nowadays). The dialogue, particularly between Micheal and his father, was wonderful and shows that families can be dysfunctional without being abrasive. While Dennis Christopher was the standout actor as Michael, he is well supported by an ensemble cast including a very young (and very fit looking) Dennis Quaid. If you're looking for an uplifting film that isn't overly sentimental, Breaking Away is the film for you. "},{"Title":"Loving achievement by cast and filmmakers","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  'Breaking Away' is set apart by its charm. It's about four guys, the 'cutters', who have to face their rivals, their parents, and each other, over the summer before they have to become adults.The rivalry between the rich university students and the cutters is entertaining, but the heart of the film is Dave's (Dennis Christopher) relationship with his Dad (Dooley, in a great performance), which provide the biggest laughs of the film. The tension is mostly set off because of Dave's outrageous lengths to emulate the Italian cycling team he idolizes.The greatest achievement of Breaking Away is its honesty and charm, thanks to the talented cast and direction, not to mention the soundtrack.  "},{"Title":"Every emotion...","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite flicks.  I watch Breaking Away any time it is on TV.  The main character (Dave) is bordering on being clinically disturbed with his obsession with cycling, but is someone you route for.  The 'world' he has created in his head is a place that might be nice to visit.  You almost don't want him to join the rest of us in reality. You laugh with his insanity.  You cry with his disappointments.  You yearn for him to succeed.  You are proud when he embraces his legacy or does the right thing without considering the consequence.Notwithstanding its widespread appeal, this movie is notably special for cyclists...  a 'must see' movie.  I see pieces of Dave in many of my fellow cyclists...  obsession, escapism, loyalty, denial, defeat, and triumph. However, you need not be a cyclist to enjoy this flick.  The Oscar nomination should be proof of that.  If you are a cyclist, American Flyers (1985) (http//us.imdb.com/Title?0088707) is also a 'must see' movie.  It isn't nearly as polished or engaging as Breaking Away, but enjoyable nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Beautifully written naturalistic comedy about growing up.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  A wonderful example of what can be done with little more than a great script, a talented cast, a location and a miniscule budget, 'Breaking Away' had me hooked after the first few lines. Steve Tesich's dialogue is funny, wise, and utterly believable all at the same time. The plot is simple - four working-class nineteen-year-olds, unemployed in a college town that their fathers helped build, decide to participate in a bike race for students - but the themes are universal. "},{"Title":"Complete Nostalgia","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Even if this movie doesn't stir up memories of your childhood, growing up during the 70's in midwest America (like it did for me)...you will definitely find it original and well-acted.  It has all of the elements too Love, Friendship, Loyalty, Family- and the triumph of victory and identity with that perfect ending.  I'm surprised that Dennis Christopher didn't move on to bigger things like the rest of the cast did following this movie.  A sleeper rental! "},{"Title":"Paul Dooley is great!","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  As a 17 year old in 1979 I dumbly thought that the Academy Awards meant something but I was completely disillusioned when the nominations were announced and there was no citing of Paul Dooley for Best Supporting Actor. Here was one of the greatest comic performances ever committed to celluloid and the Academy blew it by passing him over for recognition. This has always been one of my favorite films and the main reason is the pleasure in seeing the totally realistic but funny father-son relationship between Dooley and Dennis Christopher, as written by Steve Tesich.  And the final freeze-frame shot of Dooley's reaction is one of the best ending shots in movie history.  "}{"Title":"A sweet, funny, poignant movie - one of my all-time favorites.","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Though its other teen stars went on to more fame and glory, (Dennis Quaid and Daniel Stern) you'll never forget Dennis Christopher's performance in the lead role of Dave Stoller, an innocent, humble, fantasy-prone kid who dreams of becoming an Italian bicycle racer. A gifted athlete who does nothing halfway, Dave trains relentlessly. He also adopts an Italian accent, speaks in pigeon Italian, sings opera and shaves his legs (to decrease wind resistance) - much to the disgust of his blustery father and the amusement of his reserved but kindred-soul mother (Paul Dooley and Barbara Barrie, in a moving performance.)The plot focuses on four working class teens, residents of college town Bloomington, Indiana, who face a bleak,uncertain future after graduating from high school. They are reminded daily of their low status and limited options, thanks to the rich, callous college students who have taken over the town. Bad feelings escalate, finally culminating in a somewhat contrived bicycle race between the college students and the townies.But the conventional plot is made palpable by gentle humor, good acting and an unusual underlying theme.It's the opposite of a coming of age flick. Despite taking his knocks, Dave's buoyant spirit and flights of fantasy emerge intact -- it's his cynical, crooked, used-car salesman father who is transformed, in a touchingly understated way. This movie is a rare gem - it is both suitable and tremendously appealing to all ages.  "},{"Title":"An exceptional film.","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" This a 4-star movie for adolescents and parents. Ahead of its time yet will wear time well for it has no slick, hip attitude or veneer to it at all. Young men standing at the end of the bridge to manhood, making their own choices - and what hurts is that every viewer, even youths, can see their choices more clearly than they can. Which is the double benefit of the film ; a story that you don't have to wait until it's over and then say, Oh, yeah, I get it. "},{"Title":"It breaks away from the pack of formula buddy movies","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"   The film 'Breaking Away' is at its core, a film about trying to break beyond the barriers that people have in front of them, and those that they place on themselves. It's about working class buddies just out of high school, and the lack of hope they seem to feel about their futures. They have a rivalry with the 'rich kids' going to the nearby University of Indiana, and end up in a direct competition with them, in the form of a bicycle race.  The culmination is a bit corny, but we want these guys to succeed, because they are the classic underdogs.     The movie has a lot of heart, the friendship between the guys is portrayed with realism, and the relationship of the main character of Dave Stoller, an amateur bicycle racer and dreamer, with his parents, is something special. Also,the classical music peppered throughout the film, particularly during the bike racing, is perfect. This is a feel good film, and a nostalgic look back at the the late 1970's.   "},{"Title":"Solid but not spectacular","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Breaking Away is a movie which certainly has its charms. But it's a case where the movie's reputation slightly outstrips reality. It's one of those movies which isn't quite as good as people remember it as being. It won an Oscar for best screenplay but there's really nothing remarkable about the script. In fact the story is actually quite predictable and mundane, with some rather corny dialogue to boot. It's a movie which follows a well-worn formula, the underdogs striving to make good. And you can see the obstacles the main character will face, and the reasons for his eventual disillusionment, coming a mile away. There's never really any great drama, you know where the movie's headed.But just because the movie is predictable doesn't mean it can't be reasonably enjoyable. It's the story of four teens, just graduated high school and trying to find their path in life. But it's the story of one of the four which is at the heart of the film. Dave Stoller is obsessed with bicycle racing. Italian bicycle racing to be specific. He Italianizes his life, much to the consternation of his father. Meanwhile he and his directionless friends have run-ins with the college kids and it all comes to a head in a bicycle race. Well, points for originality there I suppose. Not many movies have a bicycle race as the big, dramatic climax. The movie is hailed as being truly inspiring. That's a stretch. But when the movie ends you'll probably at least find yourself smiling. It's not riveting stuff all the way through, there are plenty of lulls. The movie does do enough to keep you interested though. Dennis Christopher does an excellent job in the role of Dave. Paul Dooley, playing Dave's father, is also memorable. The tug-of-war between these two characters produces many of the movie's highlights. The supporting cast features now familiar faces such as Dennis Quaid, Daniel Stern and Jackie Earle Haley. But it's really Christopher who must carry the movie. It's Dave's story. And it's a good story. Just not a great one. "},{"Title":"four Indiana guys make decisions about where to go from here","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Breaking Away from 1979 was directed by Peter Yates, and tells the story of four young men right out of high school, a turning point in their lives. Do they stay in their small town and get jobs? Go to college?The four guys -- Dave, Mike, Cyril and Moocher are played by Dennis Christopher, Dennis Quaid, Jackie Earle Haley and Daniel Stern. Someone mentioned that of the four of them, the only one who had any real career is Dennis Quaid. He's had the biggest career, but the rest of these guys are still going strong.Having just seen Dennis Quaid in Truth, seeing him in this was a shock -- a total baby. And I mistook Hart Bochner for Christian Bale. I used to love Hart Bochner, who in the '80s starred in a lot of big TV miniseries.The four guys are best friends. It's summer in Bloomington, Indiana, which is a college town. As locals, they are part of the town's working class, and their parents worked at the limestone quarry. As a result, the boys are known as cutters. The quarry is now closed and has become a swimming hole.There's a rivalry -- a hatred, really, between the wealthier students and the local kids, which is strange as the locals worked the limestone used to build the university. Now it's too good for them.The guys are unmotivated, without much in the way of ambition or discipline. Dave is the exception. He bicycle race. He loves the Italian cycling team and rides around town practicing Italian and speaking it at home, which drives his grounded father (Paul Dooley) nuts. Then Dave meets an IU student, Katherine, who is dating a hot-shot, Rod (Bochner, who else). To impress her, he claims to be an Italian exchange student.When he learns the Italian cycling team will be racing in Indianapolis, Dave is in heaven, ready to enter and race. But an incident there causes him to rethink his goals.Such a wonderful story about floundering young men - for some reason, it seems to take guys longer to find their way, and these kids are no exception. Paul Dooley and Barbara Barrie are hilarious as Dave's parents, really adding to the film.Basically this movie, with its beautiful scenery (all filmed in Indiana) and wonderful bike races is about breaking away from the pack in more ways than one - making a decision not just about a career, but how you will tackle life mentally and emotionally. It's a tough lesson but it's well learned.Highly recommended - certainly one of the best films of the '70s. "},{"Title":"Score one for the hometown kids","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Breaking Away is one quirky, but entertaining film. It's the story of four young men in the college town of Bloomington, Indiana. As it is set in a real place in time it's far more than entertaining, it's a serious sociological study of the rust belt Midwest which if anything has gotten a whole lot rustier. The four kids Dennis Christopher, Dennis Quaid, Daniel Stern, and Jackie Earle Haley have grown up in Bloomington in the shadow of the University of Indiana which their parents built out of the limestone quarry that used to be the town's chief employer. Yet the kids feel it forbidden to them. Of course these four look like a singularly unmotivated group.The latter three seem almost resigned to their fate. But Christopher has constructed a fantasy world of his own involving bicycle racing and it's the Italians whom he sees as kings of the sport. He plays Italian opera records, speaks in the pidgin Italian he's learned and that just drives his father Paul Dooley to distraction. Dooley was among the many who used to work in the quarry and now he sells used cars, not a profession with a lot of dignity attached to it and it certainly fits Dooley.In the end though its Dennis Christopher and his fantasies and quirks that affords an opportunity for the group to score a needed victory over the outside visitors temporarily in residence at the college dormitories. Watching Breaking Away I was struck by the fact that Bloomington, Indiana is a microcosm for where I live now. Buffalo, New York was a thriving industrial city where the industry over the last half of the last century just moved away. But Buffalo is also the center of a cluster of colleges and in many ways we've become a giant college town with a lot of students temporarily in residence. Many more locals do go to the colleges here, but are as frustrated as our four protagonists in not finding jobs here. Look at Jackie Earle Haley in a great scene where he reports to work at a carwash.In the end credits the producers thanked the town of Bloomington for its participation in the making of Breaking Away. In truth the town itself is as much a character as any of the human cast members.It might be interesting to do a sequel to Breaking Away in Bloomington to see how it and life have changed there. "},{"Title":"Lesson of the Day Cyclists Get the Women!","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" A coming-of-age story full of humor, warm characters, and bikes. What more could anyone ask for? I call this movie my autobiography as I was actually attending Indiana University when this was filmed. I watched and participated in the filming (I was at the stadium for the final race). I was also a fanatic cyclist and I, too, had delusions of being from somewhere, anywhere else. Instead of Italian I wanted to be French but it's the same psychosis. This is one of the few movies of this genre in which the kids don't get drunk, smoke dope, or get laid...not that I have anything against any of that but in movies they always turn those events into terrible clichs.Peter Yates has made a few great films and this and The Friends of Eddie Coyle are among them. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie for 30 years! Real, normal life, and good life lessons.","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" This is my favorite movie, and has been since about 1983, when I first saw it. Want a movie that's not schmaltzy, but has lots of good, real-life realities and lessons? This is for you. Want to see Dennis Quaid, Daniel Stern, and Dennis Christopher as young actors? This is for you. Want to see life in the late 1970s in a small, but not backward, town--what it was like for those who weren't doing drugs and getting drunk? This is for you. This movie chronicles four guys who've just graduated from Bloomington High (Bloomington, IN, in which the whole film was shot), who've made a pact not to work or do anything for a year. This movie is about growing up, about class divisions between the college-educated and the blue-collar (Bloomington is the home of Indiana University, which plays a big role in the film), and about coming to grips with who you are and what's important in life. This is a sweet, sweet (but not corny or feel-good) movie. Yet, it's not tragic. It's just a very good picture of slice of life as a kid (an old kid) in a safe town. Many lines from this movie summarize truths of life, and I've quoted the movie from the mid-'80s to today. Just watched it again (August 2014), and was once again refreshed. A gem of a movie, indeed. "},{"Title":"Always uplifting and FUN","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Alright, it reminds me of just when I was out of college and EVERYONE was talking about this movie. I saw it and was completely hooked. How can you not like this movie with so many good and young and coming actors?It's a solid story and I met someone from Bloomington Indiana who was so completely wholesome and was amazed that I knew the school song (from this movie).Many sections of the movie are just hilarious. In Austin we didn't have equivalent to 'cutters', but for some reason, the University loved this movie, too.If you've never seen this classic, now's the time to try it out. OK, t takes me back in time, but it's still a hidden classic of the times. "},{"Title":"A pleasantly inspiring film","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I'm not much of a biker, and by that I mean I haven't ridden a bike since I was probably ten, but there's something inspiring about Peter Yates' Breaking Away that almost makes me wish I had kept it up. Breaking Away is about teenager Dave Stoller and his buddies in the small town of Bloomington, Indiana. Dave is obsessed with the Italian cycling team and longs to be Italian, speaking the language and listening to the music. He also vies for the affection of a college girl in an almost Romeo and Juliet fashion. Dave and his friends are what are known as cutters and they are despised by the college students of the town. But this doesn't stop Dave from serenading the beautiful Catherine under his sentimental Italian guise. Breaking Away is a charming film that is plenty of fun to watch.There isn't a whole lot to this film and it doesn't' intend to be much. It isn't hard hitting or dark in any way. It is a very innocent film that isn't much more than a delightful use of an hour and forty minutes of your time. This is a lighthearted film that doesn't demand any sort of harsh criticism or intense focus. Take this film as it is and just enjoy it. It is plenty worth it to just sit through the film, which is fairly short anyways, and enjoy it not as something grand and life changing, just a pleasant little film that has fun with what it's doing and will bring about warm and happy feelings in you if you just take it for what it is.Breaking Away succeeds greatly from a character standpoint as all four of the main characters are plenty likable. They are portrayed excellently by the actors in this film and we really get the sense that these four really are lifetime buds. There really isn't anything to criticize about them as characters. They have their flaws but it makes them human. And thats what this film is more than anything. Human. It is a nice story that doesn't make us think and it doesn't hit hard emotionally, but it can be easily enjoyed as a pleasant story that is believable enough for your typical underdog story.You wont find anything revolutionary or groundbreaking here but you will find a simple and heartfelt story that will please you for the hour and forty minutes that you watch it unfold. There isn't too much more to this film other than just a happy tale of success and friendship. It is well written, well directed, well acted, and is just an all around well put together film. It isn't something I would watch again, but I don't regret giving it a shot. "}{"Title":"a consolidation of feelings","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Many comments for this film describe the small town effect and how this charming comedy captures the feelings of such a place at such a time in teen boys lives.... but what of us others who saw BREAKING AWAY in other countries under completely different conditions? well I ran a little beach side cinema at the time and I was only 24... fresh from college and 5 years out of my own teens. In Australia we so well identified with this film, as we also have with many others like THE OUTSIDERS or RUMBLEFISH or RACING WITH THE MOON or maybe even KISS ME STUPID... but what was universal about this hilarious film is the fact that it captures humorously and generously a true rite of passage for all boys and their well meaning parents.. whether they be wealthy or working class or idyllic Australian... Even though the characters and their parents were not like mine or that of their friends, I somehow felt as though they all were the people I could easily know if I lived somewhere else. THE PAPER CHASE is probably a great sort-of sequel to BREAKING AWAY without that ever having been planned that way. What a great time 1979 was and films like this just made it so. BREAKING AWAY captures the era and the towns and the kids and the country as well as the America everyone elsewhere was interested in. Hot sunny days in Anywhere USA, by the river or at the swimming hole with funny silly friends.... and suddenly it was all over and we had to get serious about working. I ran BREAKING AWAY many times often on hot summer nights at my seaside holiday resort cinema, a small town by the sea with an annual influx of wealthy tourists who only came once a year. Everyone identified with it and they all cheered many times, sitting in a warm cinema with all the doors and shutters open to let a breeze through. BREAKING AWAY makes me love my life and 1979 as much as I loved the films of that year. It is a truly evocative film. The opening scene in the spectacular quarry is an absolute attention getter and the film weaves an elating set of characters and themes and hilarious situations together so well right up to the thrilling bike race climax. A genuine crowd pleaser and a particularly effective film for teens to love watching with their parents. "},{"Title":"Tour De France connection","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" So, as our hero discusses the Tour De France at the end of the movie, there is one thing to consider. One of the Italians is actually John VandeVelde a six-day track racer back in the day and the father of Christian VendeVelde who finished fifth in the 2008 Tour De France. Christian has been a pro cyclist for several years and rode as a domestic for Lance Armstrong helping him win the Tour De France in 1999 and 2001. Christian wore the white jersey as best young rider in 1999. He also finished 3rd in the 2008 Tour of California and wore the leaders jersey in the 2008 Tour of Italy after the first stage. Vive VandeVelde! "},{"Title":"not what I expected at all","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" A friend of mine knows the screen-writer and told me to check out the movie so I did with little expectations and was totally surprised as how good it was. The acting was the most surprising part. I really like everyone and I actually think Dennis Quaid was the weakest. The ending was clich and I knew they were going to win, but that did not matter to me as I watch it. The writing was not quite Oscar caliber in my opinion, but I am not sure who it was up against, but it was not bad. Surprisingly my favorite parts of the movie, was when David was training and the music got me really pumped and going even thought it was classical. I really liked how the soundtrack was timeless and really added to the whole feel of the movie. Maybe I need to be younger to really appreciate the movie, but I still loved it and would not mind watching it again. "},{"Title":"A win for the Cutters is a win for the average American","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Breaking Away was not just surprisingly good, it was surprisingly EXCELLENT. I never thought I would be as intrigued by a movie about life in rural Indiana as I was. The story was well written and the acting was stellar as well. I loved Dave Stoller's character played by Dennis Christopher, and Raymond Stoller (Paul Dooley) was great as the unintentionally funny father.It was a classic tale of the haves and the have-nots with the have-nots being the Cutters. In any other movie I'm sure I would not have watched nor rooted for a cyclist like I did in this movie. You couldn't help but root for the Cutters. They epitomized the typical everyday, blue collar, hard working American and their winning was a win for everyone like them. A great movie. "},{"Title":"One of the most enjoyable film experiences","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I loved this movie from the start. After seeing it in a theater, I caught it every time it played on TV and eventually bought the VHS and then the DVD. This film does what all great films should do-- it creates a world and lets you come in and live there for awhile. Each character is so strongly drawn that you really feel you know them. The story is almost irrelevant. You just go along for the ride (on a bicycle, of course)and observe human nature. The Midwest setting is also a bonus. It is nice to see a film set in Indiana rather than California or New York.The father-son relationship is revealing and comical without being trite. The buddies are like the guys you may have grown up with, flawed and somewhat stupid at times, but loyal and goodhearted. I don't want to say too much about the story because you need to just sit back and get into it on your own. You may end up buying your own copy, too. "},{"Title":"Best American film after 1960s","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" An excellent film - outstanding.It is very romantic, idealistic - but also very true. The movie captures the essence of Bloomington Indiana - ordinary, Midwestern - the economy always down, regular folks trying to make the best of things and near bye there are.....rich College kids.I loved this movie, my favorite American movie since 1960. Gives us all hope that regulear American folks can dream great dreams and win great victories.View this movie and give some abuse to Italian bicycle professionals who cheat the young Midwestern Indiana romantic.-) "},{"Title":"Classic symbolism, use of metaphor (scene spoiler)","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Presently there are many American coming-of-age films that deal with a youth's disenchantment of the world they live in, and the violence youth create against society to show that intolerance and resentment. I also think that every film should have at least one scene (or shot) that can crystallize the emotions and feelings of it's characters. Present juvenile/youth films, I feel, lack particular scenes and good acting that can crystallize the impact of a film. One film from the past that does use a particular scene (or shot) to crystallize the feelings of the disenchanted youth, which can also be represented in one non-violent scene(or shot), is Dennis Quaid's honest portrayal of Mike from the 1979 coming-of-age film of four Indiana high-school friends, Breaking Away. (Scene Spoiler) In the scene where Mike, Dave, Mooch and Cyril are watching the Indiana University football team practice in the IU stadium, director Peter Yates uses them as metaphor to represent the growing number of working, disenchanted, non-college-bound-youth being on the outside track, wishing they could afford the luxury of college and to be on the inside track. The impact of this metaphor is greatest on Mike (Dennis Quaid), who was the star quarterback for the high school football team. As Mike is watching the IU scrimmage, the sun is setting in the background between the rafters of the dark and towering IU stadium. I believe Yates used the symbolism of the setting sun as a metaphor to represent the four main character's own lives--once bright and full of golden promise; to that of a towering and growing darkness, leading to feelings of frustration, anger and despair. An effective, non-violent scene/shot (made over 25 years ago) that is true yesterday, true today and true tomorrow in summarizing America's struggling youth. (When I first saw this film in 1979, I drove a 1970 gold Buick Skylark--like Mike's car--except mine was a four-door. I had just graduated from high school and went to state college. After seeing the film a couple years ago on cable, it really brought me back to my youth and the summer and fall of 1979. Whenever I view it on DVD, it still makes me reminisce about my youth--remember the Little River Band?). "},{"Title":"So true, so true, so true","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I have a difficult time watching movies, because I am aware of the production going on, the cameras in the background, and all the artificial ingredients needed to create a film. But this movie is so real that it makes me completely forget everything except the characters themselves. Perhaps this movie came about at the exact time in my life when I was breaking away, I don't know, but the script and the portrayal are brilliant. One expects the main character, Dave Stoller, to be the lead in the film, but truthfully, everyone is a lead in the film, and Paul Dooley-as Dave's father, is an absolute gem. The 'refund' sequence when he's laying in bed kills me every time! But the speech he gives about what it is like to be a cutter could have come from the mouth of my own father. It is a true delight of a film that should be on anyone's top 10-or top 5 list for that matter, and to this day it still blows me away! "},{"Title":"Heart warming","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Breaking Away is a movie that never gets tiresome to watch. It is simply good clean fun and it is a pleasure to see such a well thought out and well acted movie. The characters are part of our adolescent past and crowd our memories with the struggles that most of us had in bridging that difficult gap between childhood and I wish I was a kid again.The cast of characters for the movie is as good as it gets and the tension the movie portrays, from parents, siblings and personal friends, in the difficult task of making major life decisions (you're not a quarterback here Mike) is pretty special.I wouldn't make more of the movie than it is. It is a simple story that is universal in its application, well told and well acted. "},{"Title":"an all-time classic","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" This film, made and filmed around Bloomington, Indiana is one of those hidden-away gems. You won't always find it at your local DVD store, nor is it likely to pop up on TV much these days. But...put simply, it is one of the best movies I've ever seen. Strong performances all-round from the cast make it even more enjoyable. It is really just the story of four guys, recently out of high school, who are struggling with the what's next ? part of their lives. They are in no hurry to enter the local college, for many reasons, but the main one is so that the 'group' isn't split up. I could go on and on about the plot..but it's easy to follow, and set against an inspiring soundtrack, this film will leave you with that 'feel-good' feeling that SO many movies promise these days, but rarely deliver. I have watched it many times, and I always gain something new from it each time. Do yourself a favor and check it out !!Ken South Australia "}{"Title":"One of the most entertaining, inspirational stories i have seen","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Yates' film about a hard-working bike athlete (Christopher), who achieves a lot. The story is well-written, one of those rare 70s dramas that really kept me interested. The direction is decent as well, not the best, but decent. I liked the acting, Quaid and Christopher were both good in their roles in the younger days of their careers. I liked Dooley and Douglass in their supporting roles as well. The film was very interesting had good acting, told a very inspiring story, and was just good solid American-film-making from the late 70s. I loved the use of music, whether original or not in this flick, yates's direction was great, he knew how to do this genre, built it up great, not a letdown, great film. 9/10 #156 on my list of all-time favorite films "},{"Title":"Excellente'","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I can remember watching this movie on television as a teenager, only because it was filmed 50 miles from my hometown. I was immediately caught up in the life of David Stoller and his cutter friends. I actually cried when his world came crashing down, as if it was my own life, although I related most to Moocher.What a great movie! A classic. I just added the DVD to my collection.Watching it now, doesn't evoke the same emotions as it did more than 20 years ago, but it is like a slice of life from my childhood. The limestone houses, the spring-fed swimming hole, Sycamore trees, ten speeds and childhood angst all take me back to my younger days, growing up in Hoosier land. Thank you, Peter Yates. "},{"Title":"awesome movie! (contains possible spoilers)","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is a really really great movie...anyone who hasn't seen it I really suggest you do! It's just awesome and is one my alltime favourites. Dennis Christopher is great (and hot;)) in his role as Dave Stoller. He is absolutely hilarious when he is pretending to be Italian, whether it be by singing opera or practicing Italian phrases. The parenst in this movie are also very funny, especially the dad. Dennis Quad is another star in this excellent movie. I honestly can't think of any bad things to say about this movie. There are a lot of good laughs, yummy guys, and an interesting plot. Defintely worth watching! It's old, but very very good! Definately a 10+/10! "},{"Title":"The Italians are coming!","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  What more can one add to the comments already listed for this little gem.  The performances are down to earth without a weak spot throughout.Some may say that this film really comes across as dated (it is truly the late seventies), but that is beside the point. What makes this one stand out is the writing.  It holds true, line for line.  It tells us what a great writing talent Steve Tesich really was and that perhaps his best was yet to come. His premature death precluded all of that.  If you have never seen this movie I sincerely advise you to get a copy and on a lazy Sunday afternoon alone plop yourself on the couch and watch.9.0/10  Go you cutters!   Enough said. "},{"Title":"Personal Favourite","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"   Breaking Away has long been a personal favourite film. It tells the story of a group of friends in small town America, a town with a rock quarry and a university. This sets of a class struggle of sorts in the young adults which serves as the back drop for the film - the students look down in the Cutters, drop outs who are destined for a life of being a stone cutter.Dennis Christopher stars as Dave, a young man who escapes this life by pretending to be Italian. His passion in life is cylcing. His friends represent the gammit of drop outs Moocher, who lives up to his name, Mike (Dennis Quaid) who is angry all the time and Cyril (Daniel Stern) who plays the happy-go-lucky type. Dave falls in love with a young student at the university, but as his Italian alter-ego. He charms her with his phony accent and his made up stories of life in a fishing village. This leads to inevitable confrontations with the girls boyfriend and with the girl herself and his charade become too much to handle.Dave's parents are brilliantly portrayed by Paul Dooley and Barbara Harris. Dooley is the confused, stressed-out used car salesman who is convinced his son is insane. (He's shaving...his legs!). Hershey was nominated for an Oscar for her role as the always supportive but at the same time worrisome mother who wants what's best for her child.Breaking Away was a surprise hit and nominee for Best Picture, picking up and Oscar for Original Screenplay. It is a timeless coming of age story that is touching and funny, and wonderfully original, creating characters we truly get to know and care about.  **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"It's still brilliant!","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I loved it in 1980 when I saw it and fell in love with the spirit of Dennis Christopher's character as well as Dennis!  And today in 2003, I dearly want to see it again and I wld love to add it to my movie collection. When I saw Dennis Christopher and Paul Dooley (who played the father) together in a recent episode of Law & Order Criminal Intent AS father and son again, it brought up all my fond memories and makes me want to see it again EVEN MORE and DEFINITELY add it to my collection!  It also remains as the one and only great film of (road)cycling.  "},{"Title":"a really great movie!","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  this is such a great movie. the characters all have such diverse personalities but they all come together in the end!  it shows one how if you truly believe in yourslef and don't let anyone dictate who you are one can soar! i highly reccomend this movie if you want to laugh and be onspired and just have agood time. that father is that absolutely funniest character i have ever seen! GET THIS MOVIE TONIGHT!  "},{"Title":"Family film","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is almost like a family home movie for me in many ways; I knew Steve Tesich when he lived in Colorado and worked with him on several charity projects; my stepmother's family owned the house in Bloomington in which the main character lived; and her brother-in-law was a race announcer (for the Cinzano race).All that aside, this is a fun, happy movie that everyone can enjoy. "},{"Title":"To be oneself, apart from one's origins, and yet to embrace them still","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I love this film, as much now as I did at 20 when it originally debuted.I have to agree that the heart of this film is Paul Dooley's absolutely wonderful performance as the father.  He's one of our best character actors (more recently used to great effect in Insomnia) and in Breaking Away, his many gifts are most readily apparent.All the best lines are his, and many of the best moments.  The itti food scene, in the hands of a lesser actor, could easily have crumbled into stereotype.  He always has a wink at the audience to let them know there is humor and warmth under each line.The film is best summed up, I think, when Dennis Christopher is spurred by events in the movie (no spoilers) to expiate his sins and embrace his own heritage (in a scene that shows American working class WASP social roles defined by their jobs).  Christopher proclaims, I'm a cutter.  And Dooley replies, No.  I'M a cutter.  In other words, he can be whatever he wishes to be, even if it includes itti food.Barbara Barrie should also be remembered as his mom. "},{"Title":"I'm proud of being a cutter.","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  A movie about self esteem, growing up, and taking the chances that make the difference between heroes and ordinary men.  Its no mistake that this movie is about a cyclist (as opposed to a basketball or other sport).  Cycling is the most demanding sport created in history, and the true heroes of the sport are men like Dave who ignore the elitism, the false confidence, and prevail based on honesty and work.  I think it's the best movie made from 79 to 99.  Live free or die. "}{"Title":"I Wanted To Be Dave Stoller","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie inspired me to be cyclist.  I was about 11 years old when I first saw it, and watched it religiously on tape at age 15.  Dave Stoller was the character I wanted to be.  It is a fun movie about friendship, family, relationships and above all life.  It is a must see. "},{"Title":"When I saw this movie in 1983 at BYU, little did I know...","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This move is a grand Us against Them battle with an fitting, truthful mix of the typical, healthy pain caused by experiencing and living through life's mistakes and uncontrollable events.When I saw this movie in 1983 at BYU, little did I know I would marry a cutter's granddaughter and move to the town where this move was filmed! This film is a very truthful portrayal of life in this town townies versus Indiana University, us against them.  A major chasm separates these groups, though the IU group does not acknowledge its existence; truly, only those who straddle the two groups see the division.  This movie is the tale of one young man's attempt to live in both groups.  It is applicable to all. "},{"Title":"You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll never forget","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is such an amazing film. The great ensemble includes a brilliant performance by Paul Dooley, who is a treasured film icon in my opinion(just watch his guest spots on the current television show The Practice). Also in the mix are early looks at Dennis Quaid and Daniel Stern. The story is heartfelt,fun,inspirational and very universal. The final bike racing sequence is an adventurous and glorious experience. Every time I come across this film i can't help but to watch from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Bicycling Drama.","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Four young friends(played by Dennis Christopher, Dennis Quaid, Daniel Stern, and Jackie Earle Haley) who live in the college town of Bloomington Indiana struggle to find purpose in their lives, as they are disrespected by the more wealthy kids of the nearby college, with whom they have periodic brawls. One of them, named Dave, is a dedicated bicyclist who has an obsession with the Italian racing team, who will be coming soon for a big race. Dave is so taken with them that he pretends to speak(and be) Italian, much to his parents(played by Paul Dooley and Barbara Barrie) chagrin. His outlook will change with a new romance and first-hand exposure to the Italians...Original drama is certainly offbeat and funny in places, though also stretches credibility and patience after a while. Still, a nice(if slight) film that became a sleeper hit. "},{"Title":"1979's Answer to Little Miss Sunshine","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" One of those little films that could, Breaking Away is a competitive cycling version of Little Miss Sunshine a group of lovable underdogs go up against the rich privileged kids and you want to see them win with all your heart.It's low key and unambitious, but breezy and utterly enjoyable. A bunch of actors who would later become regular faces -- like Dennis Quaid, Daniel Stern and Jackie Earle Haley -- appear looking impossibly young, and the wonderful actor Paul Dooley, along with Barbara Barrie (Oscar-nominated) do nice work as a mom and dad. Instead of the original score or pop songs you might expect on the soundtrack, the film is instead set to a bunch of rousing classical pieces.A fun and lovable movie.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Don't forget to punch the clock,shorty!","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  First off Bloomington is where I grew up. And watching breaking away gives me a longing feeling for my home town. This movie well not entirely accurate about bloomington is plain and simple a bloomington thing. No where is this movie remembered like it is in good ole B-town. This is the only movie ever filmed in our town, it's the only movie to take place there so we love it.All that asidethe movie is sweet little sleeper that is worth watching for the dialogue alone. Some of the acting by the minor characters is painful yes, but all the main cast do awesome. The witty dialogue is enough to make for an enjoyable movie. I don't think enough can be said about Paul Dooley as the dad or Daniel Stern. Both have me laughing with almost every line they spoke.Breaking away is a great little movie about a great town. "},{"Title":"Breaking Away is a 1979 classic","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie from 1979 is a classic and an inventive one for its day. It is an early cinema with Dennis Quaid that is reminiscent of the Romeo and Juliet theme in West Side Story.  The music is appropriate, and the stage business is creative and and attractive to watch.  I gave it a 10. "},{"Title":"fine coming of age movie","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Best friends Dave (Dennis Christopher), Mike (Dennis Quaid), Cyril (Daniel Stern) and Moocher (Jackie Earle Haley) are aimless working class recent high school graduates in the college town of Bloomington, Indiana. Dave's obsession with bicycling and Italian leaves his father confounded. The guys swim in the abandoned quarry. The college kids call them Cutters for the workers who cut the limestone to build the colleges. Mike is the former quarterback angry at the rich college kids since college is always beyond him. Dave falls for college girl Katherine while pretending to be an Italian student.Dennis Christopher is ostensibly the lead actor. His character is a little too naive. Dennis Quaid delivers the most powerful performance. His swimming race with the college kid at the quarry is a highlight. There are some funny moments centering mostly with Dave and his Italian obsession. This isn't the newer National Lampoon SNL type of humor. It's gentle and sweet. Paul Dooley is hilarious playing the father. There are great touching moments. This is a fine coming of age movie. "},{"Title":"Apart from some unlikable main characters, a very good film.","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" When Breaking Away debuted in 1979, it made quite a splash. It was a 'small' film that suddenly broke out from the crowd--gaining a lot of critical attention as well as an Oscar. Now, over 30 years later, I decided to watch the film for a second time--mostly because I barely remember it and because it's an important film from this era.The film is about a group of young high school graduates who are not going to college, aren't particularly interested in working and are afraid of growing up. Additionally, they seem to have a chip on their shoulders, as these so-called 'Cutters' are jealous of the local college students. As for the students, they seem to feel the Cutters are beneath them. One way that these so-called losers can finally feel important involves an upcoming bicycle race--and David (Dennis Christopher) hopes to prove something to himself and the community. Can he and his three working-class friends (including Dennis Quaid and Daniel Stern) somehow end up winners? While a lot of folks adore this coming of age story, I felt very mixed about it. It was exceptional and some of it I really liked (Paul Dooley's character was great as was Barbara Barrie's), but some I didn't. I particularly had difficulty caring for the kids. The Cutters seemed like jerks--as were the college students. Making any sort of connection with them was tough for me. But, the film did combine nice music, a rousing finale and a lot of nice sports clichs into an enjoyable, though perhaps slightly overrated film. "},{"Title":"A sweet little masterpiece... Correction Cast list is incomplete.","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" It's certainly daunting to compile accurate information on a motion picture... Especially, by those folks who probably have not actually seen it. Dennis Quaid did go on to a very successful career after his strong showing in this wonderful little film. Often depicted as the best motion picture ever made to date about bicycling, this film's real impact is in its presentation of the awkwardly funny subject of masculine post adolescence. What's interesting here, is that there is no mention of Randy Quaid, either credited, or uncredited as a police officer, and character Mike's older brother. Of course Randy is Dennis Quaid's older brother in real life. But for some reason, he has been left off the credits for Breaking away. OK, I admit it, I am an avid cyclist. But, really that has little to do with the fact that I can watch this endearing film over and over again. Like Harvey, Rear Window, Paper Moon, The Big Sleep, Key Largo, Casablanca, etc. It's a real 10, and like some of these other films, it's perfection was a complete accident. "}{"Title":"The 'Napoleon Dynamite' of its time","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" 25 years before Napoleon Dynamite was released, another film about kids coming of age in a small town was in the big screen cinema. That movie was called Breaking Away. Ironically both movies were released by FOX.Like Napoleon Dynamite, Breaking Away was also shot in the same small town in which the movie took place rather than some sound stage in Hollywood. Rather than Preston, Idaho; the town ND takes place, Breaking... takes place in the town of Bloomington, Indiana.The outcasts in this film called Cutters and were fair game to a group of college students that attend the local University in town, and came from other parts of the country and even the world. You see chances are that the Cutters would not go to college and would stick to their blue collar lifestyle for the rest of their days. Some collage kids look down upon this.The Cutters would face off with these college snobs (and then some) in the town's annual bike race (Little 500). The best rider is Dave Stoller (played by Dennis Christopher) who tries to mimic the Italians (and driving his parents, neighbors, and even his friends crazy in the process) in his attempt to become one of the best cyclist in the nation if not the world. Dennis Quaid was on his way to becoming a movie star by portraying the though cutter and leader of the group Mike.The big difference between the Napoleon Dynamite and Breaking Away is that this movie had more of a plot.If you saw Napoleon Dynamite then I recommend you check out Breaking Away. "},{"Title":"could identify and hope for the young","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" had fun from the beginning and was awake to the end. Everyone hopes for the young. This is full of hope and some fear for them too. Parents can see themselves in the time slot of young and old. Hopes and fears. For themselves in the off springs and desires to give back to youth some of the lessons used in life. In failure and in success and dreams. The spoils of dreams the spoils of failure. Out of which come the hope for the future. Loved the acting and being able to see famous actors as they were starting out. Even the not so famous and the promise of them as portraits of real life. Would certainly see again. Love the Hoosier type movies and the battle of the little guy against the odds. "},{"Title":"Lots of talent underscoring false realism...","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Four young men in Bloomington, Indiana have yet to find their niche after graduating high school. The central kid (Dennis Christopher) is an unemployed ne'er-do-well obsessed with Italian culture and bicycle racing; he argues with his father over the direction of his life while training for the next bike race and attempting to woo a college lass under a false identity. Although writer Steve Tesich won an Oscar for his original screenplay, and the cast is full of solid talent, this little movie is merely pleasant instead of being remarkable. The early scenes (especially one with Paul Dooley overacting as Christopher's Pop) are full of expository dialogue, the kind of bogus conversations you might hear in a pilot episode for a TV sitcom (That boy should be in college! ... He doesn't want to go to college!). Producer-director Peter Yates isn't entranced by the sight of bicycle riders coming over a country road on a misty morning; he's far too literal in his approach to these small-towners, and there's no art in his presentation. It's humdrum enough to nearly make audiences think they're seeing something substantial and evocative. They're not. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Info in lead character's info is somewhat incorrect...","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Concerning the lead character's info, about him graduating from the parochial high school in Philadelphia in 1968, I feel that info could be incorrect. Reason he was born in 1955 and that would have made him graduate from high school in either 1973 or 1974, not in 1968 - which would have made him roughly 13 years old. In other words, he is either older than what his birth date is listed as or he actually graduated with his age group. And, it appears that all the actors in the film - with the exception of Jackie Earle Haley, are older than the characters they play. What do you think? Do you agree that the info of the lead character's high school graduation date is incorrect and should be changed? "},{"Title":"Once A Cutter,Always A Cutter!!","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I was at the exit 5 Beacon in Indianapolis. I was talking to the driver who had his truck in the south bay. He was telling me that he only had one speeding ticket in his whole driving career. He was driving near Bloomington. He was pacing a young bicyclist. he got up to 60 mph,when smokey pulled him over for speeding. I asked,I thought you guys,back in the day, got extra points for hitting a bicyclist.So,When the kids in Bloomington get bored,they go to Terra Haute to find some kicks instead of Indianapolis. If this is true,how come Bloomingtons own Johnny Cougar didn't do a song or a video about this fact. By the way,was Johnny Cougar there for the shoot of Breaking Away? Why wasn't Indiana basketball legend Bobby Knight in this movie?An Unknown Actor drives the Peterbuilt 18 wheeler.That Unnkown Actor is a permanent A list actor!! Barbara Barrie,Robyn Douglas,Amy Wright,Lisa Shure, and Jennifer Mickel are hot!!!---One Truck Drivers Opinion---erldwgstruckermovies.com "},{"Title":"Okay, but nothing special","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" When BREAKING AWAY started, I got the feeling it was going to be one of those movies that was like ANIMAL HOUSE or PORKY'S. I don't know why I thought so, but I did. Well, it turns out BREAKING AWAY is nothing like ANIMAL HOUSE or PORKY'S. It's totally different. That said, I was not crazy about the movie. I didn't hate it, yet I didn't love it either. My main problem with it was that I cared more about the supporting characters than I did about the main character. The story focuses on David most of the time, but I wanted more focus on the lives of Mike and Cyril. I also would have liked to see more of John Ashton as Mike's brother. Another downside, Moocher got to me. I didn't care for him. I don't know if it was the character that bugged me or if it was the actor that bugged me. Maybe it was both. Also, despite getting an Academy Award nomination for her role, Barbara Barrie wasn't given a whole lot to do with her role. She just sat there in a number of scenes with about three lines in each. I am surprised she got nominated for the role and yet Paul Dooley was not nominated for his role. He was certainly the highlight of the film.Technically speaking, BREAKING AWAY is a good movie. The directing, editing, and cinematography is very well done, especially in the bike riding scenes. However, that is not enough for me to recommend BREAKING AWAY. It simply just wasn't altogether interesting and failed to impress me. The ending was too predictable as was the rest of the movie. I don't like predictability in movies and this is as predictable as they come. ** "},{"Title":"What an absolute waste of time!!","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This had to be one of the all-time stupid movies ever made.  It was on the Bravo channel, which should have been a tipoff that it would be weird and artsy.  Four overgrown little boys run around acting stupid and wasting their time, one of them imagining that he's a blond Italian opera singer or something!  I can't imagine why the movie was made, much less how it could receive the high rating IMDB shows for it. "}]