[{"Title":"Offbeat Comedy About Love and Sex à la Bertrand Blier","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"45 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What might seem an already risqué love triangle between two misogynous men (Depardieu and Dewaere, repeating their successful teaming of Les Valseuses) and a pathologically passive woman (Carole Laure) develops into a REALLY unconventional love quartet when a 13 year-old boy (Riton) is thrown into the story and wins the woman's sexual and emotional favors over the grown men, and nothing turns out quite the way one would expect.Good reasons to see this movie A) cliché-free, offbeat satire with brilliant dialog and surprise turns everywhere (director/writer Blier's specialty is, of course, épater la bourgeoisie, e.g. Les Valseuses, Tenue de Soirée, Trop Belle pour Toi); B) young, fit, ugly-handsome Depardieu's rounded performance; C) a very different approach to love and sex in movies, unlike the usual everyday stuff; D) wonderful Michel Serrault.Favorite sequences the opening scene at the restaurant, in which the offbeat dialog states at once this is not another love story (very honest of Blier to show his cards early on); the cheese war sequence; Serrault extracting all the information he wants from Riton's mother with one single question; Riton's young mates asking him about how it feels like to make love to a woman (Are there hairs inside?, they ask). Minor letdowns the so-so ending; Carole Laure's rather blunt approach to her apparently blunt but wonderful role (imagine Isabelle Huppert doing it!!); Riton's utter lack of appeal (he had a physique reminiscent of Benoît Ferreux, the boy in Louis Malle's Le Soufflé au Coeur/Murmur of the Heart, but not an ounce of his charm). As a footnote, it's interesting to remember that this film won the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, which tells a lot about how much more open-minded American movie industry people were in the 1970s. Giving an Oscar to a similar film today would be unthinkable in sexually neo-prudish Hollywood of the 2000s(an adult woman falling for a 13 year-old boy WHILE being the lover of two other men!). Recommended for viewers who enjoy unconventional story-telling and, well, unconventional sexual situations spiced with a subversive sense of humor. "},{"Title":"A refreshing and surprisingly intelligent look at the perils of relationships","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Get Our Your Handkerchiefs is a funny little film about the need for sexual gratification and all the insecurities and absurdities it entails. The humor is unapologetically raunchy, and yet the story retains all the sophistication of something by Lubitsch. But it's also quite touching; the dismal woman, it turns out, only wanted someone she could identify with, someone who felt the same need for intellectual companionship that was masked by her sexual dissatisfaction. The solution is provided by a 13-year-old wunderkind who, unlike the husband or his friend, knows how to relate to the woman, and their relationship is far more real and convincing that any other in the story. Bertrand Blier constructed a film that questions and ultimately debunks nearly every `rule' on relationships, and provides more than a few belly laughs along the way. In a nutshell, Get Our Your Handkerchiefs is one of the few sex comedies out there that actually has something to say about sex. "},{"Title":"prepare to be challenged","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If your ideas about sexual relations are fixed, don't see this film. Bertrand Blier turns everything upside down.  No clichés here.  This is relational anarchy at its most challenging.  It's moving, it's stimulating and it is very well acted.  Les valseuses was equally anarchic, but its tendency was rather unsympathetic.  In Les valseuses, Depardieu and Dewaere were highly unlikeable.  Here they are very likeable, and Carol Laure is beautiful in all her passivity. "},{"Title":"A Curious Tale of Giving and Needing","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Get Out Your Handkerchiefs is an excellent piece of storytelling and a refreshing film. It flows freely and is full of interesting and  engaging twists, one of which is surprising but serves well in tying it all together.Gerard Depardieu and Patrick Dewaere play two gentlemen at the mercy of an oddly ailing woman, Solange. Doctors are no help, and the two men obviously mean little to her, but they keep at it and decide that what she needs is a child, which she cannot give birth to.Things happen and as the story unfolds, it brings the viewer in closer and examines happiness from an offbeat angle. If nothing else, Get Out Your Handkerchiefs is fun and engaging and should not be missed.  "},{"Title":"French Twist","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Describing the plot of this film is rather pointless, since it reads in black and white rather absurdly, even for a comedy. But it works! The acting is great, (including a handsome and youthful Depardieu before he turned into a sloppy behemoth), the jokes are funny and the direction and camerawork make you feel like you've been dropped into a Van Gogh. What I like about French movies or at least what i used to like, was their ability to transport you into their wonderful culture for the duration of the film. Over the past 20 years however, French cinema for many dynamic cultural and economic reasons, has slowly allowed its identity to slip away. If you've never been to France or are just yearning to take a return trip for 90 minutes or so, this film will give you as good a taste of the French way and outlook on life, as a 2 week Frommers trip. "},{"Title":"An altogether different brand of romantic comedy","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After stumbling on Beau Pere (1981) earlier this year, basically by accident, I enjoyed it so much I wanted to see more by this French director, Bertrand Blier. Get Out Your Handkerchiefs (1978) was said to have similar themes, and I had actually heard of it before- as an Oscar winner for Best Foreign Film. But the title suggesting a sappy romance had put me off on seeing it before I saw Beau Pere.Sappy romance? Well, it's nothing off the sort. The film revolves around Solange, played by French Canadian Carole Laure, who's suffering an inexplicable deep depression with a range of negative symptoms. Her husband, Raoul, thinks an open marriage might cheer her up and enlists a stranger named Stéphane (Patrick Dewaere from Beau Pere) to be her lover.Now, unlike some, the concept of open marriage doesn't quite shock me. What's really humorously puzzling is that when Solange seems uninterested in an affair, Raoul insists on it. Even when Stéphane doesn't think it's very wise, either. Both men, as well as a neighbour grocer, become a team working on Solange, trying to cure her of her depression, puzzling about women. Earlier in the film, Raoul pulls a woman off the street to ask her about the situation; she later drops out of the movie, but it might have been funny to see her stick with the group, making the team puzzling over Solange even bigger.Half-way through the movie, Raoul, Stéphane and Solange work in a boys' summer camp, where they meet a 13-year-old prodigy, Christian. From here, the movie is mainly about Christian and Solange, with Raoul and Stéphane dropping to supporting roles- a little jarring at first, maybe. It's here where the movie shares a theme with Beau Pere, but with gender roles reversed- Christian and Solange become taboo lovers, and later, Solange and her team kidnap him, with Christian going willingly.Now, of course hebephilia and statutory rape are sensitive topics these days, but as with Beau Pere, I don't think Blier's movie is defending it all that much. It's obvious Solange isn't in the best state of mental health, and when Raoul and Stéphane bitterly walk away after serving 6 months in jail, they realize the whole thing wasn't worth it. Get Out Your Handkerchiefs is altogether a quirky, unique, and often funny movie. What I'm really left wondering about is the character of Solange- who is she, and how did she get the way she is? None of the characters can say for sure, they're not even sure if she's smart or just plain dumb. It's said many times her depression is a result of having no kid, but why did she have a mental block against being pregnant? Ultimately, the audience is left to wonder along with Raoul and Stéphane while listening to Mozart and maybe sipping on a drink. Merci, Mozart. "},{"Title":"Complex, very funny, sad, very French look at love and sexual dynamics","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Complex, very funny, sad, very French look at love and sexual dynamics, with terrific acting all around. Gerard Depardieu plays a man who truly loves his wife, but can't understand her or her depression. So he decides to get her a lover to cheer her up. But it doesn't work, and now two men are bewitched and befuddled by the sad, repressed Solange. Ultimately only a love affair with a 13 year old boy &#x96; who in many ways is the most mature character in the film &#x96; gives her joy. Transgressive, uncomfortable, and tweaking both sides of the war of the sexes equally; men are fools who can only look at women through a narrow prism, and women are complex and weird to the point of absurdity, this is a film that makes me laugh and cringe (in a good way) in equal measure. "},{"Title":"very clever and interesting story","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" That movie has give me lot of fun. It is indeed sometimes a little dull but it keeps me alive till the end. In my opinion that movie has got something in it - the feeling that sometimes it may happen for sure. Also in our society. I think it is a actual topic also with been mature or getting to it. The movie contains problems from usual life, depression and other facts that everyone has got a contact with it in their life. Préparez vos mouchoirs is the movie for people with open mind and different view for the life and surrounding problems during our life. Maybe it has got a clue for that kind of problems? Very brave clues indeed but the life is short and we must have fun of it. Everyone must have. "},{"Title":"A farce of farces...with classic new wave cutting=Good Time","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is wonderful.  Blier brings classic elements of French farce films into cuttings that remind me of Melville.  He does a wonderful job of developing Solange, Raoul, and Stephane as caricatures...giving the viewer great understanding of how these characters will react in future situation. The eratic behaviors are completely acceptable on the same terms that the wild cuts...from dinner table to summer camp, and opening in a restaurant with no frame of reference...forces one to become involved in the story. So many Hollywood films 'do the work for you' so to speak.  This leaves the movie experience stale.  I'm not going to get involved in a film unless the director invites me to do so.  Blier certainly does that.  And the Mozart concerto helps.  Gervase de Brumer. "},{"Title":"Before Rushmore","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is quite similar to the American film Rushmore, in that both films portray sensitive, intelligent young teen boys becoming infatuated with adult women twice their age. Major difference Blier the guts that the director of Rushmore did not have.Rushmore, like most films about teen boys having crushes on older women, took the easy way out. The boy falls madly in love with his teacher, but the romance is never consummated. Instead, he encourages her, at the end of the film, to continue her affair with a much older married man. So, the message is the older men have the right to take advantage of younger women, yet not vice versa?In Blier's film, the relationship of boy and his adult crush is consummated. Therefore, the film breaks the mold. Rushmore merely follows a traditional (and just plain worn out) plot pattern.  "}{"Title":"The ancient tale of the king who wanted to make his daughter smile comes somewhat alive in this Bertrand Blier film.","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" At different stages of our lives, we have all heard about the ancient tale of the mentally agitated king who wanted to make his daughter smile at all costs as she was feeling sad. This king was willing to do anything, pay any price to the man who would bring a smile on his daughter's face. Watching Get Out Your Handkerchiefs, one gets the feeling that this ancient tale has come alive before our very own eyes albeit with minor differences. Préparez Vos Mouchoirs is the modern day narrative about a hapless man who would go to any extent to render his wife pregnant as she is unable to bear any child from him. French director Bertrand Blier is famous for films where sex or sexual lives of his protagonists amalgamate with other existential themes. One watches with amusement the tug of war between two leading men, Patrick Dewaere-an intellectual with a beard who is a big classical music fan versus Gérard Depardieu-an ordinary person. In many ways, this film is the perfect example of the maturity of French cinema and its audiences as it is not so easy for any national cinema to handle the theme of sexuality when a child is involved. Hence it is not easy for viewers to decide whether this film is a classical case of being a pure work of fiction or a film influenced by reality. Whatever one might state, Préparez Vos Mouchoirs is the only film where a kid scores well than adult men in the field of sex. "},{"Title":"If you can make her laugh, she's yours.","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An Oscar winner for Best Foreign Film, a Golden Globe nominee, and a César winner for the music, this film is said to be what Rushmore wasn't.Raoul (a very young looking Gérard Depardieu) is a husband who is trying to make his wife Solange (Carole Laure) happy. he thinks he can do it by arranging for Stéphane (Patrick Dewaere) to go to bed with her. She really could care less about either of them.This absurd comedy just keeps getting funnier as the two try everything to improve her disposition. Nothing works. They even bring the neighbor (Michel Serrault) in on their adventure. The three of them eat and discuss her situation while she sleeps peacefully.It is when they go out to the country to work in a camp for poor children that they find Christian (Riton Liebman, a 13-year-old in his first film), a genius who finally makes her laugh.It gets really funny when they can't remember who slept with her last night, and she suggests that she sleep alone. They really don't mind, as their friendship is now more important than her problem.She ends up sleeping with Christian, and natures takes it's course. Well, she was no match for his superior intellect and he played on her emotions until he got what he wanted.If it is possible, the film gets more absurd toward the ending. It was hilarious throughout, but the ending was magnificent.Every actor in this film was superb! "},{"Title":"GET OUT YOUR HANDKERCHIEFS (Bertrand Blier, 1978) ***","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This Best Foreign-Language Film Oscar winner from France is quite atypical material for such an accolade (though, admittedly, there was not much competition that year) not only is it a sex comedy, but a potentially controversial one involving both a ménage-a'-trois and paedophelia (hence, the title's suggestion of sentimentality could not be farther off the mark)! Being familiar with the equally 'naughty' GOING PLACES (1974) from the same team of writer-director Blier and male stars Gerard Depardieu and Patrick Dewaere, I knew more or less what to expect the end result, then, is just as entertaining (and overstretched) but also, perhaps, a tad superior. Genuinely original and undeniably very funny, the films sees husband-and-wife Depardieu and Carole Laure going through a crisis because of the latter's perennial depression and resultant frigidity; the former sees a way out by asking perfect stranger Dewaere to become her lover, in the hope of relighting the woman's dormant passion. Still, while the two like each other, they begin to mope over their disservice to Depardieu and, soon, it's back to square one for Laure! The narrative takes an episodic form, wherein the trio first meet a flustered green-grocer &#150; a pre-LA CAGE AUX FOLLES (1978) Michel Serrault &#150; and manage to turn him into a lover of classical music (Dewaere is a Mozart devotee') and, later, a precocious teenage camper (Dewaere is also an instructor of Physical Education) who, picked on by his peers for being the son of an industrialist, is taken under her wing by Laure&#133;and ends up being the one to provide sexual gratification for the unemotional woman, even getting her pregnant! The male stars &#150; who find themselves bonding amid such an unusual turn-of-events &#150; are delightful as the perplexed but earnest lovers; Laure, however, has the difficult task of balancing attractiveness with an ordinary and downright sickly demeanor. Perhaps the biggest visual gags involve the identical sweaters worn by most of the male principals from time to time (Laure gets over her particular hang-ups through knitting in the nude!) as well as the reaction of the boy's parents to his escapade &#150; the mother becomes an amnesiac when she overturns with her car on giving chase (and eventually hooks up with Serrault!) and, following the son's announcement of Laure's impending motherhood by his doing (the woman having ultimately taken employment/residence in their house), the father is reduced to a wheelchair-bound vegetable. Incidentally, the very next day after watching GET OUT YOUR HANDKERCHIEFS, I acquired another well-regarded Blier/Depardieu title i.e. BUFFET FROID (1979) &#150; to eventually go along with two more films of theirs I own but have yet to watch (TENUE DE SOIREE' 1986, albeit in French only, and TOO BEAUTIFUL FOR YOU 1989)&#133; "},{"Title":"great..!!!","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" That's good cinema...!!! That's a real way to think about another reality .. we don't need weapons knowledge but self-comprehension.. we don't need anything else.. we don't need extreme mean examples of human nature.. at least we don't need high tech killers & so many people being killed every minute on everyday films.. we're just humans.. and we should love being humans.. We should try to make money with human storys and not only speculating with extreme violence and threatening extremes.. Making films is such a huge responsibility that we should really think about it.. as a producer and as a spectator.. How are we building the next generation reality.. if big budget means huge violence.. I just ask you to think about it.. "},{"Title":"Amusing French Comedy","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In this amusing French comedy, a man finds a lover for his depressed and sexually frustrated wife in an attempt to make her happy but even the lover can't satisfy her. She eventually finds happiness with a precocious 13-year old - only the French can make light of such a pairing! Depardieu as the generous and caring husband and Dewaere as the lover have good chemistry and provide most of the laughs. The two had previously teamed with Blier in Going Places. Laure doesn't do much except sit around and knit (usually in the nude). This Oscar winner for Best Foreign Film isn't totally satisfying but is entertaining enough. The soundtrack features Mozart and Schubert. "},{"Title":"Absurdist examination of a Very Important Question","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What does a women want? I think the recent popularity of films like the Science of Sleep, I Heart Huckabees and Being John Malkovich deserves to rekindle interest in this important but largely forgotten director.Through the late 70's and 80's, Blier single handedly kept alive the French tradition of Absurdist Theater. While films like Being John Malkovich and I Heart Huckabees incorporate elements of surrealism, they remained tied to conventional narratives that require that ultimately everything ultimately make sense. Kaufman and Russell are relying on throwing a few nonsensical elements into their conventional narratives. Blier (and to a lesser extent Gondry) stop making sense and embrace the absurdity of life. "},{"Title":"Delicate French Sex Comedy","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't remember the name of those French pastries that are about the size and shape of an irregular softball. They look rich and filling but when you poke them with a fork -- poof. They deflate into insubstantiality. And I can't remember. Je suis desolee. And the Mexicans have a similar dessert dripping with honey and I can't remember what they're called either! Anyway, this movie is like that dessert. It's fragile, delicate, drifting from one absurd situation to another without much holding it together. It's amusing enough if you're in the mood for this sort of thing.Well, I'll give two examples of what I mean. Raoul (Depardieu) and his wife (Laure) are in a restaurant. He's very intense as he tells her that something is missing from her character, maybe she needs a lover or something, because to him she always seems bored. All she does is clean up the house and knit distinctively ugly sweaters, one of which Raoul is wearing. Laure eats her sauerkraut, looking bored. Raoul has noticed another man, Stephane (Dewaere), giving Solange the eye, so he goes over and invites the stranger to take his wife home and make love to her.There follow some moments of confusion. A passerby is brought into the scene as a consultant. But Stephane winds up at the table with Raoul and Solange and the proposal is made to her. She says nothing, just looks bored. Stephane is insulted that she's not interested. He's not just another GUY, you know? Raoul argues with him, and the two trade insults in this improbably situation, perfectly serious, like Hope and Crosby arguing about who's going to fight the gorilla in one of the Road pictures.The three of them eventually establish an uncomfortable menage a trois. Not uncomfortable because the two men are jealous of one another, but uncomfortable because Solange clearly doesn't give a damn which one she sleeps with -- or whether she sleeps with any of them at all. Stephane is soon seen wearing an ugly sweater identical to Raoul's.When she doesn't perk up, the men try to get her pregnant, without success. WHY! Raoul asks desperately. Why does she do nothing but knit and wash laundry? She never reads a book or listens to Mozart. Stephane thinks for a moment and asks, Is it possible she's just dumb? Raoul is outraged. As if HE would ever marry a dumb woman! It goes on like this, while we smile and chuckle once in a while, then it gets derailed. Some thirteen-year-old genius kid is introduced into the film and Solange responds warmly to him, both as a child and a lover. (He winds up wearing her sweater.) Solange becomes the maid in the wealthy household of this kid and is made pregnant by him. Raoul and Stephane peek at the windows of the huge house through a locked gate, exchange one or two more quizzical comments, then walk away into the night. The end.It is in no way a sexploitation film, although there's a bit of nudity. Carole Laure is made up and wardrobed in the dumpiest fashion imaginable, her hair a helmet left over from some production of Henry V, gowned in floppy granny dresses, often wearing what looks like a GI-issue watch cap. It would have been easy -- trust me -- to turn her into a sexpot. Check her out in the exercise class in Heartbreakers. Gerard Depardieu is here big-boned but not beefy, and handsome in an easy-going way with his constantly unenlightened expression. Dewaere is suitably bookish. The smooth-talking sad-looking genius of a kid who finally rings Laure's chimes should be beaten to a pulp. What does he have that the rest of us didn't have at thirteen? I mean, aside from an IQ of 158.Well, you might drift occasionally, and the second half is a little on the heavy side, like so many desserts, but you'll probably enjoy it in its uncloying sweetness and understated humor. "},{"Title":"Made me want to read the subtitles!","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was 8 years old when I first saw this. Yes, my parents were asleep and we we're the first kids on my block to get cable. So yes, I tip toed downstairs in the middle of the night to watch this movie. I don't know what the adults though of this film, but all I knew, was this woman got naked in front of a child. Not only that, but sex followed! For being the only eight year-old in the room, I wasn't about to change the channel to watch cartoons. I guess you can say this was a coming of age drama if not a sad black comedy about sex, relationship, and finding sex and a relationship in the most unlikely places. All in all, I remember the movie (at such a young age) because of the subject matter. The overall story of the movie? Couldn't tell you. I wasn't listening to anything the actors were saying. I was just watching. "},{"Title":"first half funny, second half boring","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie several times, as it's a classic we can see quite often on TV. I just watched it once more last night. What do we have here ? Les valseuses revisited.  This time with Carol Laure instead of Miou Miou, but the same ménage à trois, with the male ambiguous friendship, the frigid or depressive hysterical woman, and the outsider who reveals her. This time, the third guy is a young boy. A thin difference.The only good thing in this movie is the performance of the guys, Depardieu and Dewaere. They are even better than in les valseuses. The character played by Carole Laure is uninteresting, and the young boy is really awfully played and boring.Before reading the comments here I didn't know this little misogynist comedy won an important award in some foreign country, and I still don't understand what makes it a winner.Too bad, as Both B. Blier, Depardieu and Dewaere can be found together in better movies. Just watch Buffet Froid, Beau père and of course 'les valseuses'.4/10 "},{"Title":"What we have here is a failure to communicate...","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The quote from COOL HAND Luke seems quite appropriate here. While some adore Préparez Vos Mouchoirs (as typified by the mostly favorable reviews and the Oscar win for Best Foreign Film in 1979), others probably see the film in such a radically different light. To see it in this other light is perhaps seen by the with it crowd as evidence that an individual is devoid of taste and a Neanderthal. Yet, to those who hate it, the film is not just bad but evil...or at least very, very morally suspect.What I am talking about here is that in the second half of this comedy(?), the leading lady has an affair with a 13 year-old boy--and this seems to be a good thing according to the film. This is very reminiscent of Le Soufflé au Coeur--another French film that is adored by most with it people. However, in Le Soufflé, the boy is not just a teen having sex with an adult but the adult in question is his own mother!!! Yet, review after review on IMDb for Le Soufflé describe the movie with such words as 'vibrant' and 'marvelous' as well as saying that it's 'a beautiful coming of age film'. For Préparez Vos Mouchoirs, there are such appellations as 'clever', 'amusing' as well as 'fresh and surprisingly intelligent'. What part of morally wrong don't they understand?! Even if the rest of the film had been good (which, incidentally, it was not), how can such praised be heaped on a film that glamorizes or excuses sexual abuse? Now understand that I am NOT a French-basher. I love French films and they are my among favorite type of films (surpassing even the Japanese--which I also adore) and I have taken French classes to learn the language. But, in this one way, I think the French film makers have it all wrong. In fact, the recent glowing praise and support of Roman Polanski (who admitted to drugging and sodomizing a 13 year-old) illustrates this divide. Having worked as a social worker and then therapist with sexual abuse victims, this 19th century attitude towards the sexualization of children is quite sad. Sometimes and with some issues we provincial Americans are wrong...in this case, however, I suspect the French have something to learn from us about the way we have taken sexual abuse cases more seriously in recent years (though, of course, we still have a way to go).So if I was totally offended by the scenes that involved the 13 groping and leering at a beautiful (and willing) adult woman, what did I think about the rest of the film? Well, sadly, I didn't like it. The film has many absurdist elements that might appeal to some but will also leave many cold. Like director Blier's follow-up film, Buffet Froid, so much of the film deliberately makes no sense and is intended to shock. If you like this sort of craziness, so be it, but the average person out there will not be particularly pleased with the film as it just seemed dumb and the characters seemed so unreal. I know that is the point the film makers intended, but that still doesn't mean I have to like it. If I want something goofy and insane, I'll watch a comedy like Monty Python and the Holy Grail--this is absurdism but with the aim to make people laugh. Préparez Vos Mouchoirs does not seem to have any such intention. It seems more intent on confusion and bizarreness instead of being a comedy--sort of like performance art instead of film.Overall, there is almost nothing to recommend this film (unless you want to see a young looking 13 year-old making it with an adult). Incidentally, the actress was 30 and the child was actually 14. Would you let your 14 year-old participate in sex scenes with a 30 year-old in a film? Wouldn't this seem like pandering? "}{"Title":"get out your handkerchief....","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am still wondering how I managed to sit through the entire movie. Story - bizarre.... Acting - no comments please .....A bizarre relationship between a 13 old kid and an imbecile married woman. All she does is knitting sitting topless. An equally imbecile husband who finds the third imbecile in the movie to make love to his wife. A bored housewife who falls in love after a car wreck; it was upside down but she was intact enough to have sex with the first stranger that passes by. Come on!!!!! This is French slapstick for you folks.... I have no idea how come people give it a rating over 2-3. I rated it 1/10 because I couldn't rate it lesser. in my opinion it's -7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not as good as watching paint flake off your wall.","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the many films where after you read the reviews you ask, Did these folks actually see the same movie I did?Further it won the Import film of the year Academy Award. Essentially this is outrageous junk that was not really understood by its audiences, like much of the tongue-in-cheek art that hangs in modern art museums. Audiences have no clue and do not wish to be taken as fools so they join the crowd and rave about something they can't actually grasp.  In fact, there is nothing at all to grasp.This is a French import that does not intellectually translate into any entertainment language known in the USA about a pre-teen boy who screws his bored governess Solange. (Préparez vos mouchoirs, indeed).Seeing the Academy flip over this outrageous and tiresome film  destroyed even the slightest desire I ever had to return to Los Angeles to view a far more important scene, the La Brea Tar Pits. In the flowerchild American society of 1978 it had the pertinence of soiled newspapers that line garbage cans. "}]