[{"Title":"A Superb Glimpse into the Chaos of the Vietnam Era","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"38 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Based on Robert Stone's National Book Award-winning novel 'Dog Soldiers,' Who'll Stop the Rain is both a suspenseful thriller and an affecting meditation on the chaos and disillusionment of the Vietnam era.Converse (Michael Moriarty) is a journalist who went to Vietnam looking for the big story but finds only madness and abject fear. He also discovers that, in a world where nothing makes sense, people are just naturally going to want to get high. In Saigon, Converse falls in with Charmian (Gail Strickland), a wealthy French expatriate holdout from the Colonial days who maintains a life of relative luxury through narco-trafficking. Weary of the constant despair and terror, Converse agrees to participate in a scheme to smuggle heroin back from Vietnam to Los Angeles. However, Converse can't smuggle the dope himself--the Army is on to the fact that correspondents and GI's have been smuggling kilos of ultra-pure, ultra-cheap heroin back from Southeast Asia and turning large profits selling the dope in the US--so he persuades his old friend, Ray Hicks (Nick Nolte), a Merchant Marine sailor whose vessel is about to set sail from Vietnam for the Pacific Coast, to hide the dope on his ship and then deliver it to Converse's wife Marge (Tuesday Weld), who Converse assures Ray will pay him several thousand dollars for the favor once he makes the delivery. Ray reluctantly agrees--he's not sure he trusts Converse, but he needs the money. All goes well until Ray arrives in LA and realizes he's being tailed by two thugs (Richard Masur and Ray Sharkey) who may or may not be working for Converse. To make things worse, he arrives at the Converse home and meets Marge, who is beautiful but obviously strung out--not on junk, it turns out, but, rather, on prescription painkillers. The thugs follow Ray to Converse's, and Ray and Marge narrowly manage to escape. Not sure whether he's being double-crossed by Converse or if Converse is being double-crossed by his supplier, Ray decides to go on the run, dragging along the drugged-out Marge. Ray turns out to be a bit of a paranoid survivalist with ties to the now-dwindling hippie counterculture, and takes Marge first to his house, where he keeps a dune buggy and a stash of weapons, and then to hide out in an old, all but deserted commune high in the California Sierra. Ray and Marge go on the road, with the additional complication of Marge's painful withdrawal symptoms, having run out of dilaudid. Ray quickly realizes that the only way to help Marge get off the painkillers while on the run is to start weaning her off--with the heroin. Meanwhile, Converse has returned to the US to find the plan has gone wrong. Abducted by the thugs (who, it turns out, are working for Charmian and Antheil, a corrupt government agent played by Anthony Zerbe), Converse is forced to help track down Ray and Marge and, more importantly, the sack full of very valuable dope. Though, like most films, Who'll Stop the Rain lacks the subtlety and depth of its literary precursor, the movie quite skillfully employs the novel's biting, cynical perspective on the despair and chaos surrounding both the war in Vietnam and the end of the counter-cultural revolution after Manson and Altamont. While in graduate school at Stanford, novelist Stone was a fringe member of fellow novelist Ken Kesey's Merry Pranksters--whose 'Acid Test' parties were the main artery by which LSD was introduced to California youth culture. Among the Pranksters was Neal Cassady, who first found fame as the basis for hipster prototype Dean Moriarty in Jack Kerouac's 'On the Road' and later fell in with the Grateful Dead before finding his end by a railroad track in San Miguel de Allende, Mexico in 1966. Cassady is the primary model for Ray Hicks, and then-unknown Nick Nolte is perfectly cast in the role, capturing the rough blend of charming rake and pyschopath that made Cassady a counterculture icon. Indeed, the film is rife with references to the Prankster and Beat glory days, easily recognizable to those familiar with the history of those cultural/literary movements. The film's soundtrack (as the title suggests) consists mostly of songs by Creedence Clearwater Revival, and though Stone always hated that the producers changed the title from 'Dog Soldiers' to 'Who'll Stop the Rain,' Creedence's catchy country rock is an appropriate background. Tuesday Weld, the once-popular Hollywood ingenue whose career was derailed by addiction and mental illness, portrays Marge's state of delusional intoxication and emotional distress like one who has actually been there. Michael Moriarty (of 'Law and Order' fame) gives a well-controlled performance as the somewhat cowardly, morally confused Converse. But the show is really Nick Nolte's. Though this film has been largely forgotten, it was a starmaking turn for Nolte, his first shot to carry a movie and the first film in which he begins to establish the rough-edged, sensitive bad-ass persona that has become his stock and trade.Who'll Stop the Rain is a fine piece of vintage seventies memorabilia, a nail-biting thriller, and a useful lens into the confusion of American life during the last years of our military presence in Vietnam.  "},{"Title":"Nolte excels in tough, literate drama","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"28 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nick Nolte is dead-solid perfect here as Vietnam-vet Marine Ray Hicks, the ultimate 70's zen anti-hero.  It's shocking to see him so young and muscular after the sheer variety of roles and physical embodiments he has taken on since.  Here he's tough, flawed, and jaded, a once-idealistic cynic who has gotten himself into a bad situation but whose instinct for survival takes over.  One of his first lines in the film is, Self defense is an art I cultivate., and he doesn't let down.  It's a Steve McQueen-cool kind of role, and Nolte's wonderfully cinematic throughout; whether it's smoking a cigarette, drinking a beer, cleaning a weapon, kicking bad-guy butt with some quick martial arts moves, or putting a supportive arm around Tuesday Weld.The story comes from Robert Stone's National Book Award winning Dog Soldiers which is a better if less marketable title.  The title refers to those mercenary soldiers who would hire on and die for someone else's cause as surely as if it was their own.  Much of the dialogue comes verbatim from Stone's book, and it's rare that the translation is so perfectly realized as it is by director Karel Reisz and his actors.  The characters seem to be saying these words for the first time in the situation they're in, and what's more, much of the dialogue is endlessly quotable.  Nolte in particular builds a tough-guy philosophy throughout snarling lines like, I'm tired of taking s**t from inferior people.He's perfectly paired on the road from Oakland to New Mexico with Weld, in one of her best performances as Michael Moriarty's pill-popping wife. Also well-cast are Anthony Zerbe, Richard Masur, and Ray Sharkey, who add plenty of menace and dark humor as a trio of shady feds after the heroin Nolte has ill-advisedly brought back from Vietnam for one-time pal Moriarty.  Also standing out is Charles Haid as a small-time Hollywood hustler Nolte tries to have move the heroin.  Look fast for Wings Hauser in the opening scenes as a Marine jeep driver.  The film's tone may be too violent and downbeat for some tastes, but it captures the feeling of cynicism and disillusion stateside during the Vietnam War in an appropriately harrowing manner.The climactic shootout is ingeniously staged at night on a mountain commune with strobes flashing and Hank Snow/CCR music blaring.  The final shots of the film are striking and memorable, particularly the stark image of a battered and worn but still not beaten Nolte marching along an endless set of railroad tracks in the New Mexico desert. It's only a shame Nolte didn't attempt a few more roles in this action vein while he was still young.The film is available on DVD, though there are no extras.  It would have been nice to have interviews, commentary, and deleted scenes (particularly the pivotal Nolte/Weld love scene, which was reportedly filmed but wound up being only implied in the final cut).  "},{"Title":"Easily the best Nick Nolte performance","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a small masterpiece and perhaps the best film to come out of the whole Vietnam War experience, perfectly reflecting the drug-addled, hyper-cynical and soulless days at the end of the 60's, when we all realized that it wasn't going to be alright.If you like Nolte, you must see this. If you loath Nolte to the very depth of your being, you need to see it even more. His energy here would fill a dozen lesser films - only the remarkable supporting cast keeps him from single-handedly burning the movie down. A huge number of American films from this period are massively overrated. Not this one. "},{"Title":"UNDER APPRECIATED GEM","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Released in 1978 with the bigger Vietnam films (THE DEER HUNTER, COMING HOME), this is an under appreciated gem.  Nick Nolte showed signs of becoming a solid leading man with his work here as action junkie Ray Hicks. The supporting cast in smaller, important roles bolsters a tight, moving film.  Richard Mazur and Ray Sharkey are ultimate psychos and Charles Haid, as the weasel dope dealer are great.  Like Karl Reiz's previous gem (THE GAMBLER), this film deserved to be bigger. "},{"Title":"Very depressing but powerful anti-war tale, despite being occasionally muddled","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1978 saw the release of many anti-Vietnam films. While both Coming Home and The Deer Hunter were big successes commercially and critically, Who'll Stop the Rain was unfortunately overlooked for some reason, which is a shame. Despite being set in America and marketed originally as an action thriller, its an effective portrayal of the mental strain of veterans returning from the horrific war. Its not completely successful - occasionally the screenplay is a bit muddled and sometimes the treatment of such disturbing material is too genteel. Still, the story is so compelling it manages to nail its point home by the end. The conclusion in particular is downbeat to the point of sheer nihilism.What makes the film work so well, in addition to a good script, is the acting. All around, the entire cast gives fantastic performances. There's not a single weak note in the ensemble. Nick Nolte, an often ridiculed performer, shows he can be a remarkably powerful actor if he applies himself. Tuesday Weld is not as glamorous as she usually is, which helps her create one of her most compelling roles. Michael Moriarty is good also as the morally ambiguous character who manages to be sympathetic by the end. The villains in the cast are all unlikable but also well developed, especially the two thugs who show signs of changing their hearts. The direction by Karel Reisz isn't anything masterful on an aesthetic level, but it definitely gets the job done. Who'll Stop the Rain is a powerful and intelligent film, a kind of movie that would only be released by a mainstream studio in the 70s and would be extinct in the next decade of American cinema being overrun and dumbed down by Jerry Bruckenheimer. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Great Book turned into a Great Movie","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The book was great and while I don't usually think Hollywood does a very good job translating the book into a movie in this case they have done an excellent job.Nick Nolte is outstanding as Ray Hicks, a marine vet doing a favor for a buddy by smuggling 2 keys of pure heroin back into the U.S.A. When he gets stateside and goes to his buddy's wife to make the drop all hell breaks loose and Nolte tears up the screen. Also features an outstanding supporting cast with Michael Moriarty as Nolte's buddy John Converse, Tuesday Weld as Marge Converse, Anthony Zerbe as Antheil and Richard Masur and Ray Sharkey as Zerbe's henchmen. The ending is surrealistic and one of the most memorable finale's I have seen.  "},{"Title":"better than the book","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Maltese Falcon is a better movie than the book, and so is this baby. Good as the books are. Of course there would have been neither without the books, but both books wander all over the place, and are not the better for it. Whereas this one, and Maltese and for that matter, Treasure of Sierra Madre, are the richer experiences on the screen for being tightened down. The casting was perfect here. Even Zerbe is a wonderful surprise. The only cavil I have with the overall effect is the dumb title. Terrible. Dog Soldiers would have been fine. But after that, there is not much amiss here. Starting with the dope deal, quite unlike the start of the novel, it moves relentlessly as a snake from then on to its end, which is also unlike the novel, and the better for it. Robert Stone writes some of the, if not THE finest dialog in modern American literature I have always had problems with his wandering stories, but if it takes them to produce his characters sparkling talk, what the hell, so be it. And what other movie would even THINK of using Hank Snow's Golden Rocket for the music of a great great shootout. Also not in the book. All hands here can be proud of a work that time is gonna treat with the utmost tenderness. If it has one misstep it is right at the first the explosions tossing Moriarity around are at distinct odds with the slow buildup of the rest of it. But a minor matter, considering how dead on perfect most of the rest of the film is. So good this one is, it's no wonder that the great masses missed it's perfection. "},{"Title":"Powerful Story","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A remarkable performance from Nick Nolte. It makes you wonder why he hasn't achieved greater status than he has. His performance as Ray Hicks in this movie is just overpowering. An intelligent, highly-capable, although somewhat anti-social man who has been sneered at and kicked on one too many times. He is a true Dog Soldier, and has not ever had anything easy in his life. His is a life of hard knocks and hard roads, and he doesn't shy away from either.He exhibits his rock-solid beliefs in old-school virtues, such as, loyalty, true friendship and caring, and defending the people you care about with your life. A truly remarkable film, and a truly remarkable performance by Nolte. Nolte simply dominates every scene he's in. "},{"Title":"Vietnam In a Nutshell","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Really pins down the Vietnam era for me. What is Moriarty's line? In a world where the army bombs elephants, people are going to want to get high. Right on, Mike.Nick Nolte as the (anti) hero, keeping the word he gave to an Army buddy. Even when it leads him through the valley of death. Right on, Nick. Death before dishonour.This movie also turned me on to Tuesday Weld. Gorgeous lead and a hell of an actress.This is a true Hollywood classic. If you have never seen this, you owe it to yourself. You will not be disappointed. Truly deserves 10 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of my favourites","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this again on the TV a few days ago, and it reminded me of just how good it was. It's nothing special to look at, but the script is great and it's well acted. Nick Nolte is one of my favourite actors, and Richard Masur and Ray Sharkey make a wonderful pair of goons. "}{"Title":"What a great movie","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Suprisingly, I'd never heard of this one before.  I watched it because my dad had reccommended it to me and I've always liked Nick Nolte.  I guess I was expecting a war movie (I'm not terribly fond of them) but what I got was way more than that.  Nick Nolte plays one of his best roles ever as merchant marine, Ray Hicks.  He's just finished his tour of duty in Vietnam when he is asked a favor by his best friend.  What follows next is two hours of tense moments, realistic situations, great music, harsh violence and a finale that was like nothing I have ever seen before. I enjoyed Michael Moriarity's role as John and Tuesday Weld is great (and beautiful) as always. Richard Masur and Ray Sharkey provide a little bit of comedy relief as a pair of bumbling (but psychotic) idiots.  Also, did I mention just how great Nick Nolte is in this movie?  I mean, he's always had a strong screen prescence in everything he's ever done, but here, he does such a great job with the part that you really want to know more about his background.  There really isn't much explanation as to where he's from and just what he's about, but in the end, you do have a pretty good idea of what makes him tick.  I just watched this for a second time and I'm pretty sure that I will end up picking up the dvd.  One thing I can say, after watching this I'll never look at that Creedence song the same way again.   "},{"Title":"A Jaded Generation's Slide Into Crime & Corruption","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Who'll Stop The Rain is a gripping drama about the Vietnam War, drug smuggling and betrayal, but more interestingly, it's also a very simple and effective depiction of how the attitudes of a generation were affected by the conflict. For those who were directly involved, the loss of hope and idealism opened the door to disillusion and cynicism and for their loved ones at home, despair took over. Standards of morality were compromised to such a degree that the resulting nihilism and corruption rapidly became prevalent throughout society and its institutions and a pessimistic preoccupation with self-interest followed. One of the main strengths of this movie is the way in which all this information is conveyed through its characters in a style that's both skillful and very affecting.John Converse (Michael Moriarty) is a war correspondent working in Saigon who's become totally traumatised by the levels of violence and insanity that he's seen. He's no longer able to find or invent any positive spin to apply to his reporting of the events around him and as a consequence feels at an extremely low ebb. In this state of mind, he allows himself to become involved with some drug dealers and conscripts the help of his old friend, Ray Hicks (Nick Nolte) to transport 2 kilos of pure heroin to California.Hicks is a merchant seaman and as arranged with Converse, he successfully smuggles the drugs into the United States and delivers them to Converse's wife, Marge (Tuesday Weld) who's supposed to pay him $1,000 for his work. Things don't go smoothly, however, because Marge clearly doesn't know anything about the arrangement and also Hicks realises that he's being followed. The men following Hicks are a couple of vicious thugs who work for a corrupt government narcotics agent who obviously had advanced knowledge of the deal and is willing to go to any lengths to steal the heroin. Hicks and Marge's only option is to go on the run and a deadly pursuit follows.A very young looking Nick Nolte, in what must've been one of his earliest roles, makes a great impact as a guy who isn't moral in the conventional sense but does nevertheless have his own code of decency. Tuesday Weld is also exceptional in conveying just how vulnerable and passive Marge has become. During her husband's absence in Vietnam, the level of despair she experienced led her into drug addiction, despondency and a pessimistic outlook that remained with her ever since.Who'll Stop The Rain which was based on Robert Stone's novel Dog Soldiers, contains plenty of excitement, violence and action as well as impeccable performances by its marvellous cast. The mood of the period in which the story's set is captured very convincingly and Richard H Kline's distinctive cinematography and the music of Creedence Clearwater Revival both contribute significantly to the success of this particular aspect of the movie. "},{"Title":"One of the great unsung sleeper gems of the 70's","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Disaffected journalist John Converse (superbly played by Michael Moriarty) enlists the aid of his gruff, weary and unsociable ex-Marine friend Ray Hicks (a fine and commanding performance by Nick Nolte) to smuggle a stash of heroin from Vietnam into the United States. When the drug drop goes sour, Hicks and John's sad, neurotic pillhead wife Marge (an excellent Tuesday Weld) go on the lam. Director Karel Reisz, working from a gritty and incisive script by Judith Rascoe and Robert Stone, astutely nails the pervasive cynicism, bitterness, moral erosion, paranoia, and disillusionment of the Vietnam-era early 70's while maintaining a steady pace throughout and expertly building a considerable amount of gut-wrenching tension. This film further benefits from the uniformly exceptional acting from a top-drawer cast Nolte, Weld and Moriarty are all outstanding in the leads; they receive sterling support from Anthony Zerbe as ruthless corrupt federal narcotics agent Antheil, Richard Masur as ferocious psycho thug Danskin, Ray Sharkey as Danskin's jittery, sniveling partner Smitty, Gail Strickland as smooth connection Charmain, Charles Haid as slimy Hollywood dope dealer Eddie Peace, and David Opatoshu as helpful farmer Bender. Robert H. Kline's grainy, yet still polished cinematography, the bleak, harsh, depressing and unflinchingly nihilistic tone, Laurence Rosenthal's rousing score, a wickedly sardonic sense of pitch-black humor, the first-rate soundtrack, the profane, but poetic dialogue, an exciting and well-staged climactic shoot-out, and the devastating downbeat ending are all spot-on as well. An absolute powerhouse. "},{"Title":"One of the best American movies of the 1970's","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the BEST American movies of the 1970's. Karel Reisz was a genius filmmaker. The story and its themes-loyalty-corruption-greed are superbly laid before you. It is, bar none, Nick Nolte's best performance ever. In fact, ALL the other American movies about Vietnam miss the mark. Even though this doesn't take place, except for a few, short scenes, in Vietnam, it is more about Vietnam, that era, and the people whose lives were affected than any of the other Vietnam films. If you love the United States, the movies, and lament the Vietnam war, DO NOT miss this movie.If you shoot that man, NO ONE comes down! "},{"Title":"Grim and depressing","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" While I would not agree that this is Vietnam in a nutshell as some have said, there being much better films that cover that topic, this film is more like the spawn of Vietnam. It is well known that many US servicemen serving in that horrid war were introduced into a wide array of drugs and chemicals. Given the hellish life they were forced to endure it is not without a large measure of sympathy when we acknowledge their choices. We would most certainly have succumbed to some such numbing substance in order to dull the pains.Running drugs out of South East Asia went from a small scale to much larger scale operation during the 'nam years. Many GI's got caught up in the deals, at some point not caring any more if they got caught. The premise of the film, while a bit hard to believe (he sends 2 kilos of pure heroine back to his wife who knows nothing about it's arrival) probably happened more than we know. The involvement of dark figures from either the mafia or corrupt police officials (I could not figure out what they are were) just takes this film into murkier grounds.A telling line that haunts the remainder of the film comes early. Nick Nolte says, after having been asked to run the drugs that's bad karma, referring to the heroine. How much this is his truth comes at the end. There is little funny about this movie and it just goes from bad to depressingly awful. The attempt of Nolte's character to fob off the heroine to a fat flunky old friend spins wildly out of control with Nolte helping to get the prospective buyers (drug novices) screamingly and sickeningly high; I felt ill watching that scene. It's bad enough that Michael Moriarity's character gets tortured; he thought that he had left all of that behind in 'nam; to quote one of the bad guys no boobie, it didn't go away. There is little left of your emotions when your finished with this visit to the domestic, Vietnam era America. It is hard to say what is at fault here. Is it foolish American's who will do anything to score drugs? Is it the blowback from the war, with the drug addled soldiers unable to contain their need to indulge in drugs and other excesses?Think of other 'nam movies, especially The Deer Hunter. At the end of the film one of the main characters has fallen so low that he ends his days in a drug hazed cloud of Russian Roulette, unable to hear the screams of his beloved friend frantically trying to pull him back from hell. There are more grisly 'nam movies; this one is more about the backlash of bad choices that were brought home. It is said that although American soldiers tasted great hell in the Second World War, it is not my observation that the post war years produced such harrowing drug problems among the vets. I might be wrong about that but this is my impression. Something there is about the Vietnam experience that totally scorched the souls of those soldiers. There is nothing good to be said about it and this film only rams the point home. On the other hand, the acting is all excellent but over all this is a really dark film. The desolation is not helped by the great music of that era, in particular Credence Clearwater Revival. Nolte is always wonderful but I would not say this is his best role. His role in The Thin Red Line is a hard one to top. Overall, a really depressing vision of the wreckage of bad choices and drug addiction. "},{"Title":"Lost...but good.","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Lacking the iconoclasm of Robert Stone's memorably harrowing novel, this film strips away the 60s demythologising that made the book so compelling to leave a nonetheless excellent thriller. Michael Moriarty is perfect as the distant, nervous Converse and Nolte also gives a good account of himself. Charles Haid and Richard Masur stand out amongst well realised supporting roles; however Tuesday Weld is woefully miscast and wholly unconvincing as Converse's wife Marge, here played as far too much the suburbanite; likewise Gail Strickland's thankfully brief turn as a two faced hippie drug dealer.Stone is co-credited with the screenplay which wisely keeps some of the best dialogue of the novel (sample Converse to Hicks on picking up a well thumbed volume of Nietzsche You still into this s**t? Hicks Yeah. Converse Jesus. That's really f**king piquant.).Unaccountably this film was a box office failiure and has passed into obscurity it regularly pops up at boot sales and the like so has been slowly gaining a cult reputation over the last decade. it is well worth picking up, though reading the book first is certainly recommended. "},{"Title":"California during the early 70's","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The thing that captured me most about the film was the portrayal of the California scene of the 60's and 70's. The beautiful weather, the drugs, the hippies, the narcs and the cars. It was also a story , though sinister, of friendship, loyalty and love. The last scene with Nolte walking down the tracks was a classic. A real keeper. All in all, i thought a great film of an era gone by. A great portrayal of an Ex-Marine, Ray Hicks, being thrust into a situation where he must act and risk his life and reputation in helping his timid friends deliver some heroin. And ,of course, like everything that Ray Hicks encountered in his previous life(see Dog Soldiers). It all goes awry. There are real feds on his trail joined by a couple of ex jailbirds as their henchmen. It all ends in a tragic yet heroic last stand by Mr Hicks. Again, trying to get his friends out of the mess, he fights the bad guys to the end. Amen! "},{"Title":"Edge of Your Seat Thriller","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Who'll Stop the Rain is an edge of your seat thriller set during the Viet Nam war. It features one of the early successes of Nick Nolte. The story opens in Viet Nam where a burnt out reporter (Michael Moriarity) tries to make some easy money by smuggling two kilos of heroin (rather than his usual marijuana) to the U.S. He enlists as his currier Nolte who is somewhat reluctant at first but agrees. Nolte shows up at Moriarity's home to collect his fee from Moriarity's wife (Tuesday Weld) and then the fun begins. Two bogus federal agents (Richard Mazur, Ray Sharkey) begin to lay claim to the smack. They are joined later in the chase by their boss, a corrupt federal agent (Anthony Zerbe). The performances are top notch all around. Nolte is suitably macho in one of his first big roles. Weld is overwhelmed by the events but soon gives in to Nolte's plans. Moriarity is also good as the naive husband who thinks he can make a quick buck to compensate him for the horrors he has experienced in Viet Nam. Mazur and Sharkey are outstanding as the brutal sadistic heavies and Zerbe is as slimey as ever as the chief baddie.  The Nolte character is somewhat of a mystery (at least to me). Who is he? What is he doing in Viet Nam? Is he a soldier of fortune, a mercenary? or what? He has a run down shack in Los Angeles where he has buried an assault rifle. In Arizona he has an elaborate mountain top hideaway complete with an amphitheater and loudspeakers that play Hank Jones music. None of this is explained to my satisfaction. What the movie does have is a good story great acting and an entertaining soundtrack featuring Creedence Clearwater Revival.     "},{"Title":"No dog","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Criticised for it's amorality and drug use I personally can see Dog Soldiers as nothing else than an anti-drugs film. The heroin that caused such misery and death ends up in the sand by choice. Sickened and disillusioned after Nam, Converse, played brilliantly by Micheal Moriaty virtually blackmails his friend Ray Hicks into smuggling in some Heroin in a cynical what-the-hell gesture against the world. His wife is already hooked on prescription drugs and eventually goes on the heroin. He is out of his league and is forced by corrupt policemen to hunt down Hicks and his wife after they go on the run with the smack. Hicks is a violent man, recently turned on to Nietchze by Converse who considers Hicks a psychopath and is through taking sh*t from inferior people, vowing destruction on anyone who takes him on. Falling in love with the girl Hick's reveals a surprising tenderness in looking after her. The Converses are seemingly indifferent to Hicks until they realise too late the unexpected Christian sacrifice he makes on their behalf although they wronged him and were unworthy of it.Nolte, an actor allegedly as eccentric as his fictional character, gives amulti-faceted and compelling performance as the alienated Hicks. The powerful ending and gesture by the man gives hope and suggests that ultimately friendship is the one true gift one can give to another outside the cynical buying and selling of people as represented by the heroin. Some uneven pacing is the only flaw in an adult, gripping, unusual and often witty American classic.  "},{"Title":"The Drug War","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A soldier returning from Vietnam agrees to smuggle some heroin for a friend but the Feds are on to the scheme. Nolte is dynamic as the cynical war vet who becomes a reluctant drug runner. Weld is fine as a drug-addict hippie. However, it is Moriarty who steals the film with his hilariously deadpan performance as a somewhat dim-witted fellow who sees drug dealing as a way to make a quick buck. The banter among Moriarty and agents Masur and Sharkey is often quite amusing. Although it opens in Saigon, Vietnam is not the focus of this film, unlike two high-profile films released the same year, The Deer Hunter and Coming Home. Instead, this is a morality tale about drugs. "}{"Title":"Bring the War Home!","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Sixties dream is shattered, broken fragments lying around. Paranoia hangs in the air like a pall. All around are bent people -- drug dealers, burnouts, idiotic yuppies, crooked cops and their henchmen. The hippie dream is way, way over. This is the Vietnam War-era backdrop for Who'll Stop the Rain? Through this corrupt landscape storms Ray Hicks, a merchant marine sailor who reads Nietzche, a force of nature who takes sh*t from no one, who can assemble an M-16 with his eyes closed, who has underworld connections and has a hideout in the mountains of southern California. Hicks is brought brilliantly to life by Nick Nolte in the performance of his career as well as one of the most charismatic performances in any movie from the Seventies.Hicks has some problems. A drug deal foisted on to him by his feckless pal Converse, played to jittery perfection by Michael Moriarity, has gone all sideways. A big bag of pure heroin procured in Saigon is to be sold in the U.S. It's a set-up and Converse and Hicks are being played for patsies by a corrupt cop named Anthiel, a snake played by the criminally underused Anthony Zerbe.Hicks escapes the trap and is soon on the run with the heroin, an M-16 and Converse's morose and drug-addicted wife Marge, played woozily by Tuesday Weld, all in tow.Big chunks of highly charged but often funny dialogue are lifted straight from Robert Stone's novel Dog Soldiers, on which the movie is based. And nobody writes dialogue like Stone.It all leads to a wild night-time gunfight on a mountainside while Hank Snow's Golden Rocket screams away on the sound track. Nolte's final march down the railroad tracks will most definitely bring a lump to your throat.Converse's last line is just perfect. No indeed, the Sixties are over and this cannot go on.One hell of a movie. "},{"Title":"1978 the year of the anti-war movies","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Nineteen seventy-eight saw the release of three famous movies dealing with the effects of the Vietnam War Coming Home, The Deer Hunter and Who'll Stop the Rain. The last one doesn't actually focus on the war itself, but on some drug-running related to it. This gritty picture portrays a GI (Michael Moriarty) sending some heroin back home with a merchant marine friend (Nick Nolte). When the marine hooks up with the guy's wife (Tuesday Weld), they find themselves on the run from some thugs.The movie gives one a real feeling of the grimness not only of the war, but in the lives of the people returning home. The whole end scene just might freeze your blood. One thing is that when we watched the movie, my mom said that a lot of the music was changed (originally, the whole movie had Creedence Clearwater songs, and only two of their songs remain on the video).But aside from that, it's definitely a movie that everyone should see. I understand that it's out of print, but surely it has to come to DVD eventually. "},{"Title":"Nature vs. Culture.","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" At the beginning of the film Michael Moriarty, a correspondent in Vietnam, is writing a letter to his wife (Tuesday Weld), describing how the elephants are thought to be used as pack animals for the VC, so US choppers have been ordered to chase them and destroy them. You see, he writes, in a word where flying men pursue elephants, people just naturally have to get high. That's a pretty good line, and it's not the only one in this fairly literate dialog.Moriarty obliges Nick Nolte, a friend from their Marine Corps days, to smuggle five pounds of heroin back into the states for him. Everything is all set up. Well, it's not. A crooked narcotics agent (Zerbe) and a couple of his goons barge in and try to rip off the smack. Nolte escapes with Weld. The heavies capture Moriarty and demand to know where Nolte and Weld have taken this fortune's worth of heroin, but he has no idea. They beat hell out of him, shoot him full of drugs, force him back on a red hot stove burner, and dunk him in a bathtub, but it's no use. (Man, does Moriarty do a great job of registering horror and pain.) There follows a cross-country pursuit, from Oakland to Los Angeles to a barren mountain in New Mexico, site of a long-deserted hippie commune and fair grounds. That's where the final shootout takes place, with Nolte and Weld on the mountain and Zerbe, his goons, and the captive Moriarty down below.If this sounds a little confusing it's because I found the story itself a little confusing. At critical points in the story, cause and effect seem to evaporate. I'll just give one example. Nolte and Weld in their Land Rover or whatever it is race across the Southwest with their stash and an M16. Weld asks where they are going. Nolte tells her that they're headed for this isolated hideaway in the great beyond of the New Mexico hills, El Ojo Grande. For all purposes, he seems to have improvised their destination on the spot. And yet, after leaving the highway and crawling up a dirt road and driving through dry washes, they finally pull up at their destination, one of Zerbe's spies is watching them through binoculars and through his radio tells Zerbe, They're here. I don't know, either.Throughout, the film follows the general idea layed out by Moriarty in his letter. Culture (flying men) destroy Nature (elephants). And narcotics are the by-product of this conflict. The cities we see are smoggy industrial Oakland and a Los Angeles in which rich people are ridiculed as stupid before being victimized for no reason. Zerbe, the government man representing civilization, is corrupt and treacherous. There are one or two references to Nietzsche, the relevance of which eluded me, but I guess philosophy is culture too, even if its boiled down to a crib sheet. When he encounters danger the man of courage goes forward. You don't have to read Nietzsche to get the idea. You don't have to get past Hemingway in high school. Nolte, basically a natural man, could easily hand over the dope but he won't do it -- out of pride. I swore I was never again going to let myself be ordered around by morons. That's his justification for endangering everyone's lives. Culture is despicable.Nolte is only really happy after he reaches the faded hippy hideout, an unspoiled paradise now, full of joyous memories for him. He plays Hank Snow's Golden Rocket and does an impromptu square dance with Weld on the delapidated bandstand. His friend, a kind of caretaker of the place who lives in a tiny abandoned mission, is a Mexican and a gardener and a caring avuncular figure. How natural can you get? Can you beat a Mexican gardener? Well, I guess you could, but at least we are spared the stereotypical Indian communing with the spirits and exercising second sight.Villains aside, the characters are pretty complex, not to say unformed. Nolte's role is the easiest -- the he-man who knows his business and is hard. Weld is required to change from a blithering housewife who works in a Berkeley bookstore to a drugged-out frightened escapee from the bourgeois life who falls for Nolte and begins to share his dreams of owning a boat in Mexico. (But who will be on the boat?, she asks him dreamily. Where will the boat go? It must be some boat.) The most complex character -- and the best performance -- is Moriarty's. He's a genuine philosopher. He commits an existential act at the beginning and follows its consequences through all the way. Whenever he's asked a question of any intricacy, his answer is, I don't know, said simply, the way a child might say it in a second-grade class. He's bony and balding, his face innocent and a bit bewildered, and he feels real pain -- but he faces threats with a gangling carelessness. A gun is put to his head and he's ordered to get down on his knees and pray. Instead he walks away and sits down carelessly. The performance is just short of marvelous.I'm not sure I've got a grasp around the whole movie. I'm not sure anyone does. It's vague enough to be interpreted a dozen different ways and sometimes seems meandering. But what's on screen is directed well by Karel Reisz, my director in Weeds, and if we can ignore the holes in the script it's an enjoyable and tense story. But do not look for a standard-typical action flick, with people's heads getting regularly wrenched off by some Lyngbakr with an attitude. It's more than that. "},{"Title":"Stone Owes a Debt to Elmore Leonard","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For the record, I liked the Robert Stone book better than the movie a bit, only because some of the sidebar stories that were left out added a real note of realism to the whole tale. That said, it should be noted that Stone appears to have based his plot on Leonard's Hombre. Leonard's book was published in '61, the movie came out in '67. Dog Soldiers was published in '74. Both novels were written with a film adaptation in mind. Both novels center on a relationship between a lone warrior type who stumbles into a group of people who have some illicit item of great value, and are about to be robbed and most likely killed, and the woman that he gradually falls for. In fact, both stories climax with the hero declaring his love for the woman before heading off to take on the criminals while delivering a counterfeit package. Leonard seems to be writing an updated version of Stagecoach for the sixties, with the civilized folk unsure of how to deal with John Russell's racial and moral ambiguity. Stone takes us on an odyssey through the cultural wreckage of America transitioning from a lost Cold War crusade to a period of anger, denial and self medication.Elmore Leonard managed to tell his story in 99 pages, mainly because it was set in the late 1800's. In the intervening years between the two books, the western, as a viable setting for fiction, withered, as did many of the naive assumptions of post-WWII America. "},{"Title":"RAY HICKS Born for Nick Nolte","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I first saw Who'll stop The Rain on early cable television. NICK NOLTE brings on an Animal/Ethical persona,even though he delivers Grass and now Horse from Vietnam as a Merchant Seaman.In all likelihood,a result of his anger against the System of idiots who Created Vietnam and it's Department store War,rather than for sheer profit. HICKS,a former U.S. Marine/Vietnam Veteran runs powder for his War correspondent buddy JOHN CONVERSE(Michael Moriarity),while all along both being played for saps by the same type of Governmental SLOBS who probably profited from Vietnam and it's waste of Life motives. HICKS saysWhen I left the Marines I made a promise to myself,never again am I gonna take *#^@ from Inferior people,the next mother that tries to make me back off is gonna have to LIVE it out with me. RAY HICKS means business when all he gives a damn about while being pursued by self-appointed G-men for the Skag is his pride. His course brings him to a retreat on a Mountain which formerly served as a commune for Anti-government Veterans,Hippies etc. he is accompanied by MARGE CONVERSE(Tuesday Weld)an addict in her own right and wife of JOHN,who more or less Carries On with HICKS. I believe that HICKS was prepared to make his mark on the Scum Government,without being concerned with the consequences,a real lesson inYou can't fight city Hall even in the end,he does. NICK NOLTE since Rich man Poor Man has never been more interesting. This is a GREAT Motion Picture,that I watch several times per year. "},{"Title":"Good entertainment.","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A very good cast makes the most of strong material in this adaptation of the novel Dog Soldiers by Robert Stone. Nick Nolte stars as Ray Hicks, a soldier serving in Vietnam soon to return Stateside who is persuaded by his friend John Converse (Michael Moriarty) to smuggle some heroin back with him. Ray doesn't really want to do it but needs the money. When he tries to deliver the drugs, he's tailed and attacked by two thugs, Danskin (Richard Masur) and Smitty (Ray Sharkey), and is forced to take it on the lam with Johns' pill popping wife Marge (Tuesday Weld). Ray decides that they will try to unload the drugs someplace, but the bad guys, also including crooked federal agent Antheil (Anthony Zerbe), tail Ray and Marge all the way to Mexico.Tough, hard hitting action and complex characters & relationships make for an effective mix in this film that nicely captures the sense of dissatisfaction and despair felt by Americans during the Vietnam War era. John, a reporter, had gotten upset over what he witnessed in 'Nam, and decided that a little money making venture would help him to get over it. Of course, he's only bought trouble for himself, his wife, and his buddy. The character of Ray Hicks is a stoic man who's grown wary of others like John and lowlife associate Eddie (Charles Haid) and is tired of dealing with inferior people. He comes to develop some affection and respect for Marge, who in turn starts to respect him.An intelligent script (written by Stone and Judith Rascoe) and efficient direction by Karel Reisz (The Gambler, The French Lieutenant's Woman) create a compelling drama that does go on a bit long but delivers a memorable finale with Ray seeking to confuse his nemeses by blaring some music. The bittersweet ending is genuinely affecting. The acting is great from all concerned, with Weld proving to be a delightful presence yet again. Character actors Wings Hauser (Vice Squad) and Jonathan Banks (Beverly Hills Cop) have early career bit parts.This is a film that doesn't seem to be that well known nowadays so viewers would be advised to give it a look.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"A killer is just a hero out of uniform","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very violent film shot in rugged mountain country. The book this was taken from remains after many years as one of my top 3 favourites of all time. The movie wasn't as good for my money, but still managed to capture the flavour of this tale of greed and cynicism.  "},{"Title":"Somehow rises above the usual Vietnam guilt trip clichés.....","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Do the Americans - splendid chaps though the undoubtedly are - only feel guilty about wars they didn't win?Did they feel guilty over WW2?I think no is the word we're looking for.Korea? No - again.Desert Storm?No. But Vietnam and Iraq?Oh yes.Intellectuals and opinion makers don their hair shirts and grunts who'd probably rather be fishin' in the local crick suddenly become demonised.No wonder they apparently adopt the drug culture so wholeheartedly - nobody wants the contempt of the armchair revolutionaries turned on them. In contrast,here in the UK we are fiercely proud of our armed forces regardless of what sh#thole the government decides to send them to attack/defend/police.Various administrations over the years have engaged in unpopular wars but support for our boys has never wavered. Woe betide any newspaper or TV pundit who might try a cheap shot at their expense.And that is the way it should be.If you don't like what the government is doing - vote them out - don't knock the poor unfortunates getting killed in its name. By 1978 the hand - wrenching was at its peak.Who'll stop the rain (UK title Dog Soldiers)portrays Americans as morally suspect,weak bullies whose only interest is self - interest.We have the obligatory disillusioned (what did they expect - a weekend at Disneyland?)Vietnam vet riddled with guilt with a capital G proffering the standard excuses for using and dealing illegal drugs.I'm in the army -I may have to shoot somebody.Oh.My.God.I must get high...................... Persuading an old friend to smuggle 5lbs of pure heroin Stateside is tantamount to signing his death warrant. The usual mixture of villains and bent law descend on him and make his life difficult.He is not helped by the army guy's hypochondriac Old Lady who he drags everywhere with him. After much blood - letting he scatters the heroin to the four winds thus regaining the moral high ground. Er,that's it.But..............Who'll stop the rain makes a silk purse out of this fairly dire sow's ear of a plot mainly due to a great performance by the under - rated Mr N.Nolte.He has the bruised integrity of a Chandler hero 30 years on.Once stung into action he is remorseless. Mr Karel Reisz,a man with as eclectic a CV as you could wish for,seems very much at home in this milieu.He extracts fine work from Miss Tuesday Weld whose career has been consistent only in its inconsistentency and Mr Michael Moriarty.Mr Anthony Zerbe plays his customary enigmatic role very satisfactorily. In short there is a lot here to please even the most discerning moviegoer. Despite the cliché - heavy situations,the director and cast drag this movie out of the morass of Post -Vietnam - Trauma movies and make it an exciting work in its own right. "},{"Title":"Dog Eat Dog","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, I'm glad Michael Moriarty and Tuesday Weld ride off in the sunset together (yawn!). The director relied so much on Credence Clearwater Revival that it became trite. All in all, though, a good example neo-noir. Richard Masur, as the bearded bad guy was excellent (he deserved more parts). However, his partner, Ray Sharky was way too dopey. I like the end when Anthony Zerbe gets his just rewards. I would have gone with the title of the novel, 'Dog Soldiers', but they wanted to get all those CCR fans into the seats. Tuesday Weld might have been one of the most beautiful actresses of this era. Whatever happened to her? "},{"Title":"Who'll Stop The Rain  Stormy Movie With Shifting Winds.","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I rented this movie from Blockbuster 3 years ago on DVD mainly because I'd never heard of it,it starred Nick Nolte and it's from my favorite movie year 1978.I viewed it but later forgot about it,but once again,through the channels of my local library,I was able to get a VHS copy and watch it again. This time (for whatever reason) I wont forget it.I watched it with my older brother who understands the times depicted here better than I do. He helped me understand why they were trying to smuggle in and sell off the heroin in the first place. Then the movie made a little more sense.The high points of this movie for me are Nolte's riveting performance,the mountain hippie hideaway where he and Marge hide (to me a testament to the lost flower power dreams of the culture) and the stark realities of the figures one deals with in the realm of drug trafficking.It's hard to imagine a man,Nolte's friend,who'd put his wife & child in danger for a bag of white heroin and that the wife of this man would not instantly leave him for doing something so stupid but maybe that's just a reminder of how confused and lost America seemed during the Vietnam era.The bad guys here,who pretty much torture this inexperienced fool later (due to the influence of an even more crooked cop)end up having to back off and work with him to recover the stash and find Nolte and Marge. Which leads to the climactic conclusion at the end of the movie.There's many a hole in story progression here,which is why I rate it a 7 How did the bad guys know about Nolte's involvement and where he would be when he shows up at Marge's house? How did they go about tracking he & Marge to the hippie hideout?As for why the man in the blue suit was going to shoot the crooked cop at the end? I can only guess he was going to scoop up the heroin himself or maybe he was sick of the man's utter crookedness.While this movie will never win the acclaim of other Vietnam era-based films,it is a movie that can definitely,again,stand for how America in the 70s was in a tumultuous state of confusion and just an utter sense of loss. Not just for the senselessness of the Vietnam war but for everything they thought Amercia and they themselves were all about.Maybe that's why this movie isn't as personal as Coming Home or The Deer Hunter and certainly not as deep as Apocolypse Now. It's just one story out of the many that were born of that time. It shall simply be more of a cult classic. (END) "}{"Title":"Excellent performance, holes in plot","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Great performances by Nolte, Weld, Mazur and Sharkey should have earned this suspenseful film a higher viewer rating, but the plot is weak. Warning Spoilers! Vietnam is the starting point, but the theme of this film is the drug trade's cruelty and damage Marge loses her child, father, and home; Antheil shows us the corruption of law enforcement; Converse goes against all he believes. Unlike the big-scale Scarface, which associated drugs with glamor, fancy homes, big money (and violence), Rain focuses on a few days of brutal competition for just 2 kilos of heroin.But I kept stumbling over holes in the plot. Even at 126 minutes (and maybe because of that length), the film didn't tell us why Hicks smuggled the heroin against his better judgment; how Hicks (the marijuana smuggler) knew so much about the thugs who followed him to Marge's house for the heroin; why Hicks sacrificed himself for the Converses at the end; why the thug in the powder blue suit was about to kill Antheil at the end. This is one time I would like to see the director's cut, to view what was left on the editing room floor. "},{"Title":"Only good thing is the soundtrack!","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Credence Clearwater revival is the only thing good in this movie. It starts out OK but the plot flubs and flops until one does not even care about the out come. This would not even beat an ABC movie of the week back in the seventies. I was left with more questions than answers at the conclusion. There must have been a lot of real heroine in that bag because the only people having fun are the ones in the movie they must have splurged between takes. Nick Nolte's character goes way out of his way for another man's wife, he even tells an old Navajo Joe that she's the love of his life as she leaves to descend the mountain to her shell shocked moronic retarded husband. I will not spoil it but just stay away from this dust bin of a movie, I needed a shower after I watched it. I felt like I had been riding through the desert with them for five hours, boring! "},{"Title":"How long does it take for paint to dry? Two hours 6 minutes","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Occasionally on talk shows a good topical debate sparks some interesting opinions from the audience, unfortunately there is always some desperately sad person seeking acceptance who will end any interesting debate instantly by getting up and saying the proverbial Everyone should get along and love each other as they know they are guaranteed to get applause and affirmation, as no one would dare disagree.Well they are the same people who marked this film as good, why did they do that? INSECURITY. Anyway that's all I'll say on that matter.The Film, it starts of reasonably interestingly so you hope it will build, and if like me you've settled in with a nice couple of glasses of wine and some cheese then you will give it even more of a chance simply because you can't be bothered to move.But then you daydream, you wander, your mind drifts of onto other things, why? because the Director did too! he took his foot off the gas, and then he realized 'ooops' so to compensate he accelerates hard, but then he drifts again, and again so do you, the story slows, the plot thins and almost disappears, you even wonder to yourself 'so what happened again?' as you ponder your screen will show Nick Nolte running around with some supposed purpose, but you will have long since cared as to what he is doing and he will appear as nothing more than a screen saver in the background to your day dreaming.Michael Moriarty who plays John Converse has an amazing ability to speak without moving his lips or indeed his face, somewhat like a ventriloquist, he must have gone to the Nicolas Cage school of expressionless facial acting, or he was attacked by the Phantom Botox injector.Tuesday Weld was to play Marge Converse, but instead she played Mia Farrow to perfection.In all there are hundreds of thousands of films to see, so leave this one to one of the last, you see I've just wasted an evening watching it when I could have watched or done something else, learn by my mistake, nights off relaxing are precious so don't waste one watching this boring tale, do anything else, dust off that old game of Cluedo, practice gurning for the evening or have an argument with a loved one, trim your nose hair, get rid of unused files on our laptop, it will be time better spent what ever you should choose. "},{"Title":"Terrible.","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just plain terrible. Nick and Michael are WAY better actors than this. A C rated flick at best. The plot was weak and the characters totally undeveloped. Even the film and sound quality was terrible. I suppose that these were all young actors at the time and this script just filled a job nitch. "}]