[{"Title":"A wonderful film for all ages","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"114 out of 131 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw this film initially when I was about six or seven years old and have seen it several times since. Of all the films I saw during my early childhood, none captivated me as much as Watership Down. I am now twenty eight years old and, despite the violence and sadness of the film, I have somehow turned out to be a fairly normal bloke rather than a murderer or manic depressive. Funny that.It is a complete fallacy to suggest that we must shield our children from anything that hints of the injustices that may exist in the real world. In fact, seeing a film such as this may help them in dealing with issues in their own lives or perhaps teach them lessons in understanding and appreciation of the world around them. Watership Down had that effect on me. "},{"Title":"The greatest adaptation ever...","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"80 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I would never spoil the wonder that is Watership Down. The book and the film are timeless classics. I think it is the greatest adaptation of a novel (any genre) ever made and one of the most under-rated movies of all-time. They managed to capture more of a long novel (nearly 500 fantastic pages) than most films can compile from a 200 page source work. The soundtrack is beautiful (I'll be getting one for a Christmas present--thanx for the info IMDb!!) and matches the mood of the scenes perfectly.Viewers will recognize someone they know in nearly every rabbit and, with unbiased observation, probably see themselves. It is at once gripping and gentle, heart-rending and endearing. You will find yourself humming the tunes incessantly for months afterward. I recommend reading the book first (also try Traveler by Adams, another classic), then purchasing the film, then the soundtrack--wait, better yet, write your Congressman and demand a DVD release. I long for another wide-screen viewing (hint, hint)!I have noticed multiple comments that state the movie is too violent for children (it is somewhat graphic--to it's credit). For very small children, I would whole-heartedly agree, however, I think it depends on the individual. I was lucky enough to have a Father who took me to see it at the theatre when I was a youngster (about 5) and it did not scar me or give me nightmares--rather I learned the importance of the symbiotic circle of existence and the reality and necessity of life and death. It is still a comfort to me in times of sadness. In addition, the movie is highly layered and something new can be gleaned with nearly every viewing.I enjoyed it for years and only later realized many people had never even heard of it...I take every opportunity to recommend it and not once, not once, have I heard anything but thanks for the suggestion. Most of them end up owning the film. Both symbolic and blunt, Watership Down is a triumph of emotional proportions and is exemplary of what adaptations, animation, scoring and good film-making should be about. This wonderful adventure is an asset to any collection...10/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent animated film--more for older children and adults","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"65 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" British animated film about a bunch of rabbits leaving their old warren (which one psychic rabbit can tell is going to be destroyed) and searching for a new one. The movie recounts their adventures searching for one.It may sound like a movie ideal for little kids--but it really isn't. It's an excellent adaptation of Richard Adams book which was written more for teenagers and adults. It's an ecological tale of how men are destroying the earth and (inadvertently it seems) killing innocent wildlife. It's also a very interesting story about how a group of rabbits survive on their own.The animation is excellent--right up there with Walt Disney. The score is great, the script intelligent and the voices used perfectly match the characters. However, as I said, this isn't really for little kids. The story is dead serious and the only humor is provided by the bird Kehaar (who I personally found very annoying although Zero Mostel DOES have fun with the voice). Also, at the end, it gets very violent and quite bloody. When I saw it in a theatre in 1978 one small kid was in tears by the conclusion. So, use your own judgment but I would never let a small kid see this. This is perfect for teenagers and adults. A 10. "},{"Title":"Watership Down is Amazing","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"62 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am twelve years old and I personally loved it. It is one of the most touching films I have seen. All to do with these rabbits hardships. Some of it made me laugh whilst other bits made me cry, but thats just me. It is very good and also makes you think about what could be happening in real life. My dad used to take me shooting rabbits, but after Watership Down I never went again. The graphics may not be as high quality as some of the newest releases but don't let that put you off. It is a remarkable film and I loved it. Don't think that older films are no good because Watership Down is AMAZING! I think if you are under the age of eight then you might not like it due to some violence and gore, but eight plus with love it. Even adults will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Even This Cynical Viewer Was Enthralled By This Exciting Animated Adventure","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"73 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I had absolutely no knowledge of WATERSHIP DOWN was going to be about except that it featured rabbits in some capacity . I had an inkling it was going to be some patronising , juvenile crap that anyone above the age of seven would find nauseating . It says something about the quality of television on the run up to Christmas when a bitter and twisted 39 year old man sits down to watch a feature length about talking rabbits - Talking rabbits ! OMG , it's not like the author Richard Adams meant the story to be some drug metaphor is it ? OMG talking rabbits just how pathetic is that ? And the one thing that I remembered on its initial release - And which I'm still trying to forget to this very day - is that gawd awful song by the guy with the worst hairstyle in the history of pop music . You know the song ....  bright eyes burning like fire  . Bad enough I saw BARNEY'S BIG ADVENTURE the previous day . Now I was going to be watching equally childish sentimental crap with talking rabbits Oh hold on . I've just seen WATERSHIP DOWN this very minute . Can everyone reading this review please ignore erroneous phrases like  Childish pathetic crap  because this is not how the story plays out . I do confess that perhaps the original story has perhaps been slightly flawed in the adaption with the hierarchy of the original warren somewhat unexplained ( For example why is it treason to leave the warren and search for a new one ? ) but that is my one and only criticism of this superb animated adventure which can be enjoyed by anyone of any age In a nut shell WATERSHIP DOWN resembles one of those post apocalypse dramas by John Wyndham or more especially John Christopher except instead of humans it features rabbits that talk . No seriously forget all about the characters being humanized bunnies , this is a dark dramatic adventure where survivors of an eco-disaster try and find sanctuary in a bleak , desolate and dangerous world . As crazy as it sounds some people have picked up on the coincidence that the plot resembles 28 DAYS LATER and one can't help thinking that it's a little bit stronger than coincidence . If you've seen one you can't noticing the quite striking similarities between the two especially the climax . Of course it could be that the original novel of WATERSHIP DOWN was influenced by Conrad's HEART OF DARKNESS which seems to have influenced much of Alex Garland's work but even so A thoroughly enthralling adventure that may have children weeping at the sad bits will certainly keep adults interested as they try and spot analogies . Let me repeat once again that while there's sad scenes there is nothing sickeningly sentimental and is a shockingly sophisticated tale . I certainly rate as being one of the greatest British productions of the 1970s "},{"Title":"Simply brilliant","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"43 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  'Watership Down' is quite simply my favourite animated film of all time.The vocal talent, animation style (both in the main story and in the mythical opening), soundtrack and script all work wonderfully, shortening the material of the book but not losing all of its themes. Efrafa was exactly as I imagined it would be from reading the book, Woundwort being suitably scary and unhinged.Obviously the violence and horrific imagery has been toned down to make the film more accesible to a young audience (at 8 I wore out TWO copies of the film on VHS!!!) but not so much that the film becomes cutesy. Far from it. These are not fluffy bunnies in the vein of Thumper, they are real. They get hurt (Bigwig nearly is killed in a snare, Hazel is shot, Captain Holly arrives nearly dead), they fight, they flee from domestic dogs, cat, from humans with guns. There is blood and violence, the film does not shy away from that...Blackavar's torn ears are as wince-inducing to me now as they were to me when I first saw the film 10 years ago.What does surprise me now though is that the film is rated U (universal, suitable for all) here in the UK. Not only is there some mild swearing, the level of violence and the visual horror (Fivel seeing the field covered in blood, Holly's description of the warren blocked with dead bodies) is surely at least PG? Hmmm....To conclude it can be said that watching films from your childhood is often a bad move....they are usually best left in the memory. The same can not be said of Watership Down. Simply brilliant! "},{"Title":"My favorite animated film!","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"54 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The first great animated film to come around in the entire history of motion pictures!  It's not only original(shying away from the traditional Disney formula), but it's the first animated film to ponder the meaning of life itself!  I was really moved by it!  With Disney films, you know what to expect.  This was like watching a Terrence Malick film; beautiful, subtle, spiritual, and important for our lives.  The only difference is that it's animated with cute & cuddly cartoon characters.  This is a film both adults and children alike will enjoy and learn from, because it is a social commentary on facism, and it is a spiritual film.  It's spirituality lies in it's initial message, which is about facing death, and avoiding it as well. Not that you can avoid death, but that you can have a sense of self preservation, purpose, and  a place in life.  The most inspirational line of the movie is All the world will be your enemy.  And when they catch you, they will kill you.  But first they have to catch you..  All of your life, you will continue to meet people who like you, and those that will attack you.  Be strong, stand tall, and your people will never be destroyed.. That is basically, in a few words, what the world and the meaning of life is really all about!   "},{"Title":"Would have been my favorite film if I had seen it when I was a kid","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If I had had this video when I was 8 or 9, I think I would have watched it as much as or more than I watched any other video that I had at the time. It's quite an extraordinary film. I'm 21 now, and I found it very exciting and involving throughout. The only problem is that it always seems like the episodes in the film happen a bit too quick, making it pretty obvious that it was adapted from a  much longer novel. Episodes that seem very important only last for three minutes or so. And they never did free the rabbits in the pen at the farmhouse. Still, it's a great movie. While not for the very young children (there is a bit of violence and gore), I think any kid 8 or above would really love this film. Learn that you don't have to just buy videos of recent films for children. Some of the older films are much better. 9/10. "},{"Title":"A Wonderfully Gripping Adventurous Tale Of Survival","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 'Watership Down' is a terrific adaptation of Richard Adams's novel. Like Orwell's 'Animal Farm', this isn't only a film for children but equally important for adults. The soundtrack is captivating and I loved the way Art Garfunkel's song was used. The characters are so richly written that the viewer immediately empathizes and identifies with them. They are brave, endearing, loyal and strong and this is all cleverly downplayed. Fiver and Hazel are the two heroes who are brilliantly voiced by Richard Briers and John Hurt. The overall voice acting is very well done.Unlike most animated films, 'Watership Down' uses a lot of subtlety. Nothing is overdone. The music flows well, the pacing is smooth and the characters are real (rather than over the top). The animation is simplistic, created with watercolour and ink, giving it a gentle touch. It works effectively.There story is cleverly layered and there's a lot of intriguing symbolism. The film never shies away from being brutally honest. It shows life the way it is There's pain, there's death, there's suffering, there's determination and one needs to work hard to have the best of it, to survive. While many have complained that this is no movie for children, I think it depends more on the individual because this film is relevant for everyone. The violent scenes are a bit graphic and the sad scenes are moving but in the end it is uplifting.There are very few novels that have been so fascinating on screen. 'Watership Down' is among them. It is a magnificently gripping adventurous tale. After 30 years it still remains a powerful story that strongly applies to today's world. I remember seeing it ages ago and then it was a must-have-on-DVD movie for me. I finally got the DVD and had the pleasure to watch revisit it today. A dazzling gem. "},{"Title":"terrific adaptation","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  While not as good as the book itself, the movie was well done indeed. This was one of those books I lived in when I first read it, never has Richard Adams come close to what he achieved here, able to pull you the reader right down into the grass roots along with Hazel, Fiver and BigWig. And the animators did him justice...I don't have much to add here that others here haven't, save to say I enjoyed the classic voices used here a lot-from Joss Ackland as the 'Black Rabbit of Inle' to the late, much lamented Harry Andrews as Woundwort. Now THAT guy was as tough and ornery a character actor as ever I saw onscreen, and he did the brutal  Woundwort character justice indeed.Of course I recommend this-***1/2 outta ****, the book being ****. "}{"Title":"A beautiful look at animation for a well done novel","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Done primarily in water color, Richard Adams' best selling story tells the tale of a warren of rabbits who venture away from the evils of man in search for a new and better place to live. Film portrays a whole new world with simplicity and calm but also dangers and obstacles that mimic the way human beings live. An excellent story and can only be done in an animated movie with a serious manner for a full effect. If one wants the full effect then read the book and you will be glued to it, captivated deep within another world. "},{"Title":"Be cunning, and full of tricks, and your people will never be destroyed.","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Being an Australian, it's rather difficult to sympathise with the plight of rabbits. Following their introduction to our continent in 1859, the European Rabbit population has multiplied at an absolutely phenomenal rate, destroying the natural environment and helping to drive numerous native marsupial species to extinction. They've survived countless attempts to eradicate their numbers, and are now largely resistant to both Myxomatosis and calicivirus. At home, I'm always sure to congratulate my pet dog, Cassie, whenever she trots into the backyard with a rabbit clutched between her teeth. You'll forgive me for launching into a tirade about a troublesome Australian pest, but I'm just trying to convey my general abhorrence towards the species. It would have taken a mighty piece of film-making to make me forget that I hate rabbits, and yet 'Watership Down (1978)' had me utterly engaged from the opening moments. Not only did I care about Hazel, Fiver and Bigwig, but I genuinely fell in love with them, and for 100 minutes I was completely absorbed in their strenuous but noble struggle for survival.The film is based upon the 1972 novel of the same name by Richard Adams, and was both adapted and directed by Martin Rosen. What struck me most was how incredibly rich the story was, with Adams having created not only a wealth of multi-layered characters, but also an entire rabbit culture and mythology. 'Watership Down' opens with a fascinating Creation story, as the God-like deity Frith (symbolised by the Sun) creates planet Earth and every creature within it. In a double-edged blessing, Frith condemns the mischievous rabbit prince El-ahrairah to forever be hunted, but also to always have the skill and agility to survive All the world will be your enemy, Prince of a Thousand Enemies. And when they catch you, they will kill you. But first they must catch you. The events take place in the English countryside, with the title stemming from a hill at Ecchinswell in the county of Hampshire; despite my initial preconceptions, 'Watership Down' was certainly not the story of a sinking ocean liner!Hazel the rabbit (voiced by John Hurt) may not be physically-imposing, but he is selfless, intelligent and mature, and this makes him a fine leader. His younger brother, Fiver (Richard Briers), is runtish and neurotic, yet he possesses a sort of mystic flair that means his peculiar feelings almost always prove significant. After Fiver foresees danger approaching their warren, a small group of rabbits &#150; including the brutish but noble Bigwig (Michael Graham Cox) &#150; flee their home in search of a safer locale. Their journey is certainly not a walk in the park, and allow me to be the one millionth reviewer to warn parents that many scenes in this film are not suitable for young children. As the group trudge across the English countryside, they are greeted with an assortment of creatures who would be more than happy to make a dinner out of them, including hawks, dogs, cats and humans. However, the rabbits' greatest obstacle before happiness is the nasty, tyrannical Chief-Rabbit, General Woundwort (Harry Andrews), a bloated, domineering lump of a villain who is both reminiscent of George Orwell's Napolean and, oddly enough, Orson Welles' Police Captain Hank Quinlan. "},{"Title":"You'll never look at rabbits in the same way ever again","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There is nothing about Watership Down that I dislike. This film is a flawless adult fantasy that I never tire of viewing. The music is pure class, the voice talent is remarkable, the animation is charming (as are the characters), the story relevant, witty, humourous, and thought-provoking.Although this is an animated film about a society of rabbits seeking to establish a new warren in unknown lands, Watership Down is perhaps not a good film for young children, as the mood can be creepy at times, and there is a bit of violence and blood shed; certainly not in the same mood as, say, The Secret Of Nimh.After viewing this film, one thing is for sure you'll never look at rabbits in the same way ever again.Sure delight! "},{"Title":"Read the book - it's better.","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well, it's not at bad film, I like the animation, and it tells a pretty gripping story. I also like how it incorporates the lapine language in a way that comes natural.But then again, the film does fail in making the characters from the book come truly alive on the screen, and it also fails at telling the fable about human nature that Richard Adams wants to tell.I know that a film can never be entirely true to a book, some cuts and changes must be made. But some of the choices made by the screen writers here are difficult to understand. Such as the completely unnecessary addition of the rabbit Violet, who is in the story only to be killed - which pretty much ruins one of the points Hazel and Bigwig make to Captain Holly in the book but not in the film; namely that all of the 'hrair' (more than four) rabbits, who left the colony, none have died. This is why Holly - mighty Captain of the Owsla - accepts Hazel as a leader, instead of trying to usurp him.The conflict or competition for the leadership, which takes place between Hazel and Bigwig, is completely lacking in the film. Instead, Hazel quite suddenly transforms from outskirt rabbit to strong leader, and no one questions his leadership. This is a very weak point in the film.Also, Cowslips colony ought to play a much larger part in the story - as it indeed does in the book. This colony is an image of a modern, post-Christian welfare society that has lost sight of its roots (they forgot about El-Ahrairah) - which is a pretty obvious point in the book, but not at all evident in the film. Five to ten minutes of film could have easily made all of this clear, plus we could also perhaps have heard the heartbreaking story of Strawberry and Nildro-Hain, two characters from the book whom I really missed in the film.If all of this had been in the film, Captain Hollys tale wouldn't have had to be altered either, as it would have made perfect sense that it was Cowslip and his cronies who tried to kill him - not the rabbits of Efrafa. (How would he get to Efrafa anyway? He was following the hraka of the other rabbits all the time, as his objective is always to find Bigwig and offer him an apology.) I rather liked the adaptation of the Efrafa-part of the book, though. This horrible Nazi colony is much better described than Cowslips colony is. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Carthritic.","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Watership Down is a wonderful and yet peculiar film. Made infamous thanks to butchers urging people to buy the stew, not to mention an entire generation of traumatised children there's a lot more to this than just the recycled cliches.What we have is a very English cartoon with lush watercolours and frollicking rabbits making their way across the picturesque countryside after one of the band of rabbits has had a vision of the warrens destruction.Along their journey we are shown issues as ranging from the sadism of cats, to creationism and facism. The main issue though is the idea that the world is a hard place to live in, and it's this honesty that touches the audience. Despite everything bad that happens the rabbits never lose hope for building a utopian society. It's not really a kids film at all despite being a cartoon, there's plenty of graphic violence, nightmarish undertones and even bad language but it never ends up o.t.t. There's moments in it which can even bring up a lump in the throat of a grown man, which in my case is a rare thing indeed.The animation employed is wonderful, with amazingly realistic movement and hazy water-coloured backdrops Turner would be proud of. The voice talent on offer ranging from Denholm Elliot to Richard Briers is nothing short of perfect. One of the biggest highlights is the divine music combined with the Aztec style animations as Fiver tries to find Hazel, a simulataneous mixture of uplifting and depressing which feels rather odd. I was going to write something completely different but this is such an effecting film I'm really lost for words. All I can say is watch it. It's a profound experience, and despite not being a kids film I'd show it to them, children need to learn about the world and this film is as good as any place to start teaching them.  "},{"Title":"My strongest nostalgia-inducing movie from growing up.","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Watership Down is so rich in unique storytelling and symbolism that, when I think about it, I must have been far too young to comprehend its complexity when I saw it as a kid for the first time. Nonetheless, I remember enjoying it immensely. It freaked me out too with all its violence, but I'm willing to overlook that because it is such a masterpiece.Basically, one bunny has a premonition of their warren being destroyed. So, all the bunnies set out on a journey to find a new home. Their new settlement is Watership Down.I haven't read the novel, but I hear it is a very faithful adaptation. I'm sure it has flaws but it is definitely a very interesting film that everyone should see at some point in their life. "},{"Title":"just about a masterpiece of animation; Rosen is a brilliant British filmmaker","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Watership Down is that animated film you'll hear about from a friend- not usually when you're a kid unless you're the kind that hangs around those reading dark British animal novels written by Richard Adams- when you're an older teen or an adult, and that it's not you're garden-variety Disney movie with violent rabbit encounters and an animation approach that is not at all fluffy in description. When finally seen, it goes past the hype of being one of those sleeper hits of the 1970s. It's mostly a pure masterpiece of animation, British or otherwise, though for Britain it's an even more significant achievement if only because only a handful of movies made there have made it to the States (not counting Rankin/Bass stuff like the Hobbit, more like the 1950s Animal Farm adaptation).The approach from writer/director/producer Martin Rosen recognizes the source material as something very special; it's very much like one of those memorable books translated to screen without compromise that speaks to either very sophisticated older kids or to open-minded adults. It's not a fun romp, but rather a drama about society broken down to pieces and the contention between those that want to break from the old ways and destruction from human hands and those that still c ling to the ways of the 'General' character. It's also not for those not ready for a sad story; while it doesn't quite end on a sad note (maybe more bittersweet with a touch of the spiritual in a sense), there's lots of struggle and adversity to face, and it even faces questions that probably mean more coming out of an English mind-set regarding the breaking out of the old guard in times of survival.Basically, it's about two rabbits, Hazel and Fiver, who lead a group of rabbits from their old homestead to a place that will be safe from destruction. And it's a good idea as all the old burrows and tunnels are plugged up. But there's contention in the ranks from the 'General', who demands that everything stay the same. Thanks to rabbits like Bigwig though things move ahead, but there's a lot of obstacles along the way. This is the clothesline of the plot, and there are a lot of details that should feel like they're apart of a more conventional animated movie even out of Disney. And yet, with Rosen's direction and the work of the animators, it's by a different impulse and mood, the film has the look of a *real* artistic drive- colors are usually (with a couple of exceptions like with that odd sun) very naturalistic, as most of the rabbits are, and because of this there's something going on one doesn't usually see in animated talking animal movies a sense of the world presented as realistically (or at least honestly) as possible, and then pulsating with humanistic qualities through the characters and their journey.As I mentioned, it's not really for little kids. If only because some of them will just be confused at times or not understand why the rabbits aren't like the really cute ones of other storybooks and fantasies (or, actually, just parts of the storyline and really well written dialog), but also because of the violence- the kind of which that could've inspired the PG-13 rating system back in the day. This goes without saying occasionally Rosen tries to put in some things that could make it more family friendly, and these end up being the only liabilities of the movie, notably, for me, the Art Garfunkel song put into a scene midway through (not to say too much but it involves a ghost) that feels sappy as bad syrup. When Rosen sticks to his guns and makes it a solid, unflinching story of rabbits out for survival in not-so-merry old England, it's exceptional, and surely one of the best films of the late 70s. "},{"Title":"British Animation at its Best Life From The Rabbit's Point of View","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Seriously, has anyone ever thought of what life is really like from the rabbit's  POV? It's probably horrifying! Almost everything is open danger. The rabbitshere are not portrayed as victims, but as tragic heroes. The theme of this book  and movie is the acceptance of their place in life, and continuing to live as  nature intends them.      British animation has never been appreciated as much as American orJapanese or even Russian animation, with the possible exception of theWallace and Gromit films. Here, however, British animation reaches its peak.You might want to watch this film for the background animation, from the scenic  beauty of the English countryside, painted in stunning watercolor and graphite,  to the eerily surreal quality of Fiver's visions and the night scenes, and starting  with the first scene dealing with the Rabbit's idea of the Creation, animated  seemingly in the style of the Celtic engravings of ancient Britain. Or thecharacter animation, the startlingly real quality of the Rabbit's movements.      But there is more to this film than the animation. Helped along with a stellar  British cast (excepting the legendary Zero Mostel as the crazy Yiddish accented  seagull, Kehaar), the movie delivers its message with incredible power. WithRichard Briars as the dream-haunted Fiver, John Hurt himself as the leaderlyHazel, and Michael Graham Cox as the tough-as-nails Bigwig, the charactersare well developed and appreciated.      Is this the best of British animation? Of what I've seen of it, yes.  This film's  memorable moments go on and on. The warm sense of brotherly love displayedby Hazel and Fiver, the nightmarish display of the warren's destruction, theraucous voice of Kehaar, the final battle between Bigwig and GeneralWoundwort, the witch-like voice of the Cat, and the incredibly powerfulsequence of Hazel's death, this movie is pure English, and all you British-film  lovers must see this and gather your own opinion. "},{"Title":"astonishing film","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the movies that i actually kept remembering where all the others are forgotten within a day or even an hour, this one will be remembered forever. And the soundtrack with it is way cool too, Bright Eyes is one my favorite songs. It's just a great movie.  "},{"Title":"Book has great story, Movie has great music","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Honestly, I didn't even know there was a movie until I was half way done with the book.  I was absolutely LOVING the story and trials the rabbits were enduring.  Then one day I was at a rental place looking for the Planet of the Apes movies (don't ask) and I saw the cover of Watership Down (movie)!  I was very much tempted to renting it, but then I told myself NOT to rent it until you've finished the book.  I sure am glad I waited!When I closed the back cover to the book, it had taken my breath away in an instant!  The storytelling was captivating, heartbreaking, very interesting, and best of all it was easy to read and follow along!  (Some books just confuse me from page 1).After that, I ran over to the movie rental place and rented the movie. When I watched it the first time, I was pretty much trying to capture the differences from the book, and there were plenty, but overall, it was much better than most book-to-movies.  I watched it a second time, this time to enjoy the adventure of Hazel and Bigwig and the rest.  That's when I noticed how wonderful the music went along with the feeling and tone.  The third time I watched it, I closed my eyes and only listened to the music and dialogue and imagined the movie in my head.  I must say I almost cried when Bright Eyes (main theme) played.  Watership Down's musical score hits you in just the right place to give you Goosebumps!When I returned the rental, I rushed to the Bookstore and bought Richard Adam's other book The Plague Dogs, which in my opinion was a terrible book because it doesn't get interesting until the very last chapter...but that's a whole different story.Overall of the overall, I give the movie a 8/10.  The score would have been lower, but the music got to me and now I can't get it out of my head. Someday I'll buy it if it ever comes to DVD in the future. "}{"Title":"A Immortal Masterpiece","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw Watership Down I was 8 years old. I am now 30, and everytime I watch Watership Down I have that same feeling that I had when I was 8.  Watership Down did'nt need computer animation, lasers or flying ships to bring forth the story of a true adventure.  Wathership Down was brought together by a creative team of script writers, animators, the cast of voices, the wonderfuly composed music, and still to this day in my book one of greatest and most emotionaly moving song performed by Art Garfunkel Bright Eyes!! Most of all I want to thank Richard Adams for writing a wonderful, wonderful novel. "},{"Title":"Classic Animation","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie has stuck in my head since I was a child. It had a dramatic effect over me and made me compassionate to animals and their hard times. "},{"Title":"One For The Rabbit Lovers","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I placed this film in my top 10 because of my pure love for this film and my pure love for cavy's and rabbits. However, one may think that is narrow minded to rate a film based purely on external matters, but this film is legitimately good in my views. Some people may find it too slow and I agree that some parts tend to drag, but it is countered by its strong attack on war and social themes. The metaphors may be too much for kids to understand, but this film really isn't to be experienced by kids. Yes, it's nice on the outside, but the gritty inside is what adults will love about this film. Overall, Watership Down provides a deeply depressing and emotional ride which will leave a tear in your eyes and a beautiful re-imagining of rabbits and animals in the process. "},{"Title":"You probably shouldn't show this to young children","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There's no doubt about it; this is a great British animation, although it wasn't quite as emotional or depressing as I was expecting. The voice acting, with such voices as John Hurt and Richard Briers, is generally above-par, although in some parts it's a bit samey, and Kehaar's voice has the potential to be very annoying at times (it's also a little weird - in his iconic line P*SS OFF! he sounds like the voice of a woman on Monty Python, however in basically all his other dialogue he sounds like someone doing a bad impersonation of Roberto Benigni), however both of these are fairly easy to overlook. The animation is really good for a lesser budgeted film of the time, particularly in the opening sequence of the story of El-ahrairah, but some of the animations are quite choppy in certain places. An annoying side effect of the very high quality of the Digibeta print from which the movie was presented was that some of the imperfections of the animation were made quite obvious (for instance there is quite a lot of static dirt in some scenes, presumably sandwiched inbetween the cels of the characters and background). For such a modest film, it has quite a grand and bombastic orchestral score, which is very well composed and played, making those final scenes even more effective, and it also has an oddly haunting song in Art Garfunkel's ballad Bright Eyes playing over what is arguably the most emotional scene in the movie, and making it only more so. For the most part, this is a generally light- hearted little movie, however the last 15 or so minutes are genuinely rather dramatic, quite shocking (seriously, how the f**k did this get a U?), and undeniably tense. It's quite a jarring change of pace, but it's arguably what makes the movie what it is, as well as being a more than satisfying rounding off to the movie. Watership Down for me didn't quite match all of what I had heard it described as; this doesn't matter, though, because it is still a very good animated movie, and was a great, albeit not entirely enjoyable per sé, way to spend a Sunday afternoon at the movies. "},{"Title":"Exciting, Disturbing and Totally Amazing","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Watership Down, contrary to popular belief, is not an environmental movie. It is, however, highly reflective of society, although the author has stated he just randomly made up the plot. Strangely enough, it's an adult film where the main characters are animated rabbits, rabbits with their own system of government, religion and language. They all strongly believe in the age-old fables passed down to them by their ancestors, featuring a trickster rabbit, a god-like figure used to explain the sun, and a phantom rabbit with black fur and almond-shaped eyes, used to represent death. When land developing threatens the home of this tribe of rabbits, a small few of them decide to leave, and they go on various adventures while trying to get to Watership Down, their ideal home, with the help of a seagull (voiced by Zero Mostel). Watership Down is a real place, located in Europe.Watership Down has had issues in the past when it was mistaken as a film for children because it's animated. It is definitely not for kids, it has disturbing, gory and graphic moments that I've seen adults have nightmares about. However, Watership Down is an excellent film, filled with memorable soundtrack (especially the song 'Bright Eyes'). I can remember when I was 8 years old seeing the movie and I loved the Black Rabbit, I can't remember why but it was always a very interesting character, sort of like the Grim Reaper of the rabbit world and similar to the Great Rat from the Sysco novels. The voices were great, and I think one of the best voice actors was definitely Zero Mostel. The animation was amazing and the film gathering many concepts from the novel. I highly recommend you read the novel as well, and add this movie to your collection. "},{"Title":"Showcasing What Man Can Do To Rabbits","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When I saw the movie, I think it was fantastic and today it still is. Looking at the film, it shows that animated aren't just focused to children. It can be focused towards everyone. The animation is just crystal clear, the voice acting was so professional and the storyline is all nail biting and heart felt story. The music another great feature too. This is one of those movies that I like that is dark and shows the real world rather then an animated film were it's all sunshine and la-de-da everything is perfect films, which I don't find bad in my taste. It makes you feel sorry for the characters for what they have to face through for what man has done to their homes. It's enjoyable and well worth it. Though if parents think this movie is good for their kids, I suggest you should read the rating label on the cover as some of the film contains blood and some gore. "},{"Title":"All the World Will be your Enemy, prince of a Thousand Enemies and Whenever They Catch You, They Will Kill You... But First They Must Catch You...","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Don't get me wrong, but Watership Down is one of the most greatest animated movies of all time. When Fiver(Richard Briers) predicts danger in the Sandleford Warren, he, along with his older brother Hazel(John Hurt), the strong Ex-Owsla rabbit Bigwig(Michael G. Cox), the intelligent rabbit Blackberry(Simon Cadell), and a few others escape just before their home warren is destroyed a few days later. After their long journey, they finally reach Watership Down(Hence the name of the movie, which is by the way a real place). However, their new lives are about to be cut short by the sinister one-eyed General Woundwort(Harry Andrews) of the Efrafa tribe, who plots to take Watership Down for his own territory. Will Hazel and his friends prevent General Woundwort from conquering Watership Down? Also starring Nigel Hawthorne as Campion, Roy Kinnear as Pipkin, John Bennett as Holly, and Zero Mostel(From Fiddler on the Roof) in his last starring role as the silly seagull Kehaar and featuring the most marvelous song Bright Eyes(And no, this is not a song dedicated to one of the Pound Puppies, Bright Eyes, just to let you know) by Art Garfunkel, Watership Down is filled with twists, turns, tragedy, and over-the-top animation adopted from the wonderful book of the same name by Richard Adams. My advice? Read the book and see the movie! I hope you'll enjoy both! "},{"Title":"This was awesome!","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Definitely THE best cartoon i saw in my childhood. If you haven't seen it, it is a must. While some people found the gore a bit excessive(if with people would definitely been an R), and nowadays would be a PG-13, it helped to emphasize the point. One problem with the movie was that it just went by too dang fast for me. However, the plot was excellent and the themes were outstanding. I wouldn't really hesitate to show it to a child more than 8 years old, and kids these days watch horror movies like Saw and A Nightmare On Elm Street anyway. Not to say that this is a horror story, but it can be a little rough at points. I showed it to some of my friends and they freaked out. I don't want to spoil anything, but you'll know what i mean when you watch it. This is definitely a must see for anyone who likes cartoons. "},{"Title":"My Childhood favourite!","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Watership down is an absolute classic and is one of my all time favourite films. I used to watch this film religiously as a child and to this day I still love it just as much.What I love so much about the film is its harsh and brutal reality; it's THE most sinister children's film I have ever seen. How watching this film as a child didn't mentally damage me for life I don't know! However don't let that put you off; it's a beautiful story of friendship, loyalty and bravery. The film takes you on a brilliant journey with these characters, forget that there cartoon Rabbits! You can totally relate to each character and the storyline is incredibly mature and adult for a children's cartoon.I admit my childhood love for this film makes my opinion bias, and that only other people like myself will agree with my highly complementing review, yet if you have only recently discovered this film, believe me it's still brilliant! The art work is fantastic and the emotion and darkness in film makes it feel totally grow up and modern. "},{"Title":"A gorgeous film adaptation of the novel","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I had watched the animated TV series, now I had watched this 1978 film version of the book Watership Down. This film is a true adaptation of the novel, of course I love both the series and film. Now for those of you of a sensitive nature might be scared at some scenes - just a reminder. And I love the voice talents of John Hurt (Hazel) and Richard Briers (Fiver).So anyway, everything about this movie is so beautiful. The animation is gorgeous, and the music is so simple and pretty. It really captures the spirit of the Downs, which I had learned is a British term for hill. "}{"Title":"Before, The Plague Dogs, there was, Watership Down, another animated classic","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Before, The Plague Dogs, was made, there was another animated film that was from the director and based on a book by the author of, The Plague Dogs. The animated film was called, Watership Down.The movie is based on the book by the same name where a group of Rabbits flee there home to find a new one because one of the rabbits, Fiver, get's a vision where there warren will be destroyed.The film has some great animation it's like watercolor paint come to life and John Hurt(Who provided the voice of Snitter from, The Plague Dogs) does a good job as, Hazel. I also found the character, General Woundwort, a great villain. Because he's ruthless and evil. Just like Scar from, The Lion King.Watership Down, is a great animated classic and worth watching. But just like, The Plague Dogs, it's pretty violent and not recommended for children. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the best animated film I have ever seen","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I finally got around to watching this classic tale about a group of rabbits who are convinced to leave their home after one of their friends has a bloody vision of danger that is about to come their way.This is a not a cutesy, Disney-style animation that sugarcoats the scary nature of the story. This is an often quite violent and sometimes disturbing film that comes right out and shows what might actually happen to these rabbits in real life. It is a film about survival and doing the right things to help friends survive.I would not recommend letting young children view this film without strong supervision. There are some very scary images here that would probably give many children nightmares.I would recommend this film to anybody except for those who for some reason hate animated films, but even many of them would likely find something to like about this one. "},{"Title":"Spectacular","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have not read the novel, though I will definitely consider it now. If you are looking for comparisons, however, I'm afraid I can not supply any. I am almost certain that I have watched this before, and that suggests that it communicated all that it had to say so well that it managed to leave an imprint of it on my, then much younger, mind. If you thought that a story where rabbits are the protagonists can't be exciting and involving, this will prove you wrong. I haven't been this engaged in a film since Metropolis, and whenever this goes for being intense, it nails it. Atmosphere is built masterfully, and the dark, bleak look and tone of portions of this will stay with you for a long time. This creates a world full of constant threat and danger, where an epic adventure unfolds. It's amazing how full and interesting the plot of this tale is in just 90 minutes, and without at any time feeling rushed. The animation is astonishing(how I wish 2D would continue to be pursued, rather a lot can be achieved in it, and hey, maybe people would get off this insipid flocking to whatever has the prettier CGI; I suppose there's always Animé), with a great range, well-chosen style, and a nice amount of detail to it. Some surrealism is marvelously incorporated into it. The use of Bright Eyes, already a beautiful song, is perfect. Audio in general is impeccable, everything sounds exactly the way it should, and the music is a fitting and immensely effective score. The voice acting is flawless, and every role is well-cast. There is a bit of humor in this, and it never tries too hard. The characters are well-developed, diverse and credible. There is infrequent mild to moderately strong language in this and no sexuality. Meanwhile, the violence is bloody and disturbing, and this can be terrifying. I recommend this to anyone, of any age, who is old and mature enough to handle the unsettling parts. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Loyalty, courage, leadership--this film has it all.","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Probably few are going to toggle all the way down to page 11 to read this, but having viewed this film yesterday, having last watched it 20 years ago when I viewed it with my pre-teen son, I am moved to comment. After becoming familiar with the Disney pap that passes for animation--nothing ever matched Bambi or Fantasia--it is a joy to watch this film for the beauty and the accuracy of the drawings. The foreground is typically used to introduce new scenes, and the botanical faithfulness with which the plants are rendered is still amazing to me. Flowers, shrubs, even weeds, have been carefully rendered from real life and are nearly photographic in detail, unlike the amorphous blobs depicting nature that Disney animators now produce.One commentator revealed that s/he cried again, as an adult, watching this film. So did I yesterday, at the scene where Hazel-ra dies. Somebody watching me would have guessed that I had gone tharn. Probably.The film has given my family a number of quotes that are part of our existence now. Let's head out to the hru-du-du. Helflay is for Owsla. Violet's dead (when we see any creature killed on the road). But first they must catch us.This film touches the receptive heart. "},{"Title":"Watership Down is A Fantastic Animated Film","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Watership Down is based on a book by Richard Adams. I've read the book, an excellent book by the way, one I actually enjoyed reading. The film does a pretty good job at making a 93-minute animation out of a nearly 500-page book.The story is about this small group of rabbits. Fiver, one of the young rabbits living the Sandleford warren sees a terrible vision of the warren being destroyed. The young rabbit and his brother Hazel and a group of others flee the land to find a new home, but to avoid dangers and the terrifying area of Efraffa, ruled by the evil General Woundwart and his army.A bit hard to decipher in some places, the story is well told with very good acting by John Hurt and others. Watership Down has some pretty exciting scenes in it, and good plot points. The film's flaws however are the slightly slow pacing, and sometimes, the animation.I have mixed feelings about the animation, it's very good, that's for sure, but it has its weaknesses. I wasn't too keen on the animation on the rabbits, except General Woundwort maybe, the other animals like Keehar the gull and the vicious farm dog are impressive. The backgrounds are often beautifully drawn, and the psychedelic imagery on some scenes embodies fear and dark themes. The music is well composed, and the song Bright Eyes is a very good and emotional song. The scene set to it is excellent.Now I have to mention, this may be an animated PG-rated film from the late 1970s, but it gets really dark and often gory at some points. I am not sure if very little children would handle this, but the film is reality, and other animations don't really seem to show the reality of animals' way of life. The animators were smart not to make any of the characters cute and make them more realistic without those cartoon-y eyes.Overall, it's an excellent animated film with some flaws here and there, but the film left a good feeling in my heart, and I am glad I saw this rare animated film. It deserves the good reviews. A 9.4 out of 10. It deserves way more attention than it really gets. "},{"Title":"The flip side of animation.","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you have seen any animated Walt Disney movies, you know what formula to expect badguy, catchy songs, cute amorphous sidekick, happy resolution, and a real lack of any thorough-going artistic integrity (even in classics like Mulan or Beauty and the Beast).  Watership Down tosses out these pre-conceived notions of what an animated movie should present.  The amorphous creatures here--the rabbits--do not represent the stock human qualities of Vaudevillian timing and perfect pitch, but REAL characteristics such as dignity, intelligence, resourcefulness, and hatred.  The characters are harsh and there is nothing cute about their dire situations.  However, because we can identify with their struggles (not as rabbits, but as representatives of human characteristics), we have much more of a connection to these characters than to any character in the history of Walt Disney animation (yes, including Bambi).  See this film, and let your kids watch it, for the timeless animation, its under-stated lyrical beauty, and the haunting theme song.  You can become attached to this movie.  "},{"Title":"The rabbits is a people with their own very real culture and religion","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a very good film that efficiently catches the feeling of the book. It contains some serious themes and is worth a look for adults as well as for kids, though not too young ones. There were actually some scenes that scared me the first time I saw it at the age of 10. "},{"Title":"A Classic And Touching Story","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    Watership Down remains as one of films top animated classics. With the great vocal talents of John Hurt, Richard Briers and Michael Graham Cox, you can feel the relationship among the rabbits as they search for a better place.      Though the movie is fast paced in respect to the book, it is still worth the watch.'I'd recommend seeing the film before reading the book and again after finishing the book. That way you'll see what is missing but still enjoy it. It also stands out in the 1970's experimentation in the art of animation. This is what brings Fiver's thoughts so alive, which is a significant trademark of this movie. Something that was not copied in the 80's movie on the Richard Adam's book The Plague Dogs.      Of course, everyone warns this movie may be to gory for children, especially children under 8 years of age. So see it for yourself first and decide before letting your child see it. However, chances are they've by now seen so many people being pointlessly killed on television that they won't really seem to mind.   "},{"Title":"One of the films ever created...","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First let me say that I've never seen this movie up until now.  Having heard about it on this board I decided why not; found it on DVD at Wal-Mart for the excellent price of $15.There are so many great aspects to the film that the space here would never be sufficient enough to write them down.As others have noted, this film isn't a childs film but rather more like an adult animated feature. Watership Down really affected me.  In fact more than any other movie I've ever seen.  The story was heart warming and heart breaking.While watching Watership Down, it's easy to forget they're rabbits.  They had many human traits such as love, respect, mourning, etc.The score combined with the pastel-like style of the movie makes it an engrossing experience that you'll want to watch more than once.You're going to have to watch it yourself to really appreciate it.The film's transfer to DVD was better than I expected when I bought it. The print has some color shift but overall looks pretty good.  Also extremely important is that fact that the film is in it's OAR.  The audio somewhat higher than usual level of what sounds like analog tape hiss. I'm uncertain as where it came from.  Could be that the production master for the DVD was dubbed from a 1 Type C reel recording of the film.  Since those run at 9.6 IPS and NR is optional it could be that.  Or maybe the hiss is from 70mm print's magnetic soundtrack.  At any rate it sounds like a magnetic soundtrack and is completely free of the grunge that affects optical soundtracks even when using NR. Personally I don't mind the hiss. I'd rather it stay there than have the production dept try to remove the hiss and end up screwing up the audio.If you normally don't buy movies, at least rent this one.  You'll be glad you did.  "},{"Title":"Powerful animated movie","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is an exotic and powerful animated movie, much better than many live action movies or even animes I've seen. A while ago, I saw the much hyped anime Grave of the Fireflies. While I thought it was a decent movie, I was disappointed by its lack of drama and its startling predictability. It also seemed to be more melodrama than anything. Watership Down, however, is genuinely powerful and truly sad. The rabbits living in this world go through hardships, and sometimes they have to resort to violent acts to get by. The animation style is different but magical. The soft, surreal style is not a flaw but actually helps the movie seem that much more haunting. The characters are also great, very well developed and very strong. From the haunting Fiver to the frightening General Woundwort, everybody makes the experience memorable. These aren't fuzzy, cuddly, Disney rabbits we're talking about. These rabbits actually shred each other to bits. As you can tell, this is hardly a children's film. But if you haven't seen this yet, you're missing out on a powerful experience. Rent it. Buy it. Just see it. It's wonderful. "}{"Title":"I'm Down with Watership!","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" An animated masterpiece adapted from the Richard Adams novel. Right from the start we are told the rabbit's creation story. It starts very sweetly and soon becomes violent as we realize this film is not for young children. The themes are universal and the direction is exquisite by Martin Rosen. The score is both epic and eerie, a perfect fit for the rabbit's adventures. Sir Ralph Richardson's narration is also a warning for our heroes All the world will be your enemy, prince with a thousand enemies. And when they catch you, they'll kill you. But first they must catch you. Listener, digger, runner, prince with a swift warning. Be cunning and full of tricks and your people will never be destroyed. The struggle of the bunnies is really a metaphor for man's struggle against evil. The film also makes a good point about man's destructive nature and how he's over expansion kills nature. There is a flashback scene where we witness the rabbits suffocating. We hear their eerie gasps and see their tormented, red eyes. Their warren is destroyed but thankfully a handful of rabbits leave in time.The rabbits are led by the brave and noble Hazel, voiced by the great John Hurt. His sensitive brother, Fiver, voiced by Richard Briers, sees a bleak future for them and suggests they leave. They are joined by the strong BigWig, captain of the guard, and several others. After a series of adventures they find a lush, green mountain with a lovely view to live on. However, hey do need to mate and seek the help of a comically, wounded bird, a hilarious Zero Mostel.Things get more complicated when the rabbits discover a place that other rabbits are abused and tortured.There is definitely a comparison to be drawn here to Nazi Germany. It's run by General Woundwort, voiced with pure menace by Harry Andrews. BigWig infiltrates and helps the other rabbits escape. Later, there is a final, bloody conflict between our heroes and Woundwort and his men.The rest I won't dare give away but I'll tell you this is one of those films you see more in with each viewing. The rabbits creation story has definite parallels to the Old Testament and there is even a Black Rabbit of Death. In conclusion, the Black Rabbit comes to collect one of our heroes who is getting older and is ready to die. It's quite moving to watch that rabbit lie down and die and then observe his spirit emerge and chase the Black Rabbit to salvation.This film I was fascinated with since childhood. Since I've gotten older I've found the themes even more relevant today. This is a very engrossing, human story that entertains and enlightens. If you truly enjoy this film, as I did, I suggest you read MORE TALES FROM WATERSHIP DOWN by Richard Adams. As for the film, it's one of my favorites of all time. "},{"Title":"One of the all-time great animated films.","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Animated films (I say animated because cartoon would be an insult) this good rarely come along.Excellent animation for the time (bare in mind this is 1978) and superb voice acting.Children may appreciate this film, but it might be mildly disturbing to them as well, especially the scenes of the rabbits being mauled. Don't let that scare you away though, this film is a very good, and serious animated film.Be sure to check out the other collaboration by director Martin Rosen and novelist Richard Adams The Plague Dogs (1982) Warning The Plague Dogs is MOST CERTAINLY not a children's film.http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0084509/ "},{"Title":"Dark classic","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" What if rabbits had myths and beliefs of their own? That's pretty much the only change this film makes to the existing world, but it's enough to open up a whole new realm of possibilities. The rabbits of this film are ordinary rabbits. They come out near dusk, eat carefully, are ever alert and are as a whole a nervous bunch. But this film, based on a classic novel of the same name by Richard Adams, sets out to explain this behaviour by giving the rabbits the ability to tell stories to one another, including creation myths. Tales about the sun god Frith and the first rabbit, The Prince with a Thousand Enemies, El-ahrairah.And you know what? That's really interesting. The whole film pulls you in instantly and you come to care about the lives of these ordinary rabbits, which you normally wouldn't pay any attention to. But the film makes them identifiable and shows their struggles as they constantly clash against the world of men and against their own kind. For they have the same capacity for cruelty, power-madness and insanity as we have. It's not a tale for small children or the easily disturbed, that's for sure, but I admire its ambition and willingness to explore some pretty heavy and dark themes.The film is also animated well, especially keeping in mind the relatively small budget. Pretty much the only complaint I have animation-wise is that it's sometimes a bit tough to tell the rabbits apart from one another. Some are easily distinguished, but the majority of them look very alike. But, as a whole, it's very impressive-looking.Watership Down is a rare jewel. An animated film you can only really appreciate as an adult, for it is a dark tale with themes of power, dictatorship, the ability to hope and the willingness to endure. Definitely not a film you should show to your kids, no matter how cute the rabbits look on the cover. "},{"Title":"A difficult book to film, this is a very good attempt. 4/5.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Watership Down, Richard Adams' only genuine classic novel, is a very difficult work to film, due to its length and the large number of descriptive passages. Martin Rosen's film makes a very good stab at it.The story is kept pretty faithful to the book, with no major plot inventions or departures. Some things have to be left out (an explanation of the rabbit's Lapine language, which is used sparingly throughout, Bluebell, and some of Dandelion's stories), and some of the action sequences (the rats in the barn, for example) are given extra prominence, but they don't really spoil the flow.All the rabbits have the characters they do in the book, and change in the same way, although the constraints of the medium mean that the complexities of (say) Bigwig's changing relationship to Fiver are not really explored in enough depth. Only one token doe is introduced (Violet) and she doesn't affect the thrust of the story (I can't explain why without a spoiler). Yes, it's old-fashioned to have an all-male group of heroes, but given that the story is based on real rabbit behaviour, it would be unrealistic not to.The film doesn't shy away from the book's depiction of the harshness of rabbit life - this isn't one to watch if you're frightened of blood. Having said that, it's been given a U certificate (=US G), so the censors are clearly not too worried about its effects.One valid criticism that can be made is that the last section of the film feels rather overly hectic, and the ending itself is slightly unsatisfactory for this reason (though still broadly in keeping with the book). It's as if the makers suddenly realised they had only 10 minutes left to get everything in, and just piled it up.The voices used are superb, with Richard Briers particularly fine as Fiver. The music, too, is just right, especially the rousing string pieces played in the happier moments of the film. Bright Eyes itself, though, feels a little semi-detached from the plot.You will find this film a great deal easier to follow if you have read the book, as some things (eg the rabbits starting to refer to Hazel-rah) are completely unexplained in the film. But that's no great loss, as the book is wonderful. All in all then, a courageous stab that very nearly comes off. "},{"Title":"No sugar coated Disney nonsense here","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" WATERSHIP DOWN is a proper children's animation, made as it should be. Adapted from the classic Richard Adams novel, it tells the story of a group of likable rabbits who discover that their warren is about to be destroyed. They set off on an epic journey to find a new home, one that is fraught with danger along the way.There's no sugar-coasted Disney nonsense here, no sickly sweet sentimentality or the like. Instead, this is a frightening film for the kids to watch. There's swearing, the constant threat of danger, violence, bloodshed, and yes, death. But these are all the things that make it such a memorable production, equalled only by the likes of Studio Ghibli.This 1978 production has a charm all of its own. The simple animation harks back to the good old days and is charming in itself. The all-star cast of British voice actors is excellent and brings out the nuance of the characters. The inclusion of the song Bright Eyes is the icing on the cake. This is moving and atmospheric in equal measure. My only complaint is that a lot of the novel is rushed or skipped through for timing reasons, but I can fully understand why. "},{"Title":"An Awesome Movie!!!!","Date":"10 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A true masterpiece, watership down portrays the rabbit world in different way we see them.This film is based on the Richard Adams' novel of the same name. This is a true nostalgic film that's sometimes is forgotten by people but I'm writing this review to make this underrated film even well known again despite it's controversy with the public ratingIt starts with hazel (voiced by John hurt), a male rabbit and his younger, fiver who has a special powers of seeing strange things that others don't. They both live in a warren called sandle ford in peace until fiver predicts a great danger that will fall upon them.So fiver, hazel and other rabbits escape from the warren and it's owlsa ( rabbit police) and travel the English countryside to grow their own warren along the way they face other warrens and humans.It does show some dark and dramatic moments and some people have problems with it's PG rating and others thinking the movie was for kids and decided to argue against. But it's not supposed to be a children's film, the movie is just a adaption of a best selling novel and a really good one as well. The characters are great especially the villain, it does show it shows the fantastic moral the hope you have in order to survive the conflict and harshness the unknown environment throws at you and the detailed commentary about the rabbit's religion and view on the world itself is very interesting like Rudyard Kipling's workCheck it out, I'll guarantee you won't unamused when you look through the rabbit's eyes and probably read the Richard Adam novel afterwards. "},{"Title":"The most violent movie with rabbits... ever...","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Let's start off with this Watership Down isn't a fantastic, over-the-top, amazing animated movie. It will not cheer you up but it is an interesting movie. Part of the reason I gave it an 8 is due to the fact that it is much different from the norm and not necessarily because it was really good.The plot follows a group of rabbits who leave their warren because one of the rabbits (Fiver) has a vision that the warren will be destroyed. Fiver is the runt of the bunch, and is also a seer. The jumps into the plot rather quickly so some of the concepts seem rather rushed. Either way the whole plot is about the rabbits finding a new perfect warren and rescuing rabbits from various places to join their colony. That is the plot in a nutshell.Here is what makes Watership Down interesting it is very violent (for a PG movie), is very dark, it is disturbing, and even a bit depressing. This movie doesn't try to hold back any blood and if anything there is more blood in this movie than there would be in real life. There are some rather disturbing scenes throughout the movie such as when the warren does get destroyed (but you know that from the beginning of the movie so it isn't really a spoiler).I feel that if this movie weren't dark, violent, and disturbing that it wouldn't have the fan base that is does today. It is truly unique. The rabbits are also animated to look like real rabbits and not cartoons. The animation itself isn't amazing and there are some parts where the animation looks really bad, but in other parts it looks pretty good. I would say it is a movie worth watching, but don't expect a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Nature red in tooth and claw","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If one thinks that all western animation, particularly that featuring cute animals, will be full of happiness and singing then think again. The rabbits of Watership down face constant real danger and if they aren't careful they will die. The story opens with a small rabbit called Fiver having a premonition of danger; he convinces his brother Hazel that they must move away to a new warren on a hill top. Hazel tells the chief rabbit but he thinks it is madness. Some of the other rabbits agree with Hazel though and together they flee the old warren. As they search for their new home they encounter many dangers including buzzards, foxes, cats, dogs and men&#x85; these aren't their greatest threat though; that is another rabbit known as The General and his subordinates. They run a warren whose land they must cross. This warren has something they need though does. In order to free some does the senior rabbit, called Bigwig, infiltrates the warren and organises a break out. The General and his underlings set off after them and they must fight to the death to guarantee their freedom and safety.I had never seen this film before today but had of course heard about it; mostly because it is meant to be a tearjerker. Perhaps because I knew its reputation I didn't find it all that sad; that isn't to say it wasn't a good film though. The story was decent and there were plenty of gripping moments where it looked as if one of the main characters was about to die. Injuries were depicted in bloody detail and the dangers depicted seemed very real; certainly real enough to disturb younger viewers. The animation was a delight; simultaneously capturing the beauty of the English countryside as well as giving it a menacing look. The voice cast did a fine job, never sounding 'cartoony', this is probably down to the inclusion of several well known actors including John Hurt and Richard Briars as Havel and Fiver. Thankfully it isn't all scares and danger; some light relief is provided by Kehaar; an injured black-headed gull they befriend. Some may find the ending sad; I thought it was joyful though; it showed that Hazel lived a full life and that they had succeeded in establishing a new warren. Overall I heartily recommend this with the caveat that it may not be suitable for younger viewers and some scenes could upset older viewers too. "},{"Title":"My first review on Watership Down","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After reading the book Watership Down by Richard Adams I badly wanted to see the movie. Luckily, I wasn't disappointed. Far from it actually. This is by far the best animated movie I've ever seen along with The Plague Dogs and even one of the best movies. Also the book is my favorite book of all time. Although this film left out some minor characters such as Strawberry and Bluebell and only had one story of El-ahrairah depicted whereas the book has several it is still a very faithful adaptation to the novel. My favorite character by far is Bigwig because he is the strongest and fights courageously against Woundwort and I think he should be the leader instead of Hazel. However my favorite scene in the film is when Bigwig finally admits that Hazel is Chief Rabbit when Woundwort says Why don't you come out Bigwig? and Bigwig responds by saying My chief's told me to defend this run and Woundwort responds by saying YOUR chief? as if imagining a rabbit bigger and stronger than Bigwig (a scary thought indeed) Also the animation is pretty good for a British animated movie this old. Another great book and animated film is The Plague Dogs. (also written by Richard Adams and also directed by Martin Rosen) The Plague Dogs is even better and more powerful than Watership Down and should've gotten way more credit than it did. (both book and film) The characters were very well portrayed by their voice actors especially Fiver (Richard Briers) and Captain Holly (John Bennett) who both sounded and looked exactly as I pictured them in the novel. I've heard that there is a remake planned for this but I don't think anyone could have done it better than Martin Rosen did. "},{"Title":"Watership Potemkin","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This animated film about bunnies is more intense than most alleged horror films. Basically it's just a movie about bunnies hopping away while everyone around them is trying to kill them. One gets few moments to feel safe for those bunnies, a sense of danger and dread is always around, this is set up effectively in its biblical prologue. The film is intense without overplaying it which it easily could have done. Amidst all this a lot more things are going on, though. Although the setup is very different Watership basically is conceived the same way as Spielberg's 'War of the Worlds'.Personally I was very pleased with the animation, what it lacks in fluency it makes up for with more realistic designs. It's quite cinematic with inspired virtual camera-work and it didn't look like they ever chose the easy road, not shying away from challenging animation concepts. I'm sure it helped a lot that I like things grim and dark.This film being very little known in my parts (I've never even once seen this shown on television) it made me think of 'The Animals of Farthing Wood' ever since I first heard of it, and this still seems like an apt comparison to me. I haven't seen that series in, like, 15 years so I can't confidently compare the two but I doubt it had even remotely the bravura of Watership which has unusually fast editing for an animated film and overall it seems quite intuitively put together, closer to a live-action movie rather than an animated one. "}{"Title":"British animated classic that led the way","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In the modern cinema of today, dominated by CGI and all manner of visual trickery, Watership Down ought to be blown apart and be put firmly in its place, but viewing the film over 30 years on is a revelation. Dated and basic some of the animation may be, but it's unique style still engages, and cements its place in over cross generations. The adaptation of Richard Adams' book about warring rabbits is deftly handled, and the dark overtones that permeate large parts of the picture is perhaps the main reason the legendary story lives on. Deeply disturbing in places for the younger viewer, it nevertheless is intelligent enough to draw in the adult viewer. Adams' has steadfastly denied over the years that the almost over deliberate use of seemingly allegorical material is anything but a simple piece of elaborate story telling. Yet it's hard not to disagree with his assertion, given the almost sledgehammer reference to religion and persecution amongst certain scenes. The animated English countryside seems to transcend the date of the piece, and throw in the hit theme tune 'Bright Eyes' and this is still a must for adults and children alike, even in today's market place where ultra sophistication production values remain. "},{"Title":"Fantastic timeless animation","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was twelve when Watership Down came out and as I don't remember seeing it in the theater I do remember it on TV several times and fell in love with it's imagery and beauty but just as much with the tense story and realistic violence that has made this film one that will endure. Even at a young age I fully understood the communist/fascist implications of the storyline, although this may be lost on kids today. The animation holds up pretty well in a simplistic sort of way, the music is good and the voice overs are just spectacular. John Hurts performance couldn't have been done better as his voice lends both melancholy and deep pride at the same time. I would not pick this for very young children (6 seems good) or if you have raised your kid like a baby who cries at everything like a lot of today's parents then you will be in for tears from the start. This film is violent and scary in the way that makes all great children's films rise above the others like the Wizard of Oz, Snow White and Pinocchio, it's the scary parts you remember and the reason why you can still enjoy them as adults. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Animated Film","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Watership Down is so incredibly different from other animated films that its messages are brought to the forefront and noticed immediately. The novel is a personal favorite of mine, and I do not believe that a more accurate and true-to-the-source film has been made since, with the exception of the Lord of the Rings films. (Another absolute favorite.) The animation style of Watership is so unique and interesting that the mind is subconsciously forced to be amazed. I found Fiver's horrific hallucinations quite unnerving, more so than any animated movie before or after. The rabbits aren't just drawn with gaping mouths, but rather with wide, panicky eyes, blood-stained fur, and discolored faces, much more like what an actual rabbit would look like when it is confronted with death.The group's encounters with man's inventions in the movie, like the cars, train and shotgun were beautifully animated. It gave me the same feeling that I got when reading the book. The film's first of many climactic scenes, when Bigwig is caught in the snare, I found myself holding my breath.And then there is the core message the theme being force-fed to the viewer on a much more profound level, beneath the frighteningly lucid and spiritual stimulating animation. In the start, the film seems to be a mere tale of hope and friendship as companions flee an invisible fear. And then, as the company discovers new evils, such as the Nazi-esquire Efrafan warren, Hazel realizes that oppression must be rebelled against in order to bring about justice, at the end of a raised fist if need be. Wrap all of the above aspects into one and you get nothing short of the greatest animated film ever conceived. "},{"Title":"One of the best non-Disney animations I have ever seen!","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I got this yesterday on DVD, and I will say this is one of the most moving animations I have ever had the privilege of watching. I haven't read the book by Richard Adams, though I have heard that it is extremely complicated to bring to screen, but director Martin Rosen certainly did a great job constructing something this good. Now I have heard many complaints from people who hated this, saying that the animation is flat. I personally don't think that at all. I think the animation is beautiful, considering it was made in the late 70s. Another animated film that had a similar style of animation, that was made at the same time was the animated version of Lord of the Rings, except the animation here is much better and some of the stills look like my grandmother's drawings of the countryside. Very young children may find the sight of blood a bit hard to stomach, but the depiction of violence actually adds to the power of the film. I have also taken into consideration that Watership Down is not really a kids film, evidence of this is the maturity of its themes. The music by Angela Morley is very haunting and beautiful at the same time, and the song Bright Eyes was beautifully sung by Art Garfunkel. The story, while complicated, is very well-told, and never runs out of steam. Again, there were complaints about the pace, but I think it needed to be a little slow to fully express the emotions of the characters. Watership Down, is told in the perspective of rabbits, led by Hazel, wonderfully voiced by the immensely talented John Hurt, and his brother Fiver, a earnest portrayal by Richard Briers. Harry Andrews was very sinister as the General, who is so easy to hate, as he is genuinely frightening at times. Other actors who deserve a mention, are Joss Ackland as the Black Rabbit, and Michael Horden as Frith. In conclusion, a very well-made film, telling the immortal story of loyalty, courage and friendship, beautifully depicted here. If you haven't seen this film already, do because it is amazing. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Seems that most rabbits live in Fascist warrens...","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 'Watership Down' is an animated film that kicks the usual animated film conventions square in the balls.It tells the story of a group of talking rabbits. Fiver, an apparently clairvoyant rabbit, has a vision that the warren is doomed, and tries to get everyone to leave.Of course his warnings fall largely on elongated, sceptical ears, but a few take notice (apparently he's made accurate predictions in the past - they're not completely gullible) and flee with him. However, their journey to this new safe place on a hill (something else Fiver prophesied) is far from safe, and they have to tackle all sorts of dangers on their way.But these rabbits aren't just fuzzy-wuzzy bunnies that go hoppity-hop. They have their own society and religion, and they worship Frith the sun god.Indeed, the first part of 'Watership Down' actually chronicles the rabbit creation myth. It's drawn in a highly stylised way, setting it apart from the rest of the film.The rest of the film is a much more literal replication of reality, with the English countryside drawn as it is. The rabbits, too, actually look and move like rabbits. Though they do have some anthropomorphic expressions, they are kept as rabbit-like as possible, anchoring the film firmly in the real world (as long as you ignore the fact that rabbits don't talk - at least not in English).However it must be said that the animation is terrible. There really isn't any other word for it. We're not talking about a Disney film here.But that doesn't mater when the story is great. 'Watership Down' is a lot darker than most animated films about fuzzy-wuzzy talking animals. It deals with themes like torture and death in a no-nonsense way, and yes, there is blood. That's not to say it's unsuitable for children, but it's PG for a reason.The characterisation is superb, and you'll find yourself caring about the characters weather you like it or not. Indeed, there I sat, a grown man reduced to tears by a film about talking rabbits. There's no denying that 'Watership Down' is a very moving film.It's usually about here when people try to justify being moved by saying It's not about rabbits - it's about people. But that's nonsense, because this story very clearly is about rabbits. Yes, these rabbits talk and have their own culture and religion, but if you have to call them 'people' to accept that then you seriously need to grow an imagination.Anyway, 'Watership Down' is a masterpiece in storytelling. The acting is completely sincere, and the music - or more particularly the key moments that lack music and let what's on the screen speak for itself - make the film all the more powerful. You really will be moved by this film... unless you're like, a psychopath or something. "},{"Title":"One Of My All-Time Favorites!!!","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I first saw the movie Watership Down as a 5-year-old kid. It has always been one of my earliest vivid memories, and one of my most cherished memories as well. I'm now 15-years-old. After 10 years of very difficult life, I ran into Watership Down again. Of course this time I was much more intelligent and understanding of things. It reminded me of my wonderful childhood and I kind of wanted to cry. This movie is one of the greatest I've ever seen. It is a beautiful film, and because I regard it on such a personal level, it nearly left me in tears after watching it recently. A truly great movie is one that is remembered as more than just a film, but as a teacher of valuable life lessons which sticks with you forever and ever. This movie teaches us so much. It's about the survival instinct, and how to overcome life or death issues. It teaches us so much about strength, unity, friendship, loyalty, compassion, courage, character, instinct, will, heart, and many other valuable traits of life. Everybody learns something from this film, and although it's not very well known today, in my mind it is a land mark in the film industry, and one of the greatest films that has ever been made. Watership down will always have a spot in my heart. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Western Animated film","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Watership Down is the story of a group of rabbits who leave their warren to avoid its impending destruction, in order to start a new home elsewhere (they go to the aforementioned Watership Down, which is a hill, by the way). It's epic, funny, a bit bloody, and it features plenty of bunny rabbits. The book is over 400 pages long! I devoured it when I was in grade 7 at my school library. The version I just finished was printed in 1978, but I bought it secondhand in the late 80's. That's the third copy I've owned (the others, I've loved to death or lost while lending it to a friend to read. No nobler ends a book can have.) I love anime, so it's hard for Disney and Pixar films to please me, but Watership Down is one of the few that I've loved over the years. I've read the book and I'm amazed they've managed to distill a good deal from the original tale. By necessity, they cut out those wonderful, funny stories of El-ahrairah, yet they managed to keep the epic feel and the mythology and culture of the rabbit society. Yes, it's a bit violent and gory, certainly not for the very young, but I would be excited to introduce this to my kids once they are of proper age (I used to have a copy in Betamax!) I've gone over the cast and I'm surprised by so many distinguished British stars lending their voices to the movie. I saw John Hurt, Ralph, Richardson, Nigel Hawthorne, Denholm Elliott, Joss Ackland and Zero Mostel (the last, of course, is American).In Wikipedia, it says in more detail about the production of the TV adaptation that John Hurt, originally Hazel here, is now General Woundwort. Though it seems some fans complain the TV series tones down the dark nature of the book, I'm still interested in locating this TV series (as well as a DVD copy of the 1978 movie). "},{"Title":"I hate how most people think that because its animated its for a child, But in this case its not.","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well I'd say this movie was designed just as good as the book if not better. I enjoy the older style of movies, especially animated ones.I noticed one good thing in this film was that you could tell each characters personality just like the ones in the book. Such as Dandilion was known as the story-teller and fast one; Which he is also in the movie. And Blackberry was the one who was wise, and was good at finding things. Which he found the boat in the movie. In Most movies the character is changed alittle or different completely. But in watership down they aren't or are rarely changed.The Music is also beautiful and fits wonderfully with each scene; Mainly the Bright Eyes Song Which is a classic even to this day. The lyrics are beyond beautiful.I also liked the Matureity-like it had to it; Such as the violence and the language. I hate how most people think that because its animated its for a child, But in this case I wouldn't recommend it to a child under the age of 10.I wouldn't say there is any thing bad about this movie, But I have noticed I CAN'T FIND IT LIKE ANYWHERE. I ordered it from my movie store a year ago and it never came, But I can rent it at my library.Worth Watching? Yes. Its one of those movies that could make you cry, laugh and say Wow. Its Full Of Action, Drama, Sadness and Smiles. I wouldn't say this is the best movie ever and I for surely wouldn't say it was horrible. But for an 30 Year Old Animated Movie, I'd say its almost prefect. "},{"Title":"No Spoilers- The best animation ever presented","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I watched Watership down as an 8 year old and all I saw was rabbits and bunch of pretty animations with a climatic ending. I just finished watching it as a 34 year old and it is 100X more than that. If you have not seen this animation before you may feel it starts out a bit slow. I promise you, stay through the end and by then you will feel something different about everything you are. I don't mean to be so vague, however each person will have their own experience. Without dropping any spoilers, here is what Watership down is about. Teamwork, Friendships, Life and Death, risking everything for what you believe in and Communism verses Freedom. You will not be able to hold your tears and route for good in the end. The central character, Big Wig breathes positivity and leadership through a warren of rabbits look to him for guidance and protection. They believe that freedom is not earned but a right. The colony must have contributions from each member to function as one. Without one, the warren can not survive. Side note the bird adds a comical side that takes the edge off. "},{"Title":"Distressing, moving, ultimately uplifting","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I find this film very difficult to watch. I'm 35 and I first saw it as a child, in the cinema, I was probably 7 or 8 years old. It had a very profound impact on me, not least, instilling in me a love for animals, and also for my fellow man. I've watched various scenes from the film over the last couple of years, but I've always been afraid to watch the entire thing. But I watched it last night, and I don't regret it. I bawled my eyes out, of course, but was left with this uplifted, inspired feeling. I know it sounds crazy, but human beings and rabbits and so different! We behave in much the same way, we're driven by the same needs to survive. I highly recommend this film to adults and children alike, although, personally, I've never seen it as being a kid's movie - it's not, believe me. "}{"Title":"Watership Down","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When HBO wasn't 24 hours a day, and when animation meant child friendly, I happened upon Watership Down in my youth. I remember loving the film--watching it as often as HBO showed it, and not understanding the magnitude and adult themes because--hey, I was young and innocent and still wondering why the laugh track was going crazy during a Three's Company episode.While adulthood hasn't made Three's Company fair so well in my opinion as far as comic genius (I found out what the laugh track was insane about, and wasn't chuckling nearly so loud), Watership Down--as clichéd as the old adage is--like fine wine has gotten better with age. I recently was SHOCKED to see mainstream cable showing it the other day and curiosity allowed me to set aside the thousand things I had to do just to watch it. As a footnote, when you ever have the opportunity to ignore responsibilities and indulge in a childhood whim, DO IT, and thank me later.I was immediately sucked in by the opening scene--but, appreciated the poetry that escaped me in my tweens. Fiver was there, as was Hazel, as was Blackberry, Dandilion, Bigwig and Keah--the rambunctious sea gull who cracked me up as a kid.For those of you completely in the dark, I'll summarize as best I can Totalitarionism leads to revolt and revolution in the world, and rabbits are not immune. Fiver, a prophet, has a premonition about blood on the field and gloom, doom and death are sure to ensue. When the Chief Rabbit is unmoved, a gang of rebels, displeased with current warren conditions, decide the time has come to break free and start anew. Only seven bucks and one doe, Violet, escape the rabbit police brigade to break to freedom. Violet is soon snatched up by a hawk, one of the thousand enemies that rabbits have to avoid, and the males are left with a dilemma, starting a warren with no females.Keah, the gull, is wounded by a farm cat and, when healthy finds Efrafa, a communist type warren where many are ready to leave. Haizenflay, a rebellious doe, assists in the overall plan when an undercover Bigwig goes inside to lead a rebellion.This is a VERY adult animation feature. There is graphic violence, sporadic adult language, and definitely existential themes that would be lost on the frequent Disney viewing kid. But, for adult wanting to relive a little bit of nostalgia, it's the perfect way to blow off an afternoon at home. I'm so glad I learned to love Watership Down all over again...kind of like finding it by accident, but, more fulfilling. "},{"Title":"One of the best animated movies that I 've seen .","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Watership Down  it's a great animated adaptation of the book of Richard Adams  even when the characters are talking animals ,it seems that it was aimed to a more mature audience , because this definitely isn't something like Bambi  .But not for that is bad ,actually it is pretty good and faithful to the book ,even in the parts of emotional intensity nor mild violence . But Watership Down  didn't offer gratuitous cruelty ,all the violence is very connected with the plot (that is pretty interesting and complex )and just a few scenes .The animation was pretty good ,specially if you consider that it was made in 1978 ,full of details and the movements are pretty good .Watership Down  is one of the most powerful and beautifully made animated movies that I 've seen .Highly Recommended ! "},{"Title":"A Great Lesson & Sometimes Lessons Aren't Very Cheery","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Firstly i must say in reading some of the reviews of this film not being suitable for young viewers. Gimme a break.. This is one of the biggest problems with the whole of free society in todays world. People are sickeningly soft. Life is not all about happiness. As a matter of fact, life is more about how one handles the injustices, & disappointments that come within a 24 hour day. Do we rise above? or do we cringe & fall in line... These days more than ever, the latter is true. This is why i highly recommend this movie to kids. No not toddlers, because they won't understand it, but kids who can sit & play Grand Theft auto, or an rpg for 10 hours straight, or watch the likes of a marathon of Spongebob Squarepants. Um - Yes. I won't even get into the story itself, because that's redundant at this point. Just watch this amazing tale, & formulate your own views. Films such as this, with excellent screen writing, & real artistic integrity, allow for the mind to exercise, formulate, expand.. Unlike 99% of the drivel that's 100% computer rendered, pop culture, & sales targeted, predictable, & Pc approved, for fear of losing $$$$. That's the sad thing actually.. Film-makers could care less about the children these days, only the loss of a buck.. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'll admit it. This movie scared me when i was a little kid. I always wanted to watch it, but I could never make it more than half way. To this day the violence in this movie freaks me out way more than soldiers getting shot in a war movie. It's like you don't expect bunnies to get killed.Thus my recommendation is that everyone over 10 should see this movie. It really does the book justice, although it will never come close to being as profound as the book.Oh, and the animation is excellent, but is in much need of a restoration. Perhaps the British special edition looks better. "},{"Title":"Amazing..simply amazing.....","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I do not think that words alone can describe it, but one EXCELLENT! Everything about it is grand, the backgrounds, the rabbits, everything is superb. What I like most about it is the fact that it didn't pull any punches when it was created. Yes, there is gory violence in it, but it shows viewers the true side of animals (yes, rabbits can get violent) and how they behave. So, if you have it at your local store, what are you doing reading this??!!???!! Get off this site and go BUY THIS FILM!!! It is well worth the time. Also worth mentioning is the book. Right up there with the movie.10/10 "},{"Title":"Ver good","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A film that I watched as an eight year old and nagged in my mind until I watched it again as a 30 year old. It had only grown in its power. It exists as a fine reminder that truly great storytelling defies the need for epic effects or Hollywood cast lists. It is a haunting tale of brotherhood and friendship, of standing up against fascist oppression all set against the backdrop of the Enlgish countryside idyll.Quite how it manages to land it's points so poignantly when delivered through the eyes of rabbits is a difficult one to appreciate until you watch it. So share it with your children and remind them about it when they have grown up or take the trip alone to a world and time that was somehow far simpler. "},{"Title":"Rabbits flee for their lives and freedom","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was very young when I saw this movie. I had never been so terrified of a rabbit as I was of that Huge blood drooling police rabbit. Yet, I kept watching it. I loved the characters, I loved the intrigue and I loved suspense. Granted, I was 4 years old, but perhaps I was a somewhat mature 4 year old. Or maybe that's why I find dead baby jokes funny. I don't know, I'm not a therapist. But I do know that that movie stuck with me until now. I've searched for my video for years and I have yet to find, but I can tell you with certainty, that it is an amazing movie with addicting animation with a side of goosebumps. This movie is not for young children, but I love literature, I love movies and I love imagination. I don't think I'd be as open-minded and eager to learn without this movie in my childhood. Screen the kids for their age, but it certainly is a must see for every intelligent human being. "},{"Title":"Overlooked","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film has to be one of the most underrated and frequently overlooked pieces of social commentary I'm aware of. Not only does it deserve praise for its considerable achievements as a pioneering piece of British (and Canadian) animation, but it handles the themes seen in its more well-known allegorical cousin, Animal Farm, with just as much skill and subtlety.Those involved managed to assemble an enviable cast of voice stars who infuse the beautifully well-studied artwork with highly memorable personalities - a seagull hilariously yelling 'Piss Off' and a large, menacing rabbit whom one can almost see wearing a swastika armband remain etched in one's memory).Suitable for kids? Absolutely! Stands up to a second viewing? As well as the strongest Manga or Disney offerings! Watership Down succeeds in combining charming fable with sociopolitical allegory, and still manages to throw in bloody action, hilarious slapstick and a tear-jerking folk ditty.Should be a staple on whatever 'Top Films' lists you go by - Barry Norman take note, Bambi isn't the be-all and end-all! "},{"Title":"One of the best animated films of all time","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In 1972 British author Richard Adams burst unto the book world with his debut novel Watership Down....it was only a matter of time before some-one turned it into a film...but would the film be any good?....well the answer to that is yes!!! The story begins when a young rabbit called Fiver has a terrible dream about the imminent destruction of their warren...scared beyond belief by it he tells one of his rabbit superiors Hazel about it.Shocked about what he has heard he takes the issue to the chief rabbit....but his fears are quickly dismissed.But sure of what is soon to happen Hazel takes Fiver and a group of other rabbits away from the warren....in search of a beautiful place he has heard about from Fiver...a place on top of a hill where they will be able to build a new warren.Little do they though is that their greatest battle for survival would come when they get to the place known as Watership Down...for waiting for them is a warren of hares led by the truly nasty General Woundwort.Watership Down is a beautiful and chilling slice of animation that remains amazingly faithful to the novel.Director/Screenwriter Martin Rosen handles the story with great style and care and is backed up by a great cast of voices(Richard Briars,John Hurt,Hannah Gordon, Ralph Richardson, Nigel Hawthorne, Michael Horden,Joss Ackland and Harry Andrews)and a great score written by the legendary Angela Morley.To sum up Watership Down may not be Disney and it will never be Pixar but it remains,29 years after the film was released,one of the finest animated films of the late twentieth century.Please see it. "},{"Title":"one of the very best","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There is no need to talk about this film as being political or anything of that nature.The book is probably better, but this movie is fantastic -- they don't animate films like this one now, probably never will again.Now its computer animation, corny songs, and voice overs by actors who can't act ( Will Smith among others... ) This film has no pretense. You must take it as it is. It is just a story about a group of individuals trying to find a better life. There is the born leader ( hazel ), the muscle ( big wig ) , the runt and prophet ( fiver ), the engineer ( black brain).It is one of the best films I have seen in my life. And when a movie like crash which is sub-mental wins best picture, we know that what matters and what is good is independent of the experts opinion.This is a great film. Probably the last great cartoon. "}{"Title":"great movie","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie eerie and has great morals. Many gory scenes though, and only 2 things weird with movie. One scene in particular gave me chills, the scene were captain holly explains the destruction of the warren was very very VERY disturbing. Captian Holly Quotes I was digging, no way out..no way out. and Dead-d-d-dead bodies, I ran out I tried. I tried.... The descriptions were terrific, especially the dialogue. Yes, there is blood. And don't be fooled by the beginning, the animation doesn't stay that was for long. Overall terrific!!!! Note Children 8 and younger should NOT see this, or if you are frightened VERY easy. "},{"Title":"Watership Down by B.D.Kuchera","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm not a critic, I'm just a guy who loves great cinema.I saw this film when I was very young, and there were several sequences in it that I found were quite frightening. But even as a kid, I found great meaning in this story. Life and death are very clearly revealed, and the sense of urgency for the rabbits to leave their warren is established from the very beginning. As an audience member, we also want to leave with them, and as we're taken along for the adventure, we also begin on an epic journey (in the rabbit sense anyway) across the country to find the homeland.This film is something I would be happy to show to my nine year old if I had one, but I wouldn't suggest it for much younger than that. There's one sequence where rabbits are being buried alive that is rather graphic. Still, this film is something you shouldn't miss. If you're an adult and you think animated films are for kids, well, check this one out. It will work for just about anyone of almost any age. Well worth your time. It's in my library, and always will be.B.D.Kuchera "},{"Title":"masterful and poetic","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Possibly the best animation i have ever seen, an inspiration for later animations such as animals of farthing wood. Deals with life, and death, in a way that is beautiful and surprisingly accurate to the book and remarkably brave and elegant, and makes excellent use of the books memorable quotes.And Frith said to El-Ahrairah;And all the world will be your enemy, price with a thousand enemies, And when ever they catch you, they will kill you.But first they must catch you. Digger, listener, runner, price with the swift warning, be cunning, full of tricks, and your people will never be destroyed.--- genius.And the portrayal of the personalities of the main characters captures them as I had pictured from the books, especially Hazel's people skills, with blatant manipulation and motivation of others for their own good, Bigwig's perfect, White bird, sir?, fained ignorance right out of every sergeant-majors handbook and Pipkin's struggle with loyalty and trust over fear. Not to mention the wonderfully strange and hunting vision sequences that let us get inside Fivers tortured mind. Perfect. "},{"Title":"This is a great film","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film is really touching, and really makes you think about how our actions reflect / affect the environment, and the animals. The saddest moment(s) of the movie have to be when Hazel is shot, and 'Bright Eyes' plays in the background, it made me really upset, as my rabbit had died recently, and it fitted the content of that scene.The other saddest part was when Hazel had grown old, and there was a new generation of rabbits. Presumably, the others had passed away, and Hazel laid down, and his youthful spirit joined the black rabbit of death. Although he was peaceful and happy, it was still sad.The original movie poster with the contrasting black rabbit is somewhat creepy. I don't know if it just me or not though. This movie is fantastic, and is a great wonder for all ages. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Not for the Faint of Heart... But Excellent Non the Less","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There are very few, if none at all, animated movies that have made such a massive impact on me, and other people, as Watership Down has done. Forget the typical Disney formula of cute and fluffy (like Bambi) and just go with what this film is all about, that the world maybe beautiful but it's not perfect. Seeing the story from the rabbit's point of view, Richard Adams's haunting and weird telling of life as a rabbit is filled with danger, not just from humans, but bigger, other fluffy animals that prey on and kill rabbits. As the narrator so brilliantly puts it,All the world will be your enemy, prince with a thousand enemies.From the beginning of the film you will be captivated, frightened, moved to tears and all in all just plain dazzled by its imagination. No animated film (not since the Lion King at least) has had such an effect on me.Though many say it is not for kids, I disagree. This has just the right intensity that kids, sometimes, need to make them understand that the world can be dangerous and we have to be cunning and full of tricks to avoid getting hurt. As well as the ecological undertones to the film as to how man will, never rest until they've spoiled the Earth just shows us what we are capable of... and that's frightening on its own. Watership Down is just an epic thrill (sometimes fright) for everyone and is essential viewing. "},{"Title":"This is a good one, I'll warren.","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is such a superb movie. In fact, it's so great, I'm going to refer to it as a film.This film is exactly the kind of stuff that parents should show their (well-adjusted) children. It is intelligent, emotional, and mystical. I look back on the shows and movies I watched when I was a younger kid and am glad that I watched some of them. Of course, many of them were pointless drivel that only made half an hour pass by more quickly, but things like this film and, say, the animated Batman series were really thought-provoking stuff. I can't tell you a single thing that happened in an episode of Tazmania or Animaniacs, but Watership Down stayed with me and will stay with me as long as I'm around. Have you watched Saturday morning cartoons recently? I think that kids who talk to interesting people, listen to interesting music, and watch interesting shows will be interesting themselves. Or at least more likely to be interesting. "},{"Title":"Worthy of the book","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Watership Down simply is a mostly forgotten, mostly underrated masterpiece. It is a thinking man's movie, and one of the most touching experiences for most people.The voice acting(In particular the legendary John Hurt)is top-notch and heart-felt. The Music is superb and beautiful. The animation is massively underrated, consisting of work of art background and realistic animation figures which are supposed edge the dark and very true tale of humanity.The story is about a group of rabbits escaping a doomed warren, Lead by the benevolent Hazel and his prophetic brother Fiver. They come upon hardships throughout the story trying to find and make a utopia.As most of you will be readers of the book, not many people will know that Martin Rosen may have indeed attempted to make the movie better than the book. He cut out Dandelion's stories which broke the flow of the main story, and changed the character(so it seems) of The Black Rabbit of Inle, which now resembles a spiritual helper of Frith instead of a mythological figure that gave El-ahrairah a tough time.The movie contains incredibly powerful sequences, more powerful than any other film I've seen(Apart from Plague Dogs). It is that good of an adaption.It is a movie suited to every age, bringing a look of realism and truth to children, and an intelligent look of life for older people. It is appallingly underrated film that deserves a look because most people do not know the book or movie.Watch it and be touched. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What an engaging film and book chock full of wonderful, imaginative characters.  It could just as easily be about human beings.  Yes, there is graphic violence in the movie.  However, considering the context its in, its not very shocking or exploitative.   I take issue with those reviewers who warn even order children not to see it.  You worry about you're own children and let people decide for themselves whether or not to let their children watch.  Don't tell other people what to watch and read.  That's like censoring certain books so kids can't read them.  Makes me angry when people try to make decisions for others.  Make a suggestion and leave it at that.   That being said, its a fine movie to watch with your children if you choose to.   "},{"Title":"You will never look at Rabbits the same way again!","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I was five years old. I remember the impact it had on me when I was a child. It frightened me to death. Blood on the fields, rabbits caught in snares bleeding from the mouth, dogs ripping rabbits to pieces and men shooting rabbits with guns where some of the scenes that frightened me. Please don't let these comments put you or your children off watching it! These scenes are important in the movie as they where in the novel. The movie has a sort of political side to it. Rabbits fighting for their freedom and for a safe place to live. The story is about a group of a rabbits who are forced to flee their warren because man has decided to build houses on it. A small rabbit called Fiver has a premonition that something bad is going to happen and he, with a few friends set off on a long journey to find a new home. This movie is very dark, yet very entertaining. The animation can be poor at times, especially if you are watching it on DVD but remember that it was made in the 70's with basic pencil and paper. This is what makes this movie a classic to watch. My opinion is read the book then watch the movie as the movie contains dialogue that you wont understand (rabbit talk) and reading the book explains it all. "},{"Title":"My all time favorite film","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's odd at my age to say that this is my all time favorite film.  With all the great movies out there, with so many classics, this remains the top of my list.  I LOVED THIS MOVIE.  I don't remember my age when I first saw it, but I think I was an older child or in my teens.  In any event it was nothing short of a life changing experienced.  I loved this tale of bunnies in the wild, fending for themselves in the big bad world.  It was such a well written movie, with such developed characters that I had to read the book as well.  Which I loved too.  But I saw the movie first, and it remains one of the most touching, enthralling, exciting and encompassing experiences I have ever had.  If you haven't seen this movie, you must.  If you love animals you must see it.  If you breathe you must see it at least once.  I can't say enough how much I love this film. "}{"Title":"A brilliant film with lots of deep meaning and a change from the usual Disney characters","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There are some countries in the world where the cartoons made are obvious products of theirs. America with Disney or things like Atlantis, Japan with Anime and Britian with Watership Down. The style and script especially tell us apart from other countries, but i'm not here to boast my country, i'm here to boast this film. The first time I watched it was when I was about 7 or 8, and although I didn't understand it all, i did love it. The idea, though original was not what made it great, the maturity at which it aims to bring it's viewers into is is not hidden behind happy go lucky morals to protect the kids. It may not be for every child, but it leaves a sense of fighting for the choice to live free that may be more lasting than your standard Hollywood flick. "},{"Title":"Dark, Strange, yet beautiful!!!","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's been probably fifteen to twenty years since this movie was first released, and probably at least twelve since I have laid eyes on it. But I'll always remember what a mark this animated film left on me. As a child of about 12 years old, I was an animal lover and I also loved movies that were animated and about animals, The Secret of Nimh, Animal Farm, Charlotte's Web, Bambi and many others. But there is something about WATERSHIP DOWN that is unforgettable. It's one of the strangest, yet most beautiful films of animation I've ever seen. It's not a family film the way Charlotte's Web is. There is so much adult material. Like Animal Farm, it is making political statements and representing government and politics through animal life. There is violence and animated bloodshed that even makes The Secret of Nimh, with its several scenes of violence, look tame. Kids will probably feel frightened by the formidable figure of General Woundwort (voiced by Harry Andrews), the ruthless chief rabbit of the Efrafa Warren, and the scene in which he slaughters Blackavar (voiced by Clifton Jones), is very gruesome. Even so, the story is so original and the animation of green hillsides, sparkling brooks and of the realistic movements and mannerisms of rabbits, is gorgeous to behold. Some may have a time trying to figure out what the rabbits are saying at times, because they are speaking a language called Lapine or something like that. I therefore recommend the book, which features a glossary and translates the words, before seeing the film. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest English Language cartoons","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie, like the book, is a beautiful and disturbing allegory for the changing times of the sixties and early seventies.  All the themes are there--the government's unwillingness to change--even with impending doom--brutal and controlling SS-style police enforcers, treatment of women (lower ranked or kept in a cage for breeding) and a small group of rebels who fight against the control and actually form a commune of sorts.  All in all, it works very well and doesn't gloss over the problems inherent with escaping and living outside a system.The religious structure of Watership Down is vaguely Christian (monotheistic, with a god who punishes the first rabbit for being too cocky, and afterward he has to toil and all that thrown out of Eden stuff), while still containing aspects of other cultures, including trickster tales that seem very Native American to me, and a bit of Homer's Odyssey thrown in for good measure.The bloodier scenes, which make this a PG movie, are limited to mainly the climax, which is good, because too much would have been a detriment, since there was very little humor to balance it out (supplied very well by Zero Moestel's hilariously annoying sea gull (Beeg Water!)).The only real problems I have with this movie is the occasional Saturday-morning cartoon-style character designs (the animation is uniformly smooth, though, and very stylistic and ingenious at times) and the Big Eyes sequence, which repeats the same animation (this is a minor complaint, though, since the animators probably meant for it to be one of those circle of life sort of things). "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Watership Down is one of the most underrated Movies of all time.Almost Every seen is a carefully done and is absolutely beautiful. I will admit however it slowed down when the crew come to the bridge of the enemy rabbits but then it picks back up when they escape and jump on the boat.There are great seens throughout Fiver gets a vision. The old dumb leader rabbit calling Hazel, Walnut. Running over the scenery and past cows. Lassie sniffing them out. The roodoodoo. Violet getting picked off. Not knowing which direction at the big tree. The sad trees in november and losing their way part. The captain telling the crew what happened back home. telling Fiver the bad news. The dog coming over for lunch. Rabbit lunch. hazel meeting the black rabbit at the end. It was all awesome!The watercolor like image of the movie is cool. The voice actors do a great job. I like John Hurt as Hazel. I thought the cat could have been done better.The greatest thing of this movie however is the SCORE by Angela Morlay and perhaps the greatest score of all time in my book. I even went out and bought it as well as the movie and you should too.They should do an updated version of this movie for newer crowds.10/10 "},{"Title":"An absolutely brilliant film...","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film for the first time in the theaters when I was very young. It is stunning, brilliant and devastating.  I recommend it to anyone who can handle its intense subject matter.  I credit this film for helping me develop a great compassion and love for animals. I just can't say enough good things about this film.  It's possibly one of the greatest animated films of all time.  The theme song Bright Eyes is fantastic as well as the entire score.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED! "},{"Title":"The greatest animated film of all time...","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Watership Down is the greatest animated film of all time. It really couldn't be portrayed in any other way than animation, and thanks to Martin Rosen, it has become the greatest animated film of all time, yet it is so often under-rated.  If you have seen it, then you won't need any introduction, as even just watching this film once, you will never forget it. This is also one of the few films that has been faithful to the original text, and has lost little from the novel by Richard Adams. Some of England's finest actors provide the voices for the rabbits (John Hurt, Denholm Elliot, Richard Briers and the late Sir Ralph Richardson).The film is also backed up by an utterly superlative soundtrack featuring a haunting instrumental score by Angela Morley, and of course the unforgettable soul-wrenching theme Bright Eyes written by Mike Batt and sung by Art Garfunkel. Even though classified as a U, I strongly advise parents to watch with young children, as there are some powerful sequences that will make them exceptionally upset, though this is a film that all children (and adults if they have not seen it) should watch.All in all, this is a remarkable film, which not only portrays the ruthlessness of animal life, and in particular of Britain's beloved animal, the Rabbit - but it is also a continual parallel of the human world. It is also a tale of hope, courage and change. And too, the process of life and death.And to end, a piece of trivia - watch out for when the bird Kehaar gets annoyed - listen closely to what he says and you'll be surprised how they let it slip through! "},{"Title":"A milestone in animated film...","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"   In my opinion, WATERSHIP DOWN is a milestone in animated film. Also I would go as far as saying that it is one of the best animated films of all time. It combines beautiful animation with a powerful story of a group of rabbits leaving their home in search of another. John Hurt adds his great talent to the voice of Hazel, the protaganist of the film. The story contains many amazing characters including the overly-courageous Big Wig as well as the eccentric bird Kia who helps the rabbits. Along their journey they experience the worst of their environment including dogs, a cat, man, and other sinister rabbits.    Although I saw this film when I was very young, I wouldn't suggest it for kids because it may be a little too intense for them. Especially since our current animated features are so sterilized and non-realistic. The violence in the film may be a bit strong but then again when you are a prince with a thousand enemies, what do you expect? It's really too bad that they don't make animated features like this anymore, I guess there's just no market for them(except for Japanimation). I highly recommend this film for everyone who remembers that time period between the late 70's and early 80's when animation was free from censorship and produced beautiful films like this one.    Martin Rosen went on to make another similar animated feature called THE PLAGUE DOGS from Richard Adams' novel, but for some reason I can't seem to find it anywhere VHS or DVD. If you have any info on this film please E-mail me, I'm dying to get my hands on it. "},{"Title":"A rare fine animation!","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As much as I generally dislike animations, I found that Watership Down is truly a gem! It tells the anthropomorphised story of a group of rabbits in the English countryside, but does so in a very adult and intelligent manner - this is truly NOT a movie for children! The characterisations perfectly match the voices of the famous and prominent actors who provide them, and the story is very much one for adults, with all of its joys and pathos. One of the few decent adult animations ever produced. "},{"Title":"A great film for adults and kids","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie which is based on Richard Adams' novel is a film which can be enjoyed by adults and kids.  When I first saw it around the age of 8 I loved it, even though I didn't know what exactly was going on.  I watched again later around age 15 and understood what it is about.  This movie is a commentation on freedom.  It poses the question, would you like to live in a society with no problems but no freedom or a society where your next meal isn't guaranteed but at least you can do as you please?  I thought it was a direct hit on the communist governments of the world but if you want the full effect read the book.  The movie is fast paced and you won't fall asleep.  The characters are very believable and even though it is a cartoon this movie possesses much more thought than most of the movies churned out today.  "},{"Title":"one of the greatest","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One movie I can see and watch that I know no one can knock. It has the heart beyond any Disney film. Not a children's movie by any means. The violence and suspense are beyond any young child could enjoy. I saw this movie when I was a bit younger and I loved it. But the plot is offbeat and disturbing. Not sappy with cute, cuddly animals. Very young children just won't enjoy it. I recommend it to anyone with any heart (and brains) at all.   "}{"Title":"Excellent Social Satire!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I grew up watching this movie when I was young, but at 23 years old, I had not seen it in nearly 10 years.  My impressions of the movie had not changed of course (I still cry at the end), but my analysis as an adult make the underlying message of the movie all that more moving.The camera angle taken from the rabbit's perspective gives you a new idea of what the world looks like and what the smaller creatures see of our large human world.This movie is an excellent satire of human society.  The plot deals with love, joy, survival, fear of the unknown, and other human emotions.  Its societal parallels are almost frightening.  The psychic Fiver is synonymous to the epileptic Julius Caeser or the Christlike character of Simon in Lord of the Flies.  The rabbit god Frith is synonymous to the Egyptian sun god Ra.  I especially enjoyed the creation story at the beginning of the film in its similarity to Aboriginal cave paintings.The most interesting parallel of the story is the Nazi regime of the rival warren, with their 1984ish military state social structure and Arian blue eyes.All in all, I think that this movie is excellent for both children and adults. The graphic nature of the killing may be unsettling to young children, but it never bothered me and I turned out just fine.  Buy this one for your family today and for your family to come!  "},{"Title":"Read the book it's better!","Date":"20 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Those words seem to be the norm for many novel to film adaptations and in this case it's no different. I really wish I had read the book before I had seen the film. After reading Watership Down I felt that they had left out entirely too much. Too many characters are missing that could have been penciled in. And it's also easy to see why Woundwort is so abhorrent in the movie because in the book we hear about how his life played out and how he became the villain he was instead of just another run of the mill villain with no background. Also a lot of the quotes from the book are in the film but some are said at the wrong time in the movie then from the book. The stories we read about in the book and the characters play out better there. This movie needed that but decided to cookie cut most of the story.I don't mean to tarnish the films name but after reading the book I feel it necessary. The movie is still enjoyable but it will be hard to watch it now after reading the more superior novel. "},{"Title":"I found it at last!","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was in grade school (early 80s) when this was shown as a late night special by a local TV station in Manila. It was probably almost halfway when I turned the channel, so I didn't catch the title. It was way past my bedtime on a school night, but I couldn't pry myself away. I didn't realize it wasn't for kids because it was animated and there were rabbits. I remember feeling disturbed afterward. And years later I would still recall vivid images from the movie. The title remained a mystery for the longest time. I had no access to the Internet until the mid-90s (after college) so I couldn't dig it up. I also had no lead except that sad song. Until one time I came across a book with this story at a used books store (I recognized the rabbits on the illustrations). But I didn't have enough money that time so I promised myself I'd go back for it. Never did, of course. So the title escaped my memory again. Just tonight I was looking at a list of scariest move, and--surprise, surprise!--I found my long-lost mystery soul movie. "},{"Title":"Enchanted Animated Fable Of Rabbits On A Dangerous Odyssey","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When one of them has a premonition of disaster, eight rabbits leave the safety of their burrow in search of a new home. The quest takes them through endless dangers in which their courage, companionship and courage to survive will be tested to the limit. Will they find the sanctuary of Watership Down ?This excellent animated film is based on a great book by Richard Adams, who wrote stories about the natural world in an almost unique way. Instead of anthropomorphising animals into cute, sweet characters, he genuinely tried to write from their point of view; how they saw the world, what they felt, what mattered to them. In his themes, their social structures reflect ours, and their weaknesses are the same as ours - fear, apathy, prejudice and intolerance. The movie brings these rich themes out brilliantly, but is also an exciting and touching children's adventure story, almost half Bambi and half the Biblical story of Exodus. The animation is terrific, particularly the loving detailed backgrounds of quilted farmlands, leafy copses and windy heaths, and there is a fine score by Angela Morley, featuring a wistful Mike Batt / Art Garfunkel song called Bright Eyes (which was a huge hit here in the UK). The Shakespearian A-list cast really bring the rabbits to life - Hurt is terrific as the heroic leader Hazel, Andrews is memorable as the vicious General Woundwort and Hordern's narration soothes you into the story. This is one of those movies adults like to dismiss, but those who do are cheating themselves of a real treat. It's also a film that shows kids what life is really like for those who are hunted and oppressed, with many uncomfortable moments. Extremely well edited by one of the best cutters in the business, Terry Rawlings (Alien, Chariots Of Fire, F/X, Goldeneye), this was a great triumph for writer-producer-director Rosen, who followed this with another Adams adaptation, The Plague Dogs, which has sadly sunk into obscurity. An intense, moving and much-beloved British animation classic. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent movie to introduce kids to classic books","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Most kids I knew growing up would not touch a Classic novel. This is a good gateway movie for kids to get interested in literature. Plus, the movie itself is extremely well done and enjoyable, even if you are just watching it for entertainment. If you have read the book, and are usually disappointed in film adaptations of books, this particular movie does an excellent job of editing the material to keep the main part of the story intact without losing the Feel of the book. I first saw this movie as a child, and I loved it then. I re-viewed it as an adult and liked it even more. There is some mild gore, but it is not excessive and is necessary to the story. If this is a concern for you, I would urge you parents who want to show this movie to your children to watch it along with your children. You will both enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Bright Eyes","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I had an opportunity to see Watership Down when I was 10...but didn't. Given the choice that day I decided to see Buck Rogers In The 25th Century (pretty sneaky way to get kids into the impending series!) Anyhow,long since that time I've rented the video quite often and it's really a wonderful film. Despite the British accents,I can understand and really get into the dialog and even though it's an animated film,the action still can grab you. I do agree that kids should view this as an example of learning to fend for one's self when the going gets bad.I do feel though that they should be an appropriate age to do so. I don't feel the film is right for little children so,I'd recommend 9 and up. Maybe 8 if a parent has no doubt that their child can handle the scarier,bloodier scenes (espcially when a whole field is seen that color in a hallucination.) Anyhow,speaking on the mature level,Watership Down turned 30 in 2008 but age has had no effect on how great this film is. Rent it or see if your local library has it. It's worth watching each time. I like and have in my music collection,Bright Eyes by Art Garfunkel on his Best Of album. Despite that when I listen to it either that way or in the film my eyes get misty,it's place in the film is perfect. The scene is a sad one and Bright Eyes punctuates that idea.Remember,if you let your little children watch this,be a good parent and guide them through it. "},{"Title":"What an amazing film","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Since watching this film at the age of five, it has had constant affection in my heart. From the superb casting of John Hurt and Richard Briers to the fantastic animation to the Legend of the powerful Frith with the moving words All the world will be your enemy, Prince with a Thousand Enemies, and when they catch you, they will kill you... but first they must catch you, digger, listener, runner. Prince with the swift warning. Be cunning and full of tricks and your people will never be destroyed. The imagination of Brain Adams novel is brought to life beautifully. Usually I watch a film or TV show and then read the book which I often find more entertaining than the adaption I primarily watch and Watership Down is no exception. The book was fantastic to read and I will always enjoy it. The film will always have a special place in my heart too. "},{"Title":"Be cunning, and your people will never be destroyed...","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 'Watership Down' is a film that made a great impression on me throughout my childhood, and even today still ranks as my personal choice for the best non-Disney animated feature of all time; in fact, aside from the really exceptional cases like 'Bambi' and 'Fantasia', you could even say that it beats the cream out of most of Disney's output (particularly those that were being churned out around the time that this one arrived on the scene, which simply cannot stand comparison to it). 'Watership Down' is an exemplary case of not just what makes a great animated film, but also great epic storytelling in general. It has everything I look for in such a movie - well-developed, convincing characters (that they happen to be talking rabbits does nothing to diminish this), an engrossing story and a powerful milieu carried by the background score and imagery. The music in this movie is completely entrancing, something which always stands out about it - a nice mixture of emotive melodies that accompany their pertaining moments in the story just perfectly, along with 'Bright Eyes', a beautiful little song that I have never since forgotten (and I dare you not to get dewy-eyed during the sequence where it plays).As an adaptation of a classic piece of reading, it doesn't fare too badly - the original story naturally had to be abridged considerably to suit the running time, and there are a handful of details that feel rather glossed over, but nonetheless, it gets enough right in all the important places to both do justice to the book and succeed as a brilliant movie on merits of its own. Within the time it has, it manages to convey a great deal of character and depth, and defines each individual rabbit's personality very ably - the self-assured Bigwig's growing sense of respect for both Hazel and Fiver is especially well-woven into the story, and gives their interaction a lot of essence.The animation quality can be a little uneven at times (breathtaking one moment, slightly sketchy the next), but overall reflects a rougher, more realistic style that keeps it from ever becoming too cute or cuddly (a la Disney). I've always loved the character design they gave to Fiver in particular - large, sad eyes and a skinny little body which give him an almost alien-like quality, helping to distinguish him as the unique and atypical individual he is amongst the other rabbits. Some viewers have commented that the majority of Efrafan rabbits look so similar that it gets rather hard to tell them apart, which is true, but I personally feel that this is very effective in highlighting the lack of independence and individuality that most of them had amongst their ranks, contrasting with Hazel's group where everyone is respected and free.Above all, I applaud it for refusing to succumb to the Disney formula, which had been far too influential on most other animated features for decades beforehand and would continue to be so for some years to come. It's one of the things that made 'Watership Down' such an outstanding piece of animation and why it still feels like such a one-of-a-kind film to this day - it wasn't afraid just to do its own thing, and people had seen very few like it before at the time; a serious and very mature kind of cartoon that remains truthful to the dark and turbulent spirit of the book. This is no fluffy, light-hearted tale about a bunch of innocent little bunnies - as the opening 'creation story' sequence deftly explains, the world these rabbits live in is overflowing with peril, and one where every day presents a hard, violent struggle to survive. Expect a fair share of blood, fighting, and even a couple of rather brutal death scenes. Kehaar, the extroverted seagull that the rabbits befriend on their journey, does provide a light touch of comic relief every so often, but not excessively, and no more so than in the original novel. There are times when this movie can become very bleak indeed, and as a very little kid I remember having a tough time trying to swallow a lot of the imagery - some of the sequences, including Fiver's vision of the field being 'covered with blood' and most of the traumatised Holly's flashbacks, are downright disturbing, and one key reason why this movie would probably be better appreciated by older kids and adults.But it's more than just a depression-fest, and the trials these rabbits must endure only bring you to appreciate their well-earned triumphs all the more. In the end, the sombre darkness is effectively countered by the movie's relative themes of unity, spirituality and survival, and it's hard not to leave this film feeling somewhat uplifted by the experience. After all, there is something incredibly inspirational, even from a human perspective, about those immortal linesAll the world will be your enemy, Prince with a Thousand Enemies, and whenever they catch you, they will kill you. But first, they must catch you. Be cunning, and your people will never be destroyed.Grade A "},{"Title":"Can YOU run?...I think not....","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My heart has joined a thousand...my friend stopped running today... This is the best animated movie ever, and if you like this one, you should see When the Wind Blows. It's almost chilling. As far as I am concerned the cartoons of today, just don't have it I love the characters of Watership Down, and it's been my favorite movie since I can remember...Everyone has a friend or family member that can compare to the characters, and the animation is so fluid for the technology of the time. I was allowed to watch it as a very small child, and I actually think I'm a better thinker because of it. I realized at a very young age the extent a government can reach when trying to maintain order, and the extreme abuses of power within that establishment. When the Wind blows is quite similar in it's message. See that one too. Blockbuster usually has it to rent in the family section. "},{"Title":"The World May Be Your Enemy Prince of A Thousand Enemies. When They Catch You, They Will Kill You...but First, They Must Catch You","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Let me start off by saying that this film is NOT for little children, which was the reason why that this film was not an initial success back in 1978. However, this film is still a good film.  The story is that a rabbit named Fiver sees a disturbing vision of the warren that he and his fellow rabbit friends live in will be smothered in blood as human construction workers work there. His friend Hazel is the only rabbit to believe in Fiver, and when they ask the chief of the warren for a mass evacuation, the chief says no, since it is too dangerous. Bigwig, assistant of the chief, helps the warren evacuate behind the chief's back. As they go along, they encounter many dangers, such as dogs, hunters, traps, cars as they cross the street, among other things. After a long quest, the rabbits find salvation in a hill called Watership Down. However, the Efrafa warren, led by the evil General Woundwart (Get away, you damn white bird!), is the one thing standing in their way. The annoying, screechy bird Kehaar (Zero Mostel in his last role) helps the good rabbits defy the evil Woundwart and brings some comic relief.  This film is not for little kids, and when I mean hunters and rabbits, I do NOT mean Bugs Bunny-like confrontations, with anvils and dynamite and stuff. Rabbits bite other rabbits' ears off. There is blood. Characters DIE. I learned three things from this film 1.) I will never look at a rabbit warren the same way again. 2.) This film is not for kids. 3.) Even a rabbit such as Woundwart can be the most evil character in any movie.  So there you have it. This film was the most powerful and ahead-of-its-time film I ever seen.  10/10 "}{"Title":"A classic cartoon, great story...","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't often watch cartoon films, but I give every one a chance. And this movie is by far better than any old Disney 'classic.' I love the characters, the fact that all the voices are British accents, and just how funny that bird is. I can say that anyone younger than six may not enjoy all of it, for the fact that it is honestly realistic in it's depiction of the conflicts the group of rabbits go through. However, I do believe that this is a great movie, and that everyone has to see it at least once. "},{"Title":"un-Disney","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A group of discontented rabbits decide to leave a warren and search for a better life. Animated film successfully captures the imagination, adventure, characters and atmosphere of the classic book. Exceptional soundtrack integration. Graphic realism may be frightening for younger audiences. (Rating A) "},{"Title":"A dark, gritty tale of survival- disguised as an innocent child's movie","Date":"29 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Watership Down is a 1978 animated adventure-thriller, directed by Martin Rosen and stars John Hurt as the heroic Hazel, the films main protagonist. Watership Down has always been widely known for its dark reputation and sometimes graphic imagery covered and hidden amongst an innocent children's story. After a prophecy is foretold by Fiver (Hazel's brother) about the destruction of their home (the warren). A small group of rabbits begin a journey to find a new home for their families, friends and allies. Along the way is where Watership Down starts to show its darker side, various rabbit deaths start to spiral the story into a much more grittier tale, with this some quite disturbing scenes, especially after the introduction of the ruthlessly, brutal General Woundwort. Watership Down features one of the greatest scores in cinematic history accompanied with an extremely emotionally hard-hitting, religiously depicted and ambiguously realistic scene, Art Garfunkel's hit single 'Bright Eyes' beautifully lifts and lowers the tone with the famous 'near-death' scene, this is where Watership Down shines at its peak. The film does however have some significant flaws these unfortunately being a lack of character development and variety within the main group, also a rushed final act and quick cuts between scenes almost feel half of the story was left out, as was the impact and emotion, also some seemingly developing story arcs that weren't fully explored to their max due to the short run-time. The ending as a result was not as hard-hitting and teary-eyed as it should have been because of this, but still a great concept. 7/10 "},{"Title":"harrowing children's story","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Sun god Frith created all the animals. When El-Ahrairah and his rabbit people multiplied, Frith gifted some of the other animals with powers to be various predators. El-Ahrairah is given a fluffy tail and strong legs. With caution and cunning, the rabbits survive. In the present, Hazel leads a group of rabbits out of the warren when one has an apocalyptic vision. They face deadly obstacles, befriend a seagull and find a group under a tyrannical dictatorship.For a children's story, this is rather bloody and brutal. It can be scary for the little ones. It's a riveting adventure for the most part. The last part seems to have too many stories. The seagull tries to be comic relief but he doesn't get the job done. I would rather they stay with the rabbit farm story. There is one too many plots and I don't think the Efrafans are needed. "},{"Title":"The Most Greatest in the Cinemas","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When i was younger this film is scared me when i was an little kid, so later in few years i watch again and it i have an strange feeling that it's was good like this film.it was make this film is happy (The scene of fly scene of Kehaar and even his humor), scared (the fighting of heroes against villains) and even sadness (the main protagonist Hazel is going with Black Rabbit Of Inlé to Frith).Which it was an great film to follow the book of the same name, and plus the music named Bright Eyes by Mike Batt which it was one of the beautiful and sadness music i have ever heard.Final Rating 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Traumatizing","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Let's cut to the chase, Watership Down turned me into an emotional wreck, the only film I've seen to date which actually made me depressed. I've seen plenty of 'downers' before, but Watership Down is in a completely different league of its own. While viewing the film I considered to stop watching it, but I put with the ordeal, and I can undoubtedly say I never want to lay my eyes on this film again.However don't take my words the wrong way, Watership Down is not a bad film, far from it. The plot is fascinating, featuring a society of rabbits who follow human political standings and divisions, plus the animation is beautiful even with the film's strong violence and gore. While much has been written about the film's violence, even with my first viewing on this film at the age of 20, it succeed in traumatizing me. Rabbits killing each other is much more effective than humans killing each other. That's my final word, I recommend this movie but to be approached with caution. "},{"Title":"And this is a kids movie?","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I can remember watching this movie as a kid. I can remember enjoying it, but not much else. I have two kids and two rabbits, so when my wife picked up this movie for our movie night, I didn't think much of it. I especially did not expect my kids to end up traumatized by it, haha! Well, maybe it's not that bad, but mu daughter spent quite a bit of time watching this movie from behind her hand, while my son wandered off and started playing with his Lego because he could not stand it anymore. Have kids gotten this soft over the years? I will admit that it's quite bloody here and there, but back when I was a kid it just did not matter that much, I guess. "},{"Title":"Animated, But Not For Young Children.","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Martin Rosen directed this superb adaptation of the Richard Adams novel about a warren of rabbits forced to find a new place to live after their grazing land is destroyed by human developers, who know nothing about the rabbits, and likely don't care. The rabbits have their own culture and belief in a rabbit afterlife(similar to Rainbow Bridge, which needs no explanation for fellow animal lovers) and they undertake a perilous trek across the English countryside to establish a new colony, facing many dangers(both human, animal, and even fellow rabbit) along the way. Dark but fascinating and surprisingly moving film is not always easy to sit through, but proves to be a rewarding experience, which contains the voice talents of actors like John Hurt, Ralph Richardson, and Zero Mostel. Not for young children, but 13+ should be fine. "},{"Title":"Good telling of a classic tale","Date":"27 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I loved the book Watership Down and this is animated version is a pretty good effort at recreating the wonderful tale of a rabbit colony. It thankfully doesn't shy away from showing the harshness of nature and therefore may not be suitable for very young children. The vocal talent is very impressive especially John Hurt and Richard Briers and the film does get you involved and never flags. Watching it now it does feel a little dated perhaps in the animation (though for the time this was very good) and I personally would love someone to do an up to date version without watering down the sad but honest nature of the story. This film maybe won't appeal to youngster's today but for those over 40 with is a nice bit of nostalgia that is well worth re-watching. "},{"Title":"One of the most traumatizing movies I have ever seen, but what a masterpiece","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is such a brilliant animated movie. The animation is top notch because it has so much variety. Not only in color, but in style, and it all benefits the story perfectly. The story is creative and suspenseful, and that is saying something considering that this is a movie about rabbits. But it was written so brilliantly that it doesn't seem clichéd, cutesy, or lagging at all. The casting was perfect as well. With a cast like John Hurt, Ralph Richardson, and Zero Mostel among others, you must have high expectations. That being said, this is not a very good movie one would want to show their little ones unless they are sure they will be able to handle some of the images in this movie. There is a lot of bloodshed and a lot of other images and situations a child might find unsettling, ironically coming from a film about cute little bunnies. So be absolutely sure that your child can handle this. But whether they can or can't at the time, this is a beautiful film with such a captivating story and brilliant animation, and it should be watched by anyone who either wants to be an cinema-enriched film buff or just someone who likes a good story. Either way, it is a brilliant film and an underrated masterpiece. "}{"Title":"When you read the book after you watch the film you'll have to give it a lower rating","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have seen this film before I read the book and wrote the review, now I have read the book and found it much better. Watership Down is a fantastic story that I will never forget. The film itself is not a very good adaption but it leaves out a lot of parts in the book which I thought should have been in it.The film is about a young rabbit called Fiver who sees a bad danger coming to his warren, at first his brother Hazel doesn't believe him and doesn't like the idea of running away. The chief rabbit also doesn't believe it and thinks Fiver and Hazel are a bunch of lunatics. Hazel and Fiver set off and so does half the warren. Half of them get captured and only leaves eight to set off and find a new home. Along the way they encounter some dangers that are life threatening. When they reach their new home they make friends with a crazy bird called Keehar. The rabbits then realize that there are no female rabbits so they ask Keehar to find some. He finds another warren called Efrafa and says there are many rabbits. So the rabbits must find a way to take some females and finish Woundwort once and for all.This film is good with its beautiful scenery and good artwork and was a bit gory. John Hurt does a great performance as Hazel. When I first saw this I thought it was fantastic and I gave it ten, now That I've read the book I had to give it a lower rating. It leaves out a few characters from the book and left out the stories Dandelion tells. I recommend the book more than this film. This film is recommended for those who love animated films. This film would have been a lot better if went exactly like the book. There was a television series that went like the book which I haven't seen. "},{"Title":"A Watershed Watership","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie was one of the most impactful things I ever viewed in my youth cinema-wise. I was young in 1978, probably 4 when I saw it in the theater. Then when it hit television I was still young 8,9,10. I never failed to watch this when it was coming on then. When VCR came to promise around the same time I had this film rented for me many times. Then around 13 or 14 due to the way this film never left me, I went after the book. That is one of the most engrossing fantasy novels I have ever read, and I have now read thousands of books. Lord of the Rings and Watership Down were the first two large scale serious novels I read, they both came to my attention from late nineteen seventies animated films, and both of them directly led me to almost never in my current 32 years being without a book of some genre or another.This movie has it's very stark moments, violent scenes, therefore it can be deemed unsuitable for some age children. Yet, I don't think so. Show any age child this masterpiece, it displays nothing that does not truly speak to the real ebb and flow of our chaotic world. Not everything is nice, not much is easy, there are many entities that would destroy you for whatever reason they have, there is a time to run as well as a time to fight,even if it is only to stand and die.All this in an animated film and even a creation story complete with a Messiah.The film also has beauty and comedy and lightness of character and ease of good times. I wrote this because I have just finished seeing the last 25 minutes of the film on Showtime. It stirred in me that this was one of my youth's watersheds. I am going out and going to rent this tonight and sit my three stepchildren down with my wife and say  Here is a cartoon movie about rabbits.It is important we watch this. "},{"Title":"The second most depressing film i have ever seen!","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I used to see this a lot as child, the first time i watched it i was probably as young as 4. It tells a very relevant and interesting story about friendship, the naivety of youth and the unsuspecting character of animals. The problem is i can only see this film for what it is now and back in my younger years it just upset me and i'm sure it mentally scarred my whole generation. The fact it is a cartoon full of cute rabbits means that parents think its fine to show their children. The problem is loads of bad things happen to them.I have only seen it once in the last 10 years and on that occasion it was in between Christmas and new year so naturally a great few of beers had been consumed and in the seen where Hazel is shot by the farmer (not helped by Art Garfunkel's title song) i cried so i suppose that proves that this film is touching, effective and at times uplifting. But not for kids. "},{"Title":"Readers Digest version with British accents","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Having just finished the book, this review is certainly biased in favor of it. But that's true of most excellent novels adapted to film.Rather than rehash the plot (plenty of that about), I'll simply say that if this movie gets people to read the book, it's done its job. The subtle grace of the author's depictions of the English countryside and anthropomorphizing of the rabbits is nearly completely absent from this film; more so, even, than the recent adaptation of The Lord of the Rings.I can tolerate plot elements taken out of context or rearranged to further along a good adaptation (see Zeffirelli's Hamlet), but not simply to make way for a so-so Art Garfunkel tune. That time would have been better used to tell more of the tale. I can't see where the rearrangement of the plot helps this adaptation along.All told, it is far too short to do even filmed justice to a rich novel.  "},{"Title":"Very Intense","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  *Spoilers* I just saw Watership Down for the first time yesterday and I can honestly say this is one of the most disturbing movies I have ever seen. I'd also like to add that I am 20. Watership is pretty much one of those life is hard films except with animated rabbits as the main characters.Watership down chronicles the journey of a small band of Rabbits, lead by the charismatic Hazel, brawny Big Wig, and the seemingly prophetic Fiver in their quest for a new home. Along the way they encounter a great many dangers. They encounter one small group of rabbits that have some kind of sick deal with humans when they lead big wig into a snare. The other major confrontation being with the General and his facist rabbit government.There's a pervasive element of fear throughout the entire movie. The chilling walk through the woods in the beginning of their flight when they notice a wolverine ominously looking at them from a bush, blood dripping from it's jaws, violet uttering It must have just killed. The most disturbing scene for me that I doubt will leave my mind in the vision of the rabbits buried alive in their warren by the unfeeling humans, dead bodies cramming into the clogged exit holes, suffocating and dying in swirling masses.Now, while I didn't particularly enjoy this movie doesn't mean it wasn't a good movie. However I really don't think anyone under 10 should see this film with its level of intensity. "},{"Title":"A real animation classic","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is really special - an animated film really for adults.  It captures most of the book but most of all maintains an incredibly almost other-worldy mood through out.The music by Angela Morley (aka Walter Stott) is amazing and truly unique, especially since this composer mostly did TV scores but also some classic feature stuff like English director Michael Powell's PEEPING TOM.  Another great thing about this movie is there aren't any concessions to anything Disney-like.There is one song called BRIGHT EYES sung by Art Garfunkel that's quite lovely but probably unneccessary.  (Animators can't seem to break away from introducing songs in their movies instead of just straight story telling, except maybe the Japanese Anime.)  Still, it's entertaining.The film itself starts with a very abstract sequence explaining the rabbit religion a bit and then segues into a sort of detailed but not quite photo real shot of a rabbit and then into conventional animation.  The English voice performers include such stellar actors like Sir Ralph Richardson, John Hurt, Denholm Elliot and others as well as American actor Zero Mostel doing an absolutely delightful & humorous performance of the bird Kehaar.  All of the actors acquit themselves nicely.Some of the moments early on when Fiver precogs the bulldozing of the warren they've been living in and the subsequent verification of that horror becoming reality provide a real scary kind of moment unusual in animation.  I'm not exactly sure but I think the film was animated in Canada as well.  After this the same outfit did PLAGUE DOGS, another Richard Adams story. "},{"Title":"Watership Down is to American liberty what Animal Farm is to Russian communism.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After seeing WATERSHIP DOWN in a theater on its first release in 1978 and having a copy on video ever since I've owned a VCR, I just now finally got around to reading the original novel by Richard Adams. There has been little deviation from the novel in the film version, and that due to the limitations of the medium; it is certainly well above average in terms of a film adaptation of a novel. Artistically I wouldn't want to see anyone get any ideas of trying to remake it with computer generated realistic looking animals and real-life background. It's like a classic painting by Watteau, Fragonard or Monet come to life!Reading the novel has reinforced my initial opinion of the movie and why it has always been one of my favorites it may or may not have been the original intent of author Richard Adams, but I've always seen WATERSHIP DOWN as being as much a salute to American liberty and the Founding Fathers of the United States as George Orwell's ANIMAL FARM (and its various film incarnations) was a satire of communist (and more particularly Stalinist) Russia. Both novels were written by British authors and set in the English farm countryside, with the movie versions having the animal characters voiced over by mostly British actors; but just as Orwell's pigs Napoleon, Old Major and Snowball are thinly disguised versions of, respectively, Stalin, Lenin and Trotsky, Adams's rabbit warren has a very American character to it. The analogies and parallels are not as clear-cut as with Orwell, but you can see a little of Thomas Jefferson and Ben Franklin in Fiver, a little of George Washington in both Hazel and Bigwig, a little of John Adams and John Hancock in the warren leadership in general. (While I realize that Adams is a pretty common name, I've often wondered whether or not Richard is a relative of John and Samuel!)As an aside, I also thought it a nice touch, and perhaps no coincidence, that John Hurt, who did the voice of the rabbit leader Hazel, later also had the lead role in the last movie version of Orwell's other anti-totalitarian classic 1984.While Orwell presents a thinly disguised linear history of Russia from the Bolshevik Revolution through World War II into the Cold War (the latest movie version of ANIMAL FARM projects forward through the collapse of communism), Adams's (perhaps unintentional) portrait of American history is much less linear and much broader in scope. Through the initial trek of the rabbits from their original warren to Watership Down, we see both the initial colonists of Jamestown and Plymouth, and the settlers of the West. When I hear Bigwig speak to Hyzenthlay about having the Efrafa captives escape to join the Watership warren, I can almost hear, Give me your tired, your poor/Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.... One can look at the freeing of the Efrafa captives and the final conflict between the Watership rabbits and Woundwort's Efrafans as a depiction of either the Civil War or World War II or both; I definitely see the unleashing of the dog to defeat Woundwort as a depiction of the use of the Atomic Bomb.Call me an American Jingoist if you will, but take it from an immigrant whose family lived through the Axis occupation and American liberation of World War II in the real-life human world, the good old United States of America IS Watership Down! "},{"Title":"What a wonderful story of survival and courage","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw the movie as a child.  It was such a great story of spirit, friendship, family, fear and determination.  Visually it was different and amazing to me at the time.  It was so clever to be in the world of the rabbits.  This movie stayed with me and just a couple of years ago I was able to read the book.  I was so taken by the masterful story telling of Richard Adams.  I loved following the lives of all of the rabbits.  They felt just like friends, like old friends that I met as a child.  "},{"Title":"I really liked this movie.","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie really touched me when I was younger.  I immediately read the book afterwards, and from that point on I have had a love of reading as well as movies.  It is a very good movie for children over the age of 7.  "},{"Title":"A good film but not my cup of tea","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There is no doubt in my mind this film is a good animation and has a very gripping story. I first watched this film as a very young child and the few scenes I remembered of the film had been traumatising violence. With films like Watership Down, The Plague Dogs, Felidae and many others, it depends on the individual whether it is too upsetting. Many children I'm sure adored and will adore this film but sadly it wasn't my cup of tea.I did not understand the story when I first saw this film and only understood that rabbits were being killed and were killing each other. Rewatching this film last year proved an interesting experience but I still believe this film is not the sort that you simply pop in the video player for a young audience. It is gory and it is frightening, especially when compared with modern films rated a 'U'. This does not make Watership Down a bad film, far from it. It's violent for a reason but it's audience needs to understand why before watching (for instance, some children might need scenes or themes explained so they are not upset).Whilst not my cup of tea, the film is well written, sometimes hard to swallow, gripping, thought-provoking and definitely worth a watch. Any film that can have shivers running up and down my spine 15 years on is worth a second viewing! Don't be fooled into thinking this film is for children because it is animated and rated 'U'. Watership Down is no Disney musical, it hits hard and it doesn't dumb itself down with pop culture references and bad jokes. "}{"Title":"Before you write your review, take mine into consideration","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I love how so many people just assume this is a kid's movie just because it's animated. This is based off of a novel for adults, so of course it's not for children. That's like parents complaining about Roger Rabbit being inappropriate for kids. Just because it's animated doesn't mean it's a kid's movie.This movie is brilliant. It's gory, dark and disturbing... but it's disturbing in a learning sort of way. I'd recommend this film for young teens and up.The plot is very well thought-out. Yeah, there are elements of Christianity in there, but that's hardly a bad thing. "},{"Title":"But where's the dialogue that gave so much meaning to the book?","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It was good.But the scenes of dialogue...those were arguably the most important part of the book. Those just didn't do it for me. Fiver's big monologue at the end of part 1, etc..The character are so lacking in character and they don't interact like they did in the book. Their emotions are not seen like in the book. They managed to get the blood in, but that blood doesn't have the same meaning as it does in the book.The movie was missing an all-important ingredient--life.It makes me think of the teenagers who had to read it in 8th grade and hated it because they totally missed the point. I didn't read it for blood lust...mostly. "},{"Title":"The fields are covered in blood....","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This classic film is definitely one hell of an animated feature! While this is no film for a five year old, it shows a rabbit's true way of life. Rabbits have always been looked at as cute and cuddly creatures. But not to Adams. Richard Adams shows that rabbits can be cruel creatures whom have just as many feelings as humans.This story starts off at a warren where rabbits are free to roam, careless under the protection of the Owsla. Until one rabbit discovers something that changes a certain group of rabbits' lives forever.As they set off to find a suitable place to live, they encounter deaths, blood, enemies and allies, proving that a rabbit's life isn't all it's cracked up to be.While this film is no where near as brilliant as Richard's novel, this movie is most likely less suitable for your child/children. I saw this movie when I was ten years old, and all though I was not frightened, I'm sure any child under eight would find this quite terrifying. I highly recommend reading the book to anyone under eight.The animations are simply beautiful in this film. It shows their emotions, thoughts and expressions just like Adams' described in the novel.The book deserves no less than ten out of ten stars. The movie, all though is incredible, deserves a no more than an eight due to the fact that it was not as satisfying as the book was. "},{"Title":"It's not bad, but it doesn't feel right.","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie, and though it wasn't bad (it was quite well done for the most part), something about it rubbed me the wrong way the whole time I was watching it.First, it covers the book pretty well. It keeps the important parts, takes out some less important parts, shortens others, or changes the order in which things happens (or mixes two events together for time). In a movie that isn't very long, they covered the story very well, but there are two big things that I was very disappointed with. The book was filled with stories of the rabbit's myths and religion, and those were some of the most interesting parts, and they really helped understand the character's thinking, but alas, all but one had to be eliminated from the movie. The other big mistake was that the movie was filled with the Lampine language (The rabbit's language for those who don't know). While the book had a glossary to translate what they say, the movie has no such thing, so words will appear throughout the movie that people don't know what they mean unless they've read the book.The two biggest problems I had with the movie were the art, and the acting. The art, while detailed, was unappealing, depressing and somewhat unrealistic (the animation was of fairly poor quality too). I was depressed when I watched it because the art didn't have any character to it (honestly I was pretty disturbed by some of the art styles). The acting, while not really bad, was mostly unemotional and monotone. The characters all seem bored much of the time, and it really makes some parts trudge along slowly.This is not a bad movie in anyway. Most people like it, but after getting so much emotion and power from the book, the movie seems very weak.  "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is probably one of the best movies I have ever seen! Made in 1978, Watership down is a animation involving a group of rabbits that rebel from their colony to start their own free society with equal rights and no totalitarianism. This story contains beautiful animation with great images. I believe that everyone should have the privelage of seeing this movie at least once. And I am gettin' tired of saying this, but I don't care if this is an animation, it is NOT a kid's movie!!!!!!!!!!! So I suggest you see it first before letting your children watch but it's nothing that they will never see in life. But all in all 9.5/10. GOTTA LOVE THAT BIRD!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Classic novel makes for good movie.","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"     This is a great, dramatic film, mainly because of the story and casting-- Lots of strong, English voices including an unforgettable one- John Hurt as the lead rabbit, Hazel.  He is simply excellent in this movie.  Bigwig, Fiver and Blackberry also show up nicely and match their voices well.   The only shortcoming here is the animation which, although creative, is rough all over.  (Don't even try to match the dialogue to those cute little bucktoothed bunny mouths..) Still, it's got its own esoteric charm, with some truly unique dream sequences, and action to boot.  American viewers used to Disney and Don Bluth should be able to appreciate the import feeling of this movie.. the glossy, shifty eyes on the rabbits, dialogue which is remarkably candid at times, and realistic violence that makes it look more like an Indy film or a BBC wildlife documentary.    There's no humor or immaturity here.  It's not for anyone under 5, who may find its complexity tedious.  There are a few parts in this film where clarity would be a real asset.. Some viewers may have trouble distinguishing the lesser characters, (Campion, Vervain and many of Woundwort's rabbits look near identical) most will miss the Lapine words completely, and one scene involving the Efrafans is downright confusing. (And I've seen this movie countless times and even read the novel twice..)  Most of the continuity is fine, though, and follows Adams' novel quite well.  There is even a noteworthy musical score which has stayed in my mind since I watched this film as a child.             This is a story about goals and perseverance..It's full of characters who have real individuality and believable motives, and it even carries this rabbit religion and spirituality to the end successfully.  It is also thought provoking and somewhat intellectual...All in all, it's a meaningful experience that any intelligent person will enjoy, but it may be a little beyond the average Joe.  My Score 8.8  "},{"Title":"A great war film... no, really!","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If you want the opinion of someone who has worked nine conflicts, in its own way this might be the most truthful war film ever made, just as the book may be the most truthful war novel ever written. Don't laugh! All the world will be your enemy, Prince with a Thousand Enemies, and when they catch you, they will kill you... but first they must catch you. That's war, really. You don't just fight, you escape death, and if you escape in the right direction, you get to be a hero and win the day. Naturalists mock the conceit of rabbit bucks forced to fight as one unit. (Rabbits work in male-female pairs.) But war is an unnatural world. No? Consider the book and film's concept of 'going tharn' &#150; the fear that paralyses you in the face of death. Conquering that fear, leading the weaker through hell, it's what leadership in combat is all about. I read once that Watership Down's author Richard Adams, a veteran himself, based the character of the rabbit leader Hazel on his own platoon commander in Normandy in 1944. Someone else once told me it was on the 'additional reading' list of the British Army officer training school at Sandhurst. I can well believe it. "},{"Title":"A Cartoon for Adults","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A group of rabbits flee their doomed warren and face many dangers to find and protect their new home.This book first came to my attention after appearing on the television program Lost. I picked it up, read it, and was impressed with how deep the book portrayed rabbit culture. Not just a story of survival, but a complete mythology with gods and such. The book could almost be considered science fiction in its presentation.And then, the film remained unknown to me until released by Criterion on Blu-ray. And it is quite a feat. Unlike other cartoon films of the era (such as Last Unicorn), this one was deeper, more philosophical, and more adult. I can understand why kids watched it (how can parents say no to animated rabbits?) but this really is not a movie for them. Or at least not the general public of that age.The film was an immediate success at the UK box office and has received a generally positive critical reception, with an 80% 'Fresh' rating on Rotten Tomatoes, and a rating of 67% from select critics. The film was nominated for Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation in 1979. In 2004, the magazine Total Film named Watership Down the 47th greatest British film of all time and it was also ranked 15th in the 100 Greatest Tearjerkers. "},{"Title":"Looking for something different?","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Tired of the cutesy animated penguin movies of today? Looking for a suspenseful animated feature with great voice acting performances? Then take a look at this 1978 curiosity. Watership Down is a rabbit tale, but nothing like what Bugs Bunny could have brought us. This is the story of a group of rabbits who flee their home after one of them has a vision of impending development by humans. Only a few of the rabbits in this habitat believe the little fellow since rabbits apparently have a hierarchy in which one supreme rabbit makes all the decisions. Most just stick around and get buried into their burrows once the development begins. Its up to the half dozen or so that set off in search of a new home to fend off other animals and avoid human contact. Their goal is to reach higher ground not likely to be built on, and allowing them to better watch out for enemies. But the journey to this new home and attempts to set up the new colony prove to be very dangerous. This may be an animated film full of cutesy rabbits, but it is hardly a film for small children. This in actually one of the more violent films I've seen recently! This film, based on a book of the same title, has much going for it. It even provides the rabbits their own mythology about the creation of the world, and how they came to be how they are. And its true... rabbits are about the fastest moving animals you'll ever see, but they have to be. Just about every other animal wants to kill them! The animation decent for its time, but it won't overwhelm anyone used to seeing recent animated films. The characters' movements sometimes even look a bit choppy. The peaceful music is falsely soothing, as danger lurks around every corner for these rabbits. Often from their own kind, too! This is truly a unique work. Not for small children, but definitely for someone looking for an alternative to the modern, yet stale animated films of today. 7 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Dramanimation","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This comes off like an adventure with soap opera tendencies.Having rabbits in the lead may put people off. But this is no cute bunny story. The drama, and occasional fear, here give it extra power.It looks at life from the rabbit side. Not only do they have their own gangs, but they must deal with the farmers constant encroachment. This is told like a horror film almost. The scene with the rabbits being buried alive with shake up a few younger viewers.Gen. Woundwort facial expressions (he never unclenches his teeth) may be eerie too. And the hope for a better place continues to go through the main characters.I never read the book, but if it's as good as the film, and I heard it was better, then good on the writer. "}{"Title":") bunnies!","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" i love the movie in general, purely because i watched it as a child and from the beginning decided that i liked it very much, I'm 18 now but i recently purchased it as i am still a huge fan of the book, as its so beautifully written, and hadn't seen it since i was very young. i would have given it an eight, but i think that there are a few things which could have been truer to the book, which i think i was slightly disappointed about. Also although i could understand the rabbit language (lapine i think?) that was used throughout, as i have very recently re read the book, i thought that audiences may have became confused as to what exactly was being said. but other than that i think its a beautiful film, and beautifully animated. film for the family XsarahX "},{"Title":"The story of a group of rabbits who must go look for a new home. Through animation and personification of animals it touches upon deeper issues like Totalatarism and environmentalism.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A disgrace to the original novel. Everything the novel is, this adaptation is not. A major disappointment. I love this novel as a child and was excited to see the movie. I think it is a shame that for those who see the film version without ever reading the book they will never understand just how powerful the story is. "},{"Title":"Great film, if you're not a young kid.","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I really like this film. I haven't read the book, but I heard it's a good adaptation of a book. The plot of this film is focused about rabbits escaping. It does a really good job at teaching people to cope with life and death. I was scared as a child, couldn't sleep very well likely to given me nightmares. with the rabbits fighting each other to the death and blood spewing everywhere. The animation was really well done. The watercolour painting It makes this film has a classic feeling and gives the illusion it's soft. The colours are dark and show a lot of blood in the background. The rabbits are realistically coloured. I think this film should have been rated 12A. I don't know how the hell it got the U rating in the first place. In one scene a dog rips one of the rabbits, from limb to limb bleeding to death. Many scenes of rabbits fighting each other, showing a lot of blood.This film gives an illusion it's a kid's film, but it's like don't judge a book by it's cover. Don't be fooled by the cute bunny illusion. "},{"Title":"Movies Suck Remember kittens; do as your mother tells you, or the General will get you.","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have a beef with movies based off of books. My biggest reason for this is simple; ninety nine percent of the time, movies based off of books are simply not good. Most of the time they have become so detached from their literary predecessors they aren't so much a re-imagining or the same story in a different medium so much as a special inbred child that high school students seek out so they don't have to read the book. It's not necessarily the movie's fault; I understand that it's very hard to put 3, 4, 500 pages worth of interesting text into an hour-and-a-half movie. It's a tough thing to accomplish, and if nothing else I can respect the attempt. But overall, I think the movie industry would be a much more successful place if they just&#x85;you know, stayed away from the books. I also think the universe would be a smarter, more wonderful place if we all just read the books instead of waiting for the movie to come out.Now with all that said, I'm probably going to sound like the world's biggest hypocrite when I say I have NOT read the book Watership Down. Well, that's kind of a lie. I TRIED to read it once. I got a few chapters in, and for whatever reason I stopped. I OWN it, however, and now that I've seen the movie, I'll probably go back and read the book because the movie wasn't bad on its own, which makes it really hard to bitch about because I don't know what all they left out. The story tells of Hazel, a rabbit, and his and his brother Fiver's epic journey to get away from a 'bad thing' only to run into a different 'bad thing' and eventually they have a happy ever after. Basically......Now the plot itself, you would think, would be more of a child's story since there are rabbits involved and they're going on adventures and befriending the birdies and things. And you would be dead wrong, my Readers. Watership Down is NOT a fun, safe, kiddie story. There is a lot of death and blood, and it's a very sad thing to watch sometimes. There's nothing funny or happy about it. The rabbits face a lot of problems right from the get-go, and even the end is kind of sad. But I recommend it anyway. The animation was done back in the stone age so it'll give you a nice nostalgic feel, and the art is gorgeous I thought. I recommend the movie, but I also recommend you read the book, because the book is probably infinitely better and I happen to know a lot of things were cut out that you won't want to miss. And I know that because I know people who HAVE read the book, and they told me all about it...This review was edited for length and content. To read the whole thing, along with others, check out my blog!http//moviessuck.tumblr.com/ "},{"Title":"Not as good as the book, but still fantastic.","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well, I just summarized my entire review in the heading, so I'll basically have to B.S. the rest of the time. The animation is gorgeous. For being produced over 30 years ago, it still looks great by today's standards. Also, it hasn't aged badly at all, unlike some of Disney's films. The voice cast all did well, although the bird did get annoying on occasion. It is a great stand alone film if you haven't read the book. But I did, so I have a few minor gripes. It's not a matter of things in the film I didn't like, it what's in the book which was left out of the film. For example, there is more than just one origin story of El-ahrairah in the novel. There are actually quite a few, as opposed to the film, where there is just one. I also felt that the film could have been a bit longer. The ending also left much to be desired. There isn't much closure and the film just lets the narrator end the film rather than letting the characters themselves do it. But, all that aside, this film is still a masterpiece and should be seen by any fan of animation or fans of British literature. It is a film you won't regret watching. "},{"Title":"killed by car???","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" hello everyone. recently i watched water ship down again for the first time in 20 years. there was one scene in particular that i remembered but when i watched the movie again i noticed that the scene is NOT in the film at all?! so i wonder what happened to it. the scene i'm talking about was somewhere in a city i think, it was dark and all of them were crossing a road. one of them got hit by a car. now i was wondering am i going insane, i was only 5 years old when i first saw it so maybe it was just my imagination, or is it possible i saw another version of the film? or maybe they just used it in the bright eyes video-clip??! if you know anything about it please let me know, martin "},{"Title":"That's where we ought to be. That's where we have to get to.","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A group of rabbits must flee their home and find a new one, dealing with predators and traps along the way. An intelligent, often dark cartoon that is definitely not for little kids. Older ones might like it but, unfortunately, its age and slow pace will turn off a lot of today's kids. Also it's deadly serious with the only humor coming from a bird that shows up here and there. The animation is good. Not great but up there with what Disney was doing at the time. It has enough style and creativity in its animation to overcome any shortcomings. The voicework is excellent. The script is smart. Like I said, it's more for adults and older kids/teens. Obviously if you're a parent you'll have to use your own judgment on that, though. "},{"Title":"reasonable version of a children's classic","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Richard Adams' excellent novel about the troubles of a group of wild rabbits after their warren is destroyed is translated with care to the screen in this superior cartoon version.In particular the voices of the characters have been chosen with care - John Hurt is Hazel; the gentle buck who assumes chief rabbit status, Richard Briers is his anxious, psychic brother Fiver; Ralph Richardson the incredulous Chief Rabbit in the doomed warren they leave; Harry Andrews the formidable General Woundwort, a rabbit fighter.  Other distinctive voices appearing include those of Joss Ackland, Simon Cadell, Denholm Elliot, Hannah Gordon, and perhaps best of all, Zero Mostel as tempramental bird Kehaar.The animation is cleverly done, and does not fall in the trap it could have done of being just simply 'cute'.  In fact several sequences are done very well - the opening sequence with Frith granting El-alhrairah the rabbit gift of white tail and strong legs; the ending with Hazel choosing to follow the Black Rabbit; and the violent confrontations in Efrafa.All this and Art Garfunkel's 'Bright Eyes' (much maligned as a song but fitting perfectly within this movie). "},{"Title":"Bright Rabbit Eyes","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Water-colour backgrounds and Art Garfunkel's high-pitched voice singing Bright Eyes versus doom's day metaphors and a general air of desolation. Welcome to Martin Rosen's ambitious if flawed adaptation of Richard Adams' best-seller. We're talking anti-Disney rabbits here. No Thumper in sight! Feature-length cartoons with adult-oriented themes are always welcome, but the allegorical impact gets somewhat diminished by the whole stylistic indecisiveness of the pic. (Commercial interests may have played into it.) And the animation could've been more experimental.Still, it's mostly a stimulating piece of work and the voice-cast is excellent.7 out of 10 Great Friths "},{"Title":"It's good but I wouldn't show it to kids..","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As an adult, I think showing this to children would scare them and of course would upset them. I'm very much an animal lover myself and all I have think of when watching this movie, was always the fear for the rabbits sake like. I know it's a cartoon but it does show you what it's like in the bunny rabbit world.You honestly wouldn't think a gorgeous cartoon like this would be so violent! The reason why I watched this movie, was only because it was seen on Danny Darko. I'm just glad that it was never mentioned or that I saw it from my childhood. Honestly it could probably haunt me and give me nightmares every night. I would consider this a really sad and dark movie, I actually am trying not to have tears on my eyes after watching this. It's probably best not for animal lovers to see this! "}{"Title":"Dark and Intense... But What I Saw Before Was Even BETTER!","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I will always remember this movie.  I don't remember every exact detail, since I have not seen it in quite some time.  However, the intensity of the film is what has stuck with me.  As well as the risk that the filmmakers took in producing such a dark cartoon especially during the bloody scratching battles between the rabbits.  However, one thing sticks out more than any part of the movie and that is the ever popular short that took place before hand.  The VHS copy that I rented as a child had BAMBI vs. GODZILLA beforehand, almost like a trailer.  What a way to open up such a powerful film with the most original animated short film I have ever seen. Sometimes I wish Bambi won.   "},{"Title":"lesson","Date":"13 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" not an adaptation. or beautiful animation. but only remember. or lesson. in skin of a form of parable. it is a good example of inspired art. but, in same measure, it is an answer to contemporary challenges. a lesson about religion, attitude, courage and force of hope. about revelation but not in ordinary definition clothes. a film with bunnies but not about them. window to a seductive book but more than that status. a gentle film about delicate problems. violent, cruel but not in real sense. because, without expected charm, far to usual solution, out of comfortable circle, it is a lesson not for to do but, more important, for feel. and this is its basic secret - it is not for a precise age.it is not an ordinary story. it is a lesson about the best way for remain yourself.and to make the choice who do exist. short, it is not a bad idea to see it. it can be useful in each occasion. "},{"Title":"Don't read tis if you haven't seen the movie. It's basically the whole thing. Forgive my spelling.","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In the merry hills Hampshire, England, a small warren is home to many rabbits. Hazel is the main character, who emerges first to sil-flay (sil-flay means to go up and graze. The rabbits have certain words for living.) followed by his brother, Fiver, who is small and feeble. He confronts Hazel that something is strange about the warren (or as he says, Not exactly danger, but oppressive, like thunder'') but quickly forgets about it. After abuse from the Owsla, or police patrol, Hazel notes that sometimes he feels like leaving, too. While sil-flaying, Fiver finds out what has been troubling him. A cigar butt and a construction zone sign. He warns Hazel that a terrible thing is coming, and sees the field covered in blood. Hazel thinks he's dotty, but agrees to see the chief rabbit about it. That's where we meet Bigwig, an Owsla officer. He reluctantly allows them in, knowing he would be busted. We learn that Fiver has had feelings before, and has been right a lot. The chief rabbit doesn't care. So the warren sneaks out at night. The Owsla brings on a surprise attack, rounding up most of the warren. Hazel, Fiver, Blackberry, Dandelion, Pipkin, and Silver escape, becoming the main group. On the way, they run into Bigwig, who announces he's left the Owsla. That's when Captain Holly of the Owsla comes to arrest them. Bigwig wounds captain Holly and he runs back to report them. The group is now on the lamb.After getting clear of the Owsla, they run into many dangers like a river and a falcon. Finally, they seek shelter in a warren of a rabbit called Cowslip. There are few rabbits, but they have a great supply of Flay-rah, or carrots, that the man throws out. That's when Fiver notes that there is something weird about the warren, and runs off. Hazel tracks him down, and Bigwig appears, and gives Fiver a piece of his mind. He runs off into a snare. The original group appears at the scene, but when Fiver goes to tell cowslip, he tells him to stop talking about it. Bigwig passes out, but soon snaps out of it. Everyone believes Fiver now. The place is snared. That is the explanation of the warren. That's when they discover Watership Down, a ''High, lonely place, where men hardly ever come to. as described in the book. They rest at nutthanger farm, where Hazel discovers does (Doughz, female rabbits). On the way, they meet captain Holly, bloody and scratched, telling them that the warren was destroyed by men. That is when the best quote come in; They just destroyed the warren because we were in their way. He then says The Efraffens wouldn't let me go. Eventualy, they make it to Watership, where they find empty burrows, and Hazel is appointed chief. That's when they meet Ke-haar, a wounded seagull. They find shelter for him. He is about the only light thing in the grim tale.After a while, Hazel worries about the warren's future. WIth no does, no kittens, (baby rabbits) and after they die, no warren. They trick Ke-haar into searching for them. When he doesn't seem to return, Hazel, Blackberry, and Dandelion go to the farm to release the does. The men catch them, and Hazel is shot in the right flank by a shotgun. That's when Art Garfunkel's Bright Eyes comes on, when Fiver searches (and finds) Hazel, barely alive. Ke-haar returns and tells them that he found Efraffa. Holly warns Hazel not to go to it. That's when we first see the life in Effrafa. See the movie to know what happens after that. See you at Watership Down!  "},{"Title":"Terrifyng anthology of semi-biblical and occult stories in cartoon form","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This odd, admirable but sinister cartoon is the predecessor of the popular but necessarily lightweight cartoon classic The Secret of NIMH. The story is a cycle-of-life fable involving a group of rabbits who abandon their warren after the Cassandra-like warning of the clairvoyant Fiver. All manner of hazards are faced as the group stake out a new home and then a new family, culminating in a truly disturbing sequences as Fiver's various premonitions come upon them as the Holocaust. Difficult stuff, given that much of the story is rendered fairly light-heartedly.Well, it must be said that the cruelty of the film is not all that new, given Disney's fine track record in emotional honesty. The rabbits are given fine voice by a first-class collective of British acting talent, notably John Hurt's Hazel and Michael Graham-Cox's Bigwig. Fiver is a particularly peculiar role and given genuine otherworldliness by Richard Briers, whose most famous voicing to date had been the cuddly fun of Rhubarb and Custard. So, medals for all the players but don't expect a seven-year-old to thank you for showing him a cartoon about bunnies... 5/10 "},{"Title":"A mediocre adaptation of a terrific novel","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Richard Adam's Watership Down is probably one of the best fantasy books that I have read, due in large part to his complex treatment of his protagonists. They were real characters- imperfect, resourceful, courageous and visionary-, and while reading the book, you almost completely forgot the fact that they where rabbits.I think that is one of the cardinal problems with Martin Rosen's film of Watership Down;we see what we see, which is a bunch of fluffy bunnies hopping around. Granted, the filmmakers tried not to soften the harsher elements of the story, and the voice acting generally was appropriate(particularly John Hurt as Hazel),but I must confess that I found the audio to be far too low-at times nearly inaudible- and the animation has unfortunately not aged well.Overall, I'm sadly disappointed with this effort. Now if Miyazaki had done Watership Down...now that could have been quite a movie. "},{"Title":"Terrible, not for kids, and IMHO a moral fail for TV for the ages","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I recall this damaging show/film airing on TV when I was around.. 6 or 7. I can think of no show in memory that I view more inappropriate for kids just based on my subjective personal experience with it at that age.Not putting this point first and foremost into perspective and the review here would miss most important point, as many have done but certainly not all. It might have been well acted and done for the time - fair. It was also terribly wrong to wrap a bunny story and sell it to unsuspecting kids - putting it in front of kids before they had the capacity to deal with the subject matter. This mistake was fail on the part of ABC and the regulators who had this responsibility at that time. Shame on them.Otherwise, I'm sure it's fine. Lots of Anime would better it, but to give it credit it did leave a hallow feeling which i think it was looking to create.Thx! ) "},{"Title":"Very good, but not substitute for the book.","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There's something I have to get out of the way in this review.  It seems to be a tradition among rather obscure movies based on books that they are rented by kids who start off on reading the source material for a book report, then give up halfway and watch the movie instead.  Well, in this case, we've got an over four-hundred and seventy-five page novel condensed to maybe two hours.  Several major details were skipped over.And if I ever make a list of books that, if you haven't ever read them, I won't know what to do with you, Richard Adam's _Watership Down_ will be well in the top ten.But I think the bigger problem I have with this film adaptation is similar to the problem another reviewer had with the recent Stuart Little movie (granted, that one had a laundry list of problems, starting with the fact that it was based on E.B. White's book in the sense that most of the characters had the same names as the ones in the book).  When you read the book, the title character, a mouse raised by humans, comes across as more noble and dignified than any of the human characters.  He becomes larger than life, so to speak.  But in the visual medium, well, we can't help but be constantly reminded of how *tiny* our hero is.Something similar happens in Watership Down.  Reading the book, you quickly forget almost entirely about the characters' physical forms.  You are only aware that they are as intelligent as they are vulnerable, and their quest becomes just as compelling as any human adventure.In the movie, you've got a bunch of talking bunnies hopping about.With all that said, I must say that I am nonetheless pleased with this movie.  The animation is reasonably good (it's not great, but it could have been much worse), and the characters sound and look very much as I'd imagined.  The prologue alone is worth a rental for it's unique visual style.But here's a HUGE warning, for the parents out there.  This is NOT a movie for children.  Yes, it's animated.  Yes, it's got talking animals in it. Yes, well, so did Mononoke Hime.  As a matter of fact, Watership Down has also got a LOT of blood in it.  And fangs.  And claws.  And death.  And for that I am very proud of the producers.  They could have shied away from the considerable violence in the book, made it all about cute little bunnies, and they didn't.  If junior had a hard time with, say, the Lion King, you'd have to be insane to let him meet General Woundwort and entourage.So this is an unusual enough animation that I can recommend giving it a look.  Just consider it as a supplement to the novel and not a replacement. "},{"Title":"Watch at your own risk","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I watched about 1/2 of this movie and it horrified me for about four months. I just was scared for life watching this awful movie. Although yes the movie has a great concept to it, but you can get your opinion across without seeing a field turn to blood or watching as a dog horrifically rips a rabbits throat open or watch as a rabbit gets choked to death and has blood spilling from his neck and mouth. If you have young children I do not recommend watching it. As a child I scared me. So if you don't want your child worrying about being buried alive. Do not get fooled buy the rating G I would probably rate it PG-13. Beware. "},{"Title":"Violent reality makes it very good for children but weaknesses limit its appeal to adults","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When one of the rabbits has a vision of blood spreading across the land, a group led by the strong Bigwig. As they seek refuge from the indifferent approaching hand of man, they encounter all manner of characters and adventures on their way to the freedom and safety that they believe is surely only a matter of distance or time.It has been decades since I watched this film as a child, which is a bit depressing since it only seems like yesterday that I couldn't say decades about anything. Anyway, enough about my aging crisis and more about this film, which is a strange mix of good and bad. For the majority it is good and features the sort of violent realism and loss that I fully support confronting children with; rather this than the sort of sanitised animals that we've been seeing in various big budget Hollywood animations in cinemas recently. The loss of characters is a good thing but such events are not the same as depth in characters, which sadly is not really evident to the same degree. This makes the story nothing more than a series of events &#150; which is fine for children but left me a bit bored I'm sad to say.The animation is a mix as well. For the majority it is fairly basic and dated however at times there are wonderful moments of imagination and style that stick in the mind. I'm not sure who directed what bit so I can't comment on the direction of the film but for the most part it settles with obvious setup and camera movements. A professional (proper) reviewer said that the voice work was like a radio play and I'm very happy to steal that sentiment and have it echo my own because the voice work is yet again a strange mix. On one level it sounds fine but then it doesn't actually work with the animation that well and it does feel like the sound and pictures exist as two separate entities. It is hard to discount the likes of Hurt, Briers, Elliott and others but for all their ability their performances are good despite the film, not with or because of it. And in case anyone in wondering, Mostel is sh1t.Overall then, the strengths in this film make it great for kids despite the dated animation. However the lack of depth in the characters and the problems with the delivery mean that adults will not take too much from it aside from what nostalgia allows. Still a solid cartoon though. "},{"Title":"I have seen this film and it disturbed me greatly","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When I was young I was sat down in front of a cartoon which had me crying. It wasn't pleasant.  The recent cartoon series didn't have to same effect because to story wasn't quite as dark and the animation was more child friendly. Even now though I can't see clips of it without crying, I don't dispute that it is well animated and a good story but it's only got a U rating and that's just wrong.  DON'T LET CHILDREN WATCH THIS! "}{"Title":"Traumatizing for children!","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When I was in the 2nd grade (1993), a teacher was stupid enough to show us a cartoon about rabbits (I guess it seemed harmless to the teacher). But when I saw it, it traumatized me, it seemed as if the person who made this movie liked blood and showing rabbits dying, (that's how it seemed when I was little). I didn't know the name of the movie or anything, but for almost 10 years I remembered seeing a cartoon about rabbits and blood. Two days ago, I finally tracked down the movie that freaked me out, and I rented it. I didn't remember too much of the movie, but the parts I remembered were there, (the scene where Bigwig gets caught in the snare seemed totally different though... I remember his leg getting caught in a Bear trap, and I remember a lot more blood, but I was a little kid at the time), the bloodiest parts were near the end, and overall, it wasn't as bloody and traumatizing as I remember. In fact, the movie was pretty boring, but I was in 2nd grade the first time so... DON'T LET LITTLE KIDS WATCH WATERSHIP DOWN!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"not to my liking","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 'Watership Down' is an animated film about rabbits who seek a new place to avoid life's hardships and the enemies of the rabbits (natural predators of rabbits). 'Watership Down' is a graphic and a sad film, but I think that you need to be a child to really appreciate this film and for the film to make an impact. The animation is graphic for a children's film, but this probably makes it memorable.I never saw this film as a child; I have only seen it as an adult. I was not impressed, and I thought that the story was a little bit slow, and I did not think that it was sad. I have heard a lot of good things about this film, but I think I would have appreciated it much more if I watched it as a child, and it probably has a nastalgic feel to it too. Overall, I was not impressed, but I could see where children may like it. "},{"Title":"Terrible horrifying film","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am shocked that so many people seem to think this is a great film. It was horrifying for me as an adult and I would consider it child abuse to show this film to a child. I'm sure it would give a child nightmares. I could barely believe what I was seeing was intended for a child audience. The blood and violence in Watership Down is way beyond the shock of Bambi's death in the comparatively sweet innocent Disney film that I recall from my own childhood. I was so overwhelmed by the multiple evil characters in this film who are out to kill and control the other animals that I felt like I was watching an animal Holocaust.I wanted to turn this film off every few minutes but I forced myself to keep watching, just to see how they could possibly end this dreadful nightmare. The alleged political allegory and relevance to humanity did not compensate for the sheer horror and stress I felt watching this film. I'm still in shock as I write this review. My advice to parents is DO NOT let your child watch this film. If you do, be prepared for a strong psychological impact either during or after the film and accept full responsibility for traumatizing your child.... "},{"Title":"Greatest animation film of all time","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I've given Watership Down one star as there's no sense in preaching to the converted. I took my 7 year old son to see it when it first appeared and we both wept our eyes out. Seeing it just now, 21 years later, I was so choked with emotion that I could barely breathe - and I'm male and don't often cry in films. Yes, it has moments of truthful violence, but they are never gratuitous, and none of my 3 children - who all saw the film around the age of 6 or 7 - suffered nightmares from it. I cannot think of another mainstream animation film that is even close - Disney and Pixar are light years behind when it comes complex story, characters, and - frankly - brilliant animation. As for the music.... So do yourselves and your children an immense, unforgettable favour and get this film on DVD! "},{"Title":"Not very good at all.","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"11 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" OK, I know that a lot of people will probably resent this review as Watership Down is a classic and a standard part of most people's childhood, but seeing this film for the first time at the tender age of 18, I must admit I really hated it.We watched this film because my sister had read the book and really enjoyed it, and many people who whimpered at the very words Watership Down- their memories of seeing the film as children and having their emotions torn at the seams- recommended it. To be honest, I wish I hadn't bothered. I gave it the benefit of the doubt; generally I don't like to stop watching a film half way through. This was an exception. It was really, really, excruciatingly, sickeningly dull. This film was possibly the slowest thing I've ever watched (imagine a doped-up snail in space), and really didn't do it for me. The art was alright; the backgrounds were nicely made if not a little bland and twee, yet the rabbits themselves were not very endearing and the animation was quite jumpy and poorly produced.I'm not going to go into huge details about the storyline; basically it is the tale of a group of rabbits who leave their warren due to the infiltration of humans in the area. Generally a moralistic story about the perils of human interactions on the environment, it uses anthropomorphic rabbits to put the message across. For me, I kind of wished that they would get gassed, not because I'm a horrible sadistic person, but because the characters were uninspiring, annoying, dull and generally quite rude (oh I'm so terribly English). I found that I was constantly looking at the clock whilst watching the film, and it took a whole 20 minutes or so before anything actually happened, and even that was a terrible anticlimax.If I were to praise it in any way, I'd have to admit that the concept of showing children the perils of building on the countryside and hopefully unveiling the arrogance of humans etc etc is quite well-meaning. Maybe it is all in general sanctimonious and preachy, but the message it's trying to put forth is good in its nature. The musical score was not bad, too.So, to conclude, this film is pretty poor. I couldn't watch it the whole way through, or I'd probably be forced to eat my own legs in sheer boredom. Granted, it isn't Torque bad, but it still doesn't rate highly in my eyes, so I've given it a 2/10.Hope this helps. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie Watership Down","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am a 13 year old guy, and this is by far my favorite movie. i like the gore, i like the dark story, i like the rabbits, i like the dang movie altogether. i still don't get how this is a freaking G movie for kids. ,Blood, gore, birds saying PISS OFF!, its just a freaking awesome movie. if rated 1-10, id give it a like, 47. i applaud the director. i believe they should make Tales from water ship down into a movie, also. maybe they should make a trilogy. My favorite part of the movie is when they meet Cowslip and Bigwig gets Strangled, and when The efrafans get massacred by the dog, being torn to shreds and tossed around like rag-dolls. "},{"Title":"What kind of movie is is this?!!","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Firstly, I am not easily scared by... Anything except for my few phobias, but this movie is absolutely horrific. This is not appropriate for children at all! I had my mouth open the whole time it just shocked me I. Couldn't believe how gory it was for a children's movie, bunnies being brutally murdered! It's just unnecessary to be so horrifying and be rated G. I recommend being over 8 to see this. But don't get me wrong, it was probably a good movie if I wasn't scarred mentally as a child. I cannot believe a parent would allow a, let's say, 4 year old child to watch this. It's just to intense and complicated, not to forget gory, for young kids. I'm wayy over 4 and I was shocked by the violence. I don't recommend "},{"Title":"not sure how to feel about this film","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I almost feel bad giving this movie a six because maybe I am just dumb and not getting the point of this movie. I guess the fact that I have seen so much anime makes this movie not that profound. Just briefly scanning the comment on the main page the commenter says that this is one of the first deviation for an animated film from the standard Disney formula. But this is very similar to a lot of Japan's films I have seen and it is very possible that this movie influenced them, but I don't think so. I have just decided I like the creation story aspect of this movie because it created a perspective for the rabbits and their society. I never really liked how the spiritual world actually interacted with their world in a real way instead of keeping it strictly spiritual. That may be part of the movie, but me being an atheist that is how I feel. I saw a lot of the comments being made in the movie, but some of them were made in some of the classic Disney film, but maybe not as much in your face like this movie. This movie does feel aged, but I did enjoy seeing simple animation instead of all of the special effects. I liked the animation for the creation sequence a lot and the mat paintings were a little simplistic. Disney definitely did that better. Overall I do not think that this movie aged well, but it was not horrible, but not great. "},{"Title":"Scared The Sass Pants Off Of Me","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie as a very young girl (I'm 27 now) and it scared me witless for years. I had nightmares about every aspect of this film from the way it was drawn to the music to (obviously) the violence. My parents still argue about who allowed me to watch it and both of them say that they would never let me watch such a movie. I think they only say that knowing that I have such strong feelings about it ;0) I am currently reading the book (out of morbid curiosity and the fact that it's a classic) and it is really a great story. However I don't think that it should have been made into a cartoon. Ever. Well, maybe kids nowadays would find it quaint but it gave me nightmares for weeks and weeks and I still have a hard time seeing rabbits drawn in a similar way. Gives me a little heart palpitation every time. Yah I am a wuss but I strongly suggest that any parent looking to show this movie to their kids, read them the book instead or watch it first to make certain that they approve of the content. Not everyone finds it as disturbing as I did but we are out there ;0) "},{"Title":"Do not expect this to lack blood and desperate violence.","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Probable reasons why so many people on this site have enjoyed this1. They might not have read the book. 2. They might enjoy gore and violence in a film. 3. They might be very young and therefore not understand the violence. 4. People might not understand how somehow more scary and more violent it is compared to the original book. 5. There are sure to be many other reasons not covered here.The only thing I liked about this film is the song 'Bright Eyes.If perchance, you happen to be one of those people who has read the book, enjoys calm and peaceful films without violence and are quite old and understand scariness and violence, you are sure not to like this. Otherwise you will almost definitely enjoy this.Like in the book, a rabbit called Fiver in an unsuspecting warren warns of terrible danger to come. Only a few rabbits - including his brother Hazel - believe him and they set out on a dangerous journey to find a new place to live... "}{"Title":"Do not let your children watch this movie!","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" THIS IS NOT A CHILDREN'S MOVIE!!!This movie is like a bad acid trip for kids under the age of 5. For a month my 4 year old from time-to-time would ask me Why was that rabbit bleeding from its mouth or Why did the bulldozer bury all the rabbits?. (And that wasn't the worst of it). We stopped it about a 1/2 hour in but the damage had been done. Intensely morbid, oppressive, violent. Fortunately he's finally forgotten about the whole wretched thing. Whomever decided this movie should be marketed to children should be brought up on charges. ... (Go ahead censure me, my conscience is clear.). "},{"Title":"Watership Down","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Many people consider this animated film about the life of some on-the-move rabbits a sad film, but to be honest I didn't cry. Basically Hazel (voiced by John Hurt) and Fiver (voice by Richard Briers) are convinced that something bad is going to happen to their burrow. So they round up many other rabbits and set of on a journey to find a bigger and better land to live in. One or two rabbits, including Hazel kind of dies, but they do find this land. It's just a problem that the evil General already runs the show their. They are now in a small war with the bad rabbits for the land. Also starring the voice of Indiana Jones's Denholm Elliott as Cowslip. The theme song Bright Eyes by Art Garfunkel spent at least four to six weeks at number 1. It was number 15 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for Hazel's Death, it was number 44 on The 100 Greatest Family Films, and it number 86 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons. Good! "}]