[{"Title":"I think it's quite a good sequel.","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  A lot of people don't like this picture, but, I think it works. It is helmed by a strong cast of principle performers and carried off by a unique twist on the sequel impetus.  The idea is fairly original, as opposed to the usual for this story, one would normally expect they'd just focus on another group of survivors and how they get out.  Instead of dealing with people wanting to get out, the plot is spurred on by people wanting to get IN.  Then, ironically, they become trapped and become the people who have to get out, along with some of those aforementioned survivors to keep with tradition.  I also have to give the film credit for that little bits of continuity, like Linda's body is still lying near the entrance of the ship the crew uses, the same hole the original movie's survivors escaped from.  In the end, the movie isn't as bad as it is often called. "},{"Title":"Go back. Go...beyond.","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Since the original Poseidon Adventure raked in so much dough, Irwin Allen wanted to get a sequel off the ground right away. It would eventually take him 7 years to get it made and in that space of time it would go through many changes.To begin with, Beyond the Poseidon Adventure was to star Borgnine, Buttons and the rest of the survivors. After being rescued by the French Coast Guard they were to be transported to safety by train through the French Alps. A tunnel cave-in was to trap them all over again amid other, more sinister, drama.That idea was soon squashed. Hackman didn't want to return (as Reverend Scott's brother!) and even though poster art was created (you can still find the train/gun image out there), that's about as far as production got. Allen focused on making other movies for the time being. Then, in 1978 he asked Paul Gallico to write a sequel. Gallico obliged but died before Beyond was published. His novel had Rogo, Martin and Manny Rosen being forced at gunpoint to return to the ship to plunder its secret cargo. Bandits, pirates, double-crosses and macabre plot developments followed.Unable to convince Borgnine and the others to return at this point, Allen changed the story to accommodate a bunch of new characters. This Mike Rogo became Mike Turner (Michael Caine) and Bandits and Pirates became Stefan Svevo (Television Savalas) and his group of terrorists.Beginning just before the storm in which the Poseidon capsized, Turner and his crew (Sally Field and Karl Malden) are out in Jenny the Tugboat. Turner loses his cargo and worries about the bank taking his precious boat away. New Years Day arrives and the sea is calm once again. Turner sees the French Coast Guard chopper buzzing overhead and figures there must be something interesting over the horizon.Interesting indeed. An abandoned 5-star, world-class super-liner designed to carry hundreds of wealthy passengers. There's sure to be riches to plunder and a quick trip down to the Purser's Office (the idiot who chose to die in the first) might save Jenny from the banks greedy hands.'Doctor' Stefan Svevo (trying saying that while drunk) and his group of suspicious men dressed in impeccably white clothes follow Turner inside, hoping to save some remaining survivors. Yeah right! Svevo just happens to be after a secret cargo of guns and plutonium and has an agent still stuck on-board.Turner and his crew find the Purser's safe quite easy and load up on the loot. But they also find a bunch of stranded passengers including a very young-looking Peter Boyle, Slim Pickens, Mark Harmon and Jack Warden as a blind writer. His quick trip to pinch the riches turns into the much more noble task of leading the rest to safety. But once they discover Svevo's plot a fight breaks out.I think that BTPA has had an unfair amount of criticism. Until the 2006 DVD release the film suffered 27 years of pan and scan TV screenings and videos, which completely screws up the scope photography. Seeing the film in widescreen, as intended, gives it a much slicker look. But I wasn't too impressed with the set-decoration and lighting. The Poseidon was already trashed and unstable before the first survivors escaped. By now it should be seriously threatening to sink or explode and the sets should reflect how much stress the ship is under. But they do look too spotless and the lighting is too bright and un-atmospheric. And, just so you know, a ship of this size would have more than one kitchen. So moans about it 'already being flooded' are invalid.And I do think that the ending is kind of abrupt and rushed. It was a bit of a let-down having finish with such a lame, flippant finale. And, despite, previous criticisms, I do think that the characters are just as good as before. I felt sorry for Jack Warden when his wife died, or when Michael Caine realised that he lost the gold. Wilbur (Karl Malden) was a good character too and I think that his exit from the film was less than what he deserved. There is also more continuity with the original than the negative reviews proclaim. So don't let that put you off.It's had a bad reputation, but BTPA isn't as bad as pretentious movie zealots would have you think. If you are a fan of the original then it is at least worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Obviously inferior, but fun in a bad way!","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This horrifyingly bad and automatically inferior sequel to The Poseidon Adventure came and went in theaters so quickly that one could be forgiven for not even realizing that it ever existed! The real victim here was Paul Gallico, the author of the original story. When PA was made into a film, the writers changed several things around (as often happens). When plans of a sequel came about, Gallico wrote the sequel to the novel based NOT on his own great little book, but on the FILM's storyline. Then the filmmakers discarded his novel Beyond the Poseidon Adventure and went with the version found here. So he adjusted his characters and story to fit Hollywood's version, only to have it abandoned in favor of this rehash. In it, two disparate groups join up to either salvage loot from the overturned vessel or rescue any leftover survivors. Instantly they are trapped as the boat belches and rocks continuously, yet they stay inside to find salvage, linger over conversations with newly discovered passengers and finally run around shooting at each other! The inexplicable cleanliness of the sets and utter illogic of the storyline pale in comparison to the hilariously bad dialogue and the banal music score. Previous, greater disaster movies had majestic scores done by excellent composers. This music has no memorable opening theme and features inappropriate and discordant music during scenes (often a whimsical Flight of the Bumblebee type of thing is heard.) Some of the dialogue has to be heard to be believed. One classic scene is when Knight dislocates her shoulder after grappling to save her blind husband Warden. Award-magnet Knight does a terrific job of displaying her injury and is carried over to a corner and revived realistically with smelling salts. Then purportedly-kind nurse Jones reveals an utter lack of bedside manner. Does she resort to the standard You'll only feel a slight prick or This won't hurt a bit??? Nooooo She grabs Ms. Knight's arm and goes, This is going to hurt a great deal Mrs. Meredith, I'm so sorry! Apparently, the violence of this scene was so intense that it had to be filmed through debris (fully obscuring Jones' face!) so as not to shock the audience! The characters are unwaveringly pathetic and annoying (and in many cases, just thinly disguised versions of folks from the original film.) Boyle is mercilessly loud and obnoxious, taking Ernest Borgnine's type to a new level of irritation. Cartwright is a little old to be playing the little girl sort of role that Pamela Sue Martin already did. Her costume makes her look like a frump. Pickens is hilarious, drawling out lines like, Who's Svevo? As a matter of fact, who's Suzanne? in a thick Texas accent. Jones' character is a drippy nurse and has to dredge up her own long-ago award just like Shelley Winters' swimming medal, to no good effect. Warden and Malden vie for audience sympathy with their afflictions, but don't get any. Field rubs immediate tarnish on her Oscar for Norma Rae with her over-the-top, Three's Company - level comedic attempts and Caine should have known better, but this was his period of making bomb after bomb. Still, it's fun on a camp level to watch once and future Oscar-winners slumming badly. Hamel, for the brief time she is on screen, is both alluring and amusing. Sadly, this and When Time Ran Out would slam the lid on any hopes of a film career, but she rebounded on television. Knight adds some much needed class, desperately trying to underact and say her lines with dignity amidst all the squalid overacting and preposterous situations. She is done no favors for this. Sadly, the old VHS and now the newly released DVD shear 8 minutes off the film's running time, cutting a lot of Warden, Knight and Jones' scenes, even removing the fact that Warden and Knight are authors! These were sentimental moments between all three and must have been spliced out in order to keep the action, such as it is, moving. It's a pointless, grave-robbing hack job intended to wring more money out of the classic original, but which sank like a stone at the box office. At least now it can be enjoyed for the audacious mess that it is! "},{"Title":"Return to the Poseidon","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Beyond the Poseidon Adventure is the follow -up to The Poseidon Adventure and I enjoyed watching this, despite reading bad reviews.Two rival parties board the upturned wreck of the Poseidon and rescue more people and also go looting after some gold and plutonium. They go their own ways and a motley collection of people are found including a blind man and his wife, the ship's nurse, a drunk and a father, daughter and her boyfriend. After several deaths, they manage to escape just before Poseidon explodes and sinks, taking with it the party who went for the plutonium.Although not as good as The Poseidon Adventure, this sequel isn't too bad with decent special effects.A good cast too Michael Caine (Zulu, The Italian Job), Telly Savalas (Kojak), Karl Malden (The Streets Of San Francisco), Sally Field (Mrs Doubtfire), Anglea Cartwright (Lost In Space, reuniting her with director Irwin Allen), Peter Boyle and Slim Pickens.If you like 1970's disaster movies and Michael Caine like myself, I recommend this.Rating 3 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"My favorite disaster/adventure movie ever!","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" How many movies get the chance of being made by the extraordinary,proficient,astonishing Allen and/or having Caine,Mrs. Field,Savallas,Shirley Jones in the cast?Caine's role,in itself,is a jewel;he just fits in.He is energetic, lucid,sharp, intelligent,manly,as fit as a fiddle.Caine knows how to make a super-action flick,without needing to be Willis or Ford.He should be very proud of his role in Beyond ....For me,this is one of the most cherished Caine shows.(Caine is himself a cinema,he did an incredible number of good flicks.)Mrs. Field is enchanting,natural, inventive, fresh, luminous, spontaneous,funny,resourceful.(How do I miss an actress like her when I see that imbecile girls in so many cheap-looking shows!With few exceptions,such as Miss Rachel Luttrell,Miss Torri Higginson,or Mrs. Blalock,did you notice how many imbecile-looking girls crowd to fill the sets of the shows?)The action does not stagnate for a moment.Savallas got his bigger/better roles elsewhere;but the villain he does here is,as such,memorable and a landmark for the genre.He coins a comic strip villain.(I mean,Nero in Die Hard 2 ,Alan Rickman in Die Hard ,are zero compared to Savallas in Beyond ....)The colors of this movie are delightful.And how many shows offer so much fun?For me,only the first two episodes of Stargate Atlantis (Rising (Part 1)&Rising (Part 2)).Many people,who commented Beyond ...,have expressed a lot of reserves and reticence,about various things;I think they were unjust,and way too exacting.Between 56 and 64 years,Allen made (i.e,directed and/or produced) several disaster moviesthe diptych The Poseidon Adventure ,1972,and The Towering Inferno ,1974&#151;for the movie theaters;then, another diptych&#151;for TV this time Flood! ,1976,and Fire! ,1977;then a trilogy,for the big screen again The Swarm ,1978, Beyond the Poseidon Adventure ,1979, When Time Ran Out... ,1980&#151;an activity that was ambitious and often successful.In '80,Allen was 64 years old.In his disaster movies that he made during the '70s,Allen uses the entire palette of the genre.His main merit is,of course,that of creating a very pure form of adventure movies.During '72-'80, The Master of Disaster also found time for some important TV work.So,he was for disaster,he was for Sci-Fi,sometimes he was for both of them&#151;and always for fancy,adventure and fun. Fortunately ,he had the opportunity to develop fully his thoughts and to express himself plenary.Some fans complain that The Master of Disaster's work was uneven,unequal;anyway,his best films are matchless in their genre.The man made at least 9 remarkable feature movies (of which some 6 are very good&#151;the 5 feature films made between '72 and '80,and also Five Weeks in a Balloon ,1962;but the movies from '59-'61 are worth watching as well &#133;),several interesting TV movies (in the '70s and '80s),and also several TV series and/or miniseries.I do not know any other director to be able of such a continuity in a couple of genres (the disaster/adventures,and Sci-Fi). "},{"Title":"What a good sequel!","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This film ranks up there with Psycho II as being one of the greatest sequel ever made! Irwin Allen returns to the setting of his first major picture to create one of his last. Irwin Allen ignored all the aspects of the novel that was written for him, and comes up with a storyline that far surpasses the novel. Watching an all-American film from a British Citizen's point of view is always exiting, normally i would laugh at a character like Tex but in this, it works surprisingly well! Micheal Caine is an inspired choice as a salvage captain. I was a bit unsure of Sally Field's character at first but as the film went on her character added so mush to the story. Telly Savalas, what can i say? This man is a legend! Ever since i first saw him as Blofeld in On Her Majesty's Secret Service he was the ultimate villain and in this he doesn't disappoint. A lot of the supporting cast are quite memorable too..Slim Pickens as Tex, Peter Boyle who i did get a bit bored of all we seemed to hear was where's my daughter? which got a bit annoying after a while.This film does have it's faults, why is still afloat with a hole in the bottom, and most of all WHY THE HELL DOES THE DAMN BOAT EXPLODE AT THE END?? Overall Fantastic effort, no way would this ever surpass the original but it's racing in at its heels. "},{"Title":"So bad, this is good!!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I haven't seen a film try to be so serious, yet I mistook it for a comedy. The performances were hilarious, the dialogue was awful, and for the life of me, I don't remember the music, so THAT must have been really bad!! LOL. Another one of those great Irwin Allen films that are filled with hammy actors and bad special effects--but what a fun time to watch!! "},{"Title":"Not quite as bad as everyone says","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  While there was so much that is awful about this, I did still enjoy it. The Poseidon Adventure was one of the best films ever made, but you're better off, watching this never having seen it, as much of the original plot is ignored here, like certain areas that flooded are now clear. Why did the original escapees not stumble across anyone at all in the final third while escaping?Granted, almost every character is annoying at some (most) parts and also incredibly cliched, with every tipe of person being portrayed. Why can't people in these situations ever just all get on with each other?The idea of a sequel could've been excellent. You can't help but wonder what happens after people escape these disasters and the concept of a boat stumbling across the ship & salvaging what they can is not an unrealistic one, so this could have been better. It was ruined for me by having 'guns' as any part of the plot at all. It's ridiculous really to have escaped a sinking liner only to be shot by a villain moments from safety. By all means have 2 groups competing over the salvage, but shooting each other? Telly Savalas escaped a little too easily for me too.Otherwise, still enjoyable, if you don't get too involved in the characters.A low 6/10  "},{"Title":"Every Single Cast Member Is Outstanding!","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Every Single Cast Member Is Outstanding. How often can one say that about a Disaster movie, or any movie?The original Poseidon Adventure and Beyond/Poseidon are both four star movies that both just miss out on being five star movies because of one little problem. The original pushed The Church too much and Beyond/Poseidon has a feeling of being just a bit pointless.I have watched the 1979 film about 25 times on video. The way the characters/actors react to each other and the very memorable lines they come out with are all wonderful. Sally Field brings incredible humour to simple every day terms like, Oh brother, or are you going to kiss me now?, and despite her public comments on how much she hated the movie and disliked Irwin Allen, this stands out as the best of Sally Field, to me.Michael Caine recently said on a British talk show that, Irwin Allen's The Swarm was the worst movie I have done. So I guess Beyond/Poseidon is not too high on his list. I don't care. The way his character takes command of this disaster movie and his encounters with Telly Savalas (this was also my favourite Savalas show) and Sally Field are nothing short of great entertainment.You can tell that Irwin Allen directed this film, why? The endless explosions. Since the 1965-1966 TV season of Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea, Irwin has made it clear to his staff that explosions are needed in his shows. The Poseidon explosions, both inside and outside the ship, look great on film, as always. When Irwin told the media about this film he said it is time to go back to the sea, maybe this film was another Voyage/Sea to Irwin?I could do another 20 quotes from the other players. This movie had an okay musical score which picked up as the end credits started. Those end credits were important to me. After this movie, Irwin Allen produced some very average television, but this was the last great Irwin Allen feature film (When Time Ran Out was average), so that closing music was almost saying Goodbye to Irwin. Irwin left this world in 1991 but his work lives on. "},{"Title":"Unanimous on this one","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  All the other opinions are correct on this one.  I still have 'Beyond the P.A.' on tape, too!  I can't believe someone else noticed the ludicrous music. 'Beyond' suffered from Shelly Winters sacrifice in the first one.  Shirley Knight, Karl Malden, Peter Boyle all had to die heroically, so to speak, but I still don't know what Malden did to die.  He just...swam away? shirley Knight stood as the one true bright spot, doing the best she could with what she had.  She is probably the one seen least of all as well, as she died first. I have always considered Caine in this one and his work in 'Swarm' and 'Jaws 4' to be the Bermuda Triangle of his bad performances.  His screaming at Veronica Hamel to remove her dress to make a dangerous jump is laughable, as was other attempts at over-seriousness, such as Shirley JOnes getting Jack Warden to want to live after Knight's death, Caine weeps over Ms. Knight (like Hackman did over Winters in the first one).  You can bank on when Caine is onscreen, he will be unbearable. I especially liked the change from hotpants in the first movie to hip-huggers in the second. And Veronica Hamel taking the henchman out with the axe after she had been shot was cool also.  Pity she didn't make it.We did laugh, however, at Slim Pickens line Who the devil is Suevo (Savalas' character)? For that matter, who the devil is Suzanne (Hamel)? Note of Interest, to anyone who does watch this observe when Knight's arm is hurt trying to help the blind Jack Warden.  Watch what the others are doing. Malden, Mark Harmon, they are playing with the cane?  Later, when she drowns, watch everyone else go up the ladder ahead of the injured woman who must hold on with one hand and is in alot of pain. There is an explosion scene where we see everyone scramble like rats that I have always noticed, namely for the way once again, the women like Angela Cartwright and Shirley Knight must fend for themselves.  Haven't watched it in a while.    "}{"Title":"The Adventure is not quite over!!","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Irwin Allen's production of Beyond the Poseidon Adventure was very exciting to watch. It was always intended for Irwin Allen to make the sequel, but some delays caused it to be shelved for seven years. Micheal Caine acted for Allen for the second time giving the same tempered performance as he did with Allen the previous year in The Swarm. He plays a scrapper and with Karl Malden and Sally Feild who discover the Poseidon still floating upside down and decide to go in her. From the moment they get in there the action and thrills never stop. Then as in the first film they realize they have to get out again and go through the ship as the the survivors did in the first Poseidon Adventure. Allen also directed this action packed sequel. "},{"Title":"Beyond Poseiden","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Wow. I must be the only person who loves this movie. Maybe it is the context. I saw both the original Poseiden Adventure and Beyond Poseiden when I was a kid in the 70s. They were on TV so I was maybe 7...9? Anyway, perhaps the people who do not like Beyond Poseiden took the first movie too seriously. Illogical plot? Well.... Inconsistent with the first movie? Well why do a preacher and a retired cop know more about there being no more survivors than the salvage guy who comes by a few hours later? I just figured the conclusions the first gang came up to were just wrong.Meanwhile Beyond Poseiden has just as many, if not more stars, shows us more cool areas of the ship, and is more adventurous! "},{"Title":"the plot is  thinner than shaved ham,but the movie is actually quite fun","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" it took awhile for me to get into this movie.but somewhere along the line,i actually started to enjoy myself.once you get around the wafer thin plot,it's not half bad.the trick with this movie is to not take it too seriously.for instance,as soon as the bad guys show up,you know they're bad long before they reveal their intentions.the only other thing they could have done to telegraph they were bad would have been to have been for them each to have a neon sign over their heads saying villain.it's that absurd.and there's some cringe worthy dialogue.however,the are some very witty one liners mostly courtesy of Sally Field,and their was an interesting,and(mostly)likable mix of characters.there were actually even a few exciting moments.of course,there are endless explosions.this movie doesn't hold a candle to the original Poseidon Adventure.it was actually fairly pointless,when you think about.but it was fun,and actually quite entertaining.for me,Beyond the Poseidon adventure is a solid 5/10 "},{"Title":"A Great Film!","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is a fantastic film, and i would recommend it to anyone. Granted its not as good as the 'The Poseidon Adventure', but then again sequels rarely are! Looking through some of the past comments, people are mainly complaining that the characters in this film are replicating the characters of the original...they are but do you know why? because the original had one of every type of person in there! The plots is original, 2 salvage teams going back into the sinking ship for loot. People are saying 'bad acting', well were you watching the same movie as me? I thought they were all very good. I've seen lots of criticisms of Slim Pickins acting in this movie...but the whole point of him being quiet and talking about wine all the time was because he was trying to avoid being uncovered as a fraud.Telly Savalas...what can i say? i have yet to see an actor or actress who can play a villain to the degree of him! After seeing him as Blofeld in James Bond...this was better...much better...his delivery of line is just so convincing...its a shame hes no longer with us.To Sum up...Fantastic film...good plot...and good acting. If you like the original watch this, it is very good and enjoyable.IRWIN ALLEN MOVIES RULE! "},{"Title":"A remarkable find that disappoints when you think or hope what it could have been","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The Poseidon Adventure is one of the greatest films I had ever seen and I didn't see it at all until recently so imagine my shock and near excitement when I discovered that a sequel had been made. I mean typically speaking this is not the type of film that would have a sequel so I thought it would be gutsy of them to try and make one and whether or not it would make any sense to the original. Remarkably co-creator and producer decided to helm the sequel, Mr. Irwin Allen who of course was no stranger to epic disaster flicks or action films but I think part of the problem with this sequel was that it was rushed. That being said...the concept of the film is actually quite brilliant!! The film takes place DURING the storm that capsizes the Poseidon on a small fishing boat nearby. When the Captain spots a rescue helicopter (presumably the same one carrying Poseidon Survivors from the original) he realizes a ship must be in trouble and therefore available for salvage. Enter a cast of characters including a fake medical team desperately seeking a bomb aboard the capsized ship, and several survivors left behind inside the ship.Part of the problem is the enormous cast and lack of character arc to any of them. The original had a big cast but the characters were so brilliantly written and you became completely enthralled with each one of them and that can't happen with the sequel despite some good actors. Michael Caine, now a legend of course, plays Captain Mike Turner. He is determined, stubborn, a little mean but at heart a hero wanting to save everyone. He desperately attempts to channel a little Gene Hackman but character is mostly vapid. However out of everyone he probably has the best character and does a decent job with what he is given. Sally Field plays young and eager Celeste Whitman and she almost becomes endearing but mostly you find her annoying. The romance between her and the Captain is forced and never really takes off and the chemistry between her and Caine is average at best. Telly Savalas is downright boring as the fake Doctor who wants to recover his package from inside the hull. Savalas looks menacing enough...I mean he's Telly Savalas but he's just far too together and average and calm to ever be anything great in this film. Peter Boyle is Frank Mazzetti who is trying his best to channel the great Ernest Borgnine's character from the original. Mazzetti is desperate to find his daughter whom they shockingly find very quickly into the film. Boyle and Caine don't have near the chemistry that existed between Hackman and Borgnine's characters but they try. Jack Warden and Shirley Knight are the elderly couple, Shirley Jones as the nurse, Slim Pickens as the faux rich oil baron, Angela Cartwright as the daughter of Mazzetti and Mark Harmon as her savior and newfound love. All these cast members and they are all...every last one of them average at best. You don't get to know or care about any of them and if anything happens to any of them you just don't care.The plot although wrought with different action scenes including a gun fight, a murder, and water pouring in and repeated explosions from the ship much like the first one keeps the action going at a watchable pace. The film is god-awful but it is made for TV content on a movie budget with a rushed script and no thought to making sure at least a small portion of the original magic existed. I give them kudos for coming up with a sequel to a disaster film...especially the Granddaddy of them all but this one falls flat because of some major errors in judgment. Still if you love the original like I did it's not a bad trip back to the doomed boat. It was better than the Made For TV remake of the original!! 6/10 "},{"Title":"Sequel of  famous film with a sensational although wasted casting","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This formula disaster movie from Irwin Allen (Towering inferno) concerns about the famous ship , previously winner of numerous Oscars and some former footage is sprinkled into the opening sequence . Later wreckage Poseidon during New year's eve , when a tidal wave overturns it , now Michael Caine is the captain of a crew (Sally Field,Karl Malden) which race each other commanded by Telly Savallas for obtaining reward and loot . After sea tragedy Poseidon centering on survivors from liner passenger and the rescuers of the shipboard .This mediocre sequel blends action , intrigue , gunshots , disaster spectacle , suspense and emotional byplay with romance included . Our heroes get stuck in the ship before it sinks . The protagonists spend most of their time devising grisly ways for avoid to die like the first part . The picture isn't bad but deeds better and more spectacularly filmed in ¨The Poseidon adventure¨ . The explosion , pyrotechnics , floods are spectacular but the film is just another usual Hollywood product . Succeeds only in wasting various talented actors , an all-star-cast formed by Michael Caine in a similar role Gene Hackman-alike , Jack Warden as a blind passenger , Slim Pickens as a habitual role , Peter Boyle as a zealous father of his daughter Angela Cartwhright enamored by Mark Harmon , besides appears Veronica Hamel , Shirley Knight , Shirley Jones...Lively score musical by Jerry Fielding and colorful cinematography by Joseph Biroc . It's an Irwin Allen's rehash of former disaster movie clichés that even the splendid casting cannot save . The picture is one of the last Allen's flops along with ¨Swarm¨ and ¨When the time ran out¨. Rating  Average but entertaining , it's a fairly watchable disaster movie . "},{"Title":"TOTAL disaster movie!","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Being stuck in bed with the flu and feeling too rough to get up to find the remote, I actually watched this abomination from start to finish (how many people can say that? And for any who can - what's your excuse?). My God, has there ever, EVER been such a total mess released by a major studio? There is not one second of genuine tension in a supposed thriller; the script is inept and ludicrous; the sets look like they were leftovers from a low-budget TV movie; and the cast ... WHAT WERE THEY THINKING?!!! Sally Field gives what is without doubt the worst and most embarrassing performance of any Academy Award winner in history. Her irritating nasal whine and stupidly perky behaviour in what is meant to be a life-threatening situation are truly asinine. It's a wonder she didn't use all her future earnings to buy up and destroy every print of this turkey. Michael Caine, who now pontificates endlessly on the art of screen acting - even running master classes for would-be thespians - should be taken out and shot (preferably by one of Telly Savalas' henchmen). Angela Cartwright, an actress I usually like (and whose name isn't even in the opening credits, poor soul), is ten years too old for her role, and her horrible matronly yellow prom dress must haunt her nightmares to this day. Slumming it are Karl Malden and Shirley Knight - hopefully they collected a big pay packet to assuage their involvement. The whole film is a series of bad scenes, but one that especially sticks in my mind is the explosion which results in the ceiling (if an upside-down ship's deck can be termed as such) collapsing and a load of empty cardboard boxes falling through! Ooh, how scary! Really, really, terrible. "},{"Title":"At least worth a look, but a pretty crummy sequel.","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" My Take Formulaic disaster movie, but has its moments with its well-known cast. Otherwise, a pretty weak disaster movie. This sequel is not as good as its hit predecessor The Poseidon Adventure was, but easily passable, depending on the yardstick you measure it with. I really like Irwin Allen's production films. They really show a great and realistic disaster and a great well-known cast. This elements would set the pattern to today's disaster hit films. Many bad things has been said about this failed sequel to the 1972 classic, so I guess this is quite a guilty pleasure to me. It's hardly a good movie, in fact its quite a mess upon further observation (plot holes, needless back stories, and one character is disposed of without explanation), but I did kinda enjoyed it on a it wasn't the complete disaster way. The film resembles a little like the original disaster was. But I think it was meant to be that way. Anyway, most of the cast die heroically. Michael Caine gives a fine performance, but I really liked Sally Field here. She really gives a spunky performance. Field's character is the one Caine's character likes to call monkey, but she turns out to be his love interest in the film. Telly Savalas makes a really good villain as Dr. Svevo. Jack Warden and Shirley Knight are fine as the couple who never seems to lose hope for each other. The other cast includes Karl Malden, Shirley Jones and Peter Boyle, do their best without being too embarrassing. But Slim Pickens is quite weird in his role as a Texan drunk, who never seems to let go of his priceless bottle through the entire film. Overall, I kinda liked Beyond the Poseidon Adventure, though I think a large amount of suspension of disbelief is required. Non-disaster buffs won't dig it, but for nostalgia, fans of the original may want to check it out. It wasn't as good as that film, but along with THE SWARM, it's kind of a guilty pleasure. Rating ** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Beyond Ridiculous","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Oh my goodness, what could have possibly possessed Irwin Allen to make this ridiculous sequel to the original classic. The premise of this movie is unbelievably asinine, the acting is atrocious (especially by Sally Field, who gives the most embarrassing performance of any Oscar-winner ever), the sets are hideously cheap, and the cinematography is abysmal. It's a little disconcerting to think that actual paychecks were handed out in the making of this project.First of all, do the script-writers really want us to believe that anyone in their right mind would enter a sinking, exploding, and UPSIDE DOWN ship without any sort of equipment, JUST TO LOOT IT??? If that's not ridiculous enough, a gunfight breaks out between several of the characters while the ship is continually exploding and sinking. After the gunfight, the group led by Michael Caine (who is horribly miscast as a gruff tug-boat captain) decides to rest, giving Sally Field and Shirley Jones a few minutes to discuss their love lives (I'm not making this up!). Do these characters really not sense the danger they're in?? As a side note, this movie isn't even possible to begin with since in the original, the water practically CHASED the cast to the engine room, meaning all the decks below were flooded. In this movie, the water seems to have receded, as if the ship were some sort of flesh eating monster waiting for fresh meat to drown and devour.Avoid this movie unless you are interested in seeing top-notch actors embarrass themselves. "},{"Title":"Feeble last gasp of the disaster movie era","Date":"9 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Those too young to remember the 70s probably can't appreciate the significance of the disaster movie genre to moviegoers of that decade. The canon of this genre included Airport, Earthquake, The Towering Inferno, and of course the original Poseidon Adventure. These wowed audiences with big budgets and state of the (pre-CGI) art special effects, but at heart, the central disaster and exacerbating obstacles were really just a vehicle to drive the interaction of the all-star casts, resulting in pithy dialog, personal revelations, budding romance, and noble sacrifice. Because of the epic, apocalyptic nature of these movies, there was generally a solid sense of closure and finality at the end. This made sequels an even more dubious concept than usual for movies. There were two progressively worse sequels to Airport, and this movie follows a similar pattern. It's characterized by a lower budget, lesser stars, and a much more contrived plot than the venerable original.The contrast between the two movies is stark from the beginning. Whereas the first opens in the grand ballroom of a luxury cruise ships, this opens with Michael Cane piloting his teeny tugboat across the Atlantic through a the same storm that is capsizing the Poseidon not far away. I laughed out loud when the waves broke over the deck, clearly thrown from buckets just off camera. The storm causes him to lose his cargo, which consists of three crates lashed just behind the wheel house. Desperate for money, he stumbles onto the capsized Poseidon and decides to loot it under the international laws of salvage. Luckily for him, after rescuing the surviving cast of the original movie, everyone else left, without making any attempt to recover anything from the ship or locate additional survivors. Simultaneously, another, nicer boat arrives, carrying Telly Sevalas and his sinister looking, white-clad crew. He claims to be be a doctor looking for survivors. If it's a spoiler to tell you he's lying, then you've never watched *any* movies.They all enter the boat and, yada yada yada, survivors, setbacks, revelation, romance, betrayal, sacrifice, pretty much everything on the checklist. Disaster movies are never particularly believable, but this one doesn't even try. It starts with the absurd premise that the original rescuers left after picking up just the folks who happened to be standing under the hole at the time, goes on to the fact all the lights are still on, and includes contrived obstacles and magic water that floods some decks above other decks which are dry. At one point, they're crawling through a ventilation shaft and not only is it inexplicably lighted, but the lights are *upright* on the upside down ship!Not to say the movie didn't have a few redeeming features. Michael Cane can usually elevate a role, and Sally Field was at the peak of her spunky period. There was an interesting pairing of Mark Harmon near the beginning of his career with Agnela Cartwright (Lost in Space) near the end of hers.So, an interesting distraction for people of a certain age, but don't go out of your way to see it. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable in a silly sort of way.","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Beyond the Poseidon Adventure starts in a ferocious storm as Captain Mike Turner (Michael Caine) sails the open Ocean on his way to Marseille in France in his tug boat Jenny, however his cargo falls overboard & is lost. The next day Turner sees a French coast guard helicopter & decide to investigate, Turner finds the capsized upside down luxury cruise liner the S. S. Poseidon. Captain Turner now has the salvage rights to the Poseidon & together with his friend Wilbur (Karl Malden) & plucky young lady Celeste (Sally Field) decide to board her, while doing so a yacht with several doctor's show up & Captain Stefan Svevo (Telly Salavas) claims they can help any injured passengers. Together they all venture inside the Poseidon but soon become trapped themselves as the ship continues to sink while certain people aren't who they seem & have ulterior motives for being on the Poseidon & will kill to keep the secret...Produced & directed by Irwin Allen this is the silly sequel to the classic disaster flick The Poseidon Adventure (1972) that has a very bad reputation but I will freely admit that I did actually quite enjoy Beyond the Poseidon Adventure despite it's absurdities. In a way Beyond the Poseidon Adventure is the opposite of the original, it's silly with bad dialogue & bland character's unlike the original which was a terrific piece of action drama with people you cared about & related to. At almost two hours long I was never bored by it, it entertained me & I was always interested in what was going to happen so at least I had fun with it. However the script is silly, the idea that Captain Turner (or anyone for that matter) would board a sinking ship & get trapped inside like the Poseidon is ridiculous & two people follow him aboard as well like they are going to the cinema or something mundane (& safe) like that. The script throws in the usual disaster film clichés like blocked doors, lots of bad luck which traps a group of people in a dangerous situation, fires, explosions & lots of water. While the character's in the original were great here they are bland, from a blind man to a guy & his daughter to some comedy relief woman who remains surprisingly cheerful despite the situation she finds herself in. Character exposition & background is bad with some really strange timing, while looking for a way out in a metal shaft Celeste decides to cry her eye's out while when people die there's no great emotional impact & none of the other character's seem that bothered so why should we be? The plot about terrorist Svevo doesn't really go anywhere & the murder mystery angle could have been played a little better but at least it's another odd part of a silly film. By the way, how long does it take three guy's to stack some boxes on a yacht? Overall I liked this film, it's silly & overblown & a bit camp & doesn't make much sense but it entertained me & that's all that matters really. The novel by Paul Gallico who gets a credit is actually completely different than the filmed version, in Gallico's novel the original survivors go back to the sinking Poseidon at gunpoint.Released theatrically in 1979 running nearly two hours (the British cinema version was slightly cut for bloody gunshot wounds) the US network TV version that premiered in 1981 contained an extra twenty two minutes of footage which i would have loved to have seen but only the theatrical version is available on DVD. The widescreen cinematography is great & I can't imagine how bad Beyond the Poseidon Adventure would have looked pan and scanned, the whole film has a lavish if slightly over produced look & I loved the upside down sets. There's some nice action & set-pieces too, from shoot-outs to flooded rooms to fiery dangers to underwater scuba diving. Some of the special effects are poor, the opening scene in the storm looks terrible as buckets of water are randomly thrown against the boat prop while the Poseidon exploding at the end also looks awful but would CGI been any better?Shot in California the production values are nice & Irwin Allen always knew how to put on a show even if he didn't know much about storytelling. The original The Poseidon Adventure started the whole disaster flick craze while Beyond the Poseidon Adventure arguably ended it. There's a fun cast here, Michael Caine is slumming it, Sally Field is a bit annoying, Slim Pickens is annoying while Telly Savalas is fun as the villain even though he puts in his James Bond bad guy performance.Beyond the Poseidon Adventure is a guilty pleasure, it's not a good film & when compared to how great the original is it's a bit insulting but I had a lot of fun with it & liked it. Make sure you get hold of the widescreen DVD, despite not having those deleted scenes on it the disc looks great. "},{"Title":"Thrill ride!","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Not a good movie for me. Had great actors in it&#x85;and it was rated PG&#x85;so I thought that they wouldn't actually show the ship underwater, or show it sinking into the ocean&#x85;I WAS WRONG. I don't actually understand why large ships sinking actually scares me to death...but it does. I can't explain to you the feeling I get when I see titanic and the ship sinking into the dark deep abyss. Seeing a cruise ship upside-down in the ocean is not my favorite either. Though the movie did seem to have its perks, and seem to have a good story and thrilling moments...I was completely focused the whole time at the ship being inches away from sinking. That, and the scene at the beginning of the movie where they're standing on top of the upside-down cruise ship. That image still haunts me.For daily movie reviews visit kimsmoak.com now! "},{"Title":"Silly sequel","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Beyond the Poseidon Adventure is Irwin Allen's follow-up to his excellent 1972 box office smash The Poseidon Adventure. However, this one doesn't come close to matching the danger and excitement of the original. In fact, I found myself laughing most of the time at the absurdity of it all. Michael Caine reteamed with Allen after The Swarm for this soggy sequel about two salvage crews (one good, one bad) that race each other to probe the upside-down wreck of the luxury liner Poseidon, which as you'd recall got turned over by a 90-foot tidal wave in the first film. The usual all-star cast is here, but this time around a brand new cast comes on board. Most of them make total fools of themselves. Caine takes over for Gene Hackman as the one who barks orders at everyone (instead of a reverend, Caine plays a tugboat captain). Sally Field embarrasses herself as Caine's sidekick (Field has said that this is the worst movie she's ever made and on the basis of her performance here, she's right). Peter Boyle (TV's Everybody Loves Raymond) has the Ernest Borgnine role as the one who's yelling and complaining all the time (no, he doesn't reprise Borgnine's role from the first film). Telly Savalas looks silly as the doctor who actually has an agenda of his own. Slim Pickens has the goofiest role in the film as an alcoholic Texan who spends the entire movie holding a bottle of wine. Karl Malden, Jack Warden, and the two Shirleys (Knight and Jones) have the only good roles in the film. These roles should have been put into a better, different movie. There are two actors who star in Beyond the Poseidon Adventure in early roles before they hit it big on television Veronica Hamel is in this film a few years before she was cast on the great TV show Hill Street Blues (she also appeared in Allen's next film When Time Ran Out), and so is Mark Harmon (before St. Elsewhere). Now I'll grant you there are some good scenes in this film, but not enough of them. So take my advice stick with the original film. You'll be glad you did.** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Oh, The Humanity, Oh, The Horror! ---Holy Disasters, Batman, This Is a BAD movie!","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" 4 Oscar winners, Karl Malden, Sally Field, Shirley Jones, Michael Caine. Great character actors Telly Savalas and Peter Boyle. 1 hour 54 minutes of sheer tedium, melodrama and horrible acting, a mess of a script, and a sinking feeling of GOOD LORD, WHAT WERE THEY THINKING?Irwin Allen was just trying to cash in on the popularity of the original classic disaster film with a grade D minus script, the actors were obviously just in it for the paycheck as well,... the horror, the horror!How insane are the characters that Caine, Savalas, Malden and Field are playing? Go into a potentially deadly sinking ship that's 1. on fire 2. Hot from steam 3. Slippery from water and oil, 4. boilers that are exploding every 5 minutes, etc., all for the love of money? Greed? 5. They have very little equipment, not even a pair of gloves or work boots in sight, much less a grappling hook, rope, etc.Stupidity!What were they thinking?Peter Boyle overacts so much that I just wanted to smack him! Stop it! And what's the deal with the bad toupee? Also, there is no way you can believe his character was a WW2 veteran.Caine, Field and Malden find all that gold and money and they are happy--whoopee! We're rich! (We may not live to spend it, but hey...)And yee haw, it's the great character actor Slim Pickens!Survivors galore! Jack Warden and Shirley Knight, too!The final dramatic sub plot about that scary plutonium never really went anywhere, it's like they forgot, sort of? Lots of holes in the script.This film has an illness that the strongest pill couldn't cure. I'm surprised Alan J. Smithee's name wasn't on the script, I'd be embarrassed to have penned this one!Oh the insanity, Oh The humanity! Oy Vey!The Horror, The Horror!It's like a bad two hour TV movie.At least the sets were made from recycled material from the first movie.The script needed to be on the compost heap... "},{"Title":"Beyond bad","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" While not the worst film ever made, there is after all 1973's Lost Horizon, this sequel to 1972's water and cardboard(character)epic is not a disaster film, but a disaster itself. Actually, there is no disaster here; it's a modern day pirate film. The original had five Oscar winners and no memorable performances while this has four Oscar winners and atrocious, unconvincing performances. Field in particular as would be comedy relief is embarrassing;the idiotic dialog would sink anyone, but she could have turned down the role. Directed by Irwin Allen, this is a tedious, uneventful, unimaginative waste of time with no purpose other than to hopefully cash in on the original's popularity. It doesn't even rise to the level of camp or so bad that it's good status which actually makes it less memorable and/or watchable than Ross Hunter's musical remake of Lost Horizon. "},{"Title":"A rare gem for those who love unnecessary sequels and crave a little 1970's cheese","Date":"29 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Irwin Allen's Beyond the Poseidon Adventure does the unthinkable in this follow-up to his blockbuster 1972 film. Instead of people trying to get off the sinking luxury liner, he has two crews trying to get on to it for different reasons. Michael Caine leads one group into it to claim salvage rights to what's been left behind. At the same time, Telly Savalas heads up a team of murderous plunderers in search of a cargo of plutonium. Along the way, they both happen upon survivors frantically trying to get off the ship. Will Caine and Savalas find their treasures and a way to get back off the ship before it plummets to the depths of the sea?I have to give props where they're due, no matter how ridiculous it sounds. The fact that Irwin Allen had the audacity to attempt a sequel to The Poseidon Adventure deserves a strange amount of reverence. Can you imagine the power of suggestion he must have controlled. He walked into the offices of studio executives six years after the original left theaters and said, Hey, I have an idea for a sequel to that movie where the ship sinks. What if people tried to get on the ship instead of off of it? Beyond the Poseidon Adventure is proof he convinced them to do it!Beyond the Poseidon Adventure is nowhere near as bad as you'd think it would be. It has everything a great disaster movie should. An ensemble cast fighting for their lives as water levels rise. Escape routes becoming blocked as the people fight their way back to the surface before the ship's hull becomes completely submerged. People who you don't want to die do and others you wish would but don't. I wasn't disappointed in it by any means.A PG rating was given to Beyond the Poseidon Adventure. It contains violence, language, and intense sequences of peril.Beyond the Poseidon Adventure is one of those movies that never should've happened. All I can say is thanks to all the studio executives with dollar signs in their eyes who greedily greenlit this wonderful piece of cinema history. For those of us who love unnecessary sequels and crave a little 1970's cheese, it's a rare gem that's been found and preserved for us to enjoy over and over again. "},{"Title":"Not a sequel that was crying out to be made","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This redundant sequel picks up directly after the events of the original film, with skipper Michael Caine spotting the rescue helicopter and swooping in to claim salvage rights to the upturned ship with right hand man Karl Malden and new friend Sally Field. Also on board with an ulterior motive 'doctor' Telly Savalas and his crew. And so everyone ventures through the ship.An impressive cast that also includes Jack Warden, Peter Boyle and Slim Pickens ensures that there are some decent performances scattered about (not from Field, though, who's extremely annoying) but Irwin Allen's direction is flat and fails to enliven a movie that never gets over the pointlessness of its own existence.There are moments of tension and poignancy as well as a few laughs, so it's not a complete waste of time. Enjoyable in a low-rent kind of way. "},{"Title":"Beyond the Poseidon adventure, what can possibly be entertaining?","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This film is more of a remake than a sequel, having virtually the same plot and sets but different characters. This time the filmmakers have an advantage though, because they don't have to spend their budget on creating the moment that Poseidon strikes disaster (already established in the previous film); and there are opportune moments when money is saved by reusing shots from the first film from time to time showing the Poseidon upside down in the ocean and exploding continuously (how many explosions can the ship sustain?).This is a laughable and lackluster film. All the prestige and excitement from its precursor have disappeared. Unlike the first film, there is hardly a moment of genuine tension or invention. I never feel that the characters are in any peril. In fact, there are surprisingly few deaths and lots of wasted opportunities for thrills and tension. The action set pieces are very drab and routine. Also, the sets and special effects are cheap and unconvincing.Like the first film, there's a large all-star cast, but they hardly do or say anything exciting, intelligent, meaningful, original, and that isn't laughable. Pretty much all of their character traits, back stories, and motivations are paper-thin and stereotypes. Some characters are annoying, useless, and unnecessary, and should have been cut from the film or rewritten. The only interesting character derives from the performance of karl Malden, and even his character is underdeveloped and underutilized, let alone adequate to save the picture.Just like the characters, the plot is paper-thin. It's also very predictable. insipid, and hard to believe. For example, I find it hard to believe that there are still so many survivors left on the ship. Also, there are so many gaps in logic, unanswered questions, and unresolved plot points. As if realizing that there are only so much they can do with a capsized ship the second time, the filmmakers have added an unnecessary and derivative subplot involving Telly Savalas and his crew in a futile attempt to spice up the action.I sat in my chair being mostly bored and unamused. In fact, I became quite restless. This is not how I reacted to the first Poseidon film. "},{"Title":"For 'disaster' die-hards","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I am a huge fan of disaster/peril movies. In the movies I have a tendency to analyze the technical aspects of whats happening as opposed to paying attention to the characters. I'm interested in what's physically happening to the ship (or plane, or building, etc.).The original was great! I always had a sense of where the characters were in the ship as they moved up and back towards the stern. You got a sense that the ship was taking water more by the bow and flooding from that direction. The lighting was realistic in that you could obviously tell that the emergency lights were all they had.In 'Beyond', aside from going back in the original hole and into the engine room from the first film, I had no idea where they were going inside the Poseidon. This was frustrating. Also, the lighting was different. Not to mention the obvious blunder flooding situation. What? suddenly the Poseidon has various air pockets on decks we knew to be flooded from the first?? All the while through the first film they are racing to stay ahead of the flooding...where in this one the ship seems to have decided to stop sinking for a while. The large explosions are never explained although I just reason they are the boilers reacting to the water hitting them (which may also account for the whole engine room exploding finally in the end. We saw something similar to this in the new version. Another thing, in the beginning of the film they show a storm and big waves, then the Poseidon gets capsized, then we see the Jenny caught in the same big storm. This implies that the Poseidon was capsized because of the storm instead of how it actually happened, a sudden tidal wave while in CALM seas. Oh well! So for these reasons this movie doesn't quite fit, but, since it is still an upside-down ship in peril, with explosions and suspense, I still liked it. "},{"Title":"Better Than Its Reputation","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Beyond the Poseidon Adventure (1979) ** (out of 4) I've been wanting to see this turkey for at least a decade and after all the bad stuff I heard about the film, it really wasn't all that bad. Yes, the storyline is stupid as hell and makes for several laughable plot lines but if you can laugh at how dumb it is then you might enjoy yourself somewhat. Scavenger hunters (Michael Caine, Sally Field, Karl Malden) come across the sinking ship just minutes after the survivors from the first film were saved. Caine, about to lose his own ship, decides to enter the Poseidon in hopes of reaching the purse room where he can get all sorts of money. Along the way he counters some survivors (Peter Boyle, Jack Warden, Mark Harmon, Shirley Knight, Slim Pickens) as well as a terrorist (Telly Savalas). As you can tell, the story is pretty much all over the place but it leads to some mild entertaining, which includes a machine gun fight with the terrorist and another subplot with one of the survivors being a blind man! Caine, Malden, Warden and Pickens actually come off with good performances but Boyle and Field should really be embarrassed. The special effects are rather laughable and again, the story is crazy but God knows this is no where near as bad as The Swarm or When Time Ran Out.... "}{"Title":"Not a complete disaster","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I knew it! I knew my luck couldn't be that bad! Nothing was going to get worse because nothing could've! Wrong again. A couple of years after swearing nothing on Earth would make him leave the UK, Michael Caine went into tax exile in Hollywood and signed up for a slew of But it looked good on paper pictures, getting off to an inauspicious start with the now forgotten period comedy Harry and Walter Go to New York, a huge flop so horrendously expensive that it very nearly bankrupted Columbia Pictures if they hadn't been bailed out by a consortium of German dentists. He must have thought his luck had changed when he signed for not one but two Irwin Allen disaster movies &#150; after all, The Poseidon Adventure and The Towering Inferno had been massive hits, so this was the big leagues at last. After The Swarm was met with worldwide ridicule and disastrous box-office, a lesser man might have cut his losses, but being a man who doesn't have the words 'no' or 'quality control' in his vocabulary, Caine went ahead and made Beyond the Poseidon Adventure anyway. Still, it could have been worse. He could have stuck around for Allen's career-killing volcano flick When Time Ran Out as well.Lured away from his old stamping ground 20th Century Fox to Warner Bros with the promise of less studio interference (read quality control), bigger budgets and the chance to direct his films as well, even Spielberg would envy the kind of absolute unquestioned power 'master of disaster' Allen enjoyed on the lot in the late Seventies, but the blank check resulted in three massive and much-ridiculed flops in a row. This was number two. Allen's belated and quickly forgotten sequel to his 1972 blockbuster has a bigger budget than its predecessor and an even sillier plot, yet as a guilty pleasure it's a surprisingly enjoyable brain-off time-filler. Discarding the plot of Gallico's novel, itself written as a direct sequel to the film rather than his original novel, the film sees Michael Caine's tough tugboat captain (yes, it's a stretch) and his crew of two, Karl Malden and Sally Field, seeing a way out of impending bankruptcy by staking claim to the salvage rights to the capsized liner but having more luck saving another handful of survivors than holding onto their loot while finding themselves in competition with a rival group of 'rescuers.' Of course, we know they're really baddies &#150; they're wearing white, they're polite and they're lead by Telly Savalas in Ernst Stavro Blofeld mode, posing as a doctor but really in search of the Poseidon's cargo of plutonium. No, really. How else could you include gun battles and an axe-killing in a disaster movie? Not that Gallico's novel wasn't sillier still &#150; that featured a tiger on the loose below decks! The characters are all of the stock variety &#150; Malden plays the Walter Brennan role as the terminally-ill sidekick, Sally Field the Jean Arthuresque tomboy, Jack Warden the gruff blind writer and Shirley Knight his protective wife, Slim Pickens and his priceless bottle of vintage wine the hearty comic relief, Peter Boyle's 'Sarge' the over-protective father (a character drawn from Gallico's first Poseidon novel that didn't make it into the original film), Veronica Hamel the bad girl in a good dress, Shirley Jones the kind-hearted nurse and a young Mark Harmon, looking like Tom Cruise's not-too-bright and less talented older brother, sharing the juvenile romantic lead with Lost in Space veteran Angela Cartwright. Yet while no-one troubled the Oscar nominations, the performances aren't particularly bad even if Caine wouldn't top anybody's list as a ruthless old seadog, and there's nothing quite as camp as Shelley Winters and her aquatic escapades in the original rather than an unintentional laugh-riot, for the most part this is professionally well-made nonsense.The lousy back-projection and hosed on water in the opening storm sequence do bode ill, but once it's shipboard the production values visibly improve (it's well photographed by Joseph Biroc and nicely designed by Preston Ames), though the film makes surprisingly little of the upside down sets and, unlike the original, there's no sense of the rising water cutting off their way back to up the tension. Here the water mainly seems to rush by rather than climb up. Perhaps still feeling the critics' stings at his bee movie, this time the script offers few hostages to fortune &#150; dialogue like Last night was the worst New Years' Eve party I've ever been to! or Oh my gosh! I just shot one of them! Well shoot another one! is at least meant to be funny &#150; but, like The Swarm, there's evidence that this went through some last-minute cuts before hitting theatres one major character even completely disappears near the end. Still, there's some novelty in having two rival groups working their way in to the ship and climbing down to the top rather than up to the bottom. And talking of bottoms, Allen ensures that Sally Field spends about half her scenes with her back turned to the camera to emphasis how tight her wet jeans are&#133; The DVD doesn't include any of the deleted scenes from the TV version, though one of them does turn up on the 22-minute making of documentary included on the disc that includes ample footage of Irwin Allen hamming it up for the cameras as well as some chaotic production footage from the surface scenes. "},{"Title":"Not As Good as the Original!","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" BEYOND THE POISEIDON ADVENTURE was actually anything,but a good follow-up to the 1972 movie! Irwin Allen had just moved to Warner Bros'Burbank location,after being at Twentieth Century Fox for some 14 years-and his direction to his hit disaster movie,which put him on the map as The Master of Disaster in the mid 1970s,just began to lose steam,and badly! and after seeing this movie,it was such a disappointment! i would've thought that Fox and Warners,who teamed up with THE TOWERING INFERNO in 1974,would've joined forces again-since the original movie was shot at Twentieth Century Fox,,but that wasn't the case! and after the huge failure of this 1979 production,despite it's impressive cast,Irwin Allen just landed on flop after flop,which was a cruel way to finish his master of disaster status,,he even tried to return to his VOYAGE TO THE BOTTOM OF THE SEA roots in 1978,with the CBS mini-series THE RETURN OF CAPT.NEMO,which Warner Bros.Television produced,nor did THE SWARM do much Box Office damage in Summer 1978. overall,the bottom fell out for Irwin Allen,before his 1991 death,,but although he had a string of costly failures,his two major disaster movies in the mid 70s did quite well for themselves,and grossed plenty of big money! but much of BEYOND THE POSEIDON ADVENTURE just reused stock footage clips from the 1972 movie,with great SPFX of L.B. Abbott's miniatures-that was about it! "},{"Title":"Beyond the Poseidon Adventure","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Despite the fact that his films weren't all that expertly plotted, scripted with much thought beyond getting to the next disaster-stunt-or- action set piece, or built upon a solid foundation (films with a skeleton but no meat), Irwin Allen could get a cast of high caliber to star in his movies. Beyond the Poseidon Adventure is no exception. Notorious for being one of Michael Caine's paycheck movies, Beyond has him starring as a tugboat captain/salvager. Karl Malden is his second mate while Sally Field (full of plucky energy and providing a great scene with Caine when they are looking for a way out; just balling her eyes out, she just breaks down because the day couldn't be much worse; it is a nice little moment with Caine, who just tries to comfort her) is a passenger on his ship. They board the capsized USS Poseidon, hoping for valuables to save his boat from being confiscated by the bank for unpaid bills. You have Peter Boyle blowing hard as Lost In Space's Angela Cartwright's uptight and always- complaining father, while a young studly Mark Harmon is her love interest (much to Boyle's chagrin). And the cast continues Telly Savales as a crook with a bunch of gun-toting hoods trying to salvage plutonium, Jack Warden as a blind man while Shirley Knight is his devoted wife, Shirley Jones (of the Patridge Family fame) as a helpful nurse, the foxy Veronica Hamel as a secretive lover of Savales trying to find a manifest to locate the items he needs to claim the plutonium and way off the ship, and Slim Pickens as a supposed Texas Oilman with a boozing disposition and unwillingness to part with his bottle of specific wine.There's a great deal of journeying through the capsized ship, trying to avoid falling debris and explosions, and the hopes of not drowning or being shot by Savales' men, equipped with machine guns. Savales pretends to be rescuers as a cover for recovering their treasure. At one point a safe literally falls into the presence of Caine and company, with gold no less, but will they be able to hold on to it? Just take a wild guess. Malden's dealing with a serious illness, Caine sleepwalks as the hero, kind of just going through the motions, skating on his star power (regardless of what you think about him, the guy has always been a star). Field brings her charm and lights up the screen with her winsome personality (without her, I just don't think I'd liked this at all), while Boyle is loud and obnoxious. Hamel is a babe, Savales is here just as a heavy (but he isn't in the film that much to tell you the truth), Cartwright has never been more beautiful while Harmon is a hunk (the two do look good together). Knight and Warden kind of just emerge in the film unnecessarily. Jones is extremely likable but as part of an ensemble, she has little moments but not enough to eclipse the main leads. The cast really does rise above the threadbare material. This is all about explosions and noise, and walking, walking, walking. Nice sets of a badly damaged ship help...a little bit. The whole thing, though, is really much ado about nothing. Allen will never be considered a director of much depth or dramatic dearth. "},{"Title":"Bottoms Up!","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" After a handful of survivors from The Poseidon Adventure (1972) leave the scene, the upturned ocean liner remains slightly afloat. Two small boats arrive to continue the disaster. One is led by financially-strapped captain Michael Caine (as Mike Turner). He arrives with Africa-bound Sally Field (as Celeste Monkey Whitman) and secretive sidekick Karl Malden (as Wilbur Hubbard). They decide to enter the Poseidon's bottom and salvage the luxury liner's collection of money, gold and jewels. It is a dangerous mission, but Mr. Caine reminds us, The Andrea Doria stayed up for more than ten hours. Ms. Field claims to have stayed up longer. Also entering the capsized ship is a small rescue crew led by sneaky Telly Savalas (as Stefan Svevo). And, there are more survivors on board. Former Partridge Family mom Shirley Jones looks especially beautiful in a wet hairstyle...When his disastrous bee movie The Swarm (1978) bombed, producer-director Irwin Allen decided it was time to return to one of his greatest adventures. This film adds a terrorist to the mix, but it is more like a re-make of the first movie. The vaguely familiar plot mechanics were funnier in Lucille Ball's excellent episode Lucy Gets Jack Benny's Account (1967) and more imaginative in Mr. Allen's Lost in Space episode Trip Through the Robot (also 1967). You even get Allen's Penny Robinson castaway Angela Cartwright in a supporting role, looking gorgeous and grown-up. Alas, Beyond the Poseidon Adventure doesn't go beyond, it goes back. Many of the best shots look like outtakes from the original film and the stunts are actually all revisions from The Poseidon Adventure, without Shelley Winters. If you haven't seen the original, it's excellent fun. This one is just okay.***** Beyond the Poseidon Adventure (1979-05-18) Irwin Allen ~ Michael Caine, Sally Field, Telly Savalas, Karl Malden "},{"Title":"Just hopeless","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Pointless sequel to The Poseidon Adventure that came out 7 YEARS after the original! It opens shortly after the survivors of the original are rescued and flown away. Then a small salvage crew (Michael Caine, Karl Malden and Sally Field) arrives to get what jewels and money they can get from the boat before it totally sinks. Then ANOTHER boat shows up headed by a doctor (Telly Savalas) to find and help any more survivors. So they all head into the ship. They find MORE survivors but their way out is blocked off and they have to find a way out.Pointless and stupid full of HUGE plot holes (it is never explained what Savalas wants and why) and stock characters. The puzzling thing is they got talented actors to play these one-dimensional roles. There's Peter Boyle (with hair) playing a angry father, his young daughter (Angela Cartwright) and a man who saved her (Mark Harmon). Then there's a married couple (Shirley Knight and Jack Weston) who needs help...but he's blind. Then there's Shirley Jones as a nurse. Next up is a humorous drunk played by Slim Pickens. Last is Veronica Hammel who barely figures in this.Field plays the comic relief but some of her lines are downright painful. The situations are dull and the action sequences are just rehashes from the first film. There's a HUGE amount of things that make little sense (good luck trying to figure out what happened between Hammil and Savalas) and it gets frustrating. The acting varies. The whole cast tries but the characters are drab and the dialogue is terrible. Savalas is easily the worst actor here. Caine is the best. But, all in all, a dull pointless movie. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Sometimes it is better to let the ship sink...","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I can't claim to have seen the original 1972 movie, only saw the 2006 re-make, so I don't really know how this 1979 sequel was in comparison to the original movie that it was a sequel to.But being overly familiar with the storyline, it is still possible to watch the 1979 sequel. But it wasn't really an astounding experience, and the movie was just adequately entertaining.The marooned Poseidon is still afloat, when captain Mike Turner (played by Michael Caine) along with his crew Celeste Whitman (played by Sally Field) and Wilbur Hubbard (played by Karl Malden) come across the upside-down floating vessel and because of financial troubles, captain Mike Turner decides to venture into the vessel in search for valuables. Just as they are to go in, another vessel turns up with a rescue crew led by captain Stefan Svevo (played by Telly Savalas).The storyline was adequate enough, but there was just too little happening throughout the entire movie. And you didn't really sit with the sense of the people who ventured into the vessel were in any real peril at any time, especially not when they could afford all those breaks and sit down for something to eat as well.What was impressive about the movie was the talents that they had managed to muster together for this 1979 sequel, and that was actually what managed to keep the movie afloat - pardon the pun.Beyond the Poseidon Adventure isn't really a memorable movie experience, and I doubt that this is the type of movie that you will watch more than once, because it just didn't have all that much to offer. "},{"Title":"So Bad It's Good","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Irwin Allen's production of The Poseidon Adventure starts out so bad it's hard to believe by the second act you're watching a genuine classic which would generate a decade long spate of disaster films and would one day spawn a sequel of it's own. Beyond the Poseidon Adventure starts off bad, too. Only this one never gets better. Michael Caine plays a ship captain trying to claim salvage rights to the SS Poseidon which capsized during a storm on New Year's Eve. Terrorists are also on the scene attempting to retrieve WMDs. The all star cast (often mis-cast) helps but Beyond the Poseidon Adventure signaled the beginning of the end of the disaster film cycle that dominated the 70s. It's easy to look back on Beyond the Poseidon Adventure with a certain fondness and appreciate the disaster movie conventions and clichés it whole-heartedly embraces. "},{"Title":"poop-side down adventure","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Maybe here in Sydney we are all poop side down and as a result we get to lap up floaters like this s-eek!-uel in classy theaters. Released here in 1980 this hilarious all-tar drama was greeted with howls of delight at the session I attended. In fact the audience were so into the ludicrous antics on screen it played like a Rocky Horror session. Within 5 minutes we all knew it was a real disaster the tug boat scene where you can see the buckets of water tossed in from off-set. after that it was every patron for himself and the cinema rang with advice, cheering for bad acting and oo-waah reactions. The gunfight in the hold among the crates is especially idiotic and allows drunken viewers with friends in altered states also watching to contribute appropriately. I call these films with Michael Caine his holiday house films as I always reckon he agrees to do them because he has seen a house he likes and doesn't want to spend his savings. Like Jaws 3 or 4 or whatever it was called. "},{"Title":"I Love the Original, But This One's a Stinker","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a total fan of the original Poseidon Adventure, but this film just should never have been made.  Where are all the rescue ships if this movie takes place hours after the original?  Why is a luxury liner carrying plutonium?  Why does the water MYSTERIOUSLY look clear, like it was filmed in a tank in Los Angeles, not in the Mediterranean?  Why was this film even made?Seriously, the most dramatic thing in this movie is the murder of Slim Pickens (that fiend, Telly Savalas!) "},{"Title":"Okay, Shelley Winters doesn't swim in this one...","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" ...but other than that, there's almost no redeeming social value to this sequel to the original Poseidon Adventure.  Where the heck are all the people from the original, including the rescue crew?  Michael Caine undergoes his most humiliating performance to date (although he later trumps himself with Jaws 4 down the road).  Slim Pickens is just embarrassing as a stereotyped Texas, and generally you just have to wonder, Why did they bother?  Irwin Allen's last stab at cashing in on the disaster craze, I guess. "}{"Title":"Beyond comprehension","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Wretched. Talk about botched. BEYOND THE POSEIDON ADVENTURE is bad in every respect. Salvagers Michael Caine and Karl Malden decide to tow the wreck of the eponymous ocean liner with a really creaky tug boat. They're challenged by ruthless Telly Savalas and his gang of machine-gun toting goons. This part sequel, part remake has Caine, Malden and ANOTHER group of Poseidon survivors making a similarly dangerous trek out of the sinking ship. Among this group are Shirley Jones, Slim Pickens, Peter Boyle, Shirley Knight and Slim Pickens. Jack Warden plays a blind man. Surely, you'll wish you were blind after seeing this mess. Sally Field is particularly annoying as a stowaway on board Caine's tug.Disaster master Irwin Allen not only produced this one, he decided to direct it as well. "},{"Title":"Belated sequel with a beleaguered cast...","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Awkward disaster mishmash has a team of scavengers coming across the overturned S.S. Poseidon, hoping to loot it before it goes under for good. Irwin Allen's sequel to his 1972 blockbuster The Poseidon Adventure arrived in theaters SEVEN YEARS LATER! Never mind that nobody cared anymore, why give us such a shoddy production, filled with dim characters and miscast actors, only to trash the memory of your biggest hit? One might end up feeling really sorry for Michael Caine, Sally Field, Peter Boyle, Jack Warden, Karl Malden and Shirley Jones were it not for their lost-at-sea expressions (good for a few stray laughs). There's a moment when saintly Jones is tempted into taking some treasures just for herself and she timidly starts stuffing her pockets that is an unintended hoot. The film was a career bungler for all concerned, most especially Allen, who never quite recovered from this. * from **** "},{"Title":"Good Movie.","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" ###SPOILERS### With a realistic plot, emotional deaths, and lots of explosions, this is one of the best sequel movies ever.Hannah Merideth's death scene is almost identical to that of Acre's in the original, but has more emotion,like Lisolette Mueller's in The Towering Inferno.She dies falling off a ladder, and drowning, due to a cramped shoulder caused by pulling her husband up from a hunk of wreckage.Her and Suzzane's death are the most predictable-Veronica Hamel is not credited in the trailer, meaning it would be easy to kill her off-and Hannah is the one that everybody is hoping will escape-something that is used in EVERY disaster movie I have seen.The other good guy deaths, that of Frank, Wilbur and Tex, are somewhat different. We don't see Wilbur die, and Frank and Tex are shot, the latter just as they make their escape.All things considered, this is a very brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"BEYOND THE POSEIDON ADVENTURE (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Sequels, well there are many reasons to make 'em but what went through Irwin Allen's mind to come up with such a boring idea is beyond all logical matters. There are so many open answers to this movie that it is ridiculous...like The Poseidon which is a monstruous ship with passengers on is drifting on the sea and just Michael Caine with his miniboat and an evil Telly Savalas discover the boat...well, at the beginning the French marine are circling above the wreck with their helicopter but as a sinking cruiseship is a daily thing, they just fly away... What am I trying to say??? Hmmm, Michael Caine goes on board with sally Field and he might pick up everything he sees (diamonds)if there wasn't a Telly Savalas who is looking for weapons on the ship...my God, why in fact am I wasting my words on here? It's ridiculous and knowing that both Field and Caine were involved makes you think what went through their minds when reading scripts....certainly not diamonds.... "},{"Title":"A boring disaster movie","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Irwin Allen ended up exploiting the very genre he had a large part of creating.  This movie should have been deemed unwatchable before it even got made.  All of the actors are at their most annoying, with special mention to Sally Field and Shirley Jones.   "},{"Title":"Lame attempt at a sequel","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I accidentally caught this in the middle flipping channels. I immediately recognized almost everyone in the cast, groovy haircuts aside, and wondered what kind of film could attract such a cast of both past and future stars? Having not seen the original, I guessed it might be the Poseidon Adventure, since it was obviously on a ship in distress. Was I wrong! I cannot for the life of me imagine why any of these great (or promising) actors and actresses would allow their name to be associated with such trash. There is no story, the performances all looked forced, the characters a parody of the usual disaster movie roles that are suddenly brought together by an event, and start pontificating about the real meaning of life at the level of bumper sticker philosophy.It is only worthwhile to see the unusually awful performances by such greats as Sally Field, Michael Caine, et al. They must have needed the money badly. Can we blame the director? "},{"Title":"An Unworthy Sequel","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you liked the original Poseidon Adventure then you can not find one redeeming feature of this lamebrained sequel that represents exploitation for a quick buck at it's worst.  Paul Gallico's novel, while not stellar, at least brought back Rogo, Martin and Manny Rosen while this time out the orignal cast and characters is gone completely apart from an obscure reference to the helicopter that picks them up.I won't bother dissecting the horrible performances by the actors in their uninteresting roles.  I would like to gleefully note the absurdities of the entire plot when compared to it's predecessor.  As two others have noted, it is impossible to believe that there could be no other rescue ships out to the scene at this point.  And did anyone else notice how the ship seems strangely much more intact than it did in the original?  Fred Koenekamp's cinematography in the original was dark, grimy, realistic and effective.  This time out, this search crew ends up back in a spotless looking kitchen which in the original was devastated by a flash fire and then submerged only moments later!  The photography is much too bright, the settings too spotless, and the story just plain stupid.  The bigger mystery is why, after being humiliated in The Swarm did Michael Cain ever agree to work with Allen again?Pretend this film never happened and just stick to the original, which is far more intelligent. "},{"Title":"Enough plot holes to sink a ship","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a big fan of the original Poseidon Adventure, I initially thought a sequel would be a good thing. I was so wrong. This is not only a terrible movie, but possibly the worst sequel ever made. This movie makes no logical sense. Did anyone else notice how clean all the sets looked compared to the condition we originally saw Poseidon's interiors in? There are also a lot of very large areas of the ship not yet under water. Yet in the original movie, the engine room was suppose to be the only remaining area still above water as all other decks had flooded behind the survivors. Also, doesn't Poseidon's exposed outer hull look nice and shinny red? The movie shamelessly goes on in an effort to make as many subplots and facts from the original Poseidon irrelevant. Most notably the nurse--thought to be dead because she traveled to the bow with the doctor and other survivors--is now alive, has miraculously shed 40 pounds, and has managed to dye and restyle her hair.The original Poseidon Adventure screenplay included a scene involving the ship sinking at the end, but was cut out for budget reasons. Too bad. A few more dollars just might have spared us from Beyond. "},{"Title":"Worst film ever made (Part 2)","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This film is in a dead tie with the original for worst film ever made. I think this one may be slightly worse, if anything. SPOILER ALERT!!! Here are these survivors on a ship that's been capsized for a long time. Improbable? No - IMPOSSIBLE. The whole premise is so laughable as to not be funny. There are some pretty big names in the film, and even they couldn't save this sorry thing. I find it truly a waste of good celluloid. After seeing this, I also unfortunately decided that it had been a waste of my time. Don't bother with this one. Or the original for that matter! I gave it a 2, mainly because they throw votes of 1 out. "},{"Title":"What A Waste!","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was totally disgusted with this unnecessary sequel to The Poseidon Adventure a movie which I have given a great comment about.This film is unbelievable from the word GO!   I agree,  why were no other rescues boats around and helicopters?  The one that rescued the original survivors had just flown over the boat that Michael Caine & Sally Field are on.  THAT WAS THE ONLY RESCUE CREW?   Hard to believe.The acting is generally poor and the show looks cheap.   I really hated the waste of talent from some good actors.Don't watch this film unless you must catch Sally & Michael as lovers.gord "}{"Title":"Dangerous quest for a pay cheque.","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie is about a group of actors who's paychecks/royalty fees are in the hull of an upturned cruise liner.Michael Caine wants his pay packet/royalty checks but must enter the Poseidon to get it.Sally Field, Karl Malden and Telly Savalas are also seeking their pay cheques/royalty fees and must also board the capsized bank.A few gunfights later and they reach the vault. Each actor loads up the cash and puts it away for a rainy day. They must then exit the ship and try to return to Hollywood for further work.This is a pretty exciting Irwin Allen epic and it's nice to see actors receiving a good pay packet in the name of entertainment. "},{"Title":"There's nothing wrong with this film...","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" ...a good script or director couldn't fix.The original 'Poseidon Adventure' was a story of human courage triumphing against terrific odds and personal tragedy. The survivors were led by a charismatic figure of great spiritual strength who would take anything God threw at him.The follow-up tries to recreate the mix but fails through a formulaic script and pedestrian direction. Irwin Allen may have been a great producer of disaster flicks, and done a fine job directing the action scenes in 'Towering Inferno', but he just can't bring any human depth to his characters. If the characters aren't credible any danger they face also falls flat.The script also tries to copy the original too obviously. So we have Peter Boyle doing the Ernest Borgnine thing by being tough and obnoxious (but he has a tender heart); Karl Malden is the Red Buttons moderating influence (and is terminally ill for good measure); Slim Pickens does the comic relief for Shelley Winters, and so on.To make the story more contemporary we have a rogue arms dealer ready to flog weapons-grade plutonium to the highest bidder. A really nasty piece of work who ruthlessly abandons wounded men (the actors playing his henchmen were presumably paid as extras because they don't seem to have any lines) and has a woman shot in the back - what a cad! Thank goodness the French rescue services made the hole in the Poseidon's hull twice as large as in 1972 (and on the other side of the propeller shaft) so he could he get his goods out. And while we're on the subject, how did they get the crates *to* the... oh, forget it.I actually paid good money to see this when it was released. Given the film's current reputation this may seem odd, but it actually got quite mixed reviews at the time. Some said it was junk, some said it was as exciting as the original. Never mind, nobody can be right all the time. "},{"Title":"Beyond the Boring Adventure!","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I remember watching this film about eight years ago. It was completely boring yet somewhat interesting with its characters. I liked all of them except for Salvalas, who's character and his terroristic men shouldn't of been there in the first place. I didn't like seeing Hannah Meredith die in the shaft, it was too painful for me to watch, and Frank Mazzeti's death was meaningless. What fool would go in a middle of the room to get himself killed?! To be honest, the movie shouldn't of been made at all. Although I am a huge Poseidon adventure fan, the film should of been about the other survivors who were trapped and some civilians like Caine and Fields as the heroes. That would of made the movie a lot better to watch. Still in general it's good film, but it could of been better. "},{"Title":"Beyond hope","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  After bombing with The Swarm, producer Irwin Allen, perhaps sensing that the disaster film cycle spawned by the success of The Poseidon Adventure and The Towering Inferno was about to end, returned to the scene of his first major crime...er, I mean success...and gave us this unnecessary sequel. No matter how much money they make, it seems actors, except for those at the absolute top of the box-office rankings, suffer from an insecurity difficult for most of us to imagine, always believing that their last movie will, indeed, be their last movie.  What else can explain Michael Caine's presence in this film? Having appeared in Allen's disastrous The Swarm a year earlier, he surely didn't expect this one to be a winner. And then there's Sally Field who would win an Oscar for Norma Rae released later in the year. On the other hand, it's no surprise to see Telly Savalas lurking around in this mess. After years of asking Who loves ya, baby? as TV's Kojak, he had no credibility left as an actor and this is the best he could hope for.Stick to the original Poseidon. It stunk, but like a turd on the water, it could still float. "},{"Title":"Typical Irwin Allen","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've seen plenty worse......this is a typical Irwin Allen production where all money and time are spent on the special effects and to hell with the acting. Kudos to Angela Cartwright (damn, she's gorgeous!!), Mark Harmon and Karl Malden for being natural actors that can do it on the one take, and razzies to Michael Caine, Sally Field, Shirley Jones and especially Peter Boyle who are AWFUL!  "},{"Title":"Beyond...","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Acting reputations were soaked to the skin with this silly return by Irwin Allen to the overturned S.S. Poseidon.  "},{"Title":"lame sequel","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Doing a sequel to Poseidon Adventure seems as ludicrous as a Titanic sequel, but here you have it.   And with an all star cast to boot  Telly Savalas?  Jack Warden?  Karl Malden?  Shirley Jones?  Slim Pickens??? Puh-leeze!  The plot concerns some modern day pirates hoping to hit the overturned Poseidon for any and all loot they can find.  Michael Caine and a very chipper and irritating Sally Field also arrive and decide they want some of what the ship has to offer.  Combine that with another group of passengers struggling to get out, as well as Malden's character's heart condition, and you have a mess.  It certainly has its moments, Mark Harmon is young and yummy, and Veronica Hamel does the slinky sexy diva searching for love in all the wrong places routine pretty well.  Most of the characters are thankfully killed off.  If you're looking for a disaster movie, rent the original Poseidon Adventure or The Towering Inferno.  "}]