[{"Title":"YOU spend the winter in Wisconsin!","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In _Real Life_, Albert Brooks makes fun of just about anything the movie industry, the 'nuclear family', intellectuals, horse owners, furniture refinishing, urine testing, technology, Wisconsin ...This film is a gem. Every character is played so transparently that someone could be fooled into thinking Charles Grodin really is a disoriented and bumbling father and husband. Albert Brooks plays 'himself' to the point where he must have needed therapy after making this film.Vanity projects are usually tedious. This turns the 'vanity' genre (yeah, there is one!) on its ear. And it's probably one of the most 'American' films I've ever seen. Great stuff! "},{"Title":"An experiment gone crazy...","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Local 'madness' in an Arizona small, one horse town. Based on a show shot in Santa Barbara California in 73' a first reality show, that went horribly wrong! It was a hit, but the family was never the same. This is an off the cuff answer to that first reality show, that I believe may have gone lost in translation. Sure this starts out interesting and goes right along, showing a small Arizona Phoenix as the place where the real family will be followed by a camera and crew, in the home, in their lives and all over the place. It seems at times so depressing and so real in parts... that it hurts just watching. That's not bad when it seems that it is real. Brooks has a creative and wild mind. With it all some how he can lose people in his presentation. It isn't that he is not talented, he just sees things through a different ' lens ' than most average do. If more people had been informed of why and how the movie came about, I think it would have done better at the theater. Albert Brooks is an entertaining creative craftsman and his work and acting shows to those who can follow what he is about.I recommend this movie for it's madness and reality type-lore but the fun part is seeing the Arizona from the seventies and how different it is today. Brooks will always be good at his job I believe, but you have to understand the mind from which it comes. (***) "},{"Title":"Albert the Great","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's no question that Albert Brooks is not for everybody - his particular blend of neuroticism and egomania can be way too much for most people. But if you can get on his wavelength, and when he's at his best - oh man! There's absolutely no one better. Real Life is Brooks' best movie, and deserves to be more widely known than it is. His portrayal of a controlling producer, who is willing to violate not only broadcast ethics but the standards of decency and good sense as well in order to inject life into his failing documentary is frightening, off-putting and truly hilarious all at once.When I first saw this movie, I didn't realize it was based on an actual television experiment. I bring this up only because when I first saw the film, I felt its only flaw was that it didn't spend enough time showing the family and their disintegration in front of the cameras, choosing instead to focus almost exclusively on Brooks and his manic responses to the dilemma this posed. However, knowing that the real life experiment would have already been familiar to people, Brooks clearly wanted to use this movie to examine not the family but the bankrupt commercial mindset which would put such a  project into play in the first place. As such, his satire is dead on and nobody could more perfectly embody the entertainment industry than Brooks himself. Just to see him smarmily singing and glad-handing at the beginning is worth the cost. "},{"Title":"Real Life Is The Most Underrated movie ever!","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think what most filmmakers say when they watch a great film is I wish I made that movie. This is one of those movies. Not only is this a comedy classic, I would say that this movie is ground breaking. And way ahead of its time. Albert Brooks, proves that he is one of the funniest comedians ever, and in my opinion one of the best actors on the screen. And the ending is simply brilliant, and at the same time Hilarious. I would like to tell you more, But I don't have the time, or the cord!  "},{"Title":"A Brilliant First Feature!","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Any Albert Brooks fan who has not seen his first glorious feature is truly missing out.  As anyone can attest, Brooks has the rare gift of turning ordinary human moments into riotously funny scenes, and this film is full of such moments, plus much more subversive material, like the way Grodin's character repeatedly comes perilously close to committing a felony against his family.Perhaps the greatest joke of all is that while the character Albert Brooks continuously states how he is documenting real life, we all know that this is really a star vehicle for him.  He is more concerned with how much everything costs, like the head-held cameras (for those who haven't seen it,  imagine the result of torrid affair between Dave Bowman and the Hal-9000). This film, more that anything, is a satirical take on how Hollywood subverts what is really real life, all this coming from a director with as great a grasp on how humans relate to one another than anyone.  "},{"Title":"Albert Brooks is the ultimate farceur.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Real life' is the perfect send-up of the worst scenario possible for a film maker shooting a documentary, i.e., what happens when your subject matter loses interest in the project before completion?  Albert Brooks, as the seemingly besieged director of this 'loaf of reality' year long vigil with a typical American family, walks a fine line between egomania and neuroticism and scores with broad belly laughs both ways. Charles Grodin as the head of the suburban clan from which this film within a film emanates exudes his special brand of bland exuberance at the beginning of this captive camera stakeout inside his home(and everywhere else he may go) provided his life is depicted as letter perfect from day to day.   When such is not the case and the obtrusive lenses are interfering with his job as a veterinarian, (in a sequence that has to be seen rather than described) then Grodin regards the camera presence as nothing more than an albatross and mentally switches himself off. Albert Brooks, meanwhile, never says quit.  Every so-called hair in the eye of the lense is still a perfect scene regardless of the participation or lack of it, thereof, from his celluloid family.  For Brooks regards this film as 'paramount'(oops) over the desires of his cast of characters.  Brooks facile mind works methodically from beginning to end. From his perspective, nothing can go wrong, everything is in its place with a place for everything.  So when his documentary and the human equation around it blow up in his face , his conferences with colleagues are hilarious as he tries various remedies to salvage not only his project but his self-image. Brooks is a comic delight as a man who cannot take criticism regarding his methods and his interaction with  project staff  are decidedly one-sided, but in the capable hands of this farceur, his myopic viewpoint is always good for guffaws galore.  Real life should be this funny.  "},{"Title":"Best of Al Brooks","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Only six of these were ever made. Only five ever worked. We have four of those. IMHO this is the best movie Brooks ever made. He plays an egocentric, inept film director who turns a simple movie into a botched science experiment. The high-tech gadgetry is ultra low-tech these days. It's a gem of a movie. If you haven't seen it, it is well-worth renting -- or buying.  "},{"Title":"Albert Brooks may be the funniest man alive!","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie killed me! I got it off the PVT sale rack at Blockbuster. A major find, if you ask me. You can't even begin to describe Albert Brooks' humor. It's so complex, you have to see it to understand. Once you understand, you'll laugh your head off! "},{"Title":"I'm a comedian, not a liar...","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Albert Brooks, earlier in his career, may not have been the most appealing person in show business, but his screen persona was then certainly one of the funniest insecure, obsessive, vain, and obnoxious enough to make his low-key, self-deprecating satires a definite acquired taste. In this mock cinema verité parody of a then topical PBS reality series he attempts to document on camera one year in the life of the second-most typical family in America (the runner-up was preferred in order to avoid a winter in Green Bay, Wisconsin). But the scientific enquiry meets with several unforeseen obstacles, not the least of which is a complete breakdown of the actuality Brooks wants so desperately to capture. Charles Grodin's typically deadpan performance sets the proper comic mood, and the scenario includes plenty of cinema in-jokes sure to raise a chuckle from any film student (it might have been titled 'Reel Life'). One highlight is the slow-motion family frolic meant to show highbrow French critics what the word 'montage' is all about. "},{"Title":"REAL funny","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Albert Brooks wrote and directed this goof on the PBS landmark An American Family and it's hysterical. Trying to record the day to day banalities of an average American family, film-maker Brooks and company are as intrusive as possible while trying to be invisible --- the cameraman wears large orb-like headgear.As the everyman, Brooks wisely casts Charles Grodin, then at the height of his career and perfect playing the kind of inept father/husband just itching to be caught doing the most absurd things. Nobody is better at losing their grip than Grodin and Brooks eggs him on until he explodes. Brooks doesn't just film the family, he invades their lives and captures a lot of uncomfortable moments like a gynecological exam! REAL LIFE is a masterpiece of comic discomfort. "}{"Title":"Very, Very Close","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In his directorial debut, Albert Brooks combines the broad but edgy satire developed in his short films on `Saturday Night Live' with the ruthless self-flagellation that would become his trademark and while it falls short of the genius that would explode in `Modern Romance' and `Lost In America', it's chock full of purpose. Brooks has a lot on his plate and wants to make sure he gets it all out in the open his targets include documentary filmmaking, reality television (his prescience about today's programming is surprising), Hollywood and, not least of all, the role of the comedian as social critic in society. As a narcissistic comedian/filmmaker intruding into the lives of a hapless Phoenix nuclear family (the parents are Charles Grodin and Frances Lee McCain), Brooks immediately establishes a sophisticated filmic style that includes a mastery of long, uncomfortable takes and a shrewd sense of camera placement that keeps you tuned into the conceit of having lives recorded for fun and profit; that the conceit turns outrageously psychotic at the end only adds to the immaculate design. Unlike Woody Allen, whose unsightly condescension towards his audience is obvious and demeaning, Brooks respects his viewer's intelligence and rewards it with challenging material that's also accessible and funny.  "},{"Title":"Droll, outlandish and full of laughs","Date":"13 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Albert Brooks' REAL LIFE maintains an eerie prescience, but the man simply took a PBS experiment from the '70s and smashed it into Hollywood artifice to profound comedic effect. His character's film experiment (you guessed it, to document real life as movie) seems novel, but the family's miserable and it only goes downhill from there. It's a well-chosen cast, full of funny personalities - Grodin is a highlight here and can't stop making contact with the camera - and then there's Brooks' used car salesman filmmaker, virtually devolving matters into absurdity by his own hand. And he's on fire here, playing a fictionalized dickish version of himself (and pulling no punches doing it).The man's a genius, if for no other reason than for introducing one of the funniest props in movie history the Ettinauer 226XL! Very good stuff.8/10 "},{"Title":"I'll show the French what a montage really is!","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In his most thorough feat of self-deprecation, Albert Brooks plays himself as a smarmy upstart Hollywood director charged with filming a real-life portrait of an ordinary Phoenix family to be financed by the Boulder Institute for Behavioral Science. Taking as its satirical subject the PBS series An American Family, Real Life's opening text scroll includes an excerpt from a media critic that reads (paraphrasing), This is a whole new method of anthropological research&#x85;as interpreted by the camera. It's the last part, interpreted by the camera, that clearly interests Brooks. In detailing the crumbling of the family and the director's process of selecting what to shoot and how (it isn't long before he's staging scenes), Brooks shows how the mere presence of the camera shapes a new reality for spectator and subject. Their first dinner under camera (the technicians wear ridiculous astronaut-like helmet devices over the top halves of their bodies) has Charles Grodin trying to present his perfect family, but his stressed-out wife gives a hilariously blunt assessment of her feelings. (Meanwhile, Brooks wonders whether his leading man is coming across as unsympathetic.) The institute's naïve statisticians don't see the folly of their pursuit until Brooks makes the film his blatant vanity project; the comic highpoint is a montage of happy, slow-motion family moments that Brooks narrates (I'll show the French what a montage really is!). In this project, all are delusional, from the quixotic scientists who fatuously hired Hollywood talent for a film about reality to the unseen producer who makes money the inappropriate subject of every conversation. And film-making, like all profit-driven endeavors, is subject to self-interest, rendering futile the entire notion of the camera as objective recorder. But try telling that to a Hollywood producer. "},{"Title":"Real misfire","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film has one funny sight gag - the camera men with their high-tech (for its time) helmet cams prowling the Yeager and Brooks households like voyeuristic aliens. And that's it. Otherwise, it is a static, flat satire that goes nowhere. I'm amazed to read some other comments describing Brooks' first film as complex. It's consistently dumb and obvious and desperate - the perfect family is actually dysfunctional, the black academic is a prig who resents being racially stereotyped, the Hollywood producer only cares about making money not art, a gynecologist is actually a baby trader who was ambushed by 60 Minutes (sounds funnier than it plays) -- and so on. Ha ha. At nearly every turn, Brooks sucks the humor out of every potentially humorous situation. He doesn't know how to pace in the longer format and the film feels horribly padded, as well. I sat there stone-faced for a little over an hour and a half waiting for the humor to kick in, charitably chuckling here or there.Of course with the explosion of reality programming over the last decade, one would think that this film was ahead of its time. But Brooks botches it by focusing more on himself and the totally unfunny scientific institute. We don't even meet the Yeagers until about a half hour into the picture. There is absolutely no need for the scientific institute in the film, and Brooks should have remained OFF camera, goading and cajoling the Yeagers into being more real from behind the scenes. That might have been funny. But what we get is Brooks moving into the house next door (not funny) and expecting what? This is where the movie makes no sense. Does he want conflict or the perfect family being perfect? Because when he gets conflict, he seems dissatisfied, and the institute reacts with grave concern that jeopardizes the entire project. But isn't that the whole point? Why would the institute even become involved unless they wanted to study the ups and downs and everyday struggles of a typical American family? The whole concept is half-baked and hopelessly confused.This film makes so many poor choices. Why would the studio send the Yeagers on a two-week trip to Hawaii? It's not funny and serves no purpose. The film within the film is supposed to be about the film-makers' callous intrusion into the Yeagers' life, not their generosity. Generosity isn't funny. When the Yeagers return, Brooks opts to give them an hour to themselves. Again, how is this funny? He should be right on top of them from the first moment and never let up. He shouldn't live in the house across the street, he should live IN the Yeagers' house. Time after time, Brooks shys away from where the laugh is. When the documentary finally starts filming, the wife complains of menstrual cramps at the dinner table (not funny) which triggers an unfunny argument with husband Charles Grodin, and we see that reality is messy, unpleasant. Might have been funny or interesting if the film had built to that moment, showing the Yeagers gradually breaking down under the constant scrutiny of their lives. But it happens with no build-up, no tension, no funny.Strangely, Brooks seems bored with the Yeager family. They never come into focus, particularly the children. The young son is given nothing to do and barely registers. The daughter gets one junior-high-school-drama queen scene, then is forgotten. The wife flirts with Brooks early on (not funny) but that's quickly dropped. Why would the wife possibly invite Brooks to film her visit to a gynecologist? Not funny. Might have been funny if she had let it slip she had an appointment with the gynecologist and Brooks had tailed her there and surprised her at the office. And Grodin, a very funny actor, is completely wasted in the bland role of the bland father trying to maintain his bland image.Brooks ill-advisedly makes himself the star, and he just isn't at the top of his game here. His neurotic ramblings don't have much bite, his character isn't sharply enough written, and his goals never become clear. I should have been tipped off in the first scene. Brooks is schmaltzily introducing himself and the institute representatives to the town. The black academic is uncomfortable in this setting and doesn't stand up when introduced. Brooks jokes that if the audience is wondering why he didn't stand it's because he doesn't eat much. Huh? Oh, I guess I just don't get that complex Brooks humor. "},{"Title":"Foreshadows Survivor, Big Brother","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is, of course, a very funny film (it's Albert Brooks, after all).  But it also shows the quantum uncertainty in reality television.  By attempting to observe the experiment, the experiment is altered.Albert Brooks and his film crew follow the hapless family in Real Life, dressed in bizarre helmet-cams.  Charles Grodin, his wife and children can't help but be constantly aware that cameras are present, and this leads to all sorts of atypical behaviour.I mention CBS' reality shows in my summary because I remember seeing one of the Survivor contestants on Politically Incorrect claim that after a short while they forgot the cameras were on the island with them.  What she couldn't grasp -- but Albert Brooks does -- was that while the cameras weren't foremost in their minds all the time, you can't help but be influenced by the peripheral knowledge that a big Betacam camera and mike boom are just a few feet from your so-called reality. "},{"Title":"Smart & Funny -- My #9","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  #9 on my all-time list. Another one of those truly (and tragically) hidden gems -- full of great lines that you can spout ad nauseum to your friends and family until they finally see it (and, trust me, they'll thank you for it).  Without question, this is Brooks' best.  And true to his genius, arguably the funniest character in the film is one you never see -- just a voice on a speaker phone. If you don't become a Brooks fan after seeing this film, you'll never be one. "},{"Title":"Along with Spinal Tap...","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...this is one of the funniest American movies of the late 20th century, and like 'Tap' it also mines the rich vein of documentary-film arrogance. Brooks' strength as a comic observer lies in his self-obsessed insincerity, a man of  riotously extreme unction. It's almost impossible to pick a favorite scene from this spoof, especially for industry insiders. "},{"Title":"Albert Brooks tries so hard,...","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Albert Brooks tries so hard in this fake documentary about American family life that you find yourself willing to wade through the movie's many slow moments and gags that just don't succeed. Plus, the movie can be quite funny from time to time. But, in general, I look at this like a fake documentary that was a noble experiment that ultimately failed--but is still worth seeing. After all, if it hadn't been for films like this, maybe they never would have made films like BEST IN SHOW as well as AND GOD SPOKE.Although the purpose of this documentary is to show American family life in an unobtrusive manner, ultimately, the family becomes like a lot of modern reality TV families and the action becomes more and more suggested by the producer, Brooks. And, ultimately, the filming takes on a dramatic impact on the family.Funny, insightful but far from perfect. "},{"Title":"Good Albert PHOENIX Brooks movie'","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As a Phoenix resident, it was interesting to see the old Phoenix. Boy has it changed since the old days. Well, I was from ABQ before, I moved here in 1998. This movie was good and there was a lot of DARK humor, such as the horse scene, where another 2.5 percent of halophane was injected into that HORSE.The martian photographers were interesting. Hammon Buck is on his way to my house now via plane. I wish he was here to see this reality TV movie. This movie is really cool. I was shocked. It's a mockumentary of sorts.Albert Brooks is the best. "}]