[{"Title":"life's core brutally and artfully revealed - 10+++","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"55 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  What a wonderful film. If you ever thought you were safe, or that your world was impregnable, then you must see this film. Watch as every important elements of a young man's (Jimmy's) life is stripped away, piece by piece, until he has no anchor, no magnet, and no direction in life.Without his familiar crutches (hooliganism, drugs, girlfriends, Mod clansmen, job, parents, home and 'scooter'), Jimmy is faced with a terrifying realization that he - alone - must completely rebuild and reinvent himself.In a way that is hard to describe in words, director Franc Roddam exposes the raw core of life, unadorned by all the temporal things by which we measure success, worth and happiness. Better still, he forces the viewer to examine the very definition of 'a life'.The movie generates ever increasing momentum, culminating in one of the most intensely disturbing realizations ever captured on film, with the white cliffs of Dover as the foreground, and the The Who's equally monumental and haunting Love Reign O'er Me in the background.With the possible exception of Bill Murray's version of The Razor's Edge, this is about as perfect a chance as we are ever afforded to examine the foundations of our own lives (...what more can you ask of a film?). Though this is not an uncommon cinematic theme, it has never been so brilliantly achieved.An emotional and spiritual tour de force, and simply one of the best films ever made. "},{"Title":"An underrated masterpiece","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"52 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  One of the main criticisms at the time Quadrophenia came out was that it was noisy and violent rubbish. Quite how this opinion was ever formed is puzzling because the film I saw was a brilliant realistic portrayal of a mod in the 60's. The film has directorial flair, an excellent soundtrack and some underrated scripting and performances. It perfectly captures the angst and disillusionment of its protaganist to a level that has never been seen on film before or since. "},{"Title":"The British Rebel Without A Cause...","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"35 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  A young man joins the British mod movement and gains a feeling of belonging and importance, but this makes him even more disenfranchised from his boring 9 to 5 life.Britain's answer to Rebel Without A Cause is based around a fair-to-middling Who concept album (they financed the movie too) and was made on a modest budget, but has far too much going for it to be ignored. Especially if you are working class and come from the UK.(How it is viewed elsewhere is beyond my telling, but reading reviews on this site I get the impression that people from all over the world can relate to its central themes - even if the locations and accents are alien.)Director Franc Roddam was smart enough to cast a young Phil Daniels in the central role of Jimmy. Daniels is a good actor, but he is neither smooth or particularly good looking. This prevents him being accused of glamorising some of the things that he gets up to.Jimmy is, indeed, also a bit naive. He has a boring job in the post room of an advertising agency (note the satire about pushing smoking - this is the no health warning 60's!) and rides around on a scooter with lots of lights on the front.Life, for him, is about getting through the day and partying at night/weekends to the hip sounds of the day - the non-Who soundtrack album is a taster to mid 60's Brit Pop.(His parents don't understand him either - but this could be taken as read in this style of movie!)As most of us know, and a few even tell Jimmy in the movie proper Life cannot be all parties, cheap thrills and gang fights, but he doesn't seem to want to listen. He is one of the world's great there must be more to life than this merchants - in this he is right, but you need to be brighter, better educated or better looking to have it. There is a good cast of British new wavers on show here Leslie Ash plays Jimmy's love interest and Sting gets to be the Ace Face - the good looking top dog mod that Jimmy wants to be. The home truth about this character leaves Jimmy even more exposed.Quadrophenia is one of the greatest films about being a teenager ever made and thank god we have video cassettes, DVDs and cable/sat TV so people can actually see it. A low budget classic that deserves to seen at least once by all film buffs and several times if it reflects your life in any way.       "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I hated this film when I saw it as a teenager back in 1979.  The reason was the movie was realistic--too realistic!  I identified (in some respects) with the main character Jimmy, and his life was bleak and depressing.  Seeing it over 20 years later, I love it!  It's a superb mix of the 1960s British Angry Young Men films, the Who's great album and 1979 sensibilities.  It's about Jimmy (excellent performance by Phil Daniels) and his friends.  It takes place in 1964 London and there are constant battles between the Mods (Jimmy and friends) and the Rockers.  The film is full of violence, sex, VERY strong language (good luck with the accents), anger, alienation...the works.  However, there is a strong sense of humor (a break in at a drug store is hilarious) and it does have a (sort of) happy ending.  But it is very dark and depressing.  The music score is excellent.  It's not just the Who, but other 1960s groups are used also.  The direction by Franc Roddam is wonderful--it perfectly merges the music, imagery and story (especially with Love, Reign Over Me).  My only real complaint--why not use the whole album Quadrophenia?  Only about 1/8 of the two record set is used!  Also interesting to see Sting in his first movie.  Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"Not only a great adaptation of The Who's landmark, but one of the greatest motorcycle movies ever made.","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Franc Roddam, the director of Quadrophenia, did not disappoint me with his interpretation of The Who's rock opera (unlike Tommy, which had it's moments but didn't was all over the map so to speak). He lets a viewer, who may not be entirely familiar to what occurred between the mods and the rockers in the early to mid 1960's Britain, in on what the energy, the attitudes were like among the young and old. It's not even classifiable as a rock opera as a film, because it becomes a hybrid- it's part motorcycle flick, with some well staged, intense fight scenes, rumbles, riots, etc; it's part anti-establishmentarianist take on what it's like to be at an age when you don't know what to do you with your life, and outside of the pleasures of being with friends and kicking' ass you tend to be aimless or work for people you don't like. It's also, major in fact, a psychological character study of one of these anti-establishment kids, a mod named Jimmy (Phil Daniels), who may be a little off balance in the head due to a fueling desire to be both with the excitement of his gang and with his need to find himself by himself, as well as to the blues pills.There isn't as much of a story as there is character development, which sticks true to the source material, written by the clever and driving force of The Who, Pete Townsend. As Jimmy goes through parties, fights, a little love with a girl (Steph, played well by Leslie Ash), a riot, and problems with his parents and job, he enters a downward spiral. This is a tricky sort of story and character to pull off, because lay it on too thick and the audience could see the character as naive (and perhaps the character is, which makes sense in a sense), but add on the toughness and one-dimensional side of the biker attitude and it becomes a B-movie motorcycle flick. This doesn't happen. Somehow the elements come together in the film, with the performances (by the way, Sting's debut performance is both mysterious and, ultimately, kinda funny), the documentary-style direction and editing (by Brian Trainspotting Tefano), and the music. The Who themselves serve as musical directors, and it's highly interesting for both Who and non-Who fans in how they choose only parts of songs sometimes (Punk and the Godfather, Dr. Jimmy) and leave some out completely (Sea and Sand, Drowned, two songs I hoped would've made the final cut). By the time the third act reaches it's heated peak, the music starts to perfectly embody what the character's going through. It also doesn't come off as cheesy due to the power of the songs.Maybe I might be a little biased in writing this review- when I was around seventeen, eighteen years old, this was my favorite album behind Jimi Hendrix's Are You Experienced. Besides it containing some of the Who's most daring, somber, and fun work (515, Bell Boy, I'm One), the story was something that I could identify with strongly, as its themes are very knowing of what it's like for any guy at that point of crossing the bend from childhood to adulthood. Not to mention it rivaled Tommy in its ambition via the compositions, the entertainment value, etc. So I was almost hesitant to watch the film, as I thought I might have my expectations raised too high and it would be too loosely translated and made as not my kind of rock musical (i.e. like Tommy). For me, the experience was contradictory to what I thought- I ended up learning more about this atmosphere, the essence of living in Brighton by the beach and feeling the need for competition, acceptance, and then anger and loneliness. By the end of Quadrophenia I looked at Jimmy as being a character in the tradition of Humphrey Bogart in Treasure of the Sierra Madre- an anti-hero that may be doomed, but a viewer can still care about him. Overall, an un-expected treat, and will surely please both Who and non-Who fans alike, though for Who fans the added treat is that the the emotion and strength of the group and songs translate excellently in the film. A+ "},{"Title":"You've gotta be something, haven't you?","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  One of the finest British films ever made, QUADROPHENIA is a gritty and compelling study of the early 1960s mod phenomenon, originally released in 1979 as bands like The Jam were engineering a comeback of the whole parkas and scooters style fetish. Talk about perfect timing. I was five when all that was happening, and I can still remember seeing vast gangs of teenagers chanting We are the mods, we are the mods on their way to school. This film had a huge impact - even moreso when it was screened alongside the harrowing borstal drama SCUM (1978) on one of the all-time greatest double bills. The film tells the story of Jimmy, a slightly paranoid, definitely angst-ridden and certainly hate-fuelled young man desperate to escape his complacent background and low-status job by riding with the local mod contingent. For one reason or another, Jimmy just doesn't fit in. When all his friends have found female companions at a wild party, Jimmy is reduced to smashing up the garden with his scooter to relieve his frustrations. He seems to have a very childish desire to be the centre of attention all the time - when all the girls in the ballroom are admiring the 'Ace Face', Jimmy takes a potentially fatal dive off the balcony and into the crowd below. The only time he feels like one of the crowd is when he is part of the huge, bloodthirsty throng of mods who converge on Brighton one weekend with a view to beating up as many rockers as possible and causing a vast amount of criminal damage. But when he returns to London, his life falls apart, and the final half-hour or so is absolutely riveting in its unflinching study of a very confused Jimmy finally coming apart at the seams. All the performances are top notch, and the film whips along at a devastating pace, fuelled by the Who's wonderful soundtrack and Franc Roddam's energetic direction. Despite a couple of anachronisms (notice the double reissue of 'The Who Sell Out'/'A Quick One' in the party scene, long before either album was even recorded!) this is a striking and vivid evocation of a time and place that remains frighteningly relevant today. SEE IT. "},{"Title":"Near-perfect illustration of a music masterpiece","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" First, as you perhaps can tell by my name, I'm a die-hard The Who fan and have been for a long time. Listening to the original Quadrophenia rock opera is almost a religious act for me. I also have to add that I was born in 1984, and the sixties for me are some kind of paradise perished forever. I had to wait several years after listening to the album before seeing the movie. During the first half hour, I was disappointed how few of the music was in it, but then the movie began to fascinate me by itself, it really dragged me in. This is mostly due to the great Phil Daniels. It is his portrait of Jim that really keeps the film alive. He *is* the mod of the sixties, he shows in every single scene why they were mods and why it couldn't last. The other actors also do a good job, nothing spectacular, but solid. Sting is entertaining, too. There are several changes in the story compared to the Quadrophenia CD booklet, but they make sense and work well. It would have been interesting to stay still closer to the rock opera, but, regarding that, when the movie was made, more than a decade had passed since the time depicted, it is understandable that the movie makers wouldn't want to go totally musical as in the pathetic Tommy film. Quadrophenia, in my opinion, is better than Tommy because the story isn't torn to pieces and then mixed with tons of whatever they had left on the cutting room floor; it is a coherent line of events with the songs put in in the right moment (except, perhaps, for the divine Love reign o'er me). Over all, the movie really thrilled me. It is a very good adaptation of the rock opera, but also a great youth film in its own right. Call it cult if you don't like it, it has deserved it. "},{"Title":"Classic tale of teen rebellion","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a fabulous movie that goes far beyond the usual one-dimensional teenager- struggles-with-society's-conformity tale. In it, the main character, Jimmy, has got a good job but which seems pointless to him. He's a member of a posse of Mods, a mid-sixties image- group that included quasi-Beatles-style clothes and haircuts, the use of Vespa scooters, and of course sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll.Jimmy hates the conformity as symbolized by his TV-watching, emotionally-detached parents and dreads the prospect of becoming an ice-cold working stiff. Bus as time passes he begins to squirm in the conformity imposed by being a Mod, a conformity so ruthless it costs him a friendship.Everything that seems to be a key to happiness, whether it's romance with Steph, a beautiful member of his posse, or taking part in a kind of Mod Woodstock, or adoring the King of the Mods (played perfectly by Sting), or even just trying to escape it all aboard his trusty Vespa, becomes a dead end of conformity.Throughout the movie, his frustration is building, and he can't figure out why. In the end, he finally realizes the source of his anguish, and, without giving anything away, addresses the heart of the matter.Excellent performances in this movie (though the accents will be downright impenetrable for some viewers), great directing, strong writing, and of course it marvelously portrays the Mod lifestyle. All the groups shown in the movie can be taken as symbols for just about any community you could think of.Best of all, the soundtrack is superb. Unfortunately, you can't really get the sense of it just watching the movie, so pick up the CD if you like The Who; it's one of their very best.Overall, a must-see.  "},{"Title":"That's why I'm a Mod see, because I don't want to be like everyone else.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" As the years have wore on, Quadrophenia has broken free of tagged cult classic status to emerge as a bona fide candidate for best British youth movie ever. The iconography of its main protagonist has subsided to let the core sensibility of the movies theme shine thru, this is pure and simple a perfect depiction of fallen youth during a heady time, a tale of ones ideology crumbling so sadly over the course of one weekend.The period is captured vividly by director Franc Roddam, the stark threat of violence mixed in with the best music the 60s had to offer, serves to let the viewer feel they were there at the time, and the result is a perfect period piece. The story follows Jimmy a tremendous Phil Daniels on a voyage of discovery that is funny at times, yet also very sadly tragic, and for anyone who was once a teenager searching for identity and purpose........ then this film will have maximum resonance.Wonderful 9/10. "},{"Title":"Mad Mod","Date":"11 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I'm almost finished reading Pete Townshend's autobiography Who I Am and have been listening a lot to the Who's original double album of the same name so the time was right to finally watch the big-screen dramatisation of the record. I'm just a bit too young to remember anything about the vicious Mods v Rockers pitched battles at Brighton or the Mod lifestyle (I'm not sure just how far north it made it up to Scotland, it always seemed to me principally a London-based movement).Nevertheless, the broader themes in the film of the generation gap between teenagers and their parents, the pain of rejection, youthful revolt against authority plus the less intellectual need for young kids to get drunk, drugged, violent and sexed up are universal and seemingly constant, which with the background of great 60's music, made for an engrossing and enjoyable if occasionally challenging watch.This is Phil Daniel's Jimmy Fenton's worm's eye-view of life in the mid-60's, working in a dead-end job, out of touch with his parents and although on the face of it, there doesn't appear to be much to rebel against, sure enough, he loses his way and his mind as he suffers rejection from his employer, said parents, would-be girlfriend Leslie Ash and after seeing his Mod Hero 'ace-face played by Sting, meekly conform to society mores carrying bags at a hotel, he gets pushed over the edge (literally). His only way out of the tormenting feelings he's experiencing for the first time sadly involve just a one-way ticket.The film adopts a realistic, warts and all approach, with no let-up in the levels of bad language used, scenes of drug use (although it is only pill-popping uppers or blues as they're called in the film) and of course the centre-piece of the film, the recreation of the infamous Mods and Rockers Battle Of Brighton of 1965. There's some earthy humour though to leaven things, particularly two Mods encounter in the dark with a bunch of sleeping rockers, although one or two stray elements of sentimentality (Jimmy's heart-to- heart with his long-suffering dad, his friendship with an old pal turned rocker) slightly jar. Fan as I am, I could have done too without the too obvious genuflecting to the film's producers The Who (Jimmy putting on the My Generation single at a party, then gazing in awe at the band on Ready Steady Go), I guess he who pays the piper and all that.Central to the movie is a superb performance by Daniels as Jimmy, his mood-swings oscillating violently as he takes or comes off his pills, wired to the moon as we say today. His energy and vividness set the tone for the whole film. Interestingly director Franc Roddam (later the creator of Auf Weidersehn Pet and, ...er Masterchef on TV), changes the ending and placement of songs from the album, but there's no denying the memorable climax to the piece.In the end I was transported not only back into the era depicted, but more importantly into the head of helpless dancer Jimmy and would state that the movie well complements the great album The Who originally released, a rarity in rock movies. "}{"Title":"Good sense of period and culture but it is the poignant and convincing portrayal of Jimmy that makes it worth seeing (minor SPOILERS)","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Jimmy Cooper works the daily grind in the mail room of a local advertising firm. It is a dreary and lowly position and one that offers him nothing that he wants from life. In stark contrast, being part of the Mod scene offers him identity, acceptance, attention and the chance to be somebody. The big weekend down in Brighton beckons, with all the fun that comes with it, not to mention the chance of a run in with some rockers and Jimmy continues to live at night while suffering through the working day.It was with some surprise and an element of disgust that my colleague reacted when I simply said you know, I've never seen Quadrophenia so I figured that I should probably make a bit of time to see what is considered a classic of modern British cinema. Watching it I found an interesting film that successfully mixes characters with a convincing sense of time and place. It is worth me saying that I'm too young (and from Northern Ireland) so I have no knowledge of this scene or time but the few aging Mods I know assure me that it is not a million miles off the wider experiences. So for me it serves as a snapshot of a time that has since moved on and has become more of a minor fashion statement than a scene but it is the strength of the film that the themes and characters are what keeps the film relevant regardless.Specifically of course this is evident in the troubled and confused (Chr1st I'm middle-aged) youth Jimmy. The film convincingly portrays his neediness to be part of something to define himself, the joy of being there, the acting-out that comes when even within his group he is left out and the emotional collapse that comes when he fails to find anything to find the joy of being part of the mob in Brighton. It is a well observed and surprisingly honest and critical depiction of the character and of the wider struggle of youth. To me this is the core of the film and it is a solid piece of character drama, written with a real understanding of the feelings of those of this age. The period stuff is obviously very important too and the look, feel and soundtrack are all really well done and very enjoyable if you have any affection for any part of this culture (and I do for the music).Daniels leads the cast really well with a performance that makes the film and delivers on the content in the script. He is a tragic and sympathetic figure and I imagine that many viewers will have some experiences that can make them connect with his turn. He is well supported by less well developed characters but still solid performances from a host of British acting talent. Ash is not brilliant but is OK and has not been in anything better since. Davis, Sting, Winstone, Elphick and others all support well but mostly the film belongs to Daniels and his performance is worthy of this responsibility. Writer/director Roddam pulls it altogether really well (some of it almost feels like news footage), with memorable images and shots, although it is hard to forget that his recent world has not really lived up to the standard he set early (unless you happen to be a big Master Chef fan, in which case he has).Overall then this is an enjoyable but yet also impacting portrayal of the pain of passing from youth to adult. The convincing delivery of period and place only serves to make it better and, while this may date it, the strength of the character and of Daniels' delivery keeps it relevant and engaging almost thirty years later. "},{"Title":"Can You See The Real Me ?","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Jimmy is a mod in sixties London. He wears a parka, rides a Lambretta scooter, listens to The Who and gets into gang-fights with rival rockers. He reckons he's a face, but when he gets tired of fitting in, getting loaded with his mates, fighting with his parents and his girlfriend slutting around, he has some hard decisions to make.This is a pretty good teenage angst movie, a kind of nineteen-sixties British version of Rebel Without A Cause or Pump Up The Volume. The backdrop is fairly unique - London and Brighton in 1964, as the mod movement was just peaking and burning out, and the movie does an excellent job of recreating the times, especially the notorious beach-fights. Although an original movie script, it's inspired by The Who's classic 1973 concept album and its story by Pete Townshend and book photography by Ethan A. Russell. For me it has some great moments when the music is playing, albeit briefly, such as when Jimmy stares at the canal and Townshend sings I'm One. Where it runs out of steam for me is the kitchen-sink drama, which is played okay, but is pretty boring. Daniels is good in the lead as the likably unlikeable Jimmy, and Elphick and Winstone give good support, but the rest of the cast aren't very exciting, with the exception of a young Sting as the iconic Ace Face. When Jimmy's on the move or thinking things through it's good, but his lame antics with his buddies and brainless rows with Steph are kinda tedious. An interesting flick nonetheless, with a cult following and a terrific soundtrack. Shot in Brighton and around Shepherd's Bush, Acton and Wembley in west London, where The Who all grew up. For a better movie of a record by The Who, check out Ken Russell's Tommy instead. "},{"Title":"Working Class AntiHero.","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Directed by Franc Roddam and produced by The Who, this partnership brings us one of most grittiest and realistic movies of the late 1970's, set in London during the Swinging Sixties at the height of the clash of the two dominating working class subculture's Mod's and Rocker's. During their heyday, the Mods and Rockers would converge in the Seaside town of Brighton, and their differences would end in extreme conflict.The Who were the biggest Mod band during the sixties, feeding off each other for inspiration's, such as dance moves and fashion's for example's. What they also had in common were the use of drug's, both the Mod's and The Who would be taking Speed, a drug that would help keep them awake and hyperactive far longer than the body and mind could sometimes cope. After the sixties had ended and the Mods and Rockers had passed away and other fads, fashions and ideals had emerged during the Glam Rock day's of the early Seventies, The Who produced a concept album, the reminiscent Quadrophenia. A double vinyl album that came out in 1973, and the story being about Jimmy the Mod. Being a mental condition similar to schizophrenia, were the illness is spilt into two traits, the Quadrophenia sufferer has a four way split, though not hearing voices as such, but still a mental degeneration in it's own right. Jimmy, who is the recipient of this condition, due to the over use of the drugs and booze that his working class life style dictates.As time went by, the late '70's had arrived and The Who were delving into movie production. Quadrophenia the movie had arrived. Starring up and coming English actresses and actor's as Phil Daniels as Jimmy, Leslie Ash as Steph and Toyah Wilcox as Monkey. This movie, too, contains some of the most realistic and extremely harsh language that I have heard in a movie, the London locations are great as well as the wonderful scooters that are ridden by these pilled-up Wild Ones, very nostalgic. To see Jimmy and his two mates riding along Tower Bridge late at night to score drugs for the Brighton meet is, well, nice.The musical score is as you would expect from a Who soundtrack Thunderous and poignant, and Townsends' lyrics' delving into the troubled mindset of this young protagonist as a Physiatrist that delves and then reports his findings to his audience. During the opening scene a silhouette of Jimmy walking back up from the cliff tops is seen. You have to remember that the movie is of Jimmy the boy, the boy who is betrayed by his best friend, his girlfriend and let down by his parents. To make his life more incomplete he loses his job, then he trashes his scooter, and his Mod hero Face turns out to be just another ordinary guy working for The Man, a sheep in wolfs clothing. To the end of the movie he steals the Faces scooter, rides along the cliff tops and throws it over the side. He has finally grown up, he's had enough. The irony is that being a Mod is not to be like anyone else, to be different from the heard. To be able to grow up is to also conform, to a higher level of responsibility, to also be different and individual. To be Adult. "},{"Title":"How much you appreciate this film probably has a lot to do with where you are from and when you were born.","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Quadrophenia is a movie that is based in part on the album of the same name by The Who. It also was co-written by Pete Townshend and some of the executive producers included the four members of the band. It's set in the early-mid 1960s in England and concerns Jimmy and his group of 'Mod' friends. The Mods were well before my time but apparently they liked to dress stylishly, drive mopeds and tended towards R&B instead of popular rock 'n roll. Also, the Mods in this film are mostly angry, directionless and seem in many ways like precursors to the punks of the 1970s--though with a much greater fashion sense. Plus, I really cannot imagine punks riding around in motor scooters. But, they both seemed to share a love of violence, drugs and anger.As far as the plot goes, the film is much like the Mods--rather directionless. This isn't a complaint and the film deliberately chose to show the lack of structure and anger of the Mods. For the most part, these teens drink, fight, take amphetamines, listen to music and stay up all night. Jimmy seems to be among the angriest and most likely to get himself killed. Later in the film, Jimmy and his blokes head to Brighton for a holiday and mayhem ensues. Exactly what happens, you'll need to see for yourself.As I said above, how much you like the film will depend a lot on you. If you grew up at the same time and place as these hooligans, then perhaps you'll have a feeling of nostalgia watching it. As for me, although the film was well made, it was also unpleasant and I got a bit tired of all the pointlessly angry and disaffected youth. It just wasn't my thing and it's hard to love a film where you cannot stand any of the characters.A few final observations I don't think it was unintentional that the leading man, Jimmy, sure looked quite a bit like Townshend. The film sure could have used captions. I saw it on HULU and had to really pay attention to get what they were saying due to the accents. There's also a bit of male frontal nudity--though considering all the violence and anger, I doubt if it's a film you'd show your mom or your kids! Also, the music was very nice--the best part of the film, really. "},{"Title":"Great social commentary - greater music!!","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is one of the greater social commentaries of the 60's, for all it's  capturing of the mods & rockers; however, what people seem to forget is that it contains (although NOT complete) one of the greatest rock albums of all time.  Sadly, it was decided not to use the album in it's entireity, though the film could have benefited from that.  For instance, including Cut my Hair might have added a dimension which is sorely lacking in the film.  While Phil Daniels carries the film and is an obvious alter ego of Pete Townshend's,  without the full extent of this very important album, the film vacillates between being very important and very misunderstood.  It does not need to be the latter.  The album is extremely accessible and, moreover, articulate about the entire experience of being young, misunderstood and alienated.  The film almost reaches the album's level, but doesn't quite accomplish it.  Only a full listening to the double album, back to back (or if  you were lucky enough to catch the band's complete live performance of it, complete with narration by Phil Daniels in '97) will ever do the true fan justice.  This is a great idea, which is extremely difficult to execute, even with the best intentions.  My vote watch this movie only after you're very familiar with the album.  Otherwise, unless you grew up in the 60's in London, you won't undergo the visceral feelings necessary to truly appreciate this experience - and it is an EXPERIENCE!!! "},{"Title":"classic teen drama with great music","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I first saw Quadrophenia in a cinema in the early 80s. Its a great story with really good actors and of course a great soundtrack. Franc Roddam managed a brilliant transition from a - what we call a Themenalbum in German, don't know the right English translation..an album with an ongoing story, into a movie. I hardly ever saw a movie that managed to catch the problems of an adolescent that good. Today its funny to see Sting as a rebellious youth, but he did great as all actors did. Its a rather atmospheric movie and a real must for those who are interested in the 60s.  "},{"Title":"Quadrophenia......IS the way of life.","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This is a film that has stayed with me throughout my life. It was a film I grew up with and has always been a film close to my heart. Quadrophenia is the story of Jimmy, a mod who rides fast on his lambretta and lives faster fuelled by drugs, drink and a huge ego. Back in the 1970's Quadrophenia was a mere idea of musical rebellion on vinyl. Later with Franc Roddam (who later directed Auf Wiedersehen, Pet) they brought flesh and blood to a now legendary rock opera to the big screen. With key British talent playing the youth of tomorrow, Quadrophenia the movie was born. No-one at the time knew what cult classic it would become later in life but it has and will forever be. Quadrophenia is a movie where you can relate to the characters and you feel you are right with them through all the loud parties and the runs on the scooters right up to the fights and the arguments. Jimmy is after being the face the leader of the mods and as we journey through this film we can see that his wish may be the nightmare that he doesn't want. Filled with anger and hate, Jimmy's world slowly begins to crumble, he stands to lose everything that he holds dear to his heart. His world of delusions is dragging him kicking and screaming back to the real world. Phil Daniels gives a heartwarming performance as Jimmy that makes you believe exactly what the character is going through and makes you eventually sympathise with Jimmy. Ray Winstone is great and sometimes funny as his mate Kevin who has a new surprise for Jimmy. It's good to see Two of the cream of London Cockney's working together in a film that boasts the old trait of MADE IN Britain. The first time that they worked together was as rivals in the brutally realistic movie SCUM. I'd love to see another movie with these two sparring off against each other. Toyah it's a mystery Wilcox does a star turn in this as the girl who wants to get off with Jimmy, Dave Wingett makes you laugh as Dave, Jimmy's best mate, Phillip Davis provides some laughs as Chalky (check out the scene in the chemist) Leslie Ash does well in the role as Steph, the girl who Jimmy wants, and Sting as the face of the mods who Jimmy tries to outstage in Brighton. Backed by The Who's rocktastic soundtrack, Quadrophenia is a movie about what it's like to think you're somebody when you ain't and then get brought back to reality with a thud. The spectacular ending to this is the cream on top of this cult classic soufflé with the song that perfectly compliments the final scene sung with gusto by Roger Daltrey I'VE HAD ENOUGH which clearly words exactly what is going through Jimmy's mind at that particular point of the film. My advice is see it now if you haven't seen it before someone spoils the ending for you. Can you see the real me.......can ya?.........CAN YA?!!! "},{"Title":"The 400 Wild Ones","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" The Mods v. Rockers thing draws from The Wild One, but plainly this is a direct descendant of Truffaut's Les Quatre Cents Coups. Visually, this is evident from the rooftop camera angles, and narratively, in the youth at bay for being unable to conform to 'the rules'.The Who's double album was rather ambitious stuff...an arena rock opera that is about the Mod scene from ten years earlier, but without the slightest hint of retro-rock. Townshend and Co. ultimately stated that they were dissatisfied with the album.But, enter the UK's 'New Wave' revival of Mod affectations in the late 70s, marry this to Truffaut's 'New Wave' film-making, and you have a worthy reinvention of the project. The lyrical 'concept' is a manic-depressive youth who self-medicates, with bad results...the movie is imagined as a youth who chafes against the 'movie world'; that is, a world of actors playing 'actors' playing roles...and the youth is the only one who can't handle the dissonance when the other actors drop their facades, i.e., Sting appearing to be a rebel, the girl appearing to be a genuine love interest. Cinematically, it works quite well.What held this back, I think, is the dubbing in of the music from '73, which is so out of place, the result is a complete thematic mish-mash. Roddam should have taken the approach that was used in the '75 Tommy all-star musical; that is, to cut all ties with the extant music, and record period reinterpretations to fit in with the visual and narrative components. "},{"Title":"The best rock opera put to film.","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Tommy was a total waste of film and Lifehouse is only a dream in the back of Pete Townshend's mind, so what do Who fans have in the way of rock opera films? Quadrophenia. This was my favorite Who album and I was anxious to see how it would be brought to life. From Townshend's sprawling, philosophical album, Franc Roddam brings about a real story. This tale of teenage angst is not for everybody. But for anyone who has experienced feeling lost and helpless, not really knowing where to go or what to do with your life, this is for you. If you've ever enjoyed the Who's rock music and want some stunning visuals to go along with it, this is for you. If you want to know what it REALLY feels like to be young again, then this is for you.Phil Daniels gives the film's best performance as the tortured Jimmy, torn between doing things the way he always has and the growing emptiness inside of him. He's dedicated to his mod friends, but is repeatedly let down by them and his way of life.It's not a flawless film, but it is the best example of a rock opera movie adaptation, and it keeps in the spirit of the brilliant Quadrophenia album.Transport yourself back to the mod days. Don your parka, polish your Vespa, break out the French blues and grab your copy of My Generation, because this is an incredible trip. "},{"Title":"All the Young Dudes","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm about as old as Sting is now.When I was the age of the kids in this film, in my area of the world, we had two groups of kids, and you were either one or the other, unless you were a total loser, or just didn't care. In the movie, Jimmy and his crew were the mods; we had what were called the baldies, because of the close-cropped hair. I placed my allegiance with the baldies. We wore what would be called preppie attire now khaki trousers, button-down collar Gant shirts with the little loops in the back, high-polished leather oxfords in shell or wingtip styles, v-neck sweaters, and belts with big round buckles. The shoes were important in that the soles were heavy enough to inflict some damage in a fight. The shirts and trousers had to be perfectly pressed, and the shoes spit-shined. Yes, to any self-respecting baldie, appearance was extremely high on the list of importance. It was all about image, you see. Favorite baldie smoke boros; favorite beverage malt liquor.In place of the rockers, we had the greasers, for obvious reasons. Very similar to the rockers portrayed in the movie, with their black leather jackets, engineer boots, denims, and early Elvis-type hair. The greasers were more of your lower or lower middle class working kids, while the baldies were generally in a higher economic class. Music-wise, the baldies went for the Beatles, Stones and other British groups; the rockers hung onto Elvis, Jerry Lee Lewis, and Carl Perkins. Your typical greaser smoked Camels and drank Grain Belt beer, or booze.Others had mentioned The Outsiders. If I remember correctly, in that film, the Soc's (pronounced sowshuz) equated with the mods/baldies, but I can't recall what the rockers/greasers were called. Anyone?I guess the point is that all young men go through this stuff, to varying degrees, all over the place. You have that dangerous period where you are not a little kid anymore but not yet a man, the hormones are screaming, you think your parents are the stupidest people on earth, you HAVE to make sure you get your share. You desperately need to prove your manhood, because you're not a man and you're insecure about that whole deal. So you fight, to measure yourself against the next guy. And your buds are much more important to you than your parents.The Vespas in the movie were something we didn't have around here more car-oriented, though the greasers did have their Harley's. If there was a popular bike, it would have been the Honda 50! Sort of shows you how old and decrepit I am now.I really was blown away when I first saw the film. Seemed real raw and honest, and loved the Britishness of the whole thing. But we could all totally relate, because as you see, the English kids were alot like us. "}{"Title":"We are the mods! We are the mods! Hail, hail, hail, hail.  (spoilers)","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" 'Quadrophenia' is pretty much a like it or hate movie, and understandably so considered a cult classic. This is a movie that largely focuses on one rather eccentric young man who is party to the ongoing nonsense rivalry between Mods and Rockers in the mid 60s. Although the soundtrack is quite good, largely with tracks from The Who (the title comes from a Who album), the story, at least for me (since I have little interest in or sympathy for the story's arrogant young characters) is quite dull. True, one might identify with the lead's impatience for the distance between he and his parents, or the mundane work detail as a mailroom clerk, or that he can't seem to hang on to the girl he desires whenever they meet, or the contest for attention between he and the 'head' mod (played with little emotion by Sting), but unless you want to watch a character drown himself in his miseries and not do much else, then you probably won't have much fun with this film. Not to mention the poor sound quality that prevents much of the early dialogue from being heard. Nonetheless, it is one of the few (if not only) movies that I have seen that was about mod. "},{"Title":"If you like Mods, watch this!","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Quadrophenia is a great story about a teenager living in Britain during the Rockers vs. Mods movement. Phil Daniels captured the film as Jimmy Cooper, the cool, yet, sophisticated, drugged out Mod who goes through many obstacles. I really think that The Who did a great job with this film and I wished that they could've done another one like this. It was also a good film because of Sting (Ace).Not many people know about the Mods or what teenage life was like back then in 1963; so I'm glad that this came out. I would recommend this movie to anybody who likes The Who or just wants to lay back and watch a British drama. "},{"Title":"An underrated cult gem","Date":"3 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I knew little to nothing about the 'mods' and 'rockers' of Swinging Sixties London and the fierce rivalry that bristled between them before going into the film, but Quadrophenia, Franc Roddam's film based on The Who's rock opera of the same name, completely immerses the viewer in their world. The images I tend to conjure of this important era in Britain's history is that of The Beatles running from a screaming crowd of ecstatic girls in A Hard Day's Night (1964). While Richard Lester's film has the fortune of being made at the time this movement was thriving, it's light-hearted fare, albeit a terrific one.Quadrophenia doesn't pull its punches, and portrays the mods, in particular the young, alienated Jimmy (Phil Daniels) in all of their rough-and-tumble, amphetamine-popping glory. Adorned in the latest fashion and riding around London on his customised scooter, Jimmy funds his lifestyle by begrudgingly working as a post room boy for the kind of stiff-upper-lipped types he loathes. Outside of his job, he is a living nightmare for his parents, constantly out all hours listening to rock music with his friends and popping blue uppers to keep him on edge.He is romantically invested in Steph (Leslie Ash), who is currently involved with another chap, but after he does finally sleep with her, he discovers that the experience didn't have the same lasting effect it did on him. Jimmy also learns that his friend Kevin (Ray Winstone), fresh out of the army, is a rocker and therefore an enemy. A sense of alienation builds inside of the protagonist, with only the sense of belonging within the gang and cheap drugs to help drag him through his depression. It all builds up to a visit to Brighton where, along with super-cool mod Ace Face (Sting), meet up for a huge brawl with a gang of rockers.Backed by a terrific soundtrack from The Who, Quadrophenia recreates a fashion craze now long-gone, and does so convincingly with a real sense of time and place. Jimmy and his gang are all working-class, slumping through dead-end jobs to fund their lifestyle in spite of their humble upbringings, infusing the film with a sense of social- awareness. The group show no desire whatsoever to fit in the social structure of a society they feel is unfair, with Jimmy in particular feeling left hung out to dry. But the most impressive aspect of the film is the young Phil Daniels as the raging tearaway whose character often treads dangerously close to being plain loathsome. He plays the role with an irresistible charm and swagger that make him entirely sympathetic. An underrated cult gem. "},{"Title":"Coming-of-age drama with neat music and a great cast","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" QUADROPHENIA is a cult classic movie that explores the life and loves of a Mod living in Britain in the 1960s. The lead character is played by Phil Daniels, a familiar face from British television, and he gives an exemplary performance as an awkward but likable youth struggling to grow up and make it in the adult world.Produced by The Who, QUADROPHENIA offers as its backdrop a portrait of 1960s era Brighton and the like, where battles between the Mods and Rockers are just around the corner and a great soundtrack generally accompanies the action. I'll be the first to admit I'm not a huge fan of this era - I missed it by a long shot - but this likable drama paints a solid picture of the times.It's also remarkable as a before they were famous movie, featuring performances from the likes of Ray Winstone, Timothy Spall, Leslie Ash, Phil Davis, Michael Elphick, even Sting before they hit the big time. Barely a minute or two goes by without a familiar face, and it's fair to say that everyone is putting plenty of effort into their performances. It's this level of enthusiasm all round which has led to QUADROPHENIA's well-deserved cult status. "},{"Title":"Mods, Rockers and Pill poppers","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Quadrophenia is definitely one of the essential British films. If you want to get into British films this is definitely at the top of the list with films like Get Carter, A Hard Day's Night, Alfie and Trainspotting.The film is based off the iconic 1973 album of the same name by The Who. Both the album or (or rock opera as a lot of people call it) and the film are both fantastic in there own ways. The film throws you into an iconic era. London in the early 1960's to be exact. It puts us in the middle of the Mod movement through the character of Jimmy. A disgruntled young adult who wants to be somebody, hence why he's a mod. This includes popping pills like they are tic tacs, fighting the Rockers (The opposing group to the Mods), having sex, swearing like there is no tomorrow and trying to fit in. To briefly finish as if you haven't seen this film you should really watch it. Here is 3 reasons why you should watch Quadrophenia. 1. The direction and cinematography. Frank Roddam who directed documentaries before this film came out was the perfect choice. The film has a social realist/documentary style yet it still looks stylistic to an extent. The lenses used gives the lighting in night scenes a beautiful look. 2. The cast. Full of British actors we all know and love. Phil Daniels. Who plays the anti-hero Jimmy. Then there is Phillip Davies, Lesley Ash, Mark Wingett, Toyah Wilcox, Ray Winstone and even singer Sting. The cast is huge and diverse. That alone warrants a watch. 3. The soundtrack. As I said the album is fantastic and It is great that the majority of songs are in the film. It adds the rock edge to the film. And there are some nice additions of songs like Be my Baby etc. Even there is a use of My Generation in a digetic fashion which doesn't make sense as the film is set in 1964 it doesn't take me out of the film. So if you have not seen Quadrophenia watch it. It deserves much higher then a 7.3. And it deserves to be seen by everyone. "},{"Title":"Quadrophonic excellence","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I love this movie. Hell, I'd marry it if I could. It's my favorite rock movie with some British actors, who I really like, where in their younger acting years, they really impress, in a movie that can only be described as a faultless rock musical, masterpiece. Jimmy (Daniels) is a sixties rebel, who's so frustrated with his place in life. He has a courier job, is taking flack from his parents, that results in arguments, and he wants the girl his mate's doin'. We can relate with this character so well, us loners, where Jimmy's got a lot of bad energy, and it's going in the wrong places. Near the end of the film, he becomes such a desperate and pathetic mess, finally driving him to steal Sting's flashy scooter and total it off a cliff. Watch all the anger that pours out of Jimmy when he crashes his bike with a truck. But this is what Jimmy is, a very angry driven teen, and Daniels (one of my favorite British actors, and a bloody underrated one at that) plays him to a tee. I was thankful too, for the time a young Ray Winstone had in this, an old friend of Jimmy's who's popped back in town, and has decided to become a punk rocker, much to other people's disapproval, including Daniels. Two other actors from Scum have brief roles in this too. I loved the scene with Winstone, explaining and defending himself to Daniels in his backyard, a seasoned professional. The film, heavy on rock, is just one music pounding experience with a lot of bad language, where there are a couple of frighteningly violent moments. There's a foreboding of what crazy s..t, our unstable Daniels is gonna do next, but it's him, who sells this film. One notable feature is Sting's haircut. He's another rebel here with his own posse. Quadrophenia just managed to entertain me all the way through. It doesn't have fancy shots, though the long shots of a bleak Brighton were memorable, I felt so cold watching this town. It doesn't have fancy color, and the dialogue, isn't t the best I've heard. What it does have are engaging performances, amongst 60's culture, the environment, and it's conditions. With Daniels taking us through the story, it's one cool ride, and a cult rocker classic. "},{"Title":"Modding does not get any tougher","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" From the creator of Masterchef, here is something Franc Roddam made earlier. A film about being young in the 1960s being part of the Mod subculture and alienation and angst with some good tunes and a lot of future cast members of Eastenders if The Bill had not go to them first. Phil Daniels gives a career defining performance that should had got an Oscar nomination as Jimmy who has a mundane job , boring home life with parents who do not understand him and lives for the weekend clubbing with friends, popping pills and getting into scrapes with his mates.Jimmy and his friends go off to a bank holiday weekend in Brighton, he wants to get close with girlfriend Lesley Ash, in awe to cool dude Sting and gets in a rumble with greasers.However Jimmy gets more disillusioned losing his job, friends and family. Seeing Sting as just an ordinary bell boy sends him to the edge.The film quickly became a cult classic, This Who produced film led to the revival of the late 1970s & early 1980s mod scene. It has some cool tracks, a lot of humour, earthy language and a cast of now familiar actors. In a sense its like a British version of Saturday Night Fever and director Franc Roddam gives this drama a sense of rawness and some vitality when you see the action scenes in Brighton. "},{"Title":"The Who's 1973 Album come to life as a feature film staring Phil Daniels and Leslie Ash.","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Quadrophenia is one of the best films i have ever seen. As me and my family are MODs we love this film. I am only 15 and when i first watched this film it instantly went to the top of my favorite films list. I own over 350 films and counting and this film is the top of my list. In my opinion you need to be a MOD or have an understanding of the concept of MODs and Rockers to fully appreciate this film. The film follows on the Who's 1973 album Quadrophenia which tells the story of Jimmy, a young MOD popping pills and out with his scooter riding mates. Phil Daniels gives a powerful performance as Jimmy with Sting as the Ace Face, the MOD who Jimmy idolized until he finds he is nothing but a bell boy in a hotel and is a nobody. In my opinion the end scene with Jimmy on the ace faces Vespa riding across the cliffs of Brighton with the Who's song I've had enough playing. This is one of the most powerful scenes in film history and i absolutely love it. Love, Reign o'er me. 10 stars out of 10 easy. "},{"Title":"Good Adaptation of the Album","Date":"15 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Quadrophenia (1979)*** (out of 4)The Who's 1973 rock opera was turned into a feature film and centers on Jimmy (Phil Daniels), a teenager in the U.K. who deals with a wide range of issues but most of them surrounding growing up in the era. QUADROPHENIA, the album, is considered one of the band's greatest as well as one of the greatest ever made. I never was a big fan of the film TOMMY but I found this one here to be much better overall. I think the greatest thing going for this film is the soundtrack, which not only includes The Who songs from this album but we also get some of their older material (a memorable bit on My Generation) as well as songs from other artists. This soundtracks is certainly something terrific and The Who songs are put to good use here. Another thing working well is the performance of Daniels who perfectly nails this troubled character. I thought he was extremely believable from the start to the finish as he perfectly nailed the various emotions that this teenager is going through. I thought he was especially good towards the end once the guy starts to finally have a breakdown. Leslie Ash is also very cute and charming in her supporting bit. Director Franc Roddam doesn't add too much style to the picture but I found this to be a good thing. What the director does a great job with is the rawness of the picture. It almost feels as if you're watching a documentary on a real group of people because the look and feel of the picture are so on the mark. "},{"Title":"a reenactment of a troubling generation","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Stumbling upon this eponymous tie-in of THE WHO's 1973 rock opera album QUADROPHENIA comes as simple as a happenstance out of a grab bag, haven't heard of the album and being an outsider to this period of mods fashion, it is a primitive yet purest experience to appreciate a film on its own terms.It is another REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE (1955, 8/10) youth ill at ease, a telling zeitgeist encapsulation recounts a young mod's contradiction against the world in 1960s, his family, his job, his friends, his idol, and his love interest, all fail to gratify him. When the only thing he is left with is a revamped vespa, his destructive bravado indicates whether it is a resounding emblem of all perish together or a belated disillusion to bode farewell to his vapid and futile past? Fortunately the film chooses the latter (unlike the album's more radical stance), so it is a more generically pleasing alternative, but since our protagonist is not such a sympathetic character, a whiff of insouciance is irrevocable to eschew even in the culminating sequences alongside a magnificent precipice.The mods vs. rockers commotions play a key role in venting the discontent among sociopaths, anarchists and boredom-driven young generation, which is universally pertinent to elsewhere in the world, we may blame youth for their narrow-minded prejudices, but the adult world depicted here is no more appealing neither. Phil Daniels and his pals (Wingett, Davis and Shail) exude excellent street cred of the fashion, although none of them galvanizes me into any further inspection, save Leslie Ash's promiscuous lass, she is the only one seems to be cool about what's happening around and understand the ephemeral phase of idiocy. Sting has a supporting role as mechanical as one can imagine despite of his gorgeousness, and a budding Ray Winstone in his seldom seen role as the injured party of a brawl.The songs from the namesake album segues fluently throughout the film, nostalgia works much better in audio than visual this time I must say, it is a movie attracts its own cult followers and its socio-cultural astuteness may be worthy of a conscientious rediscovery if put inside a time capsule and wait to be exhumed a few more generations later. "}{"Title":"Great Film with mesmerising soundtrack","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I love this film for its simplicity and its absolutely brilliant soundtrack by the Who. Phil Daniels stands out as the mod who changes from disillusioned to moody and then almost psychotic as he gets the 5.15 to Brighton out of his head on pills. There are some great supporting performances though. Michael Elphick is superb as Jimmy's dad and Mark Wingett as his mate and Leslie Ash as Steph are equally effective. Sting as the hero Ace Face has a great screen presence and Toyah as Monkey is infectious. There are so many great scenes in this film but my favourite is where Jimmy and his dad argue about the Who on TV. Who hasn't had that conversation with their parents. A great advert for British films. "},{"Title":"A film with a heart","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This is a film whose central theme remains pertinent to us all, at any age the quest for self-knowledge. The concept of attempting to discover just who and what we are is of course, a massive undertaking but in Quadrophenia, young Mod Jimmy Cooper, perfectly portrayed by a frown-some Phil Daniels, sets forth on his own path. Living in a life of an office boy during the day it is only at night and across the much-anticipated weekends that young Jim and his Mod mates that includes a host of telly and film faces that you will probably, come to life. Living their multicoloured lives by popping pills, chasing girls, socialising and riding their modern day horses, their Lambretta and vespa scooters. Of course, being absorbed in the modly world eventually proves problematic to an intense lad like Jimmy and things proved not to be as they seem for him. It is a film which I have seen many, many times and loved so much that I wrote a book all about it titled Chasing the Wind A Quadrophenia Anthology. Quadrophenia is a tale that despite its shortcomings is rightly held as a true cult classic. But it is so much more than that. It's accessibility makes it more watchable than you would imagine if you only know Quadrophenia by way of reputation. Full of pain, passion, longing, confusion and humour. See it. "},{"Title":"Only film portraying the Mod Scene from the 6 T's","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I First saw quadrophenia in 1979. It played a massive part in my life and i have watched this film over and over again. The film has some funny, sad, and some exciting moments which will appeal to all audiences. Quadrophenia is probably the first major film to encourage the onslaught of youth culture movies from the eighties, nineties to the present day. I think its true to say that this movie really bites hard and portrays in a factual way the life of a young guy from London in the 6T's. Jimmy Cooper is a Mod (short for Modernist) and the film tells the tale of his life growing up under difficult circumstances - his family are working class, his girlfriend is an easy lay, his job is dead end and the only real thing thats keeps him going is his love for mates, his music, his scooter and his drug taking! It is a sure watch for all Mods, fans of British films, lovers of the Who, 6 T's throw-backs and all......This film launched the careers of a cast of young British actors and actresses like Sting, ray winstone, toyah wilcox toname a few. the film also has some great acting from the likes of Boon favourite Michael Elphick! Buy it , rent it or wait for the 25 year revival in July.... Remember  There are millions like us   "},{"Title":"Quadrophenia Special Edition - a review( Spoilers)","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Quadrophenia is not so much an account of mod (or modernism as it was originally known). It is much more of a conceptual piece centering itself around the experiences of Jimmy Cooper, a multi-faceted personality, with the mod aspects giving a base to his predicaments. It was a story developed by Pete Townshend in the 70's with the 60's mod movement in mind. This is further developed by director Franc Roddam's use of a contemporary setting.Some people have criticised the film for not being firmly rooted in the 60's, but I think the crossover works well, allowing the mix to sit in with the overall themes of the film. By using this approach the film can also unite people from different generations. I think this is important. And now to the film. Quadrophenia opens where it closes, above the clifftops of Brighton. From here we are transported back to Sheppards Bush where we are introduced to Jimmy as a character. We see his surface side as he enters the Goldhawk Club, well dressed and self assured. A Mod. As the film continues though we see him respond differently to various situations, be it his home life, at work, with his friends or when chasing his dreamgirl Steph ( played by Leslie Ash.). He is basically dissatisfied and in search of what's elusive. It is during the second half of the film we see this becoming more obvious. Set in Brighton on a bank holiday weekend Jimmy and his friends join together with an army of mods, for a weekend of dressing, dancing, pills and punchups. It is when Jimmy gets evicted from the dance for jumping off a balcony he begins to drift away from the numbers. For me this is where Quadrophenia begins to take on its poetic quality. Jimmy wanders the beach at night until dawn by which point the dancing has ended and the majority of mods are re-congregating at the beach front cafe for a quick egg sandwich and the day's itinerary. It is here Jimmy reconnects and the day unfolds. Heading for Brighton pier, with Jimmy in centrefield, the mods unite with their chants of glory not only attracting media glare but also the attention of their stylistic opposites, the rockers. A huge battle erupts and the beach is invaded by mods and rockers at war with each other with not even the sea being able to separate them. It is Jimmy's role in all of this that is the most significant. Having joined up with Steph, he becomes euphoric, reinacting the violence for her.  I was there. For Jimmy it in this moment that everything becomes crystalised. He is a mod, he is part of the action and now Steph is by his side. This is further enhanced by the film's most famous scene when Jimmy and Steph enter an alleyway and have sex together. It is when leaving the alleyway that Jimmy gets nabbed by the police and things start to go wrong. It is only when the Ace Face ( played by Sting) gets locked in the same van that things seem a little brighter. This does not last. Upon returning home from court, Jimmy is confronted in a series of incidents that will lead to his undoing. Firstly by his mother who spots his picture in the paper, then by his pompous boss who tells him how grateful he should be for being allowed to perform menial tasks, and finally by Steph who has now deserted him for his so-called best mate Dave (as played by Mark Wingett), all of this ending in personal destruction. With no place to call home and no one to be with,  Jimmy returns to Brighton where for that short period everything was golden. The film now becomes truly poetic, by replacing dialogue for images, of beautiful wind swept Brighton beach, upon which Jimmy treks and wonders where it all went wrong. It is here he makes his final discovery that will allow him to make his ultimate decision.Quadrophenia is a document of a time and place that for the most part no longer exists. The film plays an important role in allowing us to visit that place. In saying this I think the real relevance of the film lies in its exploration of youthful themes. Jimmy Cooper is a complex character but he is no more complex than any person in search of a real identity or an ideal place. It is for this reason I think that Quadrophenia will be relevant to future generations, to identify with and to enjoy. Overall it is a wonderfully youthful cinematic composition.EXTRASUPPERS; There are quite a few interesting things contained on this special edition of Quadrophenia. The US trailer is good ( except for the dialogue) An interview with Sting is also interesting ( Pity it wasn't Phil Daniels though) The directors commentary and archival photos were of real interest to me. Nice one. Also the trip form London to Brighton was great fun as was the 'Are you a mod or a rocker quiz. Finally the restoration which on the whole was good, if a little visually dark in certain places.DOWNERS This is a big disappointment. Has anyone even noticed there are 4 successive scenes missing from the US print. Wake up. The scenes in question take place from where Jimmy exits the cafe after talking to Kev through to the start of the party at Kitchener Road. Consult your English or Australian standard edition, they are all present. I would assume this had something to do with the original US cinema print but for me this is the major upset for after all, 'I am one of the faces'. "},{"Title":"one of my favorite films","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This relatively obscure and low-budget film is one of my very favorites. It would be worth seeing if only for a gritty and evocative depiction of the mods vs. rockers cultural phenomenon of the mid-60s in working-class Britain. But to me the film is far more than that. To me it illustrates a theme that I think is very important A person who has no inner sense of self, of self-esteem, of self-worth is a person on a path to self-destruction. It also illustrates the negative impact of drugs, and particularly the devastation that comes of mixing uppers and downers (in Jimmy's case, blues and gin). Last but not least, it is a great chance to be exposed to the music of Quadrophenia, The Who's greatest album and one of the greatest albums of all time by anyone. This is the ultimate driving music and the ultimate music for any kind of catharsis. "},{"Title":"Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth - Ecclesiastes 119","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I recently rented Quadrophenia after having not seen it for a long long while, (actually it's been about 20 years since I last saw this film), and I must say it's taken a lot of life-experience to really gain an understanding of what Quadrophenia is all about.  I certainly never appreciated the message of this film when I was young because I was too busy living it in my own way.  All these years later however, I am struck profoundly by the film's remarkable commentary on the ethos of youth.In my opinion it doesn't matter what your background is if you're getting on in years rent this film and I'm sure you'll re-discover a little of yourself in the process.  "},{"Title":"The Business","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I grew up with this film, always sort of wanted to be like jimmy,live in that era,be rebelious, cool, popular,The main man. was a bit like him but not tottaly. Proper cult icon. proper cult film,   "},{"Title":"Strong, affecting and accurate mod-rocker classic","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" A vibrant and often violent period coming-of-age docu-drama, covering the infamous mod-rocker clashes in Brighton in the mid 1960s. The film serves as an effective vehicle for the music of The Who, the British rock band - it's a credit to both the music and the film that one can never isolate a moment at which one rides the coattails of the other.Narratively the film is simple, following the romantically mixed fortunes of Jimmy Cooper as he struggles with nascent adulthood and the treachery of trying to carve out a British baby boomer's identity. A lot of the film may be characterised as a second tide of the British New Wave with its unaffected realism. Perhaps the film is most famous for its extraordinary central sequence depicting the culture clash on Brighton's Front - this is no exception to the realist relativity and for all its horror has a sense of life about it. Antonioni may have captured the London of 1966 'on the ground' but this is an even more persuasive account of what it must have been like.The performances are marvellous across the board. Phil Daniels is quite superb as the happy-go-lucky Jimmy becoming overwhelmed. I like the fact that Toyah Willcox and Sting are also important figures in the drama there is no suggestion that they are anything other than characters but they represent the powerful identification that kids found with popular musicians, then as now. I'm going to be sensible and recommend this film as a 7/10 but really, with one of the most emotive and operatic final sequences I've probably ever seen in a British film it could so easily have been more. "},{"Title":"Original Rock Opera","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" before Tommy there was Quadrophenia. set in the mid-60's UK, a turf war and philosophy difference pits mods against rockers. Jimmy (Pete Townshend) is in the middle and no one here gets out unscathed. The Who invented rock opera, before Tommy and P.Floyd's The Wall. Let's not forget Pete invented guitar smashing as performance art. Hendrix may have lit it, but Pete started it all. Pick a side and pop some blues, just try not to go deaf or crash your motorbike. Play some vinyl and act like your parents did. peruse your parents records and get down 60's style. get a turntable and go old school. Even if you only live once, pick a side and get nostalgia. CD's and DVD's are nice but true film and vinyl are an eclectic class unto themselves. classic. "},{"Title":"Bellboy!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Along with Withnail And I this is one probably my favourite indie film-Why?                    ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS****  I suppose it has to be my love of all the Jam and much of the mod lifestyle which has endured 2 comebacks since 1964 when the Who,The Kinks and the Small Faces kicked it off-  in `79 when this film was released and Bands like the Jam, The Merton Parkas and the Lambrettas were big, and again in `95 when Blur and Oasis led the indie music revival which led to this films theatrical re-release. It is a little dated and there are some great scenes for Goof spotters- the rocker in the Motorhead t-shirt in 1964 along with all the 70`s cars in many scenes- but these add to many peoples love of the film- it was after all an extremely low budget film with an unheard of cast at the time.Not all people will enjoy this film, not least most Americans who apart from having a few Who albums will not have understood the Mod Lifestyle which was a uniquely British affair, and the heavy cockney accents, although there is the odd one  still around in the States. However it is still a strong film with a fine lead performance by Phil Daniels as Jimmy- a teenager for whom being a Mod is a way of life from which he doesnt  want to escape. He lives for bank holiday trips to Brighton to fight the rockers, he loves the clothes, the music and of course his scooter. To him there is nothing else in life and he hates anybody who is not a part of the scene. His life stars to fall apart when he realises that not all his friends share his philosophy, that there is more to life than Brighton and you still have to work  for a living. This brings it home to Jimmy when he quits his job and returns to quiet midweek Brighton to relive his greatest hour as a Mod and sees his hero Ace Face (played by then unknown Sting) working as a Bellboy in a hotel, carrying bags and taking orders from the very people he hates most -Adults, Bellboy! screams Jimmy, before stealing Ace`s top of the range scooter.   The soundtrack lifts only a few tracks from the Who`s double album, but there are some great songs from Booker T and the MG`s as well as Motowns finest. I remember visiting Brighton 10 years ago, and seeing some of the locations used. We even screamed Bellboy! in a hotel lobby thinking it to be the same one used in the film, only to realise most of the hotel`s in Brighton look the same.   "}{"Title":"The Greatest British Rock/Youth Film Ever","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I'VE SEEN THIS FILM PROBABLY CLOSE TO 40 TIMES. I HAVE NEVER GROWN TIRED OF IT.  TO APPRECIATE IT, ONE MIGHT HAVE TO UNDERSTAND BRITISH YOUTH SUBCULTURES, THE 1960'S, ROCK'N'ROLL, AND/OR THE PAIN OF ADOLESCENT ALIENATION AND THE EUPHORIA OF BEING YOUNG AND OBSESSED WITH MUSIC AND 48 HR NON-STOP WEEKENDS...IT'S JUST THE GREATEST ROCK'N'ROLL/POP MUSIC-RELATED DRAMA EVER MADE. ONE OF THE GREATEST BRITISH FILMS EVER.  IT IS BRILLIANT AND A JOY TO WATCH.  IF YOU HATE ROCK'N'ROLL OR DO NOT KNOW WHAT A MOD IS...WELL, YOU'D HATE IT, PROBABLY.  BUT IF YOU UNDERSTAND, Y'KNOW? OR AT LEAST LIKE GRITTY BRITISH WORKING CLASS FILMS, IT'S THE HOLY GRAIL.  "},{"Title":"Universal and Timeless Tale of Teenage Angst","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" All Things Considered, this was not an Easy Thing to Pull Off. It was made out of time, Fifteen Years after the Considered Events. Unlike say, Rebel Without a Cause (1955), or The Wild One (1953), and more like American Graffiti (1973). But the Filmmakers Managed it quite well and the Result is this Cult Movie, an Excellent Homage to the Pop Cultural Scene in Britain circa 1965.The Movie has an Unassuming, Unintrusive Style that is Never Heavy Handed and it is a Delight to Watch as this Time Warp is Laid Out in an Obvious Labour of Love. It is Distinctively British and the Central Theme of the Mods vs Rockers might Elude some who are not Familiar with, or Involved in Youth Movements and Music Influences.But the Driving Force is Universal and Timeless. Teenage Angst, Rebellion, and Alienation is Felt by Everyone, Everywhere. The Joy here is the Affection for those who Identify with the Characters, or the Peek at a Foreign Face of a Familiar Theme.The Lead Performance of Jimmy is Spot On, and the rest of the Cast does a Fine Job. The Who Songs from the Double LP of the Same Name are Welcome if Inserted Uneasily on Occasion and the Songs that Play in the Film by Phil Spector and Other Post Elvis Top Forty Hits are used to Elicit Time and Place Effectively.Overall it is a Fine Dramatic Representation of Teen Gangs, Disenfranchised Youth, Generational Gaps, and Coming of Age Situations. A Stunning Accomplishment from the Director and Everyone Involved in this Low-Budget, but Engaging and Enduring Film. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Movie Ever","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" In my opinion the greatest movie of all time. A great cast including Phil Daniels, Leslie Ash and a young Mark Wingett, of The Bill fame. Along with one of the best movie soundtracks ever, I highly recommend it to anyone and everyone. One of the greatest scenes, the fight between The Mods and The Rockers on Brighton beach, just adds to the drama and grips you to see the outcome. It took me a few times to watch it to decide if Jimmy was meant to have killed himself at the end, but I think when he throws Ace's scooter off the cliff, he was throwing away the whole Mod lifestyle and went back to London to sort his life out. Just a superb movie from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Interesting, uninvolving teen drama","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I seem to not be the audience for this film, which I find remarkable. I think Quadrophenia is a magnificent album from The Who and rather looked forward to seeing this with my dad. Well, on his birthday, we watched it and came away thinking that we saw something that A- Was not The Who's rock opera as we wanted to see it, and B- Was made for a completely specific misunderstood mod audience who likes their main characters whiny and unlikable. I really tried to like this movie, as I had known ahead of time it wasn't a movie rock opera a la Ken Russel's Tommy, but more a drama with the songs making up the soundtrack. But the main character keeps antagonizing the audience with his self-loathing, ratty disposition and he loses hope entirely when he makes poor decision after poor decision. The camera-work is fine and the soundtrack is still fantastic, but I wish it were part of a more enjoyable movie. 2.2/5 "},{"Title":"A Mod Classic","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I first seen this film as part of a double header backed with The Kids are alright by the Who....what a combination eh?! I immediately became a mod and indulged in many a Vespa, Lambretta and a fantastic way of life as a teenager. The story is very straightforward....it's about a Mod called Jimmy and takes us on his journey through everyday life in the mid 60's. There are many highs and many lows, the acting from a then virtual bunch of unknowns is fantastic, many went on to become well known faces on TV and film. The only down point of the film for me? I have to say, in one word, Sting. In my opinion he is seriously out of place as Ace Face...i was never keen on his acting (or singing!) but i feel he is the weak link here. Phil Daniels is fantastic as Jimmy, the story rips along at a fine pace, the scenery, the music, the clothes....no wonder all these years later i still watch this film...and still own a Lambretta scooter. Quadrophenia is quite simply top class entertainment "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I love this film so much , i wasn't a Mod , i am a Mod , although i keep that publicly quiet ,lol .I must of watched this 50 times and will never bore of it . It shaped my youth , and today , some 30 years later , i still feel great appreciation to it , everyone i know , everything i feel , came from watching this movie as a youth . If this isn't the best British movie ever made please let me know what I've been missing . Phil Daniels , Lesley Ash and Sting have never been able to surpass there first movie roles but have stayed cult figure in the British movie industry because of there roles in this fantastic film .Although Sting would deny it , the reason The Police were such a big hit in the early 80's , was because of his cult Mod following . In the unlikely event that you missed this i recommend you sit down and watch it straight away .  We Are The Mods ! "},{"Title":"Rider in a Storm","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This is a great film. One of the great British films about the rebellion and angst of youth. Phil Daniels gives the performance of his career (a career that should of delivered so much more) as Jimmy a pilled up mod who lives for the weekend and refuses to conform to the ways of his parents and their generation. Jimmy rides the movie on a drug fuelled surf from one more outlandish prank to the next, culminating in the trip to Brighton where the mods and the rockers are bound to clash. The film reaches it's action crescendo at this stage at this is where Jimmy unravels unable to deal with the mundane reality of everyday life. Jimmy spirals deeper inside himself and has to face some grim realities, finding himself ostracised from friends and family to a great ending. A truly memorable film that you would of thought would have led to great careers for Daniels and director Roddam. Unfortunately that was not to be. You will also be amazed at how many familiar faces you come across. A British classic to be enjoyed time and time again. "},{"Title":"The best British Teen movie ever made. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Feelings of desperation, not being wanted, looking for that ever-elusive high are an integal part of the process of growing up. In my experience, I never really had an adolescent experience in light of being on the receiving end of other adolescent frustrations, but I guess that made me as much an adolescent as those people who hurt me.QUADROPHENIA (1979) utilises these feelings to brilliant effect. Based on their follow-up concept album to TOMMY, I think it is a much more enjoyable and superior listening experience and has a similar feel to a lot of the Pink Floyd albums of the time using everyday sounds against the background of the music.Unlike a lot of the American teen movies on the market, a lot of the stars never really achieved anything beyond this film, with the exception of Sting who was becoming successful with The Police (even so, his own movie career never took off after the band broke up. Anyone remember his contributions to films like DUNE and THE BRIDE?) simply because the film is so obviously a British movie and probably to international audiences has an elusive quality to it.Like SATURDAY NIGHT FEVER, the songs in QUADROPHENIA are placed suitably at the heart of the film, but also some of the other tracks used are placed in the context of the drama unfolding.The climactic battle on Brighton beach is a terrifyingly staged, but superbly shot sequence (the shot of the Mods running towards the camera into the cafe where the initial fight begins is awesome to behold)A movie that deserves to be seen by people in other countries. "},{"Title":"Drop your reds, drop your greens & blues...","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Mostly blues!I picked this up on DVD, and watched it again after several years.  Despite the few film flaws noted by several reviewers, it's a great film with a fantastic soundtrack.  With all the chain smoking & amphetamine popping going on, I felt like jumpin' around in my living room with the gang when Booker T. & the MG's filled the dance floor.Franc Roddam's director's commentary was decent, as it was nice to have him explain the final scene (which I always thought was filmed at The White Cliffs of Dover).  Also, there's a trivia track feature on the DVD which will surely help U.S. viewers with some of the dialogue.Check it out. "},{"Title":"the perfect movie","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Quadrophenia is a movie that anybody, of any age or nationalities, can enjoy immensely. Im 20 years old and an American as this movie was created before me and British. People have said that Americans would not understand this movie because of the british accents and plotlines involved. While it is true that most americans would have trouble understanding the cockney accents I did not and the plot line was not all that much different from the Americans 'Outsiders'. The movie revolves around a British youth named Jimmy Cooper. Jimmy is just like every other young man; wandering, a bit confused on where his loyalities lie, his parents relationship with him. I myself, as I watched this movie, saw bit of myself in Jimmy in his numerous arguments with his mum and dad about his whereabouts and his friends and such. One such scene was between Jimmy and his dad as he watched TV and his dad asking him all these questions about his clothes and music etc. The music of the film fit the moods that were meant to be portrayed in the scene. I half expected this to be filled to the brim with music from the Quadrophenia album, happily it was not. The casting job in the film was one of the best jobs ever done. Each actor had the look and feel of the characters they portrayed. Especially that of Jimmy (phil Daniels)who brings out one of the best performances I have ever seen in a movie. But the major thing about the films I loved is the scene between Jimmy and his rocker friend (i apologize that i forgot his name) as they talked one night about theyre lifes and how one became a Mod and ones a Rocker. they both say that the war between the groups is pointless, thought they both say they will kinda fight if something does break out (so what happens when the war breaks out- Jimmy goes of and gets laid). The modern day 'realistic' teen movies aint got nothing on this film. Its a damned shame that no one will make a decent film taking place in the 90s or now that captures half the realism as Quadrophenia or Outsiders.  "}{"Title":"If you lived it, you'll love it","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Quadrophenia could be the screenplay written about any single one of us, who suffered with excess angst and confusion during our teenage years. This subject matter is timeless, however as this film is set in 60's London, the (youth oriented) cultural impact, takes Quadraphenia to another dimension. So its no surprise to read negative criticism about a film that makes no effort to relate to the mainstream, securing its place as a cult classic. Jimmy is a London Mod who finds his new identity is a source belonging but also isolation. Drawn into a drug-fueled club scene with his fellow Mods, Jimmy finds himself at odds with everyone else including his family, best friend and employers. As his confusion grows, Jimmy finds his life falling apart as he proceeds to lose his home, job, friends, girlfriend and scooter. A dramatic ending has Jimmy contemplating suicide as he drives a stolen scooter along the edge of a cliff, symbolically taken from the 'Ace Face' of an identity that failed him. Quadrophenia promises nothing apart from a great soundtrack but look and you might find a screenplay of your own teenage years. "},{"Title":"The best British youth cult movie ever made","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I don't wanna be the same as everyone else. That's why I'm a Mod, see? And with that glorious introduction, Phil Daniels' Jimmy effortlessly articulates the inarticulacy of adolescence; both cussedly alienated and searching for somewhere to fit in &#x96; a paradox The Who's Pete Townshend made his songwriting currency. With its pills, thrills and bellyaches, this was as much a film about and for the late-seventies Punks than the 1960s Mods, and John Lydon originally screen-test for the lead (until the film's insurance company nixed the idea). Ultimately, it's a film about letting go of the herd and finding your own feet. And maybe another scooter. "},{"Title":"Loneliness","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This film could be developed in nowadays society, changing mods and rockers to any other urban group. That's it's power. Jimmy could be a 90's guy, living his life, thinking he has many friends, but, he is actually alone, very alone. When jimmy drove crazy nobody could understand him, but he just wanted one thing, being recognized as a group member. It still happens nowadays, when many young people wear clothes or hear songs just to feel accepted by the society. If you don't wear my clothes you aren't nothing. If you don't hear my music nobody will talk to you. This movie talks about the betray of the society to one guy, who had belief all of those things and have realized he had been a fool. That's why he drove crazy. That's why he decided to finish with everything. A very important quote in the movie is 'I don't wanna be like anybody else, that's why i'm a mod, see?'. It's trying to tell us not to get that way involved in any group, it's more important to be take your own decisions and to fell like an individual human being. THIS IS AN ESSENTIAL MOVIE, GO AND WATCH IT!!!  "},{"Title":"Astonishingly good - a *must* view","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Quadrophenia was not a movie I was anxious to see.  When the ads were first shown on TV, all I could see was another 'pop' movie with a scene that seemed to be ripped off from 'A Hard Day's Night'.Oh my, how wrong I was.Phil Daniels gives one of the most absorbing performances I've ever witnessed, (along with Tim Roth in 'Made in Britain') The story is so true. The writing, rich.But I'd like to point out that while this is gritty, realistic stuff, there is much humour here.And of course the ending leaves many shaking their heads, (or convinced they know what happened)...  but if you're confused , simply rewind and play that first minute of the movie again and then decide.  "},{"Title":"The Best Unrecognized Film Ever, SEE THIS MOVIE!","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  The fact that no one knows this film makes it even better.  A truly heart-wrenching story about a teenager trying to belong in an identity crisis.  He realizes at the end how empty and phony it all is.  He feels he has 4 different personalities (He is Quadrohenic) He goes through wonderful highs and terrible lows.  I say this is the best movie on this subject and it couldn't be any better.  Watch it and FEEL for Jimmy.  Wonderful acting on EVERYONE's part, especially Phil Daniels as Jimmy.  If you want to see a wonderful acting job, watch this movie.  A+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ *************************************(these are stars) "},{"Title":"1 film, 1 viewer, 2 opinions!","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Note Quadrophenia is loosely based on one of guitarist Pete Townshend's ego-trip rock operas for The Who. Other than the soundtrack, the Who album has little to do with the movie. If you're expecting a Tommy-like musical revue on film, forget it.The film tells the cautionary tale of an insecure, working-class London teen in the mid-sixties. We watch him slowly slide into despair as he realizes that his idealized view of gang life is false and ultimately self-destructive. The movie is very violent, but the violence has consequences and is presented in a realistic, jarring, purposely disturbing way. It is more acceptable to me than the sort of desensitized killing seen in so many action-adventure hero films, and yet much tougher on the audience. There is also some crass sexuality and lots of rough language.I saw this film at age 17 and had never seen something that affected me so completely. It floored me with its imagery. I have it on videotape and have watched it many times. So I recommend it, right? Well...maybe and maybe not. Come to think of it, if I saw the film for the first time today, it would probably offend me greatly. But it's a film that has a great, walloping impact on exactly the sort of young people whom I'd discourage from seeing films like this. Is Quadrophenia a force for good or a force for evil? Gosh, I just can't decide. But it is a very forceful film, nonetheless.  "},{"Title":"A time capsule that takes a while to warm up...","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This movie was recently screened on one network's second digital channel here in Australia. To be honest with you, I found the first half hour or so rough going...did feel the urge to switch channels as I didn't find the movie very engaging. However, I stuck with it, and did find it passable after a while.The English rock band The Who are behind this movie, which tells the story of Jimmy Cooper, a Mod who draws his entire social identity from this social group. 'Mods' listen to certain sorts of music and take drugs and ride motorcycles and generally hang out together.Quadrophenia was released about a decade after this particular social movement had reached its peak. In the movie, you will see Jimmy and his friends grooving to the music of The Who, so the band didn't waste the opportunity to market their own music, which, in their favour, would have been the music of choice for mods at that time, no doubt.After the tiresome first half hour, things get more interesting as we see the conflict between The Mods, and The Rockers (a rival gang/social movement) escalate.This movie is interesting for seeing a long dead scene brought back to life by the members of The Who. If you were around at this time, you may get a kick out of the nostalgia that this movie represents. If you weren't around the time this film was set, you may get a certain novelty value from seeing the quaint mode of transport which the Mods favour!If psychological portraits of gang members appeals to you, this movie will please, as there is much on how Jimmy requires his gang to feel he has a place in this world. But, if the idea of gang movies appeals for the prospect of violence, then the movie does keep you waiting a while for this.By the by, I think I noticed some continuity errors in this film if you look at the scene where the Mods are near a cinema, the movies showing seem anachronistic. More annoyingly, the ending is not clear cut. You assume that something has happened, but if you rewind and look closer, it's not at all clear that what you think happened did in fact happen. Presumably this is just bad editing and cinematography.So...if you are a fan of The Who, or of 60s culture in England, this movie could appeal to you. However, it just took me a while to warm to it, and I didn't find it particularly good-in contrast to the magazine Total Film which ranked it the 35th greatest British movie of all time. "},{"Title":"Grewing up....","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I'll grew up with this movie and The Who at that time....I was very impressed when i saw this movie...It is still a good one, good acting and beautiful music....When i was on vacation in England i visited Brighton, and still there are hanging several pictures from the movie and The Who....pretty cool....I guess there are still in England groups like mods and rockersLater at the time i bought several editions from Quadrophenia on cd, and watch a concert from The Who, playing Quadrophenia....Quadrophenia is still very important for me... "},{"Title":"Deuteronomy chapter 28 meets post-Christian anomie","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Some films need to be watched to witness subtleties in the actors' faces, and other films need to be listened to as the plot unfolds; even now with all the technological wizardry, the dialogue is what carries the motion picture. Sadly Quadrophenia lacks both of these necessities. It gets 2 stars for the soundtrack by The Who. That, and the line about comparing Brixton to Calcutta. The 1960s should have been a good time, because WW2 was over, Europe was at peace, we landed on the Moon, and made huge gains in medicine and science. What we got instead was Kennedy's assassination, the Vietnam War, drug abuse, hippies, mods and rockers, and the sexual revolution. The upshot is Jimmy -- a loser at best, and a lost soul at worst -- seeks to find himself by imitating all the losers around him. He has a job, but doesn't do it, he has a girlfriend for whom he feels nothing, and parents who somehow neglected to raise him properly. It's just awful. Simply awful with no redeeming value. Toxic. "},{"Title":"Can you see the real me??","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I bought this one on DVD because i am a Who fan and i was told that this movie is very good. I watched it once and didn't get it, so i watched it again and then i liked it. it is a fantastic movie brought us with great music from the Who. If you are a fan of this band or want to see a very underrated movie check this out. Sting has a small role in this movie. It is basically a battle between this guys four different personalities. There is also a battle between the Mods and the Rockers. This is a great movie and it also explains the fantastic concept album better. I think that you should see this movie if you can fund it. well at least by me it is hard to find this movie so i am glad that i bought it. So go ahead and check this out you will enjoy it. there is a little something in it for everyone. so will give it 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"If you love The Who...","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" ...you will not be able to miss this one. Right, there´s not many songs of them, but THEY are in it. A bit of them. You still can see and hear Pete Townshend behind this all, and this little bit is more then enough. Middle-class-actors, screenplay could be better, has scenes which are too long - what´s the matter? It´s Who. It´s a Who-story, a Who-scenery and even some Who-music. Listen to The real me, and you´ll think this movie to be highly underrated. "},{"Title":"Mods Vs. Rockers and some pills and spills","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  A very fascinating and often too realistic movie dealing with young adult angst and british pop culture torn between music and mode of dress.Not to mention lightly the Scooter's Vs. Motorcycle angle.All this and more play out nicely in a finely crafted youth picture that is dramatic,compelling and brings to life the mindset of 60's british culture.The lead character,Jimmy,is a pill addicted young lad who is just crazy about his rocker style of music,but totally turned off by leather dress and Rockers Motorcycle riding ,leather toting opposites.Quite reminiscent of the earlier british motorcycle film ,1963 The Leather Boys which starred Rita Tushingham and also dealt with angst and motorcyle riding and conflict with family and friends.Since Jimmy loves fast and hard driving music,especially The Who,he nevertheless chooses to ride the much less fast and easier but fun scooter.Those Vespa scooter's were the rage in europe and still are in Italy and other gigolo infested countries.So we are taken on scooter driven and early rock tour of london and streets with an ocassional weekend trip to Brighton for much anticipated frolic and mayhem,driven also by way of BluesJimmy's drug of choice.Enter his many scooter driven and skirt-chasing friends to help keep lookout for foe Rockers and also keeping up appearances of cool demeanor.With trouble on the homefront,due to late night rampages and also at work with overly smirky behavior,he quickly needs more than pick-me-up for comfort.This movie is a good character study on release,due to environment and bombardment of influences,which always are peer present within the youth of almost any era.How Jimmy copes or is lacking,develops with each scene and compells his activities.The music is right on and very true to early british rock.Even,STING makes his presence known in first film as distant hearttrob who makes the scene with as much google-eyed anticipation and hysteria as any rock star could hope for.He does look quite dapper and cool in and amongst other Mods,as if he were their leader of sorts.He's the best dressed and rides fanciest scooter,and also has biggest temper except for our Jimmy,who also dresses with Modish flair and lives for confrontation.The chicks are on hand to head spin and help all the boys to keep their libido's active and alive.Jimmy is no exception here,except for pill crazed mentality and dependance.Which could more than help explain his late hours and attitude towards work and friends.I think this movie is quite splendid as misinterpreted youth vehicle for both my generation and those to follow.Hasn't become dated so far. 4 out of 5 star or 8/10 for jolly good show,dear boys.Dig Daddio's. "},{"Title":"Heck on Wheels, maybe...","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Quadrophenia is almost as old as I am, and like me, the film has not remained constant with age.  But (also like me) that may not be such a bad thing.  I saw Quadrophenia last weekend on the big screen in Chicago, and I was struck by the fact that the violence in the movie is pretty much shrug-worthy by today's standards.  Having absorbed movie and TV culture in the modern age, the depiction of the Brighton youth riots looks pretty tame in comparison.  In fact much of what was probably shocking in the film can be outdone by almost any 15 minute cut of Pulp Fiction.This is not to say that Quadrophenia is meaningless in the modern age, however.  The themes in the movie (inter-generational conflict, the apotheosizing of culture-movements amongst teenagers, and the difficulties of finding out who one is while growing up (an unflinchingly failed attempt, in the main character's case)) are fairly timeless, although one has to accept or get past the dated setting.  The fast-cut pacing and editing hodge-podge that was originally referred to as a mess is also infinitely more tolerable with the modern attention span (damn you, MTv!), and overall is a nice effect, portraying the high-paced, jumbled and ultimately messy life of Jimmy and his friends.  I don't understand the criticism that Quadrophenia's style prevents one from sympathizing with the main character. Quite the opposite, I find.As an aside, the anachronisms in Quadrophenia are endlessly amusing, particularly Sting's turn as Ace Face.  As always, Sting's appearance adds lots of ironic and unintended comedy (and you get to yell Sting! every time he comes one screen).I recommend Quadrophenia as an interesting period piece, a commentary on the drama of youth, or a vaguely kitschy farce in the modern light.Sting! "},{"Title":"A working class hero is something to be!","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Fist of all I would like to point out that although this is a British movie, it deals with issues that almost every young man in the world can go through.  Jimmy Cooper is a lad in a job he doesent like, in fact he dispises it. He lives for music, girls, pills and his clothes. He gets tremendous highs that are always followed by terrible lows, triggered by anything(take the house party scene where all of his mates are with girls so he starts smashing up the garden with his scooter). Jimmy does not like authority and cannot seem to face the fact that his life cannot be like he wants it to be. Jimmy is a mod and goes down to Brighton with his mates in the annual mods v rockers beach fight. You can see he is so high and never wants to come down. His lows are brought back on when he returns.....parents, boss, the girl he loves and his mates. This film highlights the anguish of youth and it is humourous, touching and sometimes downright violent but I am sure we can identify with Jimmy's scenario.........I am 25 and still going through the same feelings. A brilliantly acted film, amazing soundtrack and an all round masterpiece. A MUST SEE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A wonderful working-class movie","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Quadrophenia takes place in England in the early 60's and captures the English mods culture that The Who once had been an important part of. The story is about a young man who identifies himself with the mod fashion. He has a job, but he doesn't care a lot about it. He has a family, but he care about them either. Instead, he loves his Vespa, his friends, and of course fighting with rival rockers. Quadrophenia has a lot of common with for example Trainspotting. It really captures the thoughts and feelings of a generation of teenagers. Unfortunately, Quadrophenia lacks one important feature of a real cult movie it was shot more than a decade after the mod era. Despite all the typical features of the 60's, Quadrophenia still feels somewhat of a 70's movie.Quadrophenia is, however, still a great film, with great music and acting. It is definitely worth seeing!  "},{"Title":"Return of Rebel Without A Cause","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Best rebellion movie since James Dean`s Rebel Without A Cause. Wonderful acting on EVERYONE's part, especially Phil Daniels as Jimmy. Brilliant realistic portrayal of a mod in the 60's. The focus in this movie is not on the Who or their music, but the subject of adolescence.  "},{"Title":"A way of life...","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Ever been betrayed by a friend to the extent that you want to lay them out? Ever skived a day off work because you over-did it the night before? Ever thought of telling your boss EXACTLY what to do with his job? Ever fallen in love with someone who didn't feel the same way?I wasn't particularly a fan of The Who, and I didn't get on with Tommy (film). But this film echoes my personal experiences with fashion & the rock/metal revival of the late 80's. Poor old Jim's slow decline into the real world makes me shiver every time I watch it.It torments me that some people don't get this film, and I can only assume that these people have never lived or experienced anything like Quadrophenia.The album reaches me on a level that no other record ever has, and the film joins a small but distinguished list of my all time favourite movie experiences. "},{"Title":"Not what I expected!","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a story of one young man's journey in a subversive social group, set to a contemporary soundtrack that features heavily. I'm still trying to work out why a film so similar to 'Trainspotting' could be so very much better.A wonderful plot, with an extremely gritty feel and superb location shooting. London vernacular is used shamelessly, with no 'dumbing down' for the international market.I would agree with another reviewer's comment - I wasn't comfortable with the time scale at all, feeling that the film was set in the mid 70s rather than the 60s. Perhaps if I watched it in 1979 I would have felt differently.The cast reads like a 'who's who' of British Television and the performances are superb throughout.I don't have strong feelings about 'The Who' and watched this when I was at a loose end and decided to ask my brother for the lend of a dvd. I had no expectations but I am truly pleased that I watched it.A real gem! 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Possibly the most underrated musical ever","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  To start off I'd like to say I was not a Who fan until I saw this movie.  It blew my mind that much.  The movie is about a teenage boy, Jimmy, in the early 60's England who has tremendous psychological problems.  While he has them he tries to deal with his friends, job, parents, and being a mod.  What made the movie so good besides the acting, direction, and good soundtrack, is that the characters of Jimmy and his friends are even true today.  Anyone who has been a teenager at some point and time can relate to some of the things Jimmy or one of his friends goes though.  The only flaw I can point out, besides the morbid ending, is that some of the English slang is hard to understand.   "},{"Title":"Defining moment in cinema.","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is the film that, along with The Wanderers(1979), River's Edge(1987) and Pump Up The Voulme(1990), totally defined my late teens. Quadrophenia especially captured perfectly that jumping off point between being a teenager and being an adult; the point where you ask yourself what the hell next? Direction, music, script, performances (especially Phill Daniels) are just PERFECT! The film, like the others I mentioned, may be set in a specific time, but the issues and themes that it adresses are timeless. A modern classic. "}{"Title":"Defining moment in cinema.","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is the film that, along with The Wanderers(1979), River's Edge(1987) and Pump Up The Voulme(1990), totally defined my late teens. Quadrophenia especially captured perfectly that jumping off point between being a teenager and being an adult; the point where you ask yourself what the hell next? Direction, music, script, performances (especially Phill Daniels) are just PERFECT! The film, like the others I mentioned, may be set in a specific time, but the issues and themes that it adresses are timeless. A modern classic. "},{"Title":"Rounded & concise","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  A film by, but not starring, The Who. If you expect this to be something like its stablemate (Tommy) then you'd be very much mistaken.The main character, Jimmy Cooper, is excellently portrayed as the classic mixed up youth, by Phil Daniels; whilst the film itself is a brutally realistic portrayal of a London mod caught in the midst of the antagonism between the mods & rockers in 1964. The film perfectly captures the period as well as the teenage need to belong to a group, & with your own kind.There is an excellent supporting cast, including Leslie Ash, Toyah Wilcox, Michael Elphick, Mark Wingett, & Sting. All of the characters are convincing & essential to the plot, which shows a disillusioned Jimmy, chasing his personal pipe dreams, whilst on a drug-fuelled downward spiral, slowly losing all that is important to him.Jimmy wants to be an 'Ace-Face' - a leader of his kind. He wants to have fun his way & he also wants Steph (Ash) as his girlfriend - not many would argue with that - but his gradual disillusionment with his life is there for allto see.But what this film is notorious for (apart from Ash's Antics in an alleyway) is the well directed Brighton beach battle / riot scenes, filmed on location, in which the Mods & Rockers, & then the Police, clash head on, first in a cafe & then, bloodily, on the beach. The crowd scenes are very convincing, whilst Sting seems to almost relish this part of his role.There is also humour in this film, it's not all doom & gloom, & it has one of the funniest chemist shop burglaries I've ever seen.Now widely available on video, or in part of a 2-video box set (with Tommy) this is worth watching - & with a soundtrack comprising of songs by the Who you couldn't really ask for much more. "},{"Title":"The Americans had Grease We had Quadrophenia.  Says it all really.","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  The greatest British film of all time by a long, long way. Superb acting, storyline and direction with a soundtrack to die for "},{"Title":"A mush from Shepherds Bush finds there's no way out...........","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Poor Jimmy(Mr P.Daniels),a smart Londoner who wants to belong to something - anything really as long as it gets him out of his house and away from his family(actually a perfectly realised 1960's unit)who represent everything he doesn't want to be. He is a likable 18 year old with a nice line in cheek who rides a motor - scooter very noisily round Shepherds Bush and gets into spots of bother.Entirely innocent compared to our present - day rioters and looters whose nihilism is actually quite frightening. Jimmy wants to have good time.Today's equivalent wants to terrify and destroy. Forty five years ago I was airlifted to Margate to prevent Mods and Rockers spoiling the holiday business.We took the boots off the rockers and corralled the Mods' scooters and it was virtually game over,a few token skirmishes on the beach and off back to the smoke. Scarcely the threat to society they were made out to be,then. Anyway,Social History aside,Quadrophenia is full of the energy and passion of directionless youth desperately looking for something to do that will draw the attention of their peers and parents to them.Look at me!I'm taking drugs,fighting,stealing,I am not you,I'm different. With their identical suits,haircuts and scooters,of course. The soundtrack is stirring,the acting fizzing with youthful elan but the final message is bleak for Jimmy and his mates. It's a very accurate snapshot of a time and a place and a picture of the Last Hurrah for white working class youth before the middle class hippies pushed them off the streets and out of the headlines. By 1970,mods were definitely passe,and I,for one,missed the sound of their scooters buzzing round East London,parking outside the cafes and dance halls. I daresay a few cling on,watching their DVD of Quadrophenia from behind their triple - locked front door,fearful that their grandchildren will get mugged on the way to get their shopping for them. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and shiny clear","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" An old film, indeed. The music is less present than I remembered (I only knew the opera and must have the old vinyl somewhere in my back boxes) but it is the Who without any hesitation. We go back to a period, the early 60s, when the youth born after the war was starting to get bored with the no-game society we were having then. And the new music was working them deep in their flesh, more than just plain rock and roll, but the second revolution of that rock and roll planet, the presently at the time being born English rock and roll. The Beatles were looming on the horizon and the Rolling Stones slightly later. The youth were following two life styles, in fact a division in two vast camps, clans, armies even, societies definitely the mods and the rockers. The film shows how these young people identify with a way to dress, a way to move around with scooters carrying dozens of rear view mirrors, drugs of course, alcohol, and the myth of becoming the kings of the world by defeating the other side. It was not yet the big professional football championships and their violence in Liverpool or Manchester, but it was just the same thing violence, sex, drugs, alcohol and music. The interest of the film is essentially the fact that it is a real documentary about this period, a bright and illuminating documentary about what has been haunting this society since 1945.To avoid the mistakes and the crimes of ,the previous generations young people have to live their lives out of politics, but life is conflicts and contradictions, so if these are not political, if these are not racial, if these are not national or ethnic, they have to be cultural. The future of the world is cultural or shall not be. Culture is dressing, music, what you drink, etc, what you do with the section of the income you have that is not absolutely necessary for your survival. This budget line started appearing among the people at the end of the Middle Ages and Ben Jonson illustrated it in his Bartholomew Fair. Here it is illustrated in London and Brighton, but it is the same free time becomes the objective of life to spend that budget line. And if you do not have that budget line, then you can always steal it from society or borrow it from someone, steal drugs from a pharmacy or borrow a scooter from a stranger. But this leads to conflict with society, with the parents first, with justice second, and with bosses third and in front of this trilogy, or should I say trinity, holy trinity maybe, just take a scooter and fly off the top of some white cliff. And what has changed since then? Nothing except that some vast humanitarian and sociological, societal as some have invented, questions have caught up in this world that is becoming globalized at light speed. Maybe though difference and tolerance are better accepted and practiced there are a lot more divisions and some are crisscrossing one another. It is not only mod versus rockers, but what about a black gay techno rock guy versus &#x85; what exactly? And yet groups do not mix that easily.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, CEGID "},{"Title":"My generation","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" In the late 1970's, British pop group The Who made an album called Quadrophenia, which documented the highs and lows of being a mod. Shortly after, they decided to make a film of the same name. And what a great decision it was. The film centres on a young Londoner called Jimmy Cooper, who is stuck in a dead end job and pisses off his parents whenever he gets the chance. Swept up by the mods and rockers movement in the 60s, he becomes obsessed with his new identity, blocking out his parents, his employers and his old rocker friends. He gradually becomes more and more frustrated with the fact that he cant get with fellow mod Steph. Soon he joins all the other London mods in a trip down to Brighton, in which he gets closer to Steph. This is the high point of the film. After Brighton, Jimmys mental health deteriorates to the point of desperation. Great film. Oh, and watch out for the ending. "},{"Title":"Going Down to Brighton....?","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" The Film is a classic. Good locations, good cast, good music, great story. The make up on Jimbo as he is going back to The Alley is a bit much though. Apart from that, turn your TV up loud and re-live a golden, bygone age......... Nasty Mr. PostmanA testament to the film is that many of the cast members have gone on to be very successful in there own right. One or two have become internationally know and of course you have Sting.Every time I go to Brighton, I cant fail to visit the alley.It is a real location and not a set. many of the original features have gone/been taken, but you still get the shivers when you see it.Blinding.. "},{"Title":"The sixties as it was","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I was a twenty year old mod in 1965. I had a Vespa GS. Quadrophenia is the most realistic portrayal of working class lads in the sixties.In my opinion, the mod's started the whole youth culture movement,which is just taken for granted today. There are many scenes in the film that I can relate to. We would always meet up outside the Tottenham ROYAL on a Sunday afternoon, and roar off in convoy. On route we could expect 70 to 80 riders to join us. The noise was unbelievable, every scooter had modified silencers, some with 2 inch pipes(all illegal)Every gang had an Ace Face. There was always one who had a good job,and was able to spend vast sums of money on clothes and on their scooter, or they had well off parents. This film is always worth a watch,even if is only a nostalgia thing. "},{"Title":"A British cinematic masterpiece","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Quadrophenia is one of britain's most influential films ever made. I remember seeing this back in 1982 and it always stuck my mind what a great film it was. Watching it 18 years later now as a 30 year old i still think it is a great film. The film is about a mod Jimmy and his friends who live their life fighting and pill popping .Jimmy eventually loses the plot after a mad weekend in Brighton fighting the Rockers. If you look at the cast it is amazing what a springboard this film is for aspiring pop stars and actors. Sting and Toyah went on to be big music artists and most of the actors,Ray Winston,Michael Elphick, Leslie Ash and Mark Wingett to name a few have become household names in the UK. The strange thing is that the leading actor Phil Daniels has never really done anything since that comes near to roll he plays here. I dont know if i'm the only one but when i watch this film i dont get the impression it is set in 1964 more like 1974. A Classic. 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Decent Who soundtrack in an otherwise pointless musical.","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a dull, egotistical, insipid, and often very histrionic examination of the battle between Mods and Rockers in the 1960s. I do like the Who, but none of the members starred in it,and the only connection it had was the musical idealogy of the band's short-term existence. By now most people have forgotton the names Roger Daltry and Pete Townshend, and the rivalry between the two sides of ragin' brits is over. Despite the extensive soundtrack, the music was poorly edited into the film, and the editing itself between scenes was choppy.If you must watch this, don't forget the blanket and a pillow.  "}{"Title":"Some incredible moments","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I've never been able to appreciate the Catcher in the Rye sort of character, so the film's protagonist is rather annoying to me.However, there are some moments which surpass any other problems - definitely a nice match of music to images, such as the Brighton beach shots and a few other areas.Overall worth seeing once.  This is not a documentary, but then nobody else has really covered the mods vs. rockers period so you might as well consider this a historical document.  "},{"Title":"Fine film adaption of classic Who album","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  The memebers of the who do not appear in this movie, but it features music from the Quadrophenia album and is based on the story told on that album. And it works much better that the Film adaption of Tommy. Fine performances all around, including Sting in his acting debut.The bottom line is that the story in the film is about adolescence. While Jimmy may be a mod in the early 60's, the whole subject of being a teenager and the insecurities, fears and souls-searching that come with it are timeless. The focus in this movie is not on the Who or their music, but the subject of adolescence. "},{"Title":"hasty pudding alert","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is an interesting and seemingly accurate account of a 1960's British Mod.  However, the film deserves at least one hasty pudding award.  During a party scene, you can clearly see a compilation album of The Who that was not released until the late 1970's.  Fun to see Sting pre-police. "},{"Title":"the best movie of the world","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  We are the mods¡¡¡¡¡ "},{"Title":"dissapointing movie but incredible album","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I just bought the movie, Quadrophenia and I must say that I'm quite dissapointed. I love the Who and this album blew my mind away. Since I'm a teenager I could connect to it very well. So i bought the movie this afternoon and just thought it was pointless. The first 3/4 of it is pointless with only a few interesting things happening, but the ending is alright. Sting is pretty cool in the movie, even though I'm not much of a Sting fan and it's funny what happens to him later at the end. Overall, I guess i'll give this movie a 7/10... It is probabably a biased answer since i'm a big Who fan. But if there was no Who music in the movie, I'd give it a 3/10...So, maybe rent it if you like the Who. "},{"Title":"Grange Hill version of Taxi Driver","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" On the 'special features' section of the DVD, the director, Franc Roddam, rightly regrets the cheapness of the opening credits, just cheap old block yellow lettered credits, a bit like Taxi Driver. And that is the film for me, another mythical and legendary yet over-rated film about an anti-hero who goes crazy.This film is legend, pure and simple. I've obviously heard of it yet, for some reason, took 28 years to get around to watching it. Quadrophenia is in the same mythical realm of legendary films as Gone With the Wind, The Wizard of Oz, The Exorcist, and so forth. It's one of those films that is part of the folklore, although in this instance purely in England (not even Scotland or Wales).Quadrophenia is totally English; music by The Who, the infantile Mods versus Rockers debate, all down by the seaside at Brighton (where I lived for a year in 1991-92).Jimmy is just a confused, childish 19 year old (played very ably by Phil Daniels), who gets a bit too obsessed with the whole Mod thing. For some reasons, they throw in this big drug thing, where Jimmy and his mates keep taking tablets. Were Pete Townsend and Roger Daltrey that obsessed &#150; in their mid-thirties by the time they wrote this film &#150; really so childish? Quadrophenia is an interesting social commentary, however, a sort of musical version of the Blue Lamp, or even Hell Drivers, with the scooters a sort of teenage version of the lorries driven by Stanley Baker.Just about worth watching for the nostalgia and the outside shots of Brighton. "},{"Title":"Quadrophenia","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I should say that the title is based on the name of the song by the band The Who, and they are a band that the lead character of this film likes, anyway, the reason I wanted to see this was purely because of the good looking cast list. Basically, set in 1965, London, Jimmy Cooper (Blur - Parklife's Phil Daniels) is a young man who lives a near reclusive life when it comes to his parents, his job as a mail room worker for an advertising company, and being part of regular society in general. He escapes what he considers the boring side of life by hanging out his fellow Mod teenage pals, including Dave (Mark Wingett), Chalky (Collision's Philip Davis) and Spider (Gary Shail), and they have their rivals, in the gang the Rockers led by Kevin (Nil by Mouth's Ray Winstone). The rivalry between the Mod and the Rockers comes a big head on a bank holiday on the seasides of Brighton when battles and rioting spread, and the police are out to catch all involved in whatever way. After quickie sex with long time crush Steph (Men Behaving Badly's Leslie Ash) in an alleyway, Jimmy does end up caught and arrested by the police, alongside the Mod he calls Ace Face (introducing singer Sting), and he gets fined £50, while his companion is fined £75 and mocking the court magistrate. Jimmy returns to London and becomes highly depressed, his mother throws him out for stashing amphetamine pills, he quits his job, spending his last payment on more pills, and he finds out Steph is now the girlfriend Dave. After fighting with Dave, getting a definite from Steph, and his treasured Lambretta scooter ruined in a road accident, Jimmy travels by train back to Brighton, and he is devastated to see that Ace Face is a hotel bellboy, and in the end he decides to finally end his life by driving near a high cliff, and eventually driving the stolen scooter off the edge. Also starring Toyah Willcox as Monkey, Michael Elphick as Father, Timothy Spall as Projectionist and EastEnders' Nasty Nick actor John Altman as John. Daniels as the young man with the love for 60's rock music, and Sting in his acting debut, along with the rest of the cast of young then rising stars in the British film and television industry, do really well, it is fascinating to see them all younger and making their mark for the rest of their future careers, as for the film itself it is realistic in terms of the time period, it has funny moments, it is filled with some dramatic moments, and it is certainly an interesting social drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"Very fine rock movie","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I think, as a fan of the Who, that 1969 Tommy's album was very good, but the movie from Russell was awful. I think that the Who Quadrophenia album was boring, but this 1979 movie is very good! As a rock fan, I also think that rock movies are always dumb and stupid. Like say... Detroit Rock City! Because in the USA and Canada, we also think that what's old is necessary stupid and dumb. This is not the case here. Quadrophenia is very realistic of the British youth of the 1960's and the mod movement.  Young actors here are all doing a very fine job. For me, Quadrophenia and American Graffitti are the two most valuable rock movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Things I like about this film...","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" * The who's the daddy now guy from Scum.* The Bisto advert dad from the 80s.* The guy from Boon.* The King of 'sensible pop'.* The girlfriend from Men behaving Badly who isn't fat* Some bird in Eastenders* Mr Bennet from Pride and PrejudiceBut despite all the B-listers, it's a pretty dull movie. Like modern British movies, it's full of over-polished 'northern' actors getting their accent stereotypically correct, with over over-simplistic images of 60s British culture, to appeal to an American audience.There's nothing truly 'gritty', 'uncompromisingly realistic' or even particularly interesting here.If you've got a fast forward button, proceed to 70 mins in for a mildly entertaining riot / fight scene. Otherwise you're not missing too much if you reach for the next DVD. "},{"Title":"Where did the hermaphrodite-goat go?.","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Basically a movie about a bunch of kids from all over The Planet Earth who came to a Westinghouse Science Project Competition and who left with one of them going home to give the community an STD (VD) which became global and was sourced to The Westinghouse Science Project Competition.Gathered back together to find the source of the STD the kids each bring samples of their parent's medication to The British Isles of Great Britain and The United Kingdom and begin trading them.The main-character falls in love for the first time while on pills from others for others and can never recapture the moment of his first love without a handful of stolen pills in his pocket.The movie is scored by The Who.Over the past decade I saw the hermaphrodite-goat at Colasanti's Greenhouse(s) in Ruthven (Ontario) Canadawhich gave VD to the school-principal of the local high-school nearest The Westinghouse Science Project Competition back then .It still jumps up and walks the fence when I come into the petting-zoo being that I to am a hermaphrodite. "}{"Title":"This movie sucks big time.  No redeeming qualities.","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I think I saw this movie for the first time when I was about 15 or 16 at San Diego's Ken Theater.  I never really got the whole mod thing then, even though there were hundreds of people wearing those silly green jackets and driving Vespa scooters around San Diego in the early 1980s.  This movie just seemed kind of boring and a little disturbing to me when I first saw it. And when I decided to rewatch it last summer, amazingly, it got even worse. Actually, it got way worse.  All I can say about this movie is that it is a big piece of crap.  What is the purpose of any of it?  Is it supposed to be a social documentary of the mod/rocker conflict?  Is it supposed to be funny, entertaining, realistic?  In my opinion, it doesn't satisfy any of those criteria.  The dialogue is boring; the violence is pointless; and the characters are difficult to empathize with.  Perhaps that was the point of the film  to show the pointlessness of this whole scene.  But it always seemed to me that most people (or most of the people that used to gather on their Vespas in front of the Ken Theater) glorify this film as some kind of statement about modism, whatever that is.  Actually, the one thing that I did find interesting about this film was the heaviness of the British accents.  Some of the diaolgue in Quadrophenia is spoken with such a heavy British accent that it's difficult to recognize as English.  But, sorry to say, that challenge is not enough to bring this film above the trash heap where it belongs.   "}]