[{"Title":"Plenty of T not enough A","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you watched this film for the nudity (as I did) you won't be disappointed. I could have done without the bumbling crooks or the bear though. Some bottomless nudity could have be shown but for what it was I think H.O.T.S. has to be the best of its genre.It is not the sort of film that could have been made today which is a pity because it is the sort of film that is worth watching in these times.I would take mindless nudity over pivotal plot points any day.It is a shame that the DVD doesn't have any extras but as they didn't have DVDs when this was filmed that is understandable. I would have like to know more about the shooting of the film especially where they shot the football match at the end. "},{"Title":"T & A and a little fun!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This HAS to be my guilty pleasure. I am a HUGE fan of 80's movies that were designed to entertain and they didn't care if they offended anyone. This move has no meat, not substance, no deep thought provoking scenes. Just plain old college kids having fun and if a few breasts have to be shown, then so be it! This movie is for when you just want to relax and NOT think. Viva la nudity! "},{"Title":"Great Bouncing Bosoms!","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mix old-time Burlesque, jiggle TV and the basic plot of Animal House, and you've pretty much summed up this example of B movies at the time Reagan became President. Of all the Animal House imitators, H.O.T.S. is probably the best. Don't watch it for great acting, writing or directing, but don't expect to spend a lot of time with your finger on the Fast Forward button either. If all you've seen is the USA edit, you've missed what is the essence of the film - beautiful topless women. It's not so much sexploitation as it is an update of the kind of show Grandpa saw in the big city when Grandma wasn't along. Not only the light, breezy attitude toward nudity, but the jokes, the pies, the seltzer, the animal acts - even two baggy-pants comics. "},{"Title":"Eye Candy Hall of Fame classic","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is a throwback to the pre-siliconized days of Hollywood.  We here at the academy admire the blossoming of natural talent as it explodes onto the screen.  The film centers around the exploits of a bevy of buxom beauty outcasts (Susan Kiger, Pamela Jean Bryant, Kimberly Cameron, Lisa London, Angela Aames) as they form a sorority.  Their nemesis is the snobby sorority with its buxom beauties (Lindsay Bloom, K.C. Winkler).  College hijinks prevail as the film brings forth the truth about typical sorority behavior showering, topless sunbathing, topless skydiving, wet T-shirt contests, outsmarting the pesky dean, and strip football.  That's right, strip football score a TD and the opposing team loses an article of clothing. This definitely is an Eye Candy Hall of Fame moment and causes us to reflect that they don't make movies like this anymore.  As football fans it pains us to actually hope for a weak pass rush and lapses in the secondary coverage for both teams.  Fire up the grill, open a beer, and enjoy the game. "},{"Title":"Drive In Hall of Fame","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this several years ago on the Playboy channel.  It featured a few Playmates (Kiger & Bryant--an Indianapolis native), a future T.V. sidekick of Mike Hammer (Bloom) and a has-been child star (Bonaduce) all frolicking in the highjinks of college.Throw in a Hattie McDaniel/Lillian Randolph type maid for comedy relief, lots of boobies and some strip football and you have all the makings of a classic drive-in movie.  H.O.T.S. was made after the success of National Lampoon's Animal House, and in some ways was better--more or less because of the girlies.  While the plots not memorable (poor girls getting even with rich vixens) it does have its classic moments like the pie fight from a hot-air balloon, nude skydiving--performed wonderfully by the late Angela Aames, the real life bear scenes and the strip football game.Not a movie to watch with your wife/girlfriend/concubine/lover, but instead one to watch with a buddy or several guys over a six-pack, pizza and snacks. "},{"Title":"The Citizen Kane of 70's T&A films!!!!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Topless touch football!! A wet t-shirt contest!!  A jockstrap raid!! This SheAnimal House has it all. Except a plot and good actors. The film consists of several pranks and catfights between the H.O.T.S. girls and the bitchy PI house. The dialouge is a scream and the soundtrack is sublimely brilliant. Over the past couple of months it's been popping up all over cable, so do yourself a favor and watch out for it. H.O.T.S. is so bad it's good! "},{"Title":"A fun, almost innocent glimpse at erotica past.","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  H.O.T.S. is a fun film for a trip back to when skin flicks had a more positive fun-filled agenda. They were made simply to titillate and have a few laughs. Everything seems less cynical and jaded. The girls  all have natural figures and some are Playboy playmates. The simple plot deals with a group of young women who open a non-sanctioned sorority house to get back at the snooty sorority girls who spurned and insulted them. Instead of the mean spirited tricks of today, most of the hijinks are simply innocent fun. The women are decent actresses for this genre and are mostly very attractive. To keep our attention between the topless scenes, we have mafia henchmen, a stolen bear, a hot air balloon, a funky house mother, and the cheapest robot ever seen. There's even Danny Bonnaducci of the Partridge Family.  If you have a sense of humor then let yourself go and enjoy some light entertainment.   "},{"Title":"Gazooks! They Be Hooters On The Screen!","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember hearing about this movie and how it played at nearly every drive-in theatre here in Toronto.  It's about a group of girls that are not accepted by the other sororities at their college, so they start up their own, and of course call it H.O.T.S.  It's a fun movie, that is just bursting with drive-in nostalgia!  Lots of fully endowed t-shirts, vans, fighting, and a football game showdown like no other! It's been compared to Animal House, which is a good movie in it's own right, but to me nothing compares to H.O.T.S.  It has it's own brand of fun & character. If you are looking for a classic T n'A movie, look no further because the H.O.T.S. girls are to the rescue, boom-boom shorts & all! "},{"Title":"Best Of The Genre","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's not Citizen Kane, but it does deliver.  Cleavage, and lots of it.Badly acted and directed, poorly scripted.  Who cares?  I didn't watch it for the dialog. "},{"Title":"Danny Bonaduce's Finest Silver Screen Work","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While anyone who claims to have watched this movie simply for the Danny Bonaduce shots is clearly in denial of their libido, it is indeed a fine performance, meaning pleasurably hideous.Danny is some kind of semi-famous celebrity MC here in the movie, which makes you wonder if he wasnt playing himself in this role, so to speak. The shining moment of this movie, outside of the nude scenes, is when Danny gets onstage with his band to sing a song called Shake it Baby, a song which really has no other words than those. And who can ever forget the scene in which Danny Bonaduce (Richie) finds himself in bed with a live seal and enjoying the action? God knows I have tried to forget, but it is stained on my retina.There are lots and lots and lots of flopping, nude women in this movie, which serves its purpose rather well I guess. However, when you are done looking at the girls, some scenes to watch out for are robot maid enters sorority house to find the secret cache of stolen money, extra large nude woman saves the day in a hot air balloon, and perhaps the strangest -- girls make hundreds of dollars selling pies consisting only of whip cream on a plate with glued-on nude sorority girl pictures.If for nothing else, apart from the Bonaduce madness and the kooky bumbling crooks, you have to see this movie to observe the unmeasurable extremes filmmakers will go to in trying to justify what is patently gratuitous nudity. Strip football?  "}{"Title":"Animal Rights Film","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well-made sexploitation film that is safe to view with family over long holiday visits. With a brilliant feminist satirical screenplay written by W. Terry Davis, Cheri Chaffaro, and Joan Buchannan, H.O.T.S, enjoys playful direction by Gerald Seth Sindell. Mr. Sindell and Ms. Davis along with Don Schain and others co-produced this classic romantic comedy.I like this much more than I like the famous Animal House made a year earlier, though that too is a fine work. Neither work takes itself too seriously. They are juvenile jokes with mild titillation aimed at pre-teens. Anyone over 13-years-old might find the gags a tad weak, of course. No matter, most adults will enjoy this classic holiday film. We watched it in my family at Thanksgiving. The editing, cinematography, acting, direction, production design, and iconographic structure are professional.Lindsey Bloom leads a great cast as the protagonist of the film. The other cast members are not as well known as she is. I think that at least one posed in the magazine Playboy back when its founder was still young enough not to look too silly with just over child age models.There are wonderful spoofs of Forbidden Planet and Carrie. The parody of Forbidden Planet is especially good. The film has a strong animal rights subtext that enhances the feminist outlook of the script. The football scene recalls the famous football sequence in M.A.S.H.Some viewers might object to the Marxist-Leninist class struggle outlook. Defines the spirit of America just as Reagan arrives. "},{"Title":"Revisited after 30 years","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this picture when it was released 30 years ago, mainly because of the topless football game. I enjoyed it back then, but seeing it again on Netflix TV after three decades was a disappointment. Not that the movie doesn't have its positives (1) high-quality cinematography, lighting, editing, and photography; (2) beautiful, often topless, babes; and (3) a couple of recognizable (real) actors from the past (Dick Bakalyan and Louis Guss as the gangsters).That being said, the flick went overboard trying to be zany, cramming into practically every scene some sort of tired, infantile gag that draws winces instead of chuckles. Further, beneath the ostensible light, good-natured goings-on, with everybody supposedly having such a great time acting crazy or simply being weird, runs a subliminal hostility and meanness that progressively depresses the viewer. Ha, ha. Isn't the fat girl funny, especially when she outweighs her nerdy boyfriend by 200 pounds? What a riot! Ha, ha. The opera singer bellows off-key and then falls into the pool! How original! Whoever thought of that? Brilliant stroke of comedy! As bright and cheerful as H.O.T.S. makes itself out to be, it's actually kind of repulsive.As one reviewer noted years ago, H.O.T.S. is one of those movies better watched with the sound off. The outstanding beauty of (my personal choices, in order) Kimberly Cameron, K.C. Winkler, Sandy Johnson, and Lisa London shouldn't be marred by idiotic dialogue.Five stars ten for the feminine beauty and the vintage actors, zero for everything else. "},{"Title":"The best of its kind","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I gave this a 10 because it's the best film of its kind...a good old-fashioned T & A film in the shadow and spirit of Animal House. I saw this with a similar film called Swap Meet and both were good of their type...a great way to spend a Saturday afternoon. Let's be honest...there are more breasts in this movie than one could imagine for an R-rated movie. From beginning to end, they just seem to keep showing up on screen (sunbathing scenes, bedroom scenes and, of course, the climactic football game). Also, a memorable kissing booth (kiss me, Clutz!) Everybody seems to be having a good time in their roles (several Playboy Playmates, Danny Bonaduce, several familiar TV and movie actors, etc.). The only complaint I have to register is that Lisa London's character is called by her last name O'Hara and not a good 1970s name like Olivia (or even Ora or Ona or O...??!!). I saw this again in the late 1980s with my now ex-wife (pretty well endowed herself) and she couldn't believe I was actually enjoying the movie!! She was probably jealous!! Again, this movie is a great way to spend a Saturday afternoon...just don't think too hard! "},{"Title":"H.O.T.S. Is Tops.","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched this film with my family over a long Thanksgiving holiday weekend. I am thankful that someone insisted that we watch it, though I didn't pay much attention until the end of the film when a head shearing seems promised, but, alas, doesn't happen.On the other hand, I watched this movie some years later and loved its liveliness, absurdity, sparkle, and just plain fun. I think that the film has a female tone. Women are not exploited in it even though I am sure that someone might think that the movie is pure exploitation. I think the movie plays with tropes of the period.I keep thinking someone ought to remake it. And flesh out some of the implications in the original. "},{"Title":"A great T&A college flick with Playboy Playmates!","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" H.O.T.S. is proof that at one time, the movie industry said F-OFF to the censors, and made movies with whatever they wanted! In today's world, this movie would be too over the top and extreme for it to be anywhere than behind a velvet curtain. Although, BestBuy had several copies on their $5.99 rack (in case anyone wanted to get a copy)! The movie was brilliant in its own way, in that it blended humor into a T&A movie loaded with Playboy Playmates! Unlike most skin flicks, it did have a plot. That, however, is not exactly why you would watch H.O.T.S.H.O.T.S. is a college movie that reminds me of the Revenge of the Nerds movies, in that it takes a group of average people and puts them against the elite rich preppies that most people can't stand! The only difference is that the Nerds in this movie have a much better shot at getting laid! I notice that there are some people who would rate this movie low, and to me that is ignorant! Obviously this is not intended to win Oscars or break barriers in film. If you are looking for that, then go watch what ever the critics pick for you! You have to appreciate the fact that this movie actually had a funny plot, decent acting (for the most part given the genre), and plenty of girls getting naked! H.O.T.S. is one of those movies you watch to get your mind off of modern day problems and daily stress, and instead, laugh and have a good time! If you are looking for a funny college-based movie that has enough skin to turn a pink Miata straight, then you should really check out H.O.T.S.! "},{"Title":"T & A and a little fun!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This HAS to be my guilty pleasure. I am a HUGE fan of 80's movies that were designed to entertain and they didn't care if they offended anyone. This move has no meat, not substance, no deep thought provoking scenes. Just plain old college kids having fun and if a few breasts have to be shown, then so be it! This movie is for when you just want to relax and NOT think. Viva la nudity! "},{"Title":"Good Ol' Cheesecake!","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" H.O.T.S. is your typical college t&a sexploitation comedy from the 1970's. Much like Revenge Of The Nerds,it focuses on the exploits of a group who have to form their own sorority because they can't get into an established one. Basically Revenge of the Nerds with bad acting and excessive nudity. It features several Playboy Playmates of the month (Susan Kieger,Pamela Jean Bryant,Lisa Loudon) and a cameo (extended) of The Partridge Family's Danny Bonaduce. Seriously though,H.O.T.S. is a harmless,campy romp whose message is that even outcasts have a place to go if they are willing to use their feminine wiles to get there. Great cheesecake,low budget fun. "},{"Title":"The Highest Rating flick on the T&A scale","Date":"19 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of my personal favorites that Netflix has to offer for stream. The opening scene is full of great full frontal nudity and keeps up the pace the whole movie! This movie was made before Hollywood went silicone so all the women are all natural beauties. I truly can't believe this movie wasn't bigger when it came out. It delivers on many levels. The acting isn't great but the humor is there and very politically incorrect. Add Danny Bonnaduce as character and you have a hit movie! The plot is goonie and I don't really remember anything specifically about it except all the great nudity. Pop some pop corn and grab a beer because this great flick is available to watch right now on Netflix and scores a perfect 10 out of 10 on the T&A scale. "},{"Title":"Does Not Take Itself Seriously But It Is Well Made.","Date":"27 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" T.O.P.S. cries out for a remake. Sometimes described as a mere T & A film, T.O.P.S. is much more. It is a parody of Forbidden Planet, Carrie, M.A.S.H., and homage to Animal House. It is a subtle animal rights film and a fine feminist satire of adolescence getting laid sagas. Decades after its original release, it still has the verve and vitality of classic films such a The Palm Beach Story. That is not to say the filmmakers or anyone else beyond the emotional age of a sixteen-year-old boy or Hugh Hefner took it seriously. It is in its way as good as the famous Animal House made a year earlier, though that too is a fine work. Neither work takes itself too seriously. They are juvenile jokes with mild titillation aimed at pre-teens. Anyone over 13-years-old might find the gags a tad weak, of course. No matter, most adults will enjoy this classic holiday film after too much food and wine on Thanksgiving evening when the cold fog rolls in over town and one has not desire for serious viewing. My family watched it at Thanksgiving. However, the editing, cinematography, acting, direction, production design, and iconographic structure are professional. Lindsey Bloom leads a great cast as the protagonist of the film. The other cast members are not as well known as she is. I think that at least one posed in the magazine Playboy back when its founder was still young enough not to look too silly with just over child age models.What is not always well known is that woman were important creators of this film. With a brilliant feminist satirical screenplay written by W. Terry Davis, Cheri Chaffaro, and Joan Buchannan, H.O.T.S, enjoys playful direction by Gerald Seth Sindell. Mr. Sindell and Ms. Davis along with Don Schain and others co-produced this classic romantic comedy. I think it is at least as good as M.A.S.H. I must mention that this work is beautifully photographed and edited. It is a fine film about the late sixties. I think that everyone worked at a high level to make this film It is a small masterwork. I would like seeing it remade because it still has potential for improvement and updating. "},{"Title":"H.O.T.S - Mindless Innocent Fun - A 70's Movie Time Capsule","Date":"11 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First of all, why am I giving this movie a ten? It reminds me of a totally different era. It is weirdly innocent. There is no nastiness in this movie. Even the bad guys in this movie aren't really that bad.Second, this movie is a time capsule to a more innocent time. Imagine releasing this movie today? It couldn't happen. There just weren't many places to see beautiful naked women on the silver screen, unless you wanted to go to a seedy part of town and visit an adult movie theater. The T&A genre just doesn't exist anymore. In 1979 there was a pent-up demand for this kind of entertainment. Now you can see more T&A on the internet before breakfast than was filmed in this movie. Imagine pitching this script today. We'll film a zany movie with a bunch of beautiful half-naked women. Teenage boys will come see it for the girls, and we'll put in a few jokes so girls might want to go too. A producer would say Why would I make a movie with a lot of scenes with naked women? Where is the demand for this product? The question make no sense today and illustrates how much things have changed since 1979.Third, this movie, for all the naked girls it, HOTS has a lot of feminist undertones. The women in this movie are strong, and fight to get what they want. The men who try to exploit them are the ones who get embarrassed. Fourth the women in this movie look natural. The female stars don't have that nasty silicone look that you see post - 1980. The girls that are gifted with ample pulchritude in this movie look real. The stars are not ridiculously hot, i.e. like Angelina Jolie. You could visualize these girls on your college campus in 1979 (if your campus is USC or UCLA I guess, not the engineering school I went to, but I digress)One of the complaints I have about Hollywood today is that actresses just don't look like normal people anymore. I'm sure this is a function of the internet weeding out everyone but the super-gorgeous. The girls in HOTS look like they are attainable, which adds to the innocent charm of the movie.Finally, the football game at the end of the movie! As a teenager I said to myself, If I'm reincarnated I want to be the cameraman who filmed the huddles in the HOTS movie! What incredible creativity! I smile every time I think of that scene )Summing Up  A mindless romp to a more innocent time.If you watch it with teenagers today be prepared to explain how and why this genre existed. Today's kid will wonder why this movie was made. "}{"Title":"HOTS typifies genre perfectly","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I agree that this film achieved its goals perfectly. I saw it on Showtime late at night as a teenager, and again in college. I thought it was funny. And there are boobs everywhere! It seems like in the late 70s and 80s there were loads of this type of film made, from R-rated films like Porkys to soft-core Au Pair Girls; it's a shame they seem to have fallen by the wayside in terms of popularity. The thing that made HOTS great was that, like the previous two films, it's a hell of a lot of fun. HOTS is like a girl-power version of Animal House, with the girls forming a sorority of sorts and engaging in campus bedlam. On a side note, whoever designed the Hooters girls outfits must certainly have seen this film. "},{"Title":"This movie is pretty damn funny!","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Of course, going into it, one would expect it to be a typical, stupid T&A flick, and it is. But it really does have some fairly well thought out humorous moments. Given the era in which it was made, and the obvious exploitation aspect, it is still one of the better B comedies of the time.While watching this movie, you will see quite obviously the inspiration for many of the scenes in Revenge of The Nerds, and numerous other films of the same genre. Most of the acting is horrible, and WAY over the top, but that's exactly what I expect in a movie like this. What it lacks in the way of acting ability, it more than makes up for with its camp value and complete disregard for anything of merit.The amazing thing about this movie, is that there was obviously some money that went into it. Films like this made today just don't have the same style. If you can turn your brain off, and turn your sense of humor up for an hour and a half, you will enjoy this flick. I dare anyone to not find at least SOMETHING in this movie that they think is funny, if not hilarious. "},{"Title":"animal house meets hooters","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" h.o.t.s. is one of those sexy 70's drive in movies that features many of playboys famous playmates from the 70's like sexy tall blonde Susan kiger,Pamela jean Bryant,Lisa London,kc winkler and the late sexy Angela Ames.and would you believe a post partridge family Danny bonaduce?its the snobby girls verses the good girls(the hots girls)led by Susan kiger.there's a couple of comedy relief gangsters,a runaway bear,a trained seal,misplaced bras,etc;etc;think animal house meets hooters.h.o.t.s. is an enjoyable little comedy with t& a no complaints here.i actually think that Susan kiger was one of playboys sexiest playmates from the 70's.she did do a few more movies including deathscreams.if you like fun drive in movies you will no doubt enjoy h.o.t.s. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Somewhat Fun But Very Light Goofy College Sex Film...","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" H.O.T.S. is not for those that want hardcore porn. Instead, this film is a precursor to many 80s era cult-classic college/frat films like REVENGE OF THE NERDS and PORKY'S and a post-cursor to the world-renown ANIMAL HOUSE. A good time if you dig a lot of big-titted 70s/80s Playboy type chicks and cheezy slap-dick comedy - but nothing too notable if you wanna use it as whack-material...H.O.T.S. is an unauthorized sorority of sexy outcasts doing battle against the popular and trendy Pi girls. This one has pranks, an Aunt Jemima-ish house keeper, and even an over-heated robot that makes it relatively fun viewing if boobies are your thing...Well...I like tits as much (or probably more...) as the next guy - but with all the sleazy sh!t that I've seen, I couldn't help but wish for a few hardcore scenes to make this one truly worthwhile. I knew it wouldn't happen, but I still wish that H.O.T.S. had a bit more sex and a bit less cheeze. Not quite as notable as NERDS, PORKY'S, or ANIMAL HOUSE, but worth a look for fans of those types of films...7/10P.S... and I forgot - this one has consummate douche-rag Danny Bonaduce in probably the best role of his career outside of his reality show... "},{"Title":"One of the greatest film of the late 70s","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is by far the greatest movie of 1979, a film that back then was important in terms of cinematography, comedy and acting. H.O.T.S is and will always be a gem of a movie, a pure masterpiece with monumental t&a and classic lines and quotes. The acting is of course fabulous, excellent and sexy. Here is the story thanks to Eric Kopstain.The antics include but are certainly not limited to a wet t-shirt contest, a sky-diving eposide, plenty of fraternity boys and even a house-keeping robot. Can the girls of H.O.T.S. overcome the scrutiny of their unliberated student counterparts and the University Administration as they unknowingly become the focus of bumbling crooks? There is no words to express my love for this fabulous milestone masterpiece. A must have on DVD. "},{"Title":"h.o.t.s.","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Look, it's simple. I knew what I was seeking after when I decided on renting H.O.T.S. and got exactly what I hoped for. I can't imagine what a person would hope to get out of the movie besides what the cover and synopsis spell out quite loudly.The mistreated and downtrodden college girls at FU University(..ha ha), picked on by the rich gals at the local sorority, decide to form their own little club, repairing a bedraggled and unkempt house, naming themselves H.O.T.S.(each letter named after the founding girls' last names). This is where the two dueling sisterhoods battle for supremacy over the university jocks, initiating pranks and other humiliating methods against each other. The final showdown will be a striptease tag football game where once and for all the ultimate winner will be determined.You get plenty of the usual familiar traits which accompany these kind of sex comedies, including plentiful nudity, tons of (less than subtle)sexual innuendo, sophomoric humor, the wet T-shirt contest, a cat fight, animal mascots, shenanigans involving the faculty, among other things. I've read that H.O.T.S. basically follows(..or is inspired by)National Lampoon's Animal House, but it's more in line with something like The Cheerleaders, basically young adults living it up like there's no tomorrow, all smiles as beautiful boys and girls hook up, engaging in lasciviousness and immorality. Those at HOTS will do whatever it takes to make the grade and embarrass their rivals by any means possible.You have bumbling mafioso escape convicts attempting to recover their loot inside the attic of the HOTS' house, antics involving a hot air balloon, a kidnapped mascot bear who goes free invading the sorority's headquarters, a pleasantly plump member of HOTS and her nerdy boyfriend, and Danny Bonaduce. You'd think Bonaduce would just have a glorified cameo, but his role is actually more extensive..he has his own band, is often the butt of a number of cruel(..but hilarious)jokes(..including a special smackerooni at a kissing booth, and a practical sex joke involving the HOTS' mascot seal) and there's some poking fun at his member.Perfectly grating soundtrack and numerous Playboy bunnies, their breasts exposed for our viewing pleasure. Striking similarities to Revenge of the Nerds in some respects. "},{"Title":"Utter Cheese","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you rent this thinking I hope the script makes me have a warm fuzzy then Buddha help you.The title says it all. Cheerleaders and sorority girls acting as bubble-headed as possible and walking around in various states of nude. THAT'S why you rent this one. That's why I did.Bumbling thieves give it intentional comedy relief. Or maybe it was to give the hornier horn-dogs watching this a chance to cool down. Either way, call it a rest.But the football game was the scene to see. And they were smart enough to save it for last. Every male enjoys it. And some ladies I know liked it too.Danny Bonaduce appears before he became a train wreck. "},{"Title":"A comedy should have jokes and a plot.","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" About the most useless movie entertainment I can imagine is a comedy constructed in the form of a soft-core sex film, except without the sex. Or the comedy. That pretty much describes H.O.T.S. From its M*A*S*H* wannabe title to its wannabe actress Playmate cast, there just isn't much here to like. The girls are attractive, but all of them have just barely enough screen presence and acting chops to make it as porn stars, and this isn't porn, more is the pity. There are lingerie and bikini shots aplenty here but other than a topless touch football game about 90 minutes in, very little nudity or soft-core sex, despite the obvious come-ons in the box copy. If it were any tamer, it could be a made-for-TV movie. As a sex film it's a big tease with no happy ending, and as a comedy it simply has nothing to sell. The dialogue is leaden, and there is no hint of cleverness anywhere. Its construction is a simple string of vaguely related scenes that head toward resolutions that are obvious five minutes in and dull when they finally occur. The physical comedy is directed with no sense of timing and performed by people who have no flair for slapstick, and it all just falls flat and leaves you wondering what is the point of it all. The whole thing is handled with such careless incompetence that it makes REVENGE OF THE NERDS look like Noel Coward. Don't be fooled by what's on the DVD box. "},{"Title":"Let's hear it for Vestron Video!!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You know, I really have a problem with movie lists. I was reading Maxim magazine a while ago and they had a list of the 50 Greatest B-Movies of all time, and knowing me, I of course have to go through and watch them all and write reviews of all of them. This is why you see reviews of movies like Gator Bait and Barb Wire and Coffy on my list. So I noticed H.O.T.S. at the video store the other day and recognized it from Maxim's list of the 50 greatest B-movies, and I decided to rent it and check it out. My only consolation is that I rented it because I recognized it from a list of B-movies, so I already knew it was going to suck. Given the type of movie that it is, I can't say that H.O.T.S. is a total failure, since it is nothing more than a late 70s T&A film, and it never pretends to by anything else. The only place where it strays widely from its objective is in a ragged subplot involving a couple of ex-cons who have stashed a lot of stolen money in the house that the self-named H.O.T.S. move in to, because this subplot has absolutely no place in the movie. Despite the fact that the rest of the movie is as well, this subplot is completely superfluous and unnecessary. The story is based on a couple of rival sororities at the beloved F.U., which exists as one of those Universities that contains a grand total of one sorority until the rejects form their own in order to get back at the snobs in the other one. This new sorority, Help Out The Seals (H.O.T.S.), is a sorority supposedly based on helping seals (the seal subplot is another one that doesn't really belong in the movie, and little attention is paid to the meaning of that name beyond having a seal running around here and there throughout the movie).  This is going to sound weird, but there was actually one scene that I was pretty impressed with in this movie. One SHOT that I was impressed with, I should say. About midway through the movie, one of the girls in Pi, the rival sorority, is pouring alcohol into the punch, and she pours some for herself in a glass and drinks it. Oddly enough, what she does as she drinks that alcohol reminds me of something that Charlie Chaplin would do, which really brightened up the movie. Obviously, nothing in this movie comes close to anything that Chaplin ever did, but that shot alone raised my score for the movie from a 2 to a 4.As a whole, however, the movie is exactly what you would expect it to be, a lot of people running around looking for excuses to take off their clothes (I liked how the remove-one-piece-of-clothing-for-every-score in the football game at the end was one of the GIRLS' ideas. Riiiiiiiiight&#133;), and not much thought is put into much of anything else. There is, for example, a scene early in the film when a couple of the Pi girls pour hot sauce into the refreshments at a H.O.T.S. party, accidentally getting caught in an incriminating photograph (the girl taking the picture didn't realize that she photographed them at the time), although the photograph never comes up for any reason later in the film. I've seen movies like this before, it's kind of like Gator Bait but without the violence and the rednecks and Coffy wasn't far off. Even Barb Wire is much the same, just with a bigger budget and more silicon. Thankfully, Maxim's 50 B-movie list contains only a few more comedies, because while these cheesy teen T&A films are entertaining every once in a while as bad movies with the occasional semi-nude scene, after watching H.O.T.S. I think I've decided that I like the bad horror movies better than the bad comedies. I'd rather watch a lot of terrible actors pretend to be scared than pretend to be funny.  "}]