[{"Title":"Overwhelmingly and brilliantly funny with genius throwaways.","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"75 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To enter the realm inhabited by Martin's blissfully original caricatures, you must first be tested for wit, intellect and an innocent revelry in life itself. If you qualify, you will be led on to a rollercoaster of oxygen-sapping gags, stupendously clever motifs, brilliant performances and an absolutely fabulous script. There are gags here so new and surprising that to try and emulate them could only court failure. The joy of true love accompanied by him on the ukelele and on the last stanza by her on the........ trumpet and a beautiful little song. Is it the humour or the innocence brings a tear to your eye? Don't call the dog life saver, call him s***head  -  and for evermore, he is. The white man who is distraught to discover that he is not black. The goodbye note and Martin reading bits of words as they are washed away. The seminal all I need scene which is milked to the point of asphixia. The Jerk is simply the funniest most understatedly clever movie ever produced. There has simply never been anything this good, nor will there ever be. The message is simple and is a very old one the buffoon as saint. From Bottom in Shakespeare, to Tristram Shandy, to Chaplin, to the genius understatement of Cary Grant, to Norman Wisdom they have all touched on and come tantalisingly close, but they have all lacked one ingredient, an ingrediant calledSteve Martin. Like Orson Welles and Kane or Frederick Forsyth and the Jackal or Men at Work and Land Down Under, Martin has played his best shot first, unfettered, undisciplined, unconstrained genius. Let us all be better, brighter, cleverer and genuinely funnier by being the jerk. And if that's too frightening, just watch it. "},{"Title":"Laugh so hard, you'll miss half the movie","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"38 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm glad that I didn't see this in the theatre, because when I watched it the first time on video, I needed to pause the movie several times just to catch my breath from laughing so hard!  Wait a minute...was that the first time, or the tenth time?  Playing Navin R. Johnson, the white son of a black family, Steve Martin leaves home to find his special purpose.  By the end of the movie, we all know what that was...to entertain his fans the way he has!  As for Navin's special purpose, if you haven't already seen the movie, you aren't going to get any more information than what's here.  It takes intelligence to play a complete idiot, and Steve Martin does the job extremely well.  Also take note of Martin's costar Bernadette Peters, and the cameo appearances by Jackie Mason and Carl Reiner.  Whoever wrote that people who watch The Jerk will be quoting its jokes for years after was absolutely right.  This was the funniest of Steve Martin's movies! "},{"Title":"Steve Martin Carries the Film to the Top","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"39 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin's out-of-this-world performance is the main calling card of this hilarious comedy. Martin stars as a moron who has been raised by a poor African-American family. One night after hearing some music on the radio, he decides that it is time for him to go find his place in the world. What follows is a poor man's Forrest Gump. Martin gets into some odd situations and goes from the bottom of the social ladder, to the top, and then to the bottom again. This is a flat-out comedy that is a laugh-a-minute romp. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Lord loves a workin' man; don't trust whitey; see a doctor and get rid of it.","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"37 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why is the rating for The Jerk so low? Every comment said that this movie was hilarious! Hey, anyone out there who gave The Jerk a low rating, come write a comment! I don't even know what's not to like about this movie. The script is extremely funny. The naive, ambitious Navin Johnson is the role that Steve Martin was born to play. This is one of the funniest movies ever (any fans of my comments know that I say that often, but I really mean it!).P.S. If you're a worried parent wondering if this movie is okay for your child to see, let him / her see it. It's actually pretty tame. I couldn't tell what made it an R-rated movie. "},{"Title":"Overall, The Jerk is one of the most original, wacky, and wild and crazy (Martin reference intended) comedies ever. See it for laughs, plain and simple.","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"36 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Jerk - 4.5/5 Country US Language English Year 1979 Rating R Director Carl Reiner Starring Steve Martin, Bernadette Peters, Mable King, M. Emmet WalshREVIEW BY JOHN ULMERSteve Martin had basically gained a burst of fame before starring in Carl Reiner's wacky comedy The Jerk. Martin was fresh off hosting Saturday Night Live a few times, and had made a few albums and stand-up gigs. But The Jerk is what established him as an on-screen comedian.Martin plays a lame-brain fool, who lives with his family on a plantation farm. Only one problem. His family is black, he is white. After coming to facts about his racial status, Martin flees from the scene and heads for the downtown gig. He is suckered out of - and into - many things throughout the film. Not as much of because he is innocent as he is dumb, however. Unlike comedies like Blast From the Past where the main character is treated bad and doesn't realize it because he/she is innocent and has no idea what to expect from life, Martin gets treated bad and doesn't realize it because he is stupid, not only because he is innocent.The Jerk starts out working at a gas station. Some of the funniest scenes occur here. One, is when a madman with a sniper rifle is shooting at Martin and misses. Martin, being The Jerk, thinks the man is purposely shooting at paint cans. He says, Hey! It's the cans! He must hate the cans! Stay away from the cans! Another is when he gets a home...living in a bathroom. (Like it? I LOVE it!) And one that has always gotten my funnybone is when Martin looks in a phone book and sees his name. I'm a person now! He yells. This is true, of course. All of us feel like more than just skin after seeing our names printed somewhere. I recall first seeing my name as a reviewer on Rotten Tomatoes. It feels great to have your name written somewhere, because you know that someone, somewhere, saw that name and put it in. Someone read one of my movie reviews. Though Martin's character takes it to a new extreme, it is nevertheless true. When you sign your name on a document, the document becomes active and real. So why should it not be the same with Martin's character? Perhaps while he is a jerk, he is at the same time smart. Nah, he's just stupid.The Jerk carved a place for itself in history. I had really never seen any comedy like it before. Airplane was released the same year, and the humor was much the same, as well as the editing (see below), but I saw The Jerk first, and it was an odd surprise. The humor is by itself. It is so odd and original that it makes it one of the best. Martin went on to make the less-successful The Man with Two Brains, also directed by Reiner. The film is much the same, but does not work to the same degree. Too many jokes fall flat. Unlike The Jerk, where the jokes start to fall flat in the middle and pick up again at the end, The Man with Two Brains had its hit-and-misses almost the whole way through. It was a fine comedy, but not great at all.Steve Martin brings his character to life. He is one of the absolute dumbest, innocent, naive individuals I have ever seen on screen. But what makes him work so well is Martin. Martin behind it all. But the thing is, Martin dissolves himself completely into character. He is so stupid that you can't help but laugh. In The Naked Gun (1988) Leslie Nielsen used a dumb character and played him smart, deadpan, serious. Like everything he was saying and doing was normal. Martin does the same, but in a different way. He doesn't play him deadpan and smart. He plays a dumb character dumb, having no idea what he is saying and doing is wrong. And another interesting aspect is that even though Martin disguises himself as The Jerk, we can still see Martin shining through. Martin can play versatile actors (see Planes, Trains and Automobiles - 1987), but Martin is still inside. We can see him shining through. That is why Steve Martin is one of my favorite comedians. He can envelop his character, yet at the same time keep the Martin charm. That's why I can usually expect solid laughs from a Martin vehicle.Director Carl Reiner does a few out-of-place cuts in The Jerk, just like he did in The Man with Two Brains, but I think that it worked overall. Part of what makes this movie so funny and goofy is how the editing is so odd. So many scenes are out of place and pay nothing to the film. But like I said, that is what makes it so original and stupid.The film loses some steam halfway through, and the jokes sometimes fall flat, but overall the comedy is one of the best of its genre. I would say it is Martin's best comedy, but that spot is saved for Planes, Trains and Automobiles which co-stars John Candy. THAT movie is Steve Martin's best, and always will be. Overall, The Jerk is one of the most original, wacky, and wild and crazy (Martin reference intended) comedies ever. See it for laughs, plain and simple. "},{"Title":"Martin In His Wild & Crazy Days","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A very popular movie in its day, watching it a couple of years ago wasn't the same. Oh, it was still funny but just not the hilarious movie I always remembered it as. Maybe its reputation and memory exceeded its value, or maybe it's funnier when you are younger.Whatever, there is still a lot of good laughs in year, subtle and slapstick variety. Now I laugh more at the subtle things. Almost all the characters in here, beginning with Steve Martin's Navin R. Johnson, are wacky. Bernadette Peters, by the way, never looked prettier. This was in the earlier days of the ratings system and that PG rating would be at least PG-13 today. It still fun to see it after a long absence. Martin was on a roll back in those days, a wild and crazy guy, and it's good that he's still entertaining us -- years later, although in a more subtle way. Hey, he's getting older, too. "},{"Title":"A Hilarious concept","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"28 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Jerk is a great movie that stands out to the world.  It's unique and fun in it's different way.  Steve Martin plays a simple-minded man who strikes it rich and then falls back to the low-class way.  The best part of the movie is the dialogue,  it spreads from Martin's tasteless quotes to a different tone everytime.  It's a classic movie... Even if it sometimes falls flat. "},{"Title":"What makes the jerk amazing is it is the closest thing SM stand up!","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"25 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think that Steve Martin as a stand-up comic was brilliant beyond most people's understanding. His humor often werid ,intelligent and always funny is among the best ever. The jerk is his only movie that feels like Steve martin stand up. To some level so does the man with two brains put the jerk is amazing on that level.If you are even paying attention to the camera direction, or anything technical about this film you just don't get it. I have seen the Jerk so many times I know it by heart and i swear I laugh everytime. Best comedy ever. YES! "},{"Title":"Pure Comedy Shinola","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this when it was released at the movies. It was one of those you could happily go to see again with somebody else the following night. It's on TV right now as I write this, 23 years later and it's difficult to finish the review with all the great dialogue in the background. The purpose of a comedy movie (apart from making money!) is to make people laugh. This one does it constantly. I've got to give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin is the funniest man ever.  Period.","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am 16 years old.  Therefore, i was not even around when this movie was made.  The one day, though, i was walking through the movie store, and i saw a sign that said 2 movies for ten dollars.  So, with my dads advice, i bought this movie.  I watched it, and couldn't stop laughing the whole way through.  I realized that Steve Martin is the funniest man ever.  Period. Second to none.  This movie was the funniest movie I've ever seen, and it got me hooked on other Steve Martin movies.  Since then, I seen Planes Trains and Automobiles, Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, the Father of the Bride movies, and i can't get enough of him.  I can only hope that he starts to act in more comedies, because i haven't seen him in any for a while.  My rating for The Jerk is ten out of ten, two thumbs up, and five out of five stars.  Thank you, Steve Martin. "}{"Title":"Way ahead of its time ! ! The original spoof !!! The CORE-tickler P","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Excellent is an understatement for the actors and director of this movie. Steve martin is truly a comic genius. I heard from a friend he's got a Super human IQ and he puts it to such good use. He portrays brilliance in comical situations, witty conversations and his energy is extra-ordinary. Bernadette peters is beautiful and quite enchanting herself.  loved the song they played with the Ukulele and the saxophone. Beautiful ! This flick is way ahead of its time, and the original spoof of many old and future Hollywood movies. With a ritz to rubble or a rags to riches kinda story and a light-hearted touch, this is a FUNNY FUNNY movie right from the start till the end that guarantees to tickle your funny bones for sure !! Cheers ! "},{"Title":"One of Steve Martin's best films","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I honestly cannot decide which Steve Martin film is my favourite between The Jerk, Man with Two Brains and Planes, Trains and Automobiles, because I love all three and he is wonderful in all three. As for Navin Johnson, he takes on the role of a simple-minded and naive man to perfection. The film looks good, has a funny script, good direction and a lovely story. And the jokes are heavenly, particularly the one where he makes a fortune inventing an absurd nose support for spectacles. Bernadette Peters, looking gorgeous by the way, matches him every step of the way. Overall, there is very little I can say that hasn't been said already, other than to say The Jerk is one of Martin's best and funniest. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"He Hates Cans!!","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was one of Steve Martin's early movies and one of his funnier ones if a bit weak on storyline which is why I prefer Dirty Rotten Scoundrels as it is a more complete movie than this one. Still, this one is funny and Martin was on a roll then as he had a couple of other good movies during this time too in The Lonely Guy, Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid, and The Man With Two Brains. One has to wonder what has happened to him in more recent years as he is all but disappeared only coming out to make the occasional horrid Pink Panther movie. This one has a bit of a plot, but not really all that much of one as it is mainly a man telling a story about how he ended up living in the street. Raised by a black family and being obviously not black this man set out to make a life for himself. He still wrote his family quite often and sent money home so a rather decent if not to intelligent guy. Seriously the movie's title is kind of funny as the guy is not really much of a jerk as he is just a simple guy trying to find a job and help out his family. The movie is at its best as he plods from one job to another, it gets a bit weaker near the end as he gets a lot of money, though it is still funny there too especially when he writes one letter telling his family about all the stuff he wanted and now has. The best parts of the movie though for me came at the gas station where he had a job as an attendant and a guy picks his name out of a phone book. That scene was priceless the first time I saw it and had me laughing wildly. "},{"Title":"I was born a poor black child&#133;The Jerk","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It was sheer dumb luck that while reading Steve Martin's autobiography earlier this year I saw his film The Jerk was being shown on TV. A few months later and the threat of my DVR being erased, I finally took the time to view it. Martin definitely did something special, infusing his stand-up routine into a story of one man's rise to wealth and subsequent loss of everything. His crazy persona takes center stage right from the start as we meet Navin Johnson, not a bum on the street, but a jerk who has lost it all. His slowed down drunk speech and deep tones as he begins to tell the camera the story of his life set up the collection of gags and jokes you can't even imagine will come your way. Here we have a man that was born into a black southern family, always wondering why his skin was so light and why he could never keep up with the rhythm of blues music. With a penchant for Twinkies and Tab cola, something was amiss and only when he heard a strange new song on the radio, one his white body could dance to, does he realize he needed to see the world and show it his special purpose.I really think I wouldn't have enjoyed my time with this character if I hadn't read Martin's book first. Knowing his stand-up background made it fun to spot tired and true aspects throughout the movie. You have the juggling, the ukulele, and the all I need is this ashtray, and I don't need anything else, well except this paddle-game, all I need is this ashtray and the paddle-game &#133; and these matches &#133; schtick that surprising goes on long in the film, but never gets old. I think it has to do with the way it is shot, in a still-framed composition as he gradually goes further and further away, his voice getting softer and softer. It really is well-orchestrated and credit goes to either he or director Carl Reiner for the success. There are definite lulls in the action, as is inherent in films like this being a stream of jokes tied together, but there is bound to be some failures amongst the true gems. When the laughs hit, though, they hit pretty hard&#151;even if it might just be because of how off-the-wall the gag is.For a guy like Martin, fresh off of his club appearances and television variety shows, he is quite a natural. The Jerk marks his first major film role, the lead part in his own movie, something that shows how powerful he was based on record sales alone and no real reputation for acting on screen. He gets his wild and crazy guy dancing involved along with other staples from his repertoire to help the audience find their bearings and remember that this is the guy they hear at home every night for laughs. This really is the start of a powerhouse's career and he planned it out to perfection.Having a supporting cast like he does can't hurt either. Bernadette Peters did not have many film jobs beforehand, probably just known mostly for her stage work. Her vocal prowess is on display as well as her comedic timing and blank face reactions to Martin's antics. I don't know if anyone else could have taken his face lick with such class. Martin's family is a lot of fun too, always singing and dancing and trying their best to make him a part of the group. I really enjoyed Dick Anthony Williams as his brother Taj. This is the one person who understands the absurdity of the situation and when Navin writes home about the possibility of a new job from his girlfriend, Williams' smirk and laughter is absolutely fantastic.A lot works and plenty doesn't, but when you understand the film's place in history, you must give it a lot of credit. People took a chance on this unproven young man and ushered in a new era of comedians. With Saturday Night Live beginning it's perpetual lifespan around the same time, The Jerk became a sign of things to come. If you look at the comedy world today, everything seems to be manifested from the minds of comedians who started on stage or in TV. Shows are based on comedy acts and films molded from characters. Most of them fail miserably, but the strong success of a select few keep the money flowing, hoping to discover that next new cash cow. With scenes like those at the gas station here, Navin's first real job, you can't help but feel as though it could have been a skit translated and expanded for screen. Between Jackie Mason's utter wonderment at his employee's penchant for jubilance and M. Emmet Walsh's search for a random civilian to murder, the scene is the highlight of a film chock full of good one-liners. When Martin looks at the exploding oil cans and then at the gun-toting whackjob, he screams, that guy really hates cans! I couldn't stop laughing as he gets cornered by a coca-cola machine and a can display indoors. It is comedy gold and with plenty more to complement, you will be smiling once the credits roll. "},{"Title":"Odd, clever humor makes Jerk lovable","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Jerk is an easy watch, something you can take in quickly and get plenty of good laughs from. While it's not a comedy that strings together laugh-out-loud moments, it has its unique brand of humor grounded in both absurdity and plays on words. It's the kind of humor that's either a hit with someone or doesn't quite do it for them. The more you look back and recall lines and moments from this film, however, the more it grows on you. It's not about the big laughs, but the little things that make The Jerk special.Steve Martin stars as Navin Johnson, a man who grew up thinking he was black and eventually sets out to find his greater purpose. Johnson is naive, stupid, ignorant, but lovable guy, and the film shows how the people around him turn him into...a jerk. This is easily Martin's best character role. He does such a great job handling the subtlety of the humor without playing the absurd moments too over-the-top. He really carries this film. The odd humor manifests itself through jokes like when Johnson tells his girlfriend Marie (Bernadette Peters) what their time together has felt like, describing first day as feeling like a week, the second day felt like two days, etc. and when he writes home to his family and says remember when I dreamed about having a big house with _____? and then he describes with great detail all the absurd rooms in his mansion he could never have actually dreamed of as a child. It's all very original and will definitely appeal more to people who appreciate what makes each joke funny.So the writing, which is mostly Martin and the acting, which is mostly Martin, are the aspects of the film most worthy of praise. None of the other characters are really written well enough to add anything significant to the comedy, so its the Steven Martin Show. In fact, if you'd told me he did it based on a Saturday Night Live character I would have easily believed you. Either way, this is an odd but easy to love, easy to watch comedy. It's truly different and definitely stands out. "},{"Title":"One of The Greatest Comedies of All Time!  You'll laugh Till You Cry!","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's a pleasure for me to review such a brilliant movie! The comedy is pure genius, not only because of the writing and directing, but the incredible performance of Steve Martin, playing the world's most lovable, humorous, Jerk, Navin R. Johnson! We all know the story by now, and if anyone hasn't seen this movie you've been living under a rock for 28 years!Navin R. Johnson, raised by poor Mississippi Black Sharecroppers, on his birthday feels different like he doesn't belong. His Mother reveals the shocking news, Navin's not their natural born child! But we raised you like you were one of us! Navin delivers the spine-splitting laughter comment, You mean I'm gonna stay this color? and gets depressed. One night, however, he hears a catchy jazz tune on the radio (The song BTW is called Crazy Rhythm.) and starts dancing around the house all excited and motivated! This is the kind of music that tells me to go out there and be somebody!!!! With renewed energy and a new outlook on life, Navin sets out to find his Special Purpose. (Which he KNOWS is out there.)However, his lack of intelligence lands him in some of the funniest situations ever seen in any movie. For instance, he gets a job at a gas station where the owner persuades him to work for $1.10 an hour! How much? Navin asks. The owner repeats, $1.10 an hour. Navin is overcome with emotion, You'll pay me, $1.10 if I work here an hour!!!??? He than writes back home to his familyFolks, I got this great job at a gas station! I don't wanna say how much I'm making, but let's just say IT'S A LOT!! I'm enclosing $2.00!Watch for so many scenes like this and some all-time great lines by Steve Martin as only he can deliver them. Comedy doesn't get any better. You are guaranteed to crack up every time you watch this movie!Standouts are when he is being chased by a sniper at a gas station! Navin makes some HILARIOUS comments about cans that he thinks are defective because the sniper is shooting at him and keeps hitting the cans!!! These cans are defective!!! Navin says, There springing leaks! STAY AWAY FROM THE CANS!!! Navin also takes jobs at a traveling carnival roadshow as a weight-guesser and has more great lines when a Midway participant asks what prizes he can win! There he meets a very jealous motorcycle lady. (There is some course R-rated situations in this part of the movie.)He also meets a dear sweet lady played by Bernadette Peters in a WONDERFUL supporting role. A bizarre invention makes him a millionaire, but the effects of the product force him into a lawsuit in which he loses everything and goes back to the foster family that still loves him.Steve Martin was BORN to play this role! I can't say enough great things about this classic film! The only problem is that the theatrical version is missing a lot of alternative clips that can be found on the TV version These include1.) Navin elaborating with Mr. Hartoonian at the gas station about making $1.10/hr.2.) A Texas Millionaire conning Navin into giving money to fix the cracked seats on his airplane.3.) Navin, depressed and despondent in a scene where after Marie leaves him, he goes up on an amusement park ride feeling so broke that he had to spin.4.) Navin telling his Mother that he had been waiting for his skin to change color, any year now. I have been waiting for Universal to release a DVD of The Jerk that contains this added footage It may be awhile, so I will probably just have to get the DVD as is. It would be nice to have these added scenes included on a future DVD.However, this is a movie that is brilliant on all counts and only seems to get even better with time! A Special Edition DVD if released will (hopefully) finally give The Jerk the royal classic treatment that it deserves!All you need is a chair, remote control, TV set, a channel or DVD, or a tape of the movie, a VCR or DVD player to see the movie and that's all you need! And remember! STAY AWAY FROM THE CANS! "},{"Title":"When is a jerk not a jerk ?","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Navin Johnson is a simpleton,good-hearted,endlessly optimistic,a nice guy but definitely dumb.He is not a jerk as I understand the term.There is an inference of unpleasantness in jerk that does not fit with Navin's persona.If I have an issue at all with Mr Martin's feature debut it is with the title otherwise it is very good indeed.He is at his best doing dumb,the cannier he gets the more boring and less funny his films become. Thee are glorious moments in most of them but The Jerk is the purest expression of his gifts.He is so sublimely stupid that he reminds me of Stan Laurel,a resemblance heightened in the later Trains,Planes and Automobileswhere the late John Candy took the Oliver Hardy role. Adopted by a poor black family and treated as one of their own he eventually learns the harsh facts of lifeyou mean I'll always be this colour? and sets off to make his own way in the world.Eventually he gets a job as a garage hand employed by the incomparable Jackie Mason,where he encounters a homicidal maniac (M.Emmet Walsh) armed with a high-powered rifle who is fortunately a very bad shot,a gang of Hispanic thugs who present him with a stolen credit card (thank you Mrs Nussbaum)and a salesman (Rob Reiner)whose glasses keep on falling off. From these simple beginnings develops the main plot.Navin makes millions from a simple invention for taking your glasses on and off then loses it again when everybody that uses it goes cross-eyed.He finds true love in the form of Bernadette Peters and is eventually reunited with his family after hitting rock bottom.That's an awful lot to fit into one movie ,without counting a sex mad female stunt rider and a dog calles shithead.Lovers of sophisticated comedy,surreal comedy,alternative comedy etc can give this one a miss.If you just want a real good belly-laugh and to listen to Bernadette Peters doing Louis Armstrong licks on her cornet....go no further. "},{"Title":"A truly silly movie,top to bottom","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin's first starring role movie could be argued to have been an extension of his wildly popular stand-up routines of the 1970s. Perhaps so,but this movie to me seems to be also an exercise in making a truly silly movie,one that isn't really concerned with plausibility or irony. MArtin is NAvin Johnson,a dim bulb of a dude with a good heart whose story begins with him being raised as the son of black share-croppers in the deep south. It never really occurs to him as a youth that he is different from his adopted kinfolk all the way into adulthood before he discovers that he doesn't have rhythm on his(18th)birthday. Deciding that he needs to leave home to find his identity,he embarks on a misadventure that takes him from working odd jobs to becoming a super-rich inventor/entrepreneur. Along the way,he finds love in an equally dull but extremely cute beautician(Bernadette Peters).MArtin's full-on commitment to character and Carl Reiner's cooperative direction make this film a delightfully odd and fitfully funny. MArtin fans of all stripes will feel the need to own this one! "},{"Title":"What a life!","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin plays Navin Johnson, a loser who hits it big when he designs an unusual set of glasses. I don't know whether this was Martin's funniest performance ever, or even whether this was his funniest movie Carl Reiner-directed movie (the others are Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid, The Man with Two Brains and All of Me). But believe you me, IT WAS FUNNY! A rags-to-riches story with a series of gags, you can't stop laughing, especially when you watch Navin's trouble keeping time when his family is playing music (note Navin's family is black, and he believes himself to be African-American, only to later find out that he's white), and later when you hear Navin's dog's name. There's some good support from Bernadette Peters as Navin's wife Marie, Jackie Mason as one of Navin's employers, and Carl Reiner as himself. Hilarious as only Reiner could do it. "},{"Title":"Idiocy, Lunacy, and Sheer Brilliance","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I normally find Steve Martin's comedy quite lame, goofball, or just insipid. But this, my friends, is the funniest movie of all time. Every joke hits right on target, and the rapid fire, yet ignorant delivery of Navin, is brilliant. Bernadette Peters is his equally goofy girlfriend, and is, quite surprisingly, a very good talent of this film. Jackie Mason also puts in quite a good performance. Be warned, however this is not a comedy for all, however. If you find yourself laughing only at physical comedy, stay away. If you can appreciate a funny series of quick monologues and discourses, come and see the funniest film ever.In my opinion.  "}{"Title":"Dont trust whitey, see a doctor and get rid of it...got it!","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Jerk (1979) stars Steve Martin as Navin R Johnson, the adopted son ofblack sharecroppers...problem is, he has no idea he's adopted! Some reallyfunny scenes, especially with Jackie Mason, M Emmit Walsh, and the girl at the  circus...Bernadette Peters looks GREAT btw...Its a shame Steve Martin is Mr.  Serious now, would love him to make a screwball comedy again...mindless fun,  with some very funny lines You should not call that dog lifesaver, you should  call him sh*thead!  worth checking out... Recomended "},{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Carl Reiner shines as director and Steve Martin & Bernadette Peters shine as Navin Johnson and his future bride. The film opens up somewhere down south with Navin and the family of sharecroppers who took him in. Navin begins to see how different he is from his family and they soon tell him he was adopted. His mother (Mabel King) proudly tells him she would love him if he was the colour of a baboon's *ss. Navin soonafter leaves home going out on the road in front of his house. He then begins hitchhiking when a truck comes down the road, the guy stops and says to Navin. How far ya goin? Navin says. St.Louis, how far you going to which the driver says To the enda this fence. Navin saysOk hops in throws his bag into the back of the truck and rides to the end of the fence. The film has similar events(you can't help but laugh) at Steve Martin's style and skill at being comedic in whatever he does. He then finds a job at a gas station owned by (Jackie Mason) who offers Navin a job as president of Texaco Oil (go figure) The film had me laughing start to finish.  "},{"Title":"A comedy thats actually funny.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Jerk is the story of a man who leaves home on an adventure of hilarity to find his place in the world.  Its only a coincidence that the man is damn near retarded and comedy ensues.  The Jerk is a comedic classic that shows that comedy film makers these days have absolutely no talent and have to use toilet humor to pull a chuckle out of its audience.  The Jerk is still funny today under those horrid standards and it definetly worth a rental.  Check it out! "},{"Title":"Funnier with time!","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw The Jerk several times on the screen when it first released and then I have watched it either as a video or on TV (the butchered version, where the dog Shithead gets changed to Stupid, etc.).  I always thought it was funny, if not more than a little stupid.  Even so, it's been quite a while since I've seen the original version.Well, about a week or so ago, my 14-year-old grandson asked me if I wanted to watch Joe Dirt with him, and based upon the reviews I had read, I wanted to say no, but I could tell it was important to him.  Well, Joe Dirt is by no means that great, but I was amazed that I found myself laughing at it.  And after the movie was over, it occurred to me that, if my grandson liked this story-of-a-loser's-life-as-told-by-the-loser, he would at least enjoy The Jerk, which uses a similar plot device.  Of course, The Jerk is not at all as raunchy and gross as Joe Dirt, which tries to emulate the Farrelly brothers.  But I still had hope that my grandson might enjoy it, so I rented it so we could watch it together.My grandson roared!  I have never heard him laugh so loud and so often while watching any movie.  He could not contain himself during the scenes in Navin Johnson's old shack of a home, where he believed he grew up as a part of a poor but close African-American family in Mississippi.  He loved the part when the crazy guy picks out Navin's name from the telephone book by pure chance, and tries to shoot him, but Navin, in his stupidity, thinks the guy is really trying to shoot the oil cans right next to him, because the crazed sniper (M. Everett Walsh) keeps accidentally hitting them when he misses Navin.  And when Navin finally gets the courage to be intimate with Marie (Bernadette Peters), and as we are all expecting an amorous kiss, he licks the side of her face!  OK, OK, it's stupid, but it's also hilarious!  My grandson was roaring with laughter throughout, including the bit about And I don't need anything!  Well, I need this thing here.  But I don't need anything else!  Well, I need this...The Jerk made me laugh all over again.  It has become funnier with age, even though some of the jokes are dated. (By the way, even a classic comedy such as Blazing Saddles has become dated due to its lame ending.)And I noticed that some reviewers actually find The Jerk to be a racist movie.  Why?  Because of the one scene in which the N-word was used and turned into great satire?  They must have watched a totally different film than the one I have watched over the years.  Or has political correctness totally gone crazy and lost all sense of humor? "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies...","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of my favorite movies ever is the Jerk. The Jerk was the first movie Steve Martin was ever in. I think Steve is the greatest comedian of all time. He's a genius. I think all sixty-three of Steve's movies are absolutely hilarious. Steve Martin himself said he only appreciated about 20 of his 63 movies. The Jerk was one of those 20. I think a 6.7 is a very low rating. The Jerk is a movie that if you haven't seen, you should watch immediately.  "},{"Title":"The New Phone Books Are Here!!!! The New Phone Books Are Here!!! I'm Somebody!!!!!!","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a classic comedy that never gets old! I was laughing so hard when I first saw this it hurt. That movie had some of the goofiest jokes I've ever seen. A lot of it was in poor taste, but who cares? Some of the funniest movies ever made are in poor taste (like Caddy Shack and Clerks)!Steve Martin makes a movie funny. His nutty sense of humor and hysterical faces can make a crappy movie hilarious. This movie had many, many memorable lines, like the one above, and the scene where the crazy guy is shooting at him nd Navin thinks he's shooting the cans. This is not a very dirty movie, and it is just funny. Just watch it. Stop reading this and watch the Jerk. I don't care what you have to do, just watch it, and stop reading this. If your still, knock it off and watch the Jerk! Now!!!! 10/10 "},{"Title":"This is the best Steve Martin movie ever!","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin was funny back then. I'm glad he is still around, but I sure wish he was still funny! The Jerk is a hilarious movie and he does such a good job you can actually almost empathize with his luck-lacking character. He invents a handle for eye glasses and makes a fortune. Of course that would not make for comedy so there is much more to it. I can watch this movie to this day and still laugh my butt off. If you haven't ever seen it, climb out from under that rock and find either on TV or go get it!I'm not a bum, I'm a jerk!  "},{"Title":"Great Laugh","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'The Jerk' is one of Steve Martin's first major feature films and today it shows the starting point of his fantastic movie career. Martin himself acts brilliantly, and of course provides 90% of the films' comedy. He plays an adorable yet idiotic middle-aged man whose trying to begin his adult life on his own. Supporting roles from Bernadette Peters and Catlin Adams are performed very well and are great additions to the film. Even the cameo by Jackie Mason is hilarious.The script is a bit familiar but the dialogue and slap-stick routines and scenes are brilliantly choreographed by the director, writers and actors alike.Overall, this is a classic comedy film with some great laughs and can be enjoyed by all. "},{"Title":"The Magical Steve Martin!","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In his first starring role in a feature film, Steve Martin proves how Good he's been ever-since he appeared on the Silver-Screen. Martin gives a Magical, Sensational Performance in 'The Jerk', a Cult-Comedy on its own merit. 'The Jerk' Synopsis A complete imbecile struggles to make it through life on his own, until a strange invention makes him unbelievably wealthy.'The Jerk' is funny & completely watchable. The Screenplay Written by Carl Gottlieb, Michael Elias & Martin himself, works wonderfully, because its funny & arresting. The Journey of its protagonist, Navin R. Johnson, is indeed worth watching. Carl Reiner's Direction is fun. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are proper. Martin's Magical, Sensational Performance deserves immense praise. He plays the complete imbecile, magically, he doesn't fail to convince even in a single scene. It's a Stellar Performance!On the whole, 'The Jerk' is a winner, with Martin's Magic roaming around it completely. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin excels in his first lead role","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hopelessly dim-witted bumbler Navin Johnson (marvelously played to the doltish hilt by Steve Martin) leaves his adopted family of impoverished black sharecroppers and goes out into the world to find his purpose in life. Navin goes from being dirt poor to filthy rich right back to being flat broke again. Director Carl Reiner relates the delightfully off-the-wall plot at a constant snappy pace and brings a certain infectiously screwball charm to the often uproariously wacky humor. Moreover, the film has a truly inspired sense of the absurdity in everyday life, with Navin's endearing naiveté representing the lovable innocence of a blithely clueless man-child who's never completely grown up. Martin shines in his first starring role (he also co-wrote the cheerfully inane, yet still witty script), with terrific support from Bernadette Peters as Navin's sweet, adorable girlfriend Marie Kimble, Mabel King as Navin's warm, loving mother, Richard Ward as Navin's long-suffering father, Catlin Adams as tough, scruffy, brassy motorcycle racer Patty Bernstein, Jackie Mason as irascible gas station owner Harry Hartounian, Bill Macy as hot-tempered salesman Stan Fox, Dick O'Neill as crusty carnival owner Frosty, and, in an especially sidesplitting part, M. Emmet Walsh as a crazed sniper who's determined to bag Navin. Hilarious comic highlights include Navin getting all excited over seeing his name in the phone book, the black and white movie about the nefarious sport of cat juggling, and Navin beating up a bunch of Mafia con artists with some fancy martial arts moves. Jack Elliott's lively score and Victor J. Kemper's slick cinematography are both up to par. But it's the way the madcap story breezes from one kooky situation to the next with such tremendous verve and giddy silliness which really makes this picture a total gut-busting hoot to watch. "}{"Title":"Steve Martin in his prime and at his funniest","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As many films as Steve Martin has done,it is this one,his first feature film,that most people remember because this is Steve in his prime and at his wildest and funniest.It contains one of the greatest mixtures of physical and verbal humor that I personally have ever seen.Martin's chemistry with Bernadette Peters is nothing short of great.It is,ironically,a smart comedy about someone who is not so smart.In fact,he is a total imbecile who stumbles onto the big time only to trip and fall on his rear back into the small time.One of the funniest moments is the brief appearance of the film's director,Carl Reiner,playing himself as a victim of Navin Johnson's defective invention.I think the key to a good comedy is giving the viewer a mixture of things we have never seen before that are fresh and new,and adding that to the old stuff that we have seen before and putting your own unique twist to them.The Jerk does this with flying colors. "},{"Title":"From rags to riches and to rags again","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Navin R. Johnson is an unbelievably stupid man.He is an adopted son of a black family and he doesn't get he is adopted.Then at his 18th birthday he realizes he wants to see the world.So he leaves Missisippi behind and heads to St.Louis.Soon he has all he's ever dreamed of, including the girl.In this case that girl is Marie Kimble.Carl Reiner is the director of The Jerk (1979).Mr.Reiner also has a funny cameo there.Steve Martin had a huge success with this comedy, which he was also writing.Bernadette Peters plays the woman opposite him.They make a fantastic couple.Other talents seen in this movie are Jackie Mason (Harry Hartounian), M.Emmet Walsh (Madman) etc.There are many funny gags in this movie.I can see a little of Jerry Lewis in Steve Martin's comedy especially in this movie.There is that same physicality there.This movie was made for Mr.Martin.He raises it from mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Sometimes you just have to turn off your brain and laugh....","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While Carl Reiner was responsible for directing this wonderful film, up until this time not everything he did was cinematic gold. Earlier in his directing career, he made the amazingly unfunny films WHERE'S PAPPA? and OH, GOD! Here he redeems himself by assembling a wonderful cast and maintaining a great pace. And as for Steve Martin, he, too, had a horrible film behind him, having appeared in the god-awful SGT. PEPPER'S LONELY HEARTS CLUB BAND! Clearly this was a huge career boost to both men.I love a good comedy. Sometimes, a delightful and droll Ealing comedy is nice, other times a classic Hollywood film like BRINGING UP BABY does the trick, and sometimes I really just enjoy a good stupid laugh. THE JERK fits this bill perfectly. It is one of the dumbest AND funniest films I have ever seen and even the stodgiest fuddy-duddy can't help but laugh as the unsophisticated but great laughs come again and again--with practically no lulls between them. You just help but laugh and so that begs the question just how STUPID is a film REALLY if it is so successful at making everyone laugh?. Plus, like all great comedies, it does well with repeated viewings (I've seen this film four times). Well written, hilariously overplayed by Martin and offering some of the best laughs of the 1970s, it's a must-see for everyone but the stodgiest out there. Also, because it has a few adult moments and language, it's probably best seen by older teens and adults, though the movie in an only slightly edited form is shown on TV with great frequency. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie of All Time!","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the best movie of all time! I love Steve Martin and this entire script! I use most of these lines in my entire life! All I need is this chair. Nobody can say the word thermos near me without me breaking into song about picking out a thermos for them. Of course, I use this same tune to sing about almost anything replacing the word thermos Hahaha! I know, get a life, but this is without a doubt one of the most clever movies ever made. I understand that it isn't politically correct these days with the race slang used, but it is done in such a way that I believe all races would appreciate it. Navin Johnson's name in print and on the screen gets rave reviews from me. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Funny in an Obnoxious Way","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  About a person who goes from rags to riches and back to rags.  Told in flashback, Steve Martin's character tells his story of how he stuck in his current position.  The Jerk(1979) showcases the wild and crazy guy period of Steve Martin's career.  Watching it, one would be amazed at how well Steve Martin has blossomed into a mature actor.  Bernadette Peters is perfectly cast as the main protagonist's wife.  A good one by Carl Reiner but not as good as his movies, Oh, God(1977), The Man with Two Brains(1983), All of Me(1984), and Summer Rental(1985).  Rob Reiner of All in the Family fame has a small part in The Jerk(1979). "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  From the very first point of this movie the tone was set on how far they would go when Steve Martin uttered the famous line  ...  I was born a poor black child.Every male from that era would agree that this was and still is one of the best comedies ever written which boosted Steve Martin's career into a whole new era.The one lesson I will always take from this movie is the difference between Shit and Shinola.  "},{"Title":"Hillarious!","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film on TBS Sunday, November 22, 1998, and it is hysterically funny!  Now I know where the films Dumber & Dumber and Kingpin actually originated from, it is like those two films, only blended together!  I've always liked Bernadette Peters, she is both sexy and funny! "},{"Title":"Steve Martin rules","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Jerk is one awesome movie.  Steve Martin has never failed in making me laugh.  This movie is constant laughs, with Martin supported by a strong supporting cast.  Some of the jokes in this one are the kind you find yourself quoting forever, Steve Martin just rocks.  Period.  For those who haven't seen this movie....SEE IT.   "},{"Title":"No Comedy Can Rival This","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Perhaps the best written comedy of all time, The Jerk is unrivaled in terms of the timelessness of its jokes. What really sets this movie apart, though, is its gags. This movie consists of original gags with perfect delivery on Steve Martin's behalf. Being completely serious, if Oscars are to be awarded for craft in acting, Steve Martin was snubbed. He plays Navin Johnson, an idiotic (he had to be told he was white as a 30-something year old man), simple (taking pleasure in things like Pizza In A Cup), optimistic (assuming a would-be assassin whose shots fall off target is out to get the tin cans of oil they mistakenly hit instead of him), naive (he supports any cause that asks for his financial support, including putting a stop to cat juggling), happy-go-lucky (as displayed by his serenade, I'm Picking Out a Thermos For You) yet, aspiring (a life goal of his was to have his name in the phone book) orphan.The plot really isn't bad, it's just, one doesn't really have time to even consider criticizing it as one finds himself surrounded by a cloud of humor. Other than Martin, the rest of the acting is sufficient for the most part. Bernadette Peters stands out and produces a few laughs of her own.As with all movies of its time period, one might not realize the gem it is at first as its visual limitations and older style mean it does not jump out at you at first. But, with a little patience, one will find himself basking in some of the best comedy written by man. "},{"Title":"Utterly hilarious","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a riot and has been a favorite of mine since it came out. The writing is excellent and the acting is perfect. I can't possibly understand why someone wouldn't rate this movie at least an 8! Steve Martin can deliver straight lines like no other. Bernadette Peters is a sexy foil to his escapades. The plot even makes great sense in the context of the movie. Martin's physical comedy is also top notch. I chuckle to myself just thinking of that scene on the cabin front porch when he can't even keep a simple beat to the family singalong. The gas station scene had me in tears the first couple of times I watched the movie. And his special purpose! Oh my. "}{"Title":"I was born a poor Black child","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Absolutely hilarious. Steve Martin's first real starring role playing Navin R. Johnson, a down and out human being that is intelligence deprived. Navin believes he is part of a poor Black family in Mississippi and wants to go out and tackle the world. He takes jobs as a gas station attendant and an all around flunky for a circus. He goes from rags to riches by inventing an adaption to keep eyeglasses from slipping. Albeit a short-lived fame and fortune.My favorite scenes involves defective oil cans; snails on the plate at a fancy restaurant; and writing home saying he was making extra money at the circus, because he was given a b^#w job.Filling out the rest of this comedy's cast the adorable Bernadette Peters, M. Emmett Walsh, Dick O'Neil, Catlin Adams, Richard Ward and Bill Macy. Carl Reiner directs and Martin co-writes. "},{"Title":"An early Steve Martin classic, as the son of a poor, black sharecropper.","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My comments may contain some SPOILERS, and anyone who has never seen 'The Jerk' should read no further for fear of disappointment. Be warned!Steve Martin and Bernadette Peters. What a combo! Navin finds out he is an adopted son, will never develop dark skin, and leaves his home in Mississippi to build his life. At one job, as a service station attendant (remember when we had those in the US??), a customer's glasses kept sliding down and off his face. So Navin invents a wire brace that fits on the nose to keep the glasses in place. The man was so thankful that he promised Navin he would reimburse him someday.Meanwhile Navin moves to different jobs, including a carnival worker. The movie is mostly his misadventures which arise from his naive upbringing. Then the customer from the service station years earlier hunts him down, to make him wealthy as the invention, to keep glasses from falling off, had taken off in popularity. Navin became rich, until he was sued and found at fault, his invention was causing wearers to become cross-eyed, even the judge (Carl Reiner) presiding over the class-action case. So Navin has to pay all his wealth to the claimants, returns home, with Peters. "},{"Title":"A Comedy Classic!","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The only reason this film was rated R at the time were a couple of scenes that were pretty wild back then, but tame now.The tongue-in-cheek humor makes this move a classic.  This is one of those movies where you can say a quote from the movie and someone else will reply with another quote from the movie.The movie doesn't rely on the F word being thrown about to get laughs. It's a classic!11 out of 10 (if they would let me vote that way!)  "},{"Title":"Classic One Liners","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A co-worker of mine recommended this movie to me. I had never seen it before, so I decided to check it out.  Since this movie came highly recommended, I expected a lot.  Sure enough though, the movie was one of the most hilarious that I have ever seen.  Steve Martin at his best.  The one liners are classic.  The humor might not be most well complex kind...but they make you laugh your head off none the less.  Be warned though, this movie is not for every one. There is some outward racist humor through out the movie, but it is kept in character.  It is not done with hate, rather it gives the movie it's individual flavor of humor.  I am not going to even talk about character development or plot or even artistic styles here. If you are wanting to judge those kind of things...this is the wrong movie to be watching.  This movie is for those moods when you want to have a good laugh.  And I would recommend this movie to any one who wants to have a good laugh.  As i mentioned, there is some harsh language, so parents be forewarned. "},{"Title":"A 6.6?!  This is a classic!","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  C'mon people- a 6.6 is not doing this classic comedy film justice.  This film is classic Steve Martin, putting his whole schtick right out on the line for all to see.  Glasses, designed not to slide off ones face yet make them go blind later in life, the Pizza in a cup, being adopted by poor Mississippi family in the delta, what's not to like!  This film is hysterical and worthy of respect for its sheer raw comedy. "},{"Title":"It Doesn't Get Sillier Than This.","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Make no mistake, this movie is completely absurd.That's probably why it's so funny.A cult classic among my friends, The Jerk tracks the life of Navin R. Johnson from poor black child to wealthy businessman to a homeless guy who owns a chair, a paddleball game, and little else.Steve Martin excels both in physical comedy and snappy one-liners, and just when you think you've seen it all, this movie manages to get even sillier.An excellent supporting cast, and a wild story manage to keep this as much of an entertaining film as it was back in the '70's.  It's the kind of film that will crack you up whether it's your first time to see it, or your 50th.  Anyone who enjoys Steve Martin or a film that will make you prone to outbursts of laughter should see this film.  A classic. "},{"Title":"Jerk of all trades....","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  God bless the Aspen Film Society.Thanks to Steve Martin and the aforementioned society, they have given the movie-going public more honest-to-goodness laughs than any other film society known to man.The Jerk, Martin's first starring role, shows him at the peak of his form, as a poor black child who goes out into the world to make a better life for himself, finding along the way mad gunmen, punks who drive off with churches tied on their bumpers, circus work, dogs that aren't as smart as he'd like to think and true love in the form of Bernadette Peters (that's the form I'd look for it in, too.).There are too many laughs to count and they all work, thanks to Martin's earnest delivery and Reiner's good director's eye for comedy.  Put them together, how can you miss?Best scene where Martin's family tears down their old house and builds a bigger one.  You gotta see that one.Ten stars.  I gotta go now; what do you think, I write reviews all day? "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie!","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the best movie of all time! It is so funny and cute! It has real potential! I love love love it! "},{"Title":"Best of its time","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was a teenager when this movie was released, or escaped, and I still vividly remember staying up late on Saturday nights to watch SNL, back when it was funny (SNL used to be funny, you know).All of the original not ready for prime time players went somewhere. We're talking Steve Martin, Chevy Chase, Dan Aykroyd, John Belushi, Gilda Radner, Bill Murray, etc.Steve Martin pushed himself in a few different directions, including this one, before propelling himself toward a respectable movie career.The Jerk is not your typical SNL sketch turned movie failure. It's loaded with the best of comedy. Stupid stuff, smart stuff. Sight gags. One liners. Memorable lines, memorable situations (my name is tattooed on your butt? Wow, more guys will see it there than in the phone book!)Unless you're totally jaded on everything, you WILL laugh out loud at certain parts of this movie. Even the N word is used for a laugh.The Jerk is a jerk. And it's always better to laugh at a jerk in a movie than the real jerk your sister is dating or that your friend hooked you up with. This jerk is funny! I see so many nods to this movie in comedies that followed it, you KNOW a lot of people were inspired by this one. "},{"Title":"A classic comedy","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Like so many others have said, I don't understand why the rating for this is so low.  The one-liners are hysterical, the sight gags are great and it even has a story line!Steve Martin and Bernadette Peters singing a love song while he plays the banjo...cute moment.  Then she joins him on the horn.  )  Side splitting stuff!!I've seen this movie a dozen times and just bought the DVD.  My 14 year old son watched it with me and was rolling with laughter.Parents the language is a bit rough, and the daredevil motorcyclist who marries Steve Martin by tattooing his name on her butt, in the J section, might be a bit much for your child.  The DVD is great because you can easily speed through these sections.The Best and Worst BEST (singing) I'm picking out a thermos for you...not an ordinary thermos for you! WORST The disco scene in their home right before the TV interview. OVERALL 9 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Classic comedy","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Still one of my all time favorites.  Steve Martin proves to be one of the true comic geniuses.  For years after first seeing this movie, I couldn't walk past a display of oil cans without laughing... If you haven't seen this film, do yourself a favor and rent it.  You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Hold your gut, laugh out loud funny!","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For those who have never seen any of Steve's films, may I kindly suggest starting with this one as it's the best one ever made (so far).  It just proves the true definition of the words comic genius.  Steve Martin is brilliant in his portrayal of Navin. "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Ever Made","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The number of laughs in this movie has been scientifically found to outweigh the number of laughs in 'Airplane', 'Blazing Saddles' and 'Young Frankenstein'(by a very slim margin, and not combined).However, the visual sight-gags (wine-glass dispensing cooler, 'Pizza-in-a-cup', stolen-church, and 'Bigger house' sequences, etc.) do outnumber most of the others.It amazes me how many Steve Martin fans never saw this movie. Although many folks who who think 'LA Story' and 'Parenthood' are the cutting-edge of comedy may find this film unfunny.This is the modern Marx Brothers movie. That is, if there was only one Marx and they did jokes about psychotic serial-killers and leather-clad motorcycle dominatrixes. "},{"Title":"One of the great comedy classics","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great film.  Steve Martin is fantastic.  This movie was made back when he was funny and before he got all serious and started making drama movies. Plot is good.  Lots of memorable lines.  A real classic.  The first movie I bought on DVD.   "},{"Title":"It's the best","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is my favorite movie ever. However, I don't own a copy, so I rent it about 5 times a month. I laugh every time I see it.  It is so funny how Navin thinks he is going to turn black as he gets older. The movie is hysterical, because he is just so stupid. This is Steve Martin's best movie ever. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin - genius","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin is a genius. This film is light years ahead on the comedies that people pay $7.00 to see at the theater, yet, it was made almost twenty years ago. This film is ageless and timeless. Sort of like The Wizard of Oz or It's a Wonderful Life. It is only this way because this film is vintage Steve Martin. "},{"Title":"Hilarious screwball comedy","Date":"4 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You've gotta love the 70's. That is a decade that produced some of the greatest comedies, dramas, war films, art films, etc etc. If it's a classic and it was released in the second half of the 20th century, chances are it was the 70's. The Jerk is just another of those classic screwball comedies that we all know and love. It's no Airplane! but it is a lot of fun and has plenty of that same goofy, quirky, and all around bizarre humor. Steve Martin plays Navin Andrews, a man who was raised by a black family in Missouri. On his birthday one year, Navin finally learns that this family of kindly black southerners aren't his real family and so Navin decides to set out and make something of his life by traveling to St. Louis. The film opens with Navin sitting under a staircase next to a movie theater, drinking whiskey with two of his hobo buddies. He introduces himself to the audience saying that he isn't a bum, just a jerk. He then proceeds to tell us of his life and the story goes from there, taking off into all sorts of weird and wacky places with strange characters and events, where hilarity always ensues.Steve Martin is what makes this movie without a doubt. He is absolutely hysterical and delivers the best lines of the film. The character of Navin is an absolute idiot who can't comprehend the real world to save his life. Thus we see him getting into all sorts of hilarious situations that any normal person would have just found a simplistic way out of. But Navin delivers all the laughs as Steve Martin bumbles around as one of the most entertaining characters I've ever seen in one of these screwball comedies. Great comedy comes from great improv, something this film allegedly has a lot of. And I'll believe it because there are some moments where I could never have seen that put on paper. Moments that could only be conceived by the spontaneous mind of a comedic genius like Steve Martin. I'm talking about those moments when Martin will do something so absurd and so unexpected that you can even see the actors he is with begin to break down. Everyone has fun with this movie, and it makes it all the more enjoyable.As fun as this movie is, you still have to remember that it is just a screwball comedy. It isn't trying to accomplish anything major, and it just wants to elicit a good laugh. And it definitely did that for me. There are plenty of dumb things about this movie and moments that aren't as funny as others. I can't help but compare this movie to Airplane and its farcical nature. Airplane definitely does a better job than The Jerk and it has a more consistently hilarious spoof tone to it. The Jerk is funny from start to finish and definitely never tries to take itself seriously, but it is really a film you have to put yourself in a much lighter and less intellectual state of mind to watch and enjoy. There's nothing inherently wrong with this brand of comedy, but it is pretty simple. Yet, when done right, you get great results, and I can't deny that The Jerk does it right.Films like these I can only enjoy to a certain extent, and that is solely based off of personal opinion. The Jerk is a hilarious film and is actually really well made for what it's worth. There is never a dull moment and Steve Martin is hysterical. This film is nothing more than a screwball comedy, and you will know it about fifteen minutes in. As far as comedies go, this one is great, and there is a lot of fun to be had with it. "},{"Title":"I found my special purpose !!!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not quite sure who the morons were that contributed to this movie having such a low rating, but it deserves 9/10.  One of Martin's best movies...if you liked him as Ruprecht the Monkey Boy, you'll love him as Navin Johnson. Complete with cameo appearances by 3 Reiners, this Reiner-directed classic is the basis of many modern comedies (though most fail to live up to what this movie did 23 years ago).My ex-girlfriend's roommate stole the VHS from me (what a JERK!), but my friend got me the DVD for Christmas, so I'm ok now.See it...and then see a doctor and get rid of it...oh, yeah, I forgot to mention, the movie has more one-liners than all Arnold movies combined ;-)A great one  I slit the sheet, the sheet I slit, and upon the slitted sheet I sit. "},{"Title":"If it were any funnier, you'd be dead!","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies I have ever seen. Steve Martin is brilliant and the whole film is hillarious. It all starts out with Martin, who was raised to a black family. He then decided he must leave and goes out on an adventure. That is all I am saying! For the rest, you have to see the movie! "},{"Title":"Haven't seen a movie this funny since...well, since I first saw this movie","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Classic, truly classic.How anyone could fail to see the humor in The Jerk is beyond me.  I say Pinch the Opti-Grab, put your Bausch & Lomb spectacles back on your face, and watch it again.It's pure genius!  Cross-eyed hysteria! "}{"Title":"The funniest movie ever made!","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin at his best.  The Reiners at their best.  This movie is the father of modern comedies.  Without this movie, Tommy Boy - Something about Mary - Even the Blues Brothers wouldn't have been made.  A true classic. Hitchhike down to buy it! "},{"Title":"The Jerk","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Martin soars in his first starring feature as a simple man who leaves his poor, black family to be somebody. There are great gags and snappy one liners that are forever memorable. This is the Steve Martin we remember!  "},{"Title":"Wow, this movie didn't age well at all","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember this movie being THE movie to see back when it came out and I was a teenager, and it didn't disappoint - there was a ton to laugh at.But I saw it for the second time last night, and it had almost no effect on me at all. I had one laugh out loud moment - the shinola lesson (mainly just from the concept, not the fact that he steps in it at the end, which presumably is the punchline). Otherwise I was deadpan throughout, although the musical number was charming, especially when Peters pulls out the coronet.The movie was really a product of its times - back then it was unlike everything else in the theaters - it hearkened back to some of the Marx Brothers anarchy - but by today's standards, it just didn't do it for me anymore. There are more genuine laugh out loud moments in any given Simpsons episode than there are in the entire movie. Perhaps it's because most of the comedy lessons that this movie taught have now become part of mainstream comedy, even cliché. If you were seeing it through fresh eyes, it might have the ability to get a laugh (it didn't for my wife, her first time), but it doesn't hold up to repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"God awful.","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm not sure the different strokes for different folks things works here. I'd never seen this movie, but saw it had good reviews, so I found a copy and watched it with some friends. Aside from the groaning the audience was utterly silent until the end when everyone growled in unison What the f*** was that?.Steve Martian ranges between idiot and complete tool throughout the entire film. Some may argue that that was the entire point, but there's no consistency. Forget for a moment that it's not even remotely funny and focus on the fact that at times Steve acts like a brain damaged gimp who was forced to huff gas out of a paper bag, while the rest of the time he just acts like a knob in training fresh out of middle school.Seriously, I've never before been subjected to such a waste of film. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Comedy Classic","Date":"18 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This maybe Steve Martin's most famous film role. This is one of the best comedies ever filmed. The movie will have you laughing from start to finish. This movie is well worth watching - even if you only watch it once in your lifetime.The movie begins with one of the most memorable opening lines I was born a poor black child. If you have seen the movie then you will understand this quote. If have not viewed this film - then I recommend that you do - and you will understand the meaning of this famous film quote.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"brilliant. absolutely brilliant.","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin's first starring role brilliantly and perfectly displays his talents. Imagine a bit of Forrest Gump and sort of a prequel to Idiocracy. Martin's character has been raised by a black sharecropping family and decides to go out and see the real world when he reaches adulthood. Unfortunately, he is terribly naive (sort of like Norman in Drabble), which everyone else can sense and thus exploit to the absolute max. A glasses invention then turns things around and makes him filthy rich, but then things reverse.Everything about this movie is hilarious, especially with Steve Martin and his performance. It is an absolute comedy classic! I loved it and you will too. There were some great moments and lines.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Still a very funny film 35 years later.","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember seeing Steve Martin in his Wild & Crazy mode with the arrow through his head as a kid. Over the years, Martin has mellowed quite a bit and has focused more on music (he has been to Ottawa Jazzfest the last two years) than acting, directing or writing movies. The Jerk hearkens back to his days as Wild & Crazy Steve and remains laugh-out loud funny.I sometimes wonder what kind of personality Navin Johnson has. Is he an idiot savant, does he have Asperger Syndrome, is he bored with life and lives recklessly to tolerate it or is he just a parody of Steve Martin himself? He's a difficult character to define and that what makes his character cool. You don't know what you're getting with him. In today's movies with one-dimensional characters, Navin Johnson's personality is rich with development.The film, about Navin's crazy experiences with independence, finding love and making a fortune is a laugh riot from start to finish. It still remains relevant because it avoided topicality. Bernadette Peters looks as delicious as ever and it's good to see the likes of Bill Macy and the fine Blues duo of Sonny Terry and Brownie McGee in the cast. It still has that vibrancy like it did in 1979.If you long to see the Steve Martin of old, his sparkling debut as a leading man is the film to see. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous, stupid, and funny","Date":"8 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Navin Johnson (Steve Martin) is down and out. He tells the story of his life. He grew up as a poor black boy with his black family. He's a clueless naive manic idiot who goes to the big city St. Louis. He gets a job at the gas station from Harry Hartounian (Jackie Mason). It's a random series of crazy events. He invents a way to support glasses and salesman Stan Fox (Bill Macy) goes 50-50 with him. A madman (M. Emmet Walsh) is after him for no good reason. He escapes to join the carnival as Guess Your Weight. He's taken by rough stunt bike rider Patty Bernstein (Catlin Adams) but he falls for sweet Marie (Bernadette Peters). Marie runs away and he ends up in L.A. That's where he reconnects with Stan Fox and finds out he's wildly rich.It's ridiculous and it's even funny. Steve Martin is putting all his skills of performance and writing to work in his first feature starring role. It's like half of 'Dumb and Dumber'. That's really my only wish. I wish he had another comedian to play off of. It would be even better if he was a comedy duo. He's funniest when Bernadette Peters is with him. This is completely ridiculous and stupid. That's where most of the humor comes from. "},{"Title":"Get through the first act, then let the laughs begin with one of the first and best man-child roles","Date":"21 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The man-child has become one of movie and television's most worn- out tropes. Whole careers have risen and fallen almost entirely within its milieu. Adam Sandler has probably played that particular character&#x97; the oblivious adult male with the mind of a mental patient or small child who always gets the girl and usually finds his way into fame and fortune in the process&#x97;the longest, and with the most mixed results. But Steve Martin's performance as The Jerk was one of the first, and it remains one of the best that the subgenre has ever seen. Martin's character really isn't a jerk, at least not the way most people use the word; he's just utterly dense, reacting to each new situation with gleeful incomprehension. Martin is a physical actor, using his long legs and body to dance as dorkily as his wild and crazy guy character from SNL, but his comic timing is also impeccable. In some of the funniest scenes he uses that sense of timing over a period of minutes, using a technique that's been called anti-humor in which a joke goes on and on and on until it isn't funny, and then it goes on some more until it becomes funny again. Not everyone can pull it off, but Martin knocks it out of the park twice in this 94 minute movie, both times in monologues delivered to his costar Bernadette Peters. Not every scene is as funny as these, though. The first act, which sets up a surprisingly sweet relationship with his adoptive family from the Mississippi delta, is something to be endured, especially the cheap reliance on racial stereotypes (the worst involves a lowrider). But when the plot finally gets going, the laughs do too. "},{"Title":"More About Character and Less on Concept","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With the emphasis of his stage performances, Steve Martin was a man who was truly destined for the big screen. Sure his off-the-wall zaniness would have been an easy choice to be the man who could have taken the comedy bull by the horns, but his early efforts like The Jerk and The Man With Two Brains just brought him only to the shallow end of the Hollywood swimming pool. The Jerk his first role was more energetic than some of his more previous work, however, the drive of the story is based more loosely on character rather than concept like some of his later films. It's a misnomer to think his character Navin Johnson really was jerk, but a rather pathetic journeyman who abandons his African-American foster parents to seek fame and fortune.In spite of its flaws, The Jerk demonstrates that comedians become easily welcomed to the Hollywood threshold than dramatic performers. Alums from the realm of stand-up comedy or Saturday Night Live are easily eaten up by the Hollywood agents only in the long run make cinematic flops. Somehow they manipulate us with their limitless charisma to convince these agents that they can make movies. No question about it, Steve Martin is full of that charisma. Here in The Jerk, from the opening minutes of this movie we already start to like the character Navin. And yet, we know very little of Navin. Martin is highly intelligent and quite versatile performer and who's also quite the savvy musician, but he never overlaps himself in front of the camera; in other words he never falls prey on his conceit or tries to yearn for our sympathy. Though at times The Jerk feels unconnected and episodic, but Martin remains loyal to his simpleton character throughout. He relishes on optimism and just purely enjoys life to the fullest like feeling happy his name is in a phone book or getting giddy when he hears an Irving Berlin tune. I find it unusual that Martin does not exhibit just how adept he is in physical comedy though there is one moment, but I won't go any further.The real fun about The Jerk is that the scenes that make me laugh are scenes that were featured on my first viewing over the stuff I seen before. Sure I like the zany moments, but the more tender moments are equally poignant. When Martin and Bernadette Peters sing You Belong To Me. Martin and Peters were oozing with great chemistry which is why they collaborated in the 1981 film Pennies From Heaven an real contrast to The Jerk. Of course, these two would later star in more conventional films, but The Jerk compared to Navin features Martin at a time where he where he was a wild zany man who would garner exceptional fame in later years. "}{"Title":"I'm picking out a Thermos for you","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of Martins best and one of my favorites in the genre. Absolutely brilliant from beginning to end. Another reviewer called it the 'poor man's Forrest Gump,' and it really is. The story of a man who was born a poor Black child and wants to know what his special purpose is for. Everything about this movie is hilarious. Navin's discovery of lame white music leading to the realization that he is not a Black man after all, the stupid dog, the carnival and Pizza in a Cup, the faulty oil cans, the man with brass balls, the Thermos- the whole movie is a continuous laugh riot. If you are a fan of wacky comedy and have never seen this movie, you are missing out! "},{"Title":"Original and Genuinely Funny","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've been hearing about The Jerk for over two decades but for some reason avoided watching it, even though I've heard quotes from the movie at parties, from friends, from my husband, for years. I was born a poor black child. All I need is this lamp. You've probably heard them, too, but if -- like me -- you've put off watching this movie because you were afraid it would be stupid, well, you're right. The Jerk is stupid -- but in the best of ways. There is a lot of love in this movie, and most of the comedy is refreshingly original and genuinely funny. The biggest surprise was Bernadette Peters. I've never been a fan of hers but, as Steve Martin's trumpet-playing ingenue girlfriend, Peters was a revelation. The camera loved her. And that all I need is this lamp scene? Well, that's Steve Martin at the peak of his comic genius. So go grab a copy of The Jerk and finally see what all the fuss was about. "},{"Title":"what happens to the American dream","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a movie from 70's , way before America was in trouble . The Jerk played by Steve Martin goes from being a nobody to a successful businessman and again to being a bum . You would think it happens all the time , and it does , it works like a clockwork , once a poor man becomes very rich , and then he becomes poor again . There is a prophecy in this movie , way before the time America was the greatest and nothing wrong could happen , but the wheel of fortune is turning and the mighty fall down . The Jerk personifies all the successful American businessmen who lost everything in the aftermath of world crisis of 21 century . At first he is a great success , but goes down like Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns . This is not an outdated story and this movie will never be out of time. Steve Martin plays an American hero , he becomes rich on a stroke of luck , and then he is eaten by sharks , who take all his fortune away . This is not a comedy , this is a tragedy of a man who believes in his dream and gets robbed of it. "},{"Title":"A differently funny film","Date":"12 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1979, This film is about Navin Johnson, adopted white son of poor black sharecroppers family in the South, he leaves home to make himself a man. His inventions lead him from rags to riches and right back to rags again. Along the way, he's smitten with a lady motorcycle racer in a carnival, survives a series of screwball shooting attacks by a deranged gun-nut killer, becomes a millionaire by inventing the Opti-grab handle for eye glasses.*Special Stars- Steve Martin, Bernadette Peters, Jackie Mason, Catlin Adams. Dir Carl Reiner *Theme- The innocent and naive people sometimes lead a charmed life or not.*Based on- Steve Martin Co-wrote this script.*Trivia/location/goofs- The miniature train scenes were shot at Griffith Park Live Steamers club area near the park's 'Traveltown' area. This is Mr. Martin's first feature film appearance after his huge popularity selling out huge public venues as a stand-up comedian in the 70's. He wanted to try something new in his varied career. He was a philosophy major at Cal State Long Beach University after growing up in suburbia, Orange County. He is famous for his first public performances being at the Disneyland Magic Shop(demonstrating magic tricks) and acting in the Birdcage Theater at Knott's Berry Farm. During this film Ms. Peters and Martin became a private couple for several years. Martin has a great fondness for pets, especially dogs. He features prominently them in most of his films. His own golden retriever, 'Roger' comes to the movie set during his acting work.*Emotion- This is a differently funny film that only Steve Martin could do. It still is a funny film due to Martin's interesting views on the human dilemma with his university major. You must see the unedited feature version of this film because the public network TV version(Shown often) is horribly cut and edited often leaving out some of the best comedic bits due to some innocent expletive language or nudity. "},{"Title":"success","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am so embarrassed not to have seen this movie long time ago .To enter the realm inhabited by Martin's blissfully original caricatures, you must first be tested for wit, intellect and an innocent revelry in life itself. If you qualify, you will be led on to a roller-coaster of oxygen-sapping gags, stupendously clever motifs, brilliant performances and an absolutely fabulous script. There are gags here so new and surprising that to try and emulate them could only court failure. The joy of true love accompanied by him on the ukelele and on the last stanza by her on the........ trumpet and a beautiful little song. Is it the humour or the innocence brings a tear to your eye? Don't call the dog life saver, call him s***head - and for evermore, he is. The white man who is distraught to discover that he is not black. The goodbye note and Martin reading bits of words as they are washed away. The seminal all I need scene which is milked to the point of asphixia. The Jerk is simply the funniest most understatedly clever movie ever produced. There has simply never been anything this good, nor will there ever be. The message is simple and is a very old one the buffoon as saint. From Bottom in Shakespeare, to Tristram Shandy, to Chaplin, to the genius understatement of Cary Grant, to Norman Wisdom they have all touched on and come tantalisingly close, but they have all lacked one ingredient, an ingrediant calledSteve Martin. Like Orson Welles and Kane or Frederick Forsyth and the Jackal or Men at Work and Land Down Under, Martin has played his best shot first, unfettered, undisciplined, unconstrained genius. Let us all be better, brighter, cleverer and genuinely funnier by being the jerk. And if that's too frightening, just watch it.Evren Buyruk from Texas "},{"Title":"why this movie was rated R","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think it was the sex scene with the biker chick that made this movie rate an R.Otherwise, great movie! Especially for Steve Martin fans...one of his best. Lots of fantastic quotes (see the quotes link). A long-time favorite in my family, we still quote the movie today!(Why does this force me to fill up 10 lines? I don't have 10 lines worth to say, but I'm going to keep writing so that it'll let me submit my above comment. Really, the whole reason I wrote this comment was for the sake of the first paragraph, so please re-read that.) "},{"Title":"It's Time I Gave Steve Martin a Second Chance","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The story of a man who goes from being poor to being rich... but unfortunately never stops being incredibly stupid. Along the way, he falls in love.I have never cared for Steve Martin. I have no fond memories of him, and I picture him as the co-star of Trains, Planes and Automobiles with John Candy (who I also never liked). I have enjoyed Martin on two occasions in Little Shop of Horrors and in Novocaine. Mysteriously, he plays a dentist in both films, which I will dismiss as a coincidence.I was asked to watch this film by a young woman who could not sing its praises high enough, so I readily agreed to see if Steve Martin had another film I could tolerate. I am pleased to say, this film was very funny and quite charming in some ways.From the very beginning, the humor is a little offensive by today's standards, which I welcome. Martin, who is obviously white, has been raised in a black family from Mississippi and never realized something was wrong. This comes back later in the film, but already in the beginning we know things are going to get crazy.The jokes come from situations that are completely ludicrous and have no linear connection. There's a sniper who really hates these cans (probably the best part of the film), to the idea that being in the phone book can make you famous, to a scene where a certain household pet is treated inhumanely for our amusement... and top all this off with a song about a Thermos. I confess, in the two days since I saw the film I have sung the Thermos song on to a couple people's voicemails after I had a bit to drink. They approved.The funny parts are very funny, some of the best in comedy. However, the film is not perfect. Some scenes drag a bit before the next joke is set up. And the introduction of romance was not as finely blended as could be. The romantic parts aren't overly funny, and the funny parts aren't overly romantic, so we are left with a frustrated juxtaposition of genres. I also found some of the sex jokes to be a bit crude, which made the charming and endearing nature of the movie a bit less.If you like movies with stupid humor, this is a film for you. While much of it is very clever, it is clever in a really stupid way. I was reminded of Dumb and Dumber, which owes a huge thank you to this film for inspiration, I'm sure. It's not Woody Allen, that's for certain.I endorse this movie and would not mind seeing it again. "},{"Title":"a comedy with parts far greater than the whole, a near impeccable Steve Martin movie","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While the Jerk isn't one of my all-time favorite comedies, and I have seen it only a few times over the years, each time the scenes I laughed at before are still funny, if not funnier, and other bits come out as well. It's a movie directed by Carl Reiner that strips away really any sense of real order so that Steven Martin can do his shtick without looking crazy enough to be put away. The premise, of course, is ridiculous, but it still puts a smile on my face when I think about it- Martin's raised a poor, black child by a family in Mississippi, until one day he 'find's his rhythm' (one of the funniest scenes), and he goes off into the world to find himself. In his time out in the world, St. Louis, he finds love in Bernadette Peters, a job at a gas station (helmed by Jackie Mason), and gets rich through a simple invention. So much of the Jerk is meant as comedy where so much is put out that only some of it can stick. Unlike Reiner's old counterpart Mel Brooks, Reiner isn't able to completely balance out the delirious with equally good sincere moments. But it goes without saying that some of the scenes are very memorable, especially if you're a Martin fan. Images like him finding the rhythm, keeping the dogs over his genitals, suddenly going all Bruce Lee when the 'N' word is dropped, and moments like Mason's explanation of sex, they're classic moments in 70's anything-goes comedy. And another big reason the movie doesn't fall apart sometimes is because of Martin's own willingness to be so idiotic; there's a certain reckless abandon that shows him to be an actor with the gift of throwing himself head-on into the hysteria. There's even an ironically lovable side to the Jerk; where else will you get a dog named s***head? Sometimes a joke will fall flat, but there are many others that don't, at least for most of the audience, and it's definitely a good notch above the recent Martin vehicles. "},{"Title":"I love this jerk!","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember seeing this r- rated film with my family in 1979. I remember the silly bathroom humor and I still love it today. I love Steve Martin as the Jerk. He comes across both dumb, naive, and just lovable. You can't help but like him. Navin's adoptive mother is played by the wonderful Mabel King from What's Happening? I loved her on that show. This was a film ahead of it's time for a number of reasons. I can't help but laugh at Navin's foolishness. I thought Catlin Adams had a fun part as his first girlfriend. His second girlfriend is the true love of Navin's life played perfectly by Bernadette Peters. Ms. Peters has always been a talented comedienne, a great actress, and musical performer in her own right. She holds her own to Steve MArtin's character. The jokes are silly but that's part of the film's charm. I love watching it. It's great to see Carl Reiner and so many others in the film like Jackie Mason before anybody really knew who he was and C. Emmett Walsh as the man who goes nuts. One of my favorite scenes is when Navin gets excited over seeing his name in the telephone book. I wish I could get that excited about seeing my name in the book. I wouldn't want it anyway. Too many telemarketers. "},{"Title":"A brief review as requested","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So, someone here challenged people with his review to say what isn't hilarious about this film and that it's grade (7.2) is highly underrated. I read that review before watching the movie and eagerly anticipated a masterpiece of comedy.Before watching the movie i skimmed through some of the scenes, actually I planned on doing that, but the very first scene caught my attention. It's the scene where Martins first employer guides him to the room in which he will be staying. I'm specifically talking about the bathroom scene before entering the real room. The employer says something about the room not being that great and Martin just takes over the spotlight saying something among these lines (this is not an exact quote because I'm too lazy to re watch the whole scene to give you exact quotes) Are you crazy!? I freaking love it! Just look at it, the toilet is right here. And this must be the kitchen! No.I found this to be a very witty use of sarcasm and I laughed my ass off. I knew that I was going to enjoy this movie from the bottom of my heart. This must be the kitchen. Oh boy that line killed me. I stopped my skimming and started watching the movie.You can't imagine my disappointment when I realized Martins character isn't anything like I had imagined. I thought he was quite smart and sarcastic but he was just a normal idiot. The first thing that crossed my mind wasOh gee, what if that scene wasn't sarcastic and the moron actually thought it was the kitchen. Nah, that can't be true. That would mean that this movie sucks.And oh boy, did the movie suck. I couldn't even finish watching it because he only scene I found funny was when his black father told himLook son, this is s***. And that is only cause he used the word s***. I ended watching it after the bathroom scene (actually after the employer guided him to his real room) just to check for real if it was sarcasm. After seeing all that I'm 100% positive that the grade 7.2 is highly overrated cause this movie doesn't even come close to funny (if you're into intelligent humour) and therefore I'm giving it a 1.If you like dumb humour when the main character is a moron and just does stupid things, this is the movie for you. Otherwise don't even try to watch it. "}{"Title":"Over-hyped and unfunny","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Jerk was on and I 'd always heard what a comedic gem this was so I watched.And I waited.I didn't laugh once nor did I even crack a smile. I am a big Steve Martin fan but this just didn't work on any level. The scenes played more like skits that were loosely tied together but mostly I was just scratching my head and saying What the? The only scene that played true was when Navin was trying to tell his dog goodbye and before he could he finish his nonsensical rant, the dog ran away! I felt his pain. There are many great comedy films that came out of the 70's, but this is not one of them. "},{"Title":"Second best Steve Martin movie","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just finished watching this second best Steve Martin movie after the evergreen planes, trains and Automobiles. here he is  not a bum, he is a jerk!! Steve Martin plays the role of a dumb man who is brought up by a black family. one fine day he decides to go to the city to try out his luck and this triggers a series of hilarious events. this is Steve Martin at his wackiest with some truly unbelievable set pieces. they have to be seen to be believed. wouldn't want to spoil the fun for you. However, the story from rags to riches to rags is full of comedy. the movie looses a bit of its steam around the hour mark but still the first 60 and the last ten minutes more than make up for the twenty minutes in between. recommended for Steve Martin fans. "},{"Title":"Mostly Smart Humor And Quite Funny","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't figure out why flat out comedies these days are not funny like The Jerk. I think of today's comedies as Will Ferrell movies. I hate Will Ferrell movies. I simply do not find them funny. With The Jerk I laughed out loud a number of times throughout the movie. I rarely do that when I am watching anything aside from Seinfeld. The comedy in The Jerk seems dumb on the outside, but if you really think about it, it is quite clever and smart. Lines such as he really hates those cans and the phonebook is here! are really nicely done.However, there are a number of times that we get some really stupid comedy. The head spinning around is the most obvious. There are several others that really should not have been in this movie.The character of Navis is very good as well. I liked the way how he excitedly yelled most everything throughout the movie. His obliviousness and naïvety really drive all of his actions and make for a lot of funny moments.The Jerk is a great comedy with a lot of smart humor and a touch of some stupid, bad humor as well. I definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"250 big ones...250 dollarinos...250 doughnuts","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Comedian Steve Martin went from cult TV personality to big-screen star with this bright, silly/witty comedy about the adopted white son of a black sharecropper who goes from poor to rich to poor again in the invention market. Martin, who also co-wrote the screenplay with Carl Gottlieb and Michael Elias, has a wobbly sense of comic timing that is alternately funny and perplexing; this combined with director Carl Reiner's squashy pacing makes for a third act which doesn't have many laughs. Still, for the first hour or so, this is a pretty zany, enjoyable outing, and Martin is matched very well with adorable Bernadette Peters as his love-interest. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"It's funny, in an annoying type of way.","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm a fan of Steve Martin's. He can be pretty annoying at times, but over all he is a very funny man. I was looking around in my Mom's movie collection, and she recommended this to me, and actually I was glad that I did watch it. I can say that at least I saw it. While there are only a few funny lines and a funny story line, you are going to get at least one laugh. Even if this movie is a little strange and obnoxious at times. If you are a fan of Steve's though, then you might enjoy it a little more. So over all, I think I would recommend it for a good laugh. Other wise, it's an OK movie.6/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just watched The Jerk last night, and I found it to be funny. The basic outline of the plot is nothing special, but the random things that happen to him along the way make the movie great. The quirky with of Martin shines through and he has chemistry with Bernadette Peters on the screen.  "},{"Title":"Not a laugh in the house!","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Watched this last night (3rd October 2009) and couldn't stand it any more. Switched off and saw, from the run time, it was very near the end. I've never failed to laugh at Steve Martin before, (Dirty Rotten Scoundrels was soooo funny) but this film is dire! Would have rated it a minus if that were possible. Perhaps this type of humour just doesn't travel - Brits don't even use the word 'Jerk' in this kind of context. There's no point in picking the film to bits to try to analyse why it doesn't work It has no redeeming features and is a total waste of time. The only thing I can add is a warning. Don't worry, your sense of humour IS still intact. Watch a genuinely funny film and see. "},{"Title":"Funny as hell !!!!","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin plays an idiot who leaves his black family to find his place in the world.Martin's feature film debut is simply hilarious all the way around.Script courtesy of Steve Martin.Fine direction from Carl Reiner while it's Martin who makes it enjoyable.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Literal comedies are great","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love literal comedies.  These are some of the best. Steve Martin is one of the greats.  This is one of his best movies he has done.  The speech about All I Need is This is wonderful.  This movie is a classic for comedy lovers.  Steve Martin has done a few of these kinds of films but they are all wonderful.If you get a chance pick this up.  I will have to add to my collection. "},{"Title":"Effective madcap comedy","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" THE JERK, Steve Martin's breakout comedy hit which propelled him to the top of the box office for an entire decade, is a great little film which hasn't dated at all. It's an episodic comedy full of quirkiness and surreal humour, following the misadventures of the titular character who goes through life wreaking havoc wherever he goes.Unlike more recent idiotic comedies, THE JERK isn't lowbrow at all and the humour is surprisingly witty. It feels like a cross between the slapstick of LAUREL & HARDY and even ventures into MONTY PYTHON territory on occasion. The reason the thing works so well is largely down to Martin, who wrote as well as starred; he's on fire, his jokes rarely underperforming, delivering one of those strenuous, physical performances that always delights.There are plenty of favourite moments here, and these are just a few any scene involving Martin's long-suffering dog; M. Emmet Walsh's cameo as a random sniper; the opening and closing scenes with the black family; Sonny Terry's music over the closing credits; the court case scene; and the gas station robbery. Overall, though, it's hit after hit and a film that it's difficult not to enjoy. "}{"Title":"The Movie that made Steve Martin a Star","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin became an official movie star via a 1979 comedy that became an instant classic called The Jerk, a comedy that is silly, improbable, and constantly strains the boundaries of logic and continuity, but provides consistent laughs anyway.Martin plays Navin Johnson, the adopted son of a family of black sharecroppers, who had no idea that he was adopted (You mean I'm gonna stay this color?), who finally leaves the comfort of the Missouri farm where he was raised to find his special purpose. We watch as Navin inexplicably becomes the sex slave of a circus performer named Patty (Caitlin Adams), who has him convinced that this is his special purpose. When he does escape Patty's iron grip, he does find happiness with a cosmotologist named Marie (Bernadette Peters), while at the same time, inventing a special kind of eyeglasses that make him a billionaire and turns him into a bum almost as quickly, which is where Navin is when we meet him at the beginning of the film, which is actually told in flashback.Carl Reiner's energetic direction and a hysterical screenplay by Martin, Carl Gottleib, and Michael Elias work in sync beautifully to bring us a rolling-on-the-floor-funny story that despite the absolute ridiculous and stupid things that happen to Navin, we find ourselves buying it and being behind the character. We laugh when Navin finally realizes that he's not black and we laugh when a psycho played by M. Emmett Walsh picks Navin's name out of a phone book and decides to murder him and we laugh when for his first date with Marie, Navin orders dinner from Pizza in a Cup. We even laugh when Navin hits it big and has his dream house built and offers us a description of the various rooms.Martin is wonderful in the title role and always keeps Navin likable and he has a very nice on screen chemistry with Bernadette Peters, which actually led to a brief real life romance and an on screen reunion 2 years later in Pennies from Heaven, I also loved Richard Ward and Mabel King as Navin's adopted parents and Bill Macy as the guy who partners Navin in his eyeglass invention, which comes to be known as Opti-Grab.Nothing deep here, just one laugh after another right up to the slightly contrived ending, which I can forgive because the journey to that point had me on the floor. "},{"Title":"Better than most comedies that are being released today.","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An idiotic man struggles to make it through life on his own in St. Louis. Navin is an idiot. He grew up in Mississippi as adopted son of a black family but on his 18th birthday he feels he wants to discover the rest of the world and sets out to St. Louis. There everyone exploits his naivety, but then a simple invention brings him a fortune. Roger Ebert wrote Reviewing a comedy can be a tricky business, because the question of whether the comedy was good or bad depends almost entirely upon whether or not the reviewer was amused. Laughter is quite often an involuntary reaction If I laugh at something and you don't, no amount of my logic is going to convince you that it was funny. The Jerk is a comedic classic that shows that comedy film makers these days have absolutely no talent and have to use toilet humour to pull a chuckle out of its audience. "},{"Title":"Consistently Hilarious from Start to Finish,","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Jerk is a fantastic movie with a very well written storyline and a brilliant comedic cast.This movie is the beginning of Steve Martins career,it was his first big comedy film,and despite the several great projects he has done since then,this is still his finest role,his character is extremely stupid yet lovable and this journey we go on with him is ridiculous in a very good way.The film is consistently funny from start to finish,there homestly isn't one scene where I didn't laugh at least twice and every time I watch this the same jokes get me every time as well as parts that I couldn't remember.Hilarious and very clever,I would definitely recommend the Jerk to anyone looking for a good comedy. After finding out he is adopted,a man with little intelligence struggles to start a new life on his own. Best Perfornance Steve Martin Worst Performance Catlin AdamsIf you have any recommendations on films/TV series I should watch or review,or any questions to ask me,just tweet me @DillonTheHarris "},{"Title":"Willfully stupid yet utterly hilarious","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Watching Steve Martin in The Jerk, I cannot help but be amazed. Martin has undoubtedly created THE dumbest character ever to appear in a movie. As Navin R. Johnson, he is dense enough to not realize that he's adopted- even though his whole family is black! He's the kind of guy who will gladly accept a ride to the end of the fence, and considers making $1.10 an hour as a gas station attendant to be a dream come true. He's too stupid to understand that a girl who will tattoo your name on her butt after the first date isn't exactly a high class woman.OK. So he's dumb. So dumb in fact that he could never exist in real life. Anyone who takes the actions he takes, and goes through the experiences that he goes through, can only be a fictional construct. Usually this is fatal for a movie, because audiences cannot suspend their disbelief. This is especially true when the film has no real plot, but is merely a series a series of loosely connected scenes, as this movie is. Such are the trademarks of a box office bomb.But here, with Martin in lead, it works. The Jerk is so over the top, and Martin plays dumb so successfully, that it's hilarious, believable or not. The entire film is on the level of a middle school production, and it's something of a one joke movie, but it's just plain funny from beginning to end.I love his movie, and I laughed every minute, but I'm at something of a loss to explain its success. I guess if you play dumb enough, there's no telling what you can accomplish. "},{"Title":"Sweet and Lovable Mix of Great One-Liners and Sight Gags","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sweet Comedy from Carl Reiner and Steve Martin that is Not Flawless, but Darn Near. Like Most Comedies Not Every Joke Works, but Darn Near. Happily Absent are Relentless Vulgarities that Infiltrate Comedies Nowadays.The Stream of One-Liners and Sight Gags (We built a bigger house.) that are Sharp and Senseless Make this One of the Most Enjoyable Movies in the Genre and it Holds Up Quite Well Decades After its Release.When Two Great Artists Team Up like Martin and Reiner and Deliver Such a Delightful Humorfest it Renews the Faith in What Movie Comedies Can Deliver at Their Best. What Makes this Work so Well is the Combination of Cutting Edge Satire with Lovable Characters. It is Special and Not that Common with Comedies.While Steve Martin's Career Choices are a Very Mixed Bag (Martin has said that only one third of His sixty odd Films makes Him proud), this is the One of That Launched His Checkered Filmography and is Routinely Considered a Great Debut and has been Rated One of the Most Popular Comedies of All Time.Not Perfect, but Darn Near with Many Quotable Lines and a Joy to Behold. Ironically, Steve Martin and Carl Reiner are Both Underrated but the Best of Both Need to be Rediscovered and Re Evaluated for a Fresh Perspective and a New Respect, Especially Considering what has Passed for Success in the Genre and Made Zillionaires of Mediocre Talents in Recent Years. Adam Sandler are Your Ears Burning? "},{"Title":"The Brilliance of Steve Martin","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember when this film came out. The critic Roger Ebert absolutely hated it. Every time a subsequent film came out staring or featuring Steve Martin, Ebert would always express his utter hatred for this film. Why did he hate it? For the same reason I thought this was one of the most hilarious films I ever saw. There is just one part I have an issue with, but I'll get to that later.The film is a rags to riches to rags to better rags story. It's the story of orphaned Navin Johnson who was raised by a poor, rural black family. Thing is, he's not black. Nor rural. And never caught onto singing the Blues because it's so depressing. As Navin was growing up, he knew something was wrong but couldn't put his finger on it since he was so accepted by his family. On his birthday, Navin hears the sounds of Lawrence Welk-like music and knows he's destined for something else, so he leaves home to make it on his own in the world.There are wonderful 'one liners', sight gags, lotsa stereotyping against everyone (and enough to offend if you are sensitive to this kind of thing) and done so with Steve Martin's over the top humor. The only thing I didn't warm up to is the way Nathan got to be poor - bringing in Carl Reiner seemed to be a tad much. And for the film historians out there One of the most endearing things of the film for me is Nathan's House. It was real, just the way you see it was exactly the way the mansion really was! I took a break from school, visited Beverly Hills, California saw the house on Sunset Blvd. and neighborhood that was used for this film. The middle eastern man who owed the mansion with his wife eventually went through a bitter divorce right after the release of The Jerk - she wanted the house he told her he would NEVER let her have it. The mansion was there for a while until it was mysteriously burned down. Then, for years it remained a HUGE vacant lot in Beverly Hills. When both parties subsequently died, the lots got subdivided and sold - just a year or two ago. I found all this interesting for it reflected the nature of the film - silly when you have money.This is a hilarious film, with just a few lags, featuring the comedic style of Steve Martin of that time and to be honest, lives up it its title. "},{"Title":"Short but sweet","Date":"25 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So much has been written about this movie, I don't know that too much of what I say would add significantly to the conversation. I just want to comment that The Jerk is as sweet a film as it is silly. I'm baffled that it's rated R. The Tonight You Belong to Me duet on the beach is a very romantic film moment. I read that Martin and Peters were dating at the time of the movie, and I think watching that scene -- it's obvious the two cared deeply about each other. I respect that Steve Martin seems to have always taken his work very seriously, even when the work wasn't serious at all. His movies were of a higher quality that one might have expected out of an outright silly script like The Jerk. The end result is that his movies have stood up over 30-plus years. Thoroughly watchable today. Bravo to Martin for The Jerk "},{"Title":"A funny movie, with a good point to tell. A rare and enjoyable thing.","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I once asked a guy who had seen this film if it was funny. His answer was I don't know. I asked him what do you mean about that?. He said well it's funny, but it also has a good point to tell, so I'd rather say it's a good movie, rather than simply saying it's funny. And after having seen this film, I get what he meant. This isn't just some comedy which you summarise as funny, it is more than that it's a good film.I've never been much of a Steve Martin fan, but he sure nailed it here. The only reason I rarely watch comedies, is because I like more serious films, and this one is both, so you can imagine how much I loved this one. Navin must be one of the sweetest characters I've ever seen on film. It's a cliché made good, he's dumb, but he's got a big heart. I think that summarises the character pretty much. Although at times he seem kinda smart. It's a movie about how a man can accomplish anything, with nothing. How a jerk can accomplish anything anyone else can. It's also a statement about the emptiness of wealth, and how important family or just the people who loves you are.It has great acting, great story, great moral, Great humour, what else but a 10/10. "},{"Title":"THE JERK (Carl Reiner, 1979) ***","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin was certainly one of the best among the myriad comedians to emerge from TV's Saturday Night Live show and perhaps my own favorite; this was his 'introductory' starring vehicle and, while I knew of the film's cult reputation, was surprised by its surreal nature (notably the hilarious cat-juggling routine). Raised by blacks in the backwoods, Martin reacts to the 'white' music heard on the radio and decides to head for the big cities in search of success. The epitome of naiveté, he only manages to land a job as a gas-station attendant i.e. until he solves a client's problem with slipping glasses by having them affixed to a gadget which rests on one's nose!; having parted ways, he next takes up with a circus show &#x96; where he enters into a relationship with a butch (but extremely jealous) female daredevil. Later on, however, he meets the love of his life in pretty, frizzy-haired blonde Bernadette Peters (with whom Martin would re-unite for PENNIES FROM HEAVEN 1981). Eventually, he learns that his small invention has yielded dividends and he becomes a millionaire overnight; after a bit of the sweet life, however, he faces a lawsuit (from the film's director, no less!) because the glass-holder renders one cross-eyed and, quarreling with Peters soon after, he ends up living on the streets as a bum...that is until his old family comes to the rescue, having wisely invested the measly amounts of money he sent them every so often. The film (which, for what it is worth, was followed in 1984 by a made-for-TV sequel) is laugh-out-loud funny yet consistently warm-hearted, with Martin and Peters each delivering winning performances playing amiable everyday types (best typified by their beach-side rendition of You Belong To Me). For the record, I own but have yet to watch what is possibly Reiner's best work as director i.e. THE COMIC (1969); where Martin is concerned, I still need to catch up with a few more of his vintage efforts these include the afore-mentioned PENNIES FROM HEAVEN and two further collaborations with Reiner, THE MAN WITH TWO BRAINS (1983) and ALL OF ME (1984) &#x96; though I did check out several years back their film noir pastiche/valediction DEAD MEN DON'T WEAR PLAID (1982). "},{"Title":"Very Very Good","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Why the Heck was this movie rated R? Very very good movie.Tell me, why was this movie rated R? I see nothing in this movie for it to be rated R! Some people think that they didn't have PG-13 ratings in 1979 But I have proof! If you don't believe me look up Bananas with Woody Allen. If anybody has any reason to rate this movie R Please contact me at evantog@gmail.com Please!Other than that, this movie was very good.It was one of Steve Martin's best performancesGood start for himI rate this ***** out of ***** "}{"Title":"Blueprint for Will Ferrell's career","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Jerk marked Steve Martin's breakthrough as a comedy actor in the U.S. Watching it now, it's not hard to see why. The movie hasn't aged too badly and most of its jokes still work today. In fact, this seems like the blueprint for the silly humor of Will Ferrell's movies - only less vulgar and funnier. Steve Martin shines. It's a shame to think what became of this man ever since, hm, say HouseSitter. Much like Dan Aykroyd, Chevy Chase or Eddie Murphy he was once part of the funniest American actors and then sold out, lost it or whatever. The Jerk takes you back to better times. It's a bit slow, but overall you're gonna have a good time with this minor comedy classic. "},{"Title":"It has pretty funny moments","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is about a Navin Johnson (Steve Martin) who was raised and adopted in a poor,black Mississippi farm. He later finds success as he leaves the family and when he invents a special type of glasses.The thing that holds this movie together is Steve Martin's stupidity in the movie. Everything from a false alarm about a fire to an assassination attempt to juggling cats really made me laugh. The thing I don't like about this movie is that it can get pretty weird at times. This movie also shows you that money isn't everything. This film is a decent Steve Martin comedy.7/10 "},{"Title":"Muddled But Funny","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember catching this movie on HBO late one night around 1 AM. Now, as an amateur screenwriter, I remembered this movie acted like a project I had written when I was 14. Funny, in fact I laughed quite often, but it was muddled when it came to everything else. Steve Martin carries the whole movie by himself (Except for M. Emmett Walsh's cameo), and it shows. Peters is talented, but there's nothing in this movie that shows it. The late seventies, early eighties feel of the movie is a plus, because some of the best movies come from that era. But, don't be deceived into thinking this movie is awful. It's actually a fun little movie. But also don't expect too much from it, as only Martin generates a majority of the laughs. Only see this movie if you are drunk, high, or a Steve Martin fan. "},{"Title":"Sir, you are TALKING to a...","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just watched this one again on STRZ-E. I remember this being one of my favorite films when I was younger. And judging by some of the comments here, the film seems to have struck a chord with many people. It is certainly an endearing story and this is certainly one of Martin's best comic performances. But I think the film feels a bit dated and that is why nobody considers it a classic, hence the 6.7 rating (I gave it a 7). It does not compare to comedic gems like Blazing Saddles and Caddyshack simply because the characters are rather obnoxious and a lot of the gags are just low-brow slapstick. The film feels tedious halfway through. Of course, many scenes stand out on their own and are classics in their own right. I won't give anything away here. This movie is definitely worth your time. "},{"Title":"The Jerk **1/2","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Imagine that Steve Martin, raised by a black family, has to have the family tell him that he is not biologically theirs. Really? How asinine can this become, especially when he has a dog named Stupid who is anything but that.The film picks up with the entry of Bernadette Peters and how the two go from a rags to riches way of life, only to lose it all.There are some funny situations with Jackie Mason and a lunatic who pulls Martin's name out of the phone book at random with the intention to kill him. Some groups who advocate for mentally challenged people may find the film offensive. "},{"Title":"Old man's humor?","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Didn't find this funny or charming at all. Steve Martin who is so great in Planes, Trains and Automobiles, great comedian, great timing and all, so I thought I might like this. But The Jerk seems to be more old-fashioned 1940's American wee-he silly kind of humor that I do not understand at all.If that's your cup of tea then go ahead!Minor spoiler Something that boggled me was why this jerk person seemed to alter between mildly dumb to complete and utter retard? It was like he started out a real complete nonfunctional retard then moved into a phase where he was just mildly immature, back and forth, and then at the end a complete retard again? Was that part of the humor?None of the movie made any sense to me. Very old fashioned even by 1979. Not funny. "},{"Title":"Seemed a bit rushed but comedic all around","Date":"14 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a solid comedy and sometimes it get pretty darn hysterical. I wouldn't be shocked if the makers of Forrest Gump got some ideas from this movie. The plot is basically about a guy that isn't really mentally challenged but isn't too bright either and is very sheltered. Getting out into the real world and going through what life throws at him. And it's pure comedy sometimes and Steve Martin really steals the show as this naive and yet somewhat likable guy. And most of the comedy comes from how he interacts with people from his view and being all naive and stuff. And it's entertaining to watch how everything gets put together and plays out. It kinda loses it's flare after the gas station scenes but overall this is a great comedy that shouldn't be missed. It lacks emotion and some places it seemed a bit rushed. But this is suppose to be a comedy and as a comedy it works all around.7.8/10 "},{"Title":"After many years, I saw this movie again and was disappointed","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Few years back a friend of mine got the movie Deliverance and told me it's a very nice classic movie. After seeing it, I was not impressed and my friend was disappointed because after watching again, he was not as impressed as he was back then when it was released. We then called this feeling or experience the deliverance effect. Every time we watched again an old movie that was supposed to be a classic and got that disappointing feeling, we labeled the movie the deliverance effect. Amazing how one's perception changes over time. I loved this movie when I saw it the first time in the 80's and today I almost fell asleep getting bored to death while watching it with my GF. Very stupid movie. 5/10 from 7/10 years ago... "},{"Title":"The Jerk","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I had seen a couple of clips of this, but I had no idea it was going to be like this, but quite a good film from director Carl Reiner (The Man with Two Brains). Basically tramp and naive idiot Navin R. Johnson (Steve Martin, also writing) tells us his story of when he used to be rich. He was born in a black family (they told him he was black), and on his 18th birthday he decided he wants to discover the rest of the world, so he sets off for St. Louis. Everyone exploits him for his naivety, but when he comes up with something to help a man put on his glasses properly, he makes a fortune. What makes this comedy funny, but also very slightly irritating is that many of the other characters are just as bizarre or stupid as Martin's character. Martin also stars as a Cat Juggler, Pig Eye Jackson and Engineer Fred, also starring Bernadette Peters as Marie Kimble Johnson, Catlin Adams as Patty Bernstein, Mabel King as Mother, Richard Ward as Father, Dick Anthony Williams as Taj Jonson, Bill Macy as Stan Fox, Wild Wild West's M. Emmet Walsh as Madman, Dick O'Neill as Frosty, stand-up Jackie Mason as Harry Hartounian, Carl Reiner as himself, and a cameo by Rob Reiner (Carl's son) as Truck Driver Picking Up Navin. There are some funny moments, I'm not sure if I'd want to see it again, but I might one day next time it's on. Steve Martin was number 59, and Jackie Mason number 47 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups, the film was number 89 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs, and it was number 27 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"Light on Laughs, poor stereotyping","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Maybe in 1979, The Jerk was a more novel idea or cutting edge, but for nowadays, the movie is ho-hum and sparsely funny. Martin however, is obviously putting a lot of energy and effort. There are scenes and occasional lines which bring chuckles - for me the best scenes in the whole of the movie are centered at the Gas Station. But it doesn't save the movie. He's at it doing physical humor and more or less a predecessor to Dumb-and-Dumber type antics. But Some of the main ideas are based unfunnily on paper-thin stereo-types of racial perceptions. They are in and of themselves somewhat degrading - as though the main character is such a twit majorly attributed to his upbringing. The Jerk is more or less not funny and a disappointing failure. Doesn't come close to Dumb and Dumber. "}{"Title":"Barely funny","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Jerk has been praised as not only one of Steve Martin's best comedic efforts, but also one of the funniest of all motion pictures.For me that is really hard to believe. I rented the movie and watched it yesterday expecting a great comedy, instead I found the movie not that funny at all. There were some moments that were funny, but majority of the movie seemed to just drag on.I've read reviews here and read people saying they were really laughing hard when watching the movie. It amazed me to read comments such like that. A lot of comments are in favor of the movie even though it's completely bland and not that funny at all.I also felt that there was no need for the movie to be R rated. But they didn't have the PG-13 rating at the time of its release.I'm glad I only rented it and didn't buy it. "},{"Title":"This is exceedingly UNfunny!","Date":"4 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm struggling to find why so many people have found this so hilarious.... there is ABSOLUTELY NOTHING hilarious about this film! It's a struggle to watch and has absolutely no funny lines in it whatsoever from what I could see or hear meaning I am now well confused as to how anyone could rate this piece of rubbish so highly as they have done on here! It just doesn't make sense! The film is boring, tedious, drags on so much that I couldn't wait for the end and was extremely pleased when it finally came, this is most definitely a film to MISS! I would love to give this -10 and then a whole lot more but unfortunately the lowest I can give it is the one star that I have! "},{"Title":"Fun and entertaining little comedy that holds our interest and makes a statement about the American Dream.","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" These are always the most awkward of films to talk about and discuss; these are the films that are smart and reasonably clever in their own right but lack any sort of big vision, any sort of large scope. The Jerk is a film that would have its title actually describe its protagonist rather than be named after him; it's a film that concedes to silly logic and resorts to low brow humour to get across some of its jokes and yet when it works, the result is actually rather amusing.I've seen a handful of Steve Martin films before this but none of them really stand out in memory except for perhaps John Hughes' 1987 hit Planes, Trains & Automobiles and yet Martin played it deadly serious in the particular film. Here, Martin plays a character who has grown up in poverty named Navin Johnson, a person so immature and oblivious to life and the facts of life that it is pushed to the point of hilariously funny and yet completely unbelievable at the same time. At its core, The Jerk is a play on the American Dream but that is just touching the surface. I am not afraid to make the statement that I believe Navin to be particularly below a level of normality, in fact I believe him to be 'special'. But this is not your comedy mixed in with American Dream type tale with the village idiot telling the story that Forrest Gump so memorably was, this is something else.As a character, Navin is stupid and yet a genius at the same time; he just doesn't seem to know it. Much like Hoffman's character in Rain Man, he can do unbelievable things of an intelligence unbeknown to us yet is able to come across as pretty simple in the process. Much like Steinbeck's novel Of Mice and Men in which it pitches a supposed message that the American Dream is an impossible achievement that no matter who you are, will no doubt end in a lot of hard work and ultimately, tragedy; The Jerk, I feel, puts across a pitch that the American Dream and America as a whole is the only country in which someone like Navin could succeed in &#150; this again reminds me of a more modern reference, namely an episode from The Simpsons in which a character called Frank Grimes tells Homer he is what's wrong with America and that if he lived in any other country, he'd have died long ago. Whilst this may be a little too political for a Simpsons episode, the notion that anybody can achieve anything in the 'land of opportunity' is very much present in The Jerk with Navin, the village idiot, achieving greatness in the form of his very own beautiful wife, large bank balance and Scarface-like mansion.The Jerk is a film that relies on dumb humour and clever ad-libs, as well as plays on words. Sometimes it works, other times it doesn't the scene in which the hillbilly serial killer who picks a random name from the phone book for assassination is utterly ridiculous, as is the idea that no one notices a guy in broad daylight, in plain view with a massive sniper rifle; the consequent shootout at the garage could well have been played out to the Benny Hill soundtrack as Navin dodges bullets and inspects leaking oil cans. But then again, since Navin is this sort of Raymond Babbitt character from Rain Man, he is able to invent a way of keeping glasses from falling off whilst retaining that notion that he is of an autistic nature. Along with this, the script is good fun and Martin is given some good lines but this is whjere the ad-lib idea enters the fray St. Louis? No, Navin Johnson. Is probably the best of the selection but there are a few other one liners that enforce chuckles.I think The Jerk appeals to the majority because the audience are given a position of power, ie; they know what the repercussions of certain situations will be even if the wildly immature Navin doesn't. When a group of Hispanic gangsters pull up at the garage and use a credit card that obviously isn't theirs, we as the audience immediately recognise the danger and the threat but Navin carries on like they are upstanding members of society. This means that, since we already know the film falls into the comedy genre, we have the position of power that the hero doesn't thus rendering the events that follow 'funny'; because we expect him to get a pretty harsh lesson in life following the blatant identification with apparent danger. The exact same situation and audience relation is played out at the carnival, in the caravan when Navin spends time with a woman for the first time he is unsuspecting but through costume, we have identified what sort of a woman this is; boots, WWII German hat and leather clothing tells us what's what but Navin is oblivious. Unfortunately, the subsequent scene of the caravan rocking and so forth isn't that funny, not at least to me.Although the film is funny in places and falls into the comedy genre, there is a degree of racism that is somewhat surprising. Navin's delight at finding out he will remain white even though his foster parent and family are black Mississippi is a little out of place, as is the representation of the said Hispanic gangsters. But The Jerk is funny at times, supposedly sad at others and is generally an all round fun film that is worth the time albeit for the humorous instances that arrive few and far in-between. "},{"Title":"Vintage Martin I was born a poor black child...","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  THE JERK (1979) **1/2  Steve Martin, Bernadette Peters, Jackie Mason, M. Emmet Walsh, Bill Macy.  Martin made his mark in this jerky comedy during his wild and crazy guy period as Navin Johnson who balances delicately on that fine line of naivity and idiocy as he goes from rags to riches to rags again with some jokes on the money, many not.  Best bit The new phone books are here!  Directed by Carl Reiner (who has a cameo as himself) who would go on to collaborate several more times with our boy Steve. "},{"Title":"50-50","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first half, absolutely hilarious.  The 2nd half . . . a real sleeper.  Not that it doesn't have its moments, however.  Parents  some strong language, and the dominatrix bits would warrant at least fast-forwarding through some of it.Still a pretty funny movie; Blazing Saddles was better. "},{"Title":"Not very good","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After hearing all the hype, I watched this movie today. It wasn't very good. Not too funny at all. I don't know what all the hype is all about. It isn't worth a look, even if you catch it on cable. I love comedies and watch a lot of movies, but this one was pretty bad. Steve Martin's acting was phony and not at his best like some have claimed. Maybe my expectations were too high. It isn't the worst thing I have seen, by any stretch, but not good at all. Oh well, I'm glad to get this one off my DVR once and for all. I really don't know what else to say about this movie. *spoiler***************There is a scene where Steve Martin is working at a gas station and three Latinos are stealing gas and tires from him. He decides to show them by hooking up a roped hook to the car and puts the other end on a water pipe at a church next door. When the guys drive off, half of the church goes with them, wedding in progress. It was unrealistic and unfunny. I mean, I love ridiculous humor like the Scary Movie series or the Airplane movies, Funny Farm, Fletch movies, etc... but this is just stupid. Don't waste your time with this one. Sorry Steve Martin. The more I think about your work, like Father of the Bride, Three Amigos, and some other stuff, I really am coming to the conclusion that you are not that funny. You, Steve Martin, are overrated for sure. I never realized until now how unfunny he is. "},{"Title":"Silly comedy &#150; funny but hasn't dated well","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Navin R. Johnson is an idiot.  He ha sgrown up in an all black family on a plantation when he is told he was abonded by his real white family.  Devestated he lies in bed and discvoers easy listening on the radio &#150; this sets him off on a journey of discovery that will lead him from rags to riches and back again.When I first saw this film I was only about 10 or so and I laughed my head off.  I just watched it again as a 25 year old and it had a similar effect if not as powerful an effect.  The jokes are as silly but they seem very old and very basic now.  To a child they probably were hilarious but now the basic slapstick is what stands out.  However there are still plenty of good touches and plenty to laugh at but, unlike the awesome Airplane, this has not aged with grace.  Compare to `man with 2 brains' which is similar in silly jokes &#150; `brains' is still fresh and inventive while The Jerk is not as clever.Martin is good but the basic playing hides much of his ability &#150; although his cat juggler is hilarious.  The cast is filled out with some faces &#150; M Emmet Walsh and Jackie Mason but on the whole it's all Martin's show.Overall this is still funny but the comedy is quite basic and, while still funny, hasn't matured with age. "},{"Title":"Over-rated, and that's an understatement.","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin's first feature film is apparently 'The Jerk', and thankfully I grew up on most of his other comedies, so I'm still a fan of him. This is not a good Steve Martin movie, and I found it very irritating rather than funny. This is the first of four films which are Carl Reiner directing Steve Martin collaborations, and it is certainly the weakest.Steve Martin plays Navin Johnson, a moron, an idiot or a jerk, who basically encounters many situations on his exploration of the world. He finds love, works as a gas attendant, communicates with dogs, and is targeted by M. Emmet Walsh for just existing. These things just happen for Navin! There is no hidden pretenses about 'The Jerk', it simply doesn't try to tell a convincing story, or disguise its zaniness. Everything is intentionally stupid! Problem is, it's very annoying, and far too reliant on Martin's comic ability alone where most of the scenes or situations end up being unfunny. There are two good scenes in my opinion. The first is with Martin beating up a bunch of racist goons, and the other is when Navin is complaining to the waiter about snails. The rest of the humor is downright annoying, particularly because Steve Martin's character is over-the-top zany, stupid, and just unlikeable really. The surrounding characters don't really do much either. Bernadette Peters plays Navin's love interest, and Jackie Mason plays the Petrol Station owner where a few extended scenes take place. I was more intrigued by the fact that Jackie Mason had a distinctive voice, which was the same voice as Krusty the Clown's father, Rabbi Krustofski in The Simpsons, rather than his character in 'The Jerk'. His character barely served a purpose, and Jackie Mason added nothing to the movie, whereas Peters only added a little more.The humor is slightly dated in 'The Jerk' and it's just not very funny at all. Reiner's choice of shots and his direction is not very good, and his later films with Steve Martin are much better. Even though the humour is dated, I think 'The Jerk' still lacked the visual gags, witty banter, and humorous unexpected situations that made other comedies of that time so successful in my eyes, and I don't know whether its because of Martin's character himself or the direction of the movie that made it weak. It just failed to be funny. Most of the time in 'The Jerk', the joke was predictable and then milked till groaning ensued. Not a classic, not vintage or an excellent Steve Martin comedy. Not even a good Steve Martin comedy. See some of his other 80s stuff. 'The Jerk' is a bad film!*½ out of *****! "},{"Title":"This Has Got To Be The Biggest Joke In Entertainment History!","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A poor black couple raises a family in a small town in Mississippi. They have provided food, clothing and barely shelter for the children, but nothing else, including a way out of their house and into their own lives at eighteen. As a result of that, they have at least three grown children still living in their house with them, including Ren Woods and Dick Anthony Williams, the married adult child, along with a bunch of younger children or possibly grandchildren and a grandparent. Steve, the white adopted child who can't be older than his black stepbrother played by Williams, is depressed by the blues music they favor, but after finding that he has a liking for the classics, happily decides that if that sort of variety is out there, he rightfully wants to taste what other good life may have to offer him.And so, at at least thirty and way past the age of maturity, Steve sets out to find his life with nothing but a beat-up suitcase, while older brother Dick and sister Ren remain holed up in the house with their parents and grandmother with no more a way out than Steve, their parents having provided nothing in the way of protection, transportation or advancement for any of them. And thus, they lament piteously over dinner at the pathetic and stupid picture of Steve who's been standing at the mailbox all afternoon patiently waiting for a nonexistent car to come along from which to hitch a ride to the nearest city of St. Louis, his thumb raised up to get the attention of whatever potential driver may eventually show. And so, with night having approached, a guy finally comes along, who gives Steve a lift only as far as the next mailbox, where he is dropped off and again stuck with no way out of the sticks beyond his family's house next door. And all of this at just Scene 2 on the DVD. Yet finally, Steve manages to hitch a ride, gets a lift into St. Louis and is dropped off three minutes and eighteen seconds into the scene at a motel, where he then rents a room for the night WITH NO MONEY THAT HIS PARENTS HAVE NOT PROVIDED FOR HIM! That should rightfully have been the end of the movie right there! Just like everyone else in the world, I saw this movie when it first came out back in 1979, and it was truly stupid and launched Steve Martin's career far beyond all those skits and hosting gigs he did on Saturday Night Live, The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson, and all other such comedy ventures. And I am still crazy today of the 2003 movie Bringing Down The House that he did with Queen Latifah and Eugene Levy. But it was not until last year when my then nineteen-year-old nephew who is enrolled in college to pursue a lifelong dream of being a comedian and screenwriter expressed an interest in this crazy movie that I then discovered had been released on DVD in 2005 and then bought in the interest of watching it and enjoying it all over again through the eyes of his youth.Yet after seeing this movie uncensored and in its entirety for the first time in twenty six years, I did not laugh with Steve, I laughed at the unbelievability of Martin and the gullibility of us all in buying into this joke. How did Steve Martin get away with this mockery of every parent who have the responsibility of laying up for their children, of providing money and transportation for them to leave their homes on becoming adults so that they will be protected until they can provide for themselves? Had Steve been a black girl in Any Town, The World Over at any year in time, he would have been a victim to any and every predator who would have passed him walking down the street with mischief on their minds, and he certainly would have been if by dumb luck he had made it to the city, only to find himself with no money to pay for a hotel room, much less buy himself some food, and that has surely been the fate of too many runaways and throwaways that parents by their neglect, indifference and any other forms of emotional and physical irresponsibility have caused their children to become. And after reviewing this movie yet again this morning while knowing of adult children still suffering today as the result of parents who did not carry out this responsibility to provide for them to leave their homes with the protection of money and transportation, I continue to go unamused. No, I did not laugh with Steve this morning, nor will I ever again on this movie, and I can't believe that an actor as acclaimed as Richard Ward--and Mabel King too-consented to this sham that puts down any decent and responsible parents that remain out there. And to think Ward, who along with King, was carelessly setting his son out on his course in the face of whatever prevailing circumstances would snare and endanger him, had the nerve to demean everyone by giving Steve's character of Navin Johnson his last and only word of advice, which was to Don't trust Whitey, who owns everything, including back then, Ward's contract! I am now going to go and happily re-watch Bringing Down The House. "}]