[{"Title":"Great story on the irony of being a Marine","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have not seen this film in over 20 years, but having been in the Marines, it will always be burned in my memory.  You may also have to be, or have been, a Marine to fully appreciate the film (although anyone that has lived under authoritarian rule must feel some sympathy for the situations presented).Although the film may have been re-cut for video release, I remember Duvall's character as being a fully fleshed out dichotomy of a man who rebelled against authority when submission was called for (his practical jokes while performing military duties) and invoking authoritarianism when more compassion and understanding were called for (his family life).This is what it was like to be a Marine  The Corps was your family and your family was just an inconvenient duty to be performed for society.If the movie has been re-edited, I suggest you try to see the original theatrical release, if possible.  I found it to be a thoughtful and powerful motion picture. "},{"Title":"Memorable character study of a warrior without a war","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Robert Duvall is magnificent as a classic warrior without a war who moves his family from town to town.  Blythe Danner is an excellent match as his wife.  And Michael O'Keefe deserves all the kudos he received plus more as Duvall's put-upon son.  Lisa Jane Persky strikes a nice balance as the sarcastic-yet-still-loving daughter.  Stan Shaw, Paul Mantee, Paul Gleason, and David Keith are flawless in edgy supporting performances.  There's perhaps one scene that's slightly overdone which causes me to give it a 9/10 rather than a 10.  Otherwise, The Great Santini is an utterly riveting family portrait from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Duvall's Finest Performance, and an Awesome Character Study","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Great Santini is a powerful, gut-wrenching film that manages to tell the tale of a powerful, abusive, often unlikeable hero named Bull Meecham (Duvall). . . and yet you care about what happens to Bull Meecham just the same.  Meecham, a legendary pilot and naval hero, is at his best when faced with death -- but at his worst when faced with peacetime, and with his wife and children. Meecham is actually both sad and scary when left alone with his family; he's an abusive terror, almost trying to start a full-scale war in his own home just so he can feel, well, normal.  Duvall is nothing short of brilliant in this movie -- he was nominated for an Oscar, and, in my opinion, he should've won it hands down.  Also amazing is Blythe Danner as Lillian, his put-upon wife. An amazing character study that isn't always fun -- in fact, sometimes it's downright harrowing -- but definitely a great story with some incredibly moving performances. A- "},{"Title":"Just Like Living With a Ticking Time Bomb.","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hard-nosed military pilot Robert Duvall (Oscar-nominated in the title role) is a nut of epic proportions as he abuses his wife (Blythe Danner) and four kids (led by Oscar-nominee Michael O'Keefe) with verbal outbursts, bully-style antics and cruel behavior. Duvall's over-the-top role is an intensely interesting and volatile character who is full of fire, but also strangely sympathetic and dare I say even likable. The movie takes place just before the Vietnam years and keeps up an intensity because of the events going on in the world around them. Also O'Keefe gets into all kinds of trouble as a high schooler in the newest town the group has moved to. The relationship between Duvall and O'Keefe is the primary focus and the rest of the project is really just window dressing. Duvall is a revelation once again and he is able to keep everything believable and coherent. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"a wonderful movie with wonderful performances","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Imagine a man who considers winning to be absolutely everything. He is like the coach of a sports team, yet he encompasses a far greater reach of authority. And yet, he wants even more authority and always seems to be getting it, because of his natural air of authority and others' natural air of backing down in the fright of his presence. He is a coach, a military man, a patriot, abusive, and to make things even more shocking a father who just doesn't really know how to be one except his own way. And you have a picture of the type of character that Academy Award-winning actor Robert Duvall plays in this film. He got another nomination for the Academy Award in this film, although he unfortunately did not win it.The Great Santini is a dramatic film near to perfection and one of the finest great movies of the 70s. Majority of the screen time is devoted to the relationship between Robert Duvall and his screen son, portrayed by Michael O'Keefe, also in an Oscar-nominated performance. The whole point of this is that O'Keefe is the oldest out of four children who have spent their whole life being raised, bullied, and commanded by Duvall. He runs their lives like a boot camp. There is no mercy, no generosity, and all you get for a good job, is a slap on the back. Duvall is trying to raise them in the best way he knows. He wants them to succeed in life, but the only method he knows that is effective is to be rough. And O'Keefe's character has decided he's had enough of being treated like a soldier in war.Every aspect in The Great Santini is developed and executed perfectly to a magnificent entertaining level. The varsity basketball game depicted in the film is just like watching a real high school ball game. It's not full of tough, imaginative lines. Nothing remarkable happens during it, and yet it is a powerful sequence and highly entertaining, almost as if you were sitting with the cheering and jeering friends and family members of the characters. There are also powerful messages about racism and violence in the film, performed through a friendship between the characters portrayed by Michael O'Keefe, Stan Shaw, and David Keith. It is an excellent subplot that is the next-to-most-important aspect of the story and it involves pretty much all of the characters in some way, shape, or form. It's not just an in-the-background tragedy.The Great Santini plays out as a magnificent story, mostly revolving around the character played by Robert Duvall. As we see him, he goes on an off with his temper and general-like behavior, and we come to like and dislike him over the course of the film, respecting him as if he were a real person before us. While he's really nothing more than a fictional character being portrayed by a magnificent and talented actor, he is in his own way, one of the greatest heroes of film history. And he just wants everybody to see things his way.Recommended. "},{"Title":"A powerful film","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is one of the finest ever made, in my humble opinion, and the greatest display of Robert Duval's acting abilities. This film is powerful and moving. An era piece, it's message resounds regardless.The cinematography is beautifully done. The acting is top notch. The scenes between Metchum and his son are the most riveting, of course but the scenes between the son and mother are also quite touching and tender, and contrast wonderfully with the other scenes. And while this is a gripping drama, with very well acted round characters, there is humor too, and handled brilliantly.Truly every movie library should have this film in it's collection. "},{"Title":"Great first half, then sputters (don't read if you haven't seen the movie)","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is excellent for its first half  crisply delivered, well-developed, it takes chances that you don't see in films made today.  Characters like Bull Meechum are usually, in contemporary films, greatly exaggerated or treated with utter contempt (the military dad in American Beauty as a typical example).  This film delivers all the way through the basketball game episode.Then it starts to fall apart.  The episode with Toomer and Red seems like a mighty big price to pay just to show Bull's lack of sensitivity and empathy, or anything else it intends to show.  Not too long after, Bull himself gets yanked right out of the movie.  I really would have appreciated seeing all of these interesting characters resolve their differences - or see things come to a head.  I just felt that the movie just quit with 30 minutes to go.The music was also kind of hit and miss in the last half.  For example, when Ben confesses that he prayed for his father's death, the music is inappropriately creepy.  It resolves into sorrow, but the net result was kind of off-putting. "},{"Title":"This IS the way it was!!!!!!!!!","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  More common than not, even though it looks rather mean in these politically correct times, this is the way many families were back in the 50s.The racial conflicts shown were very realistic and I'm sad to say did happen in the southern state in which I grew up.  This movie does a good job of showing how the head of a family, the Dad, was expected to act.Even though we are lead to believe he was a monster,  we never found out that his son grew up to be a doctor of highest esteem.  "},{"Title":"The Great Santini","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Duvall received a much deserved Oscar nomination as a Marine who runs his family like he runs his men... with vigor and power. He's a Patton without a war and Duvall plays it off beautifully. O'Keefe (also Oscar nominated) is fantastic as his son who's only wish is to please his father. There are many startling scenes in the picture, especially the basketball game where Duvall orders O'Keefe to put another player on the floor for obvious flagrant fouls. Duvall's Bull Meechum rules with a iron fist and screams at his son, Put him down, or you don't come home tonight. The film is based on Pat Conroy's novel and also stars the always wonderful Danner, as Duvall's wife and Stan Shaw as a black man befriended by O'Keefe. Lewis John Carlino directs.   "},{"Title":"Robert Duvall's best performance!","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen Robert Duvall in other movies.  He is a quiet, wise, somewhat reverent man.  Being a fan of his, I caught The Great Santini on TV.  And I gotta tell you, his performance as Bull Meechum just blew the hell out of me!  I never knew he could play a role as fierce, violent, and powerful as Bull Meechum! Although it's a film with little attention, it's Robert Duvall best film!  It's his best performance.  The conflict between the father and the son is strong enough to wildly shake our emotions!  Duvall was nominated for Best Actor, and he should've won!  It's a must see!  I tried purchasing it, but since it's not in high demand, the store didn't have it.  It's worth owning, and it's definitely worth watching!  Put it on your list of films to see next! "}{"Title":"Only a 7.2?!  This is one of the best films of the 1970s!","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was very shocked when I saw that The Great Santini had an overall rating of only 7.2. Clearly, it's one of the best films of its day and it is possibly Robert Duvall's best performance.Duvall plays 'Bull' Meechum--a career officer whose life is the service. He is a Marine pilot first and last. As for his long-suffering family, they clearly don't fit in with his life. Much of the time he's off being deployed somewhere--which is tough on the family. But when he's home--it's much worse!! He treats his family like they are soldiers, but they never signed up for this sort of thing. This is a wonderful character study--very realistic, tough and memorable. Exceptionally well acted, directed and well worth seeing. While it's not always pleasant, it is always compelling. "},{"Title":"A Well-Focused Drama!","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Great Santini is another good movie that builds up on themes of hardships within the Marines and family life under a patriarchal rule. The last theme I can relate to so this makes the movie all the better. It's a great, emotional-provoking drama. There are many amusing moments, mostly in the beginning where Meechum was pulling pranks in the Spanish restaurant. But there were also many sad moments and some were quite unexpected. This movie is about a high school teen named Ben Meechum who lives with his dictator of a father, his gentle mother, and his three siblings. Ben is always on the move because of his father's military career. His father is a talented fighter pilot, but very demanding. Ben wants to get out, but with his father's authoritarian rule, it may be nigh impossible. Robert Duvall gave a very strong performance as the father, Bull Meechum. Duvall usually play laid-back characters, but that is certainly not the case here. Blythe Danner also gave a strong performance as the gentle mother who desperately tries to love Bull despite his shortcomings. I also liked Michael O'Keefe's performance as Ben, the son who doesn't want to be involved in the military. Overall, The Great Santini is a great movie and a seemingly hidden film as I have never heard of it until I saw this movie on sale. But it explores relationships and hardships within a military family as well as themes focusing on heroism and self-sacrifice. I really liked the relationship Ben struck up with the son of their new maid. I thought it added humanity to the story. Another great military movie to watch. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"I  lived this hell( THIS WAS REAL )   Korean war vet.","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" my father who was and still thinks to this day he is the greatest marine pilot that god ever made .and this movie is so real to me i have not been able to watch it until now .2012 .still effected by his brainwashed convincing ways his rite I'm wrong attitude. The world is wrong except him and his fellow Marine buddy's .He hasn't admitted to any wrong doing, from my childhood to adult hood.never its all about him. Writing this, makes me weep like a child .I'm still in-shock after 48 years. I don't know how I've been able to stay alive . ask me please. my father who was and still thinks to this day he is the greatest marine pilot that god ever made .and this movie is so real to me i have not been able to watched it until now .2012 .still effected by his brainwashed convincing ways his rite I'm wrong attitude. The world is wrong except him and his fellow Marine buddy's .He hasn't admitted to any wrong doing, from my childhood to adult hood.never its all about him. Writing this, makes me weep like a child .I'm still in-shock after 48 years. I don't know how I've been able to stay alive . ask me please. "},{"Title":"A coming-of-age story in which the father has to learn to be a man before he can teach his son how to be one.","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was the first sleeper movie I ever discovered. I had read _The Water Is Wide_ and seen _Conrack_ but I had never heard of this film when I found it on cable. I was captivated by it from the point where I turned it on and watched it to the end. Then I caught it again and watched it all the way through. I watched it again and again. I tried to find out something about it and found that it was released in theaters under the name _The Ace_ and had bombed. How on earth could there be a movie so wonderful that I had never heard of? I think it's because it is TOO good. Movie audiences want their bad guys to be bad and their good guys to be good. Without the white and black hats to signal who they are supposed to be, the complex, realistic characters confuse general audiences. It was painful in parts, just the same way life is, and just like life, it was joyful, horrifying, funny, gross, wonderful, and hopeful. It was just too real for most people.Pat Conroy is the greatest living writer. This movie is what a movie should be.Because of this movie, I buy every movie channel that the cable company offers. I couldn't miss the blockbusters if I tried. But I find more than my money's worth each month in wonderful movies that were just too good for the general movie-going public. "},{"Title":"Overpowering acting from Duvall","Date":"25 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's 1962. Lieutenant Colonel Wilbur Bull Meechum (Robert Duvall) is a great Marine pilot also known as The Great Santini. He returns from Spain to reunite with his loyal wife Lillian (Blythe Danner) and their four children. He's a drunk domineering presence and a stern disciplinarian. He refuses to accept defeat by his son Ben (Michael O'Keefe) at basketball. Ben struggles against his bullying and his drunkenness. Mary Anne is the bespectacled daughter. Everybody suffers under his tyranny. Ben befriends the stuttering son of the cook Toomer (Stan Shaw) who is harassed by racist redneck Red Petus (David Keith).This is great dominating performance from Duvall. I wish it was matched by an equally compelling performance from Michael O'Keefe. Quite frankly, David Keith would make a better son. O'Keefe is simply overpowered and that is not all about his character. It's the difference between an acting legend and a beginner. O'Keefe is a good looking all-American guy but he isn't able to match Duvall's darkness or intensity. Keith would have been able to. "},{"Title":"The agonies and ecstasies of family life, father v.s. son, etc.","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two films were released in 1979, Apocalypse Now and The Great Santini, wherein Robert Duvall played essentially the same character -- a gung-ho, half-crazed Lieutenant Colonel in the Marine Corps.In The Great Santini Duvall plays fighter pilot commander Bull Meechum, who drives his family to his new base in Beaufort, SC (where the film was actually filmed). It's peace-time in the early 60s before the Vietnam War. Bull is ultra-charismatic but flawed. At any given time you either love him or hate him; you'll see this same struggle with his family members. He generally treats them like Marine subordinates which, for the most part, works and they seem to have a lot of good times together, but there's a dark side as Bull is overly competitive, especially with his just-turning-18 son Ben (Michael O'Keefe). Perhaps this is because he's a warrior without a war and he has to fight/win someone. He's also an alcoholic, albeit a functional one. The story details the family's good times and bad times.If you're in the mood for a good drama you can't go wrong with The Great Santini. Although there are a few comedic moments, which are life-like in nature, this is essentially a serious study on the joys & agonies of family dynamics. The story offers numerous insights to ponder, which makes it a great film for repeat viewings.Many times during the film I was reminded of my growing-up years. In Bull Meechum I see a bit of my father.The one-on-one basketball game between Bull and his son is an exceptional scene. The rest of the family is watching and cheering. They're all having a fun time until it takes an unexpected dark turn. Bull can't handle losing to his son and responds like a total jerk. Yet it smacks of real life. Years ago I was playing chess with my wife on a Lake Erie beach and she beat me, which wasn't usual, and for some reason I got upset about it, perhaps because I wasn't in the best of moods to start with. Looking back, of course, I see how pathetic it was.Unlike Bull and Ben in the film I didn't have an actual relationship with my father. Generally, the only time he'd talk to me was when he was calling me names, cussing me out or telling me I was never going to amount to anything. One day, when I was 15 and my father was in his mid-50s, I was in my room upstairs and my dad started yelling at me from the bottom of the stairs. I couldn't really hear what he was saying and, mumbling, just kinda blew it off. He then ran up the stairs yelling and charged into my room in a rage. If he ever ran at me in such a manner in the past I would just flee the scene, but in this case I was cornered and had nowhere to run. Hence, we went at, the first and only time (physically), father against son. As great as his rage was, mine was greater. Don't get me wrong, I believe in honoring parents and all, but at that point I couldn't take anymore. I was done with the names, the cuss-outs and the deadly curses (e.g. You're gonna turn to $#!&). I was able to put him in a headlock fairly quickly and squeezed tight until his entire head turned beet red. I then let him go and he walked out of the room muttering, defeated. And no wonder, he was in physical decline while I was just entering my prime. Strangely, in weeks and months to come he would brag on me about the incident.Why do I bring this personal story up? Because the film is so true-to-life that it will likely stir up growing-up memories for any adult viewer, pleasant and unpleasant, happy and sad.The eldest daughter, the redhead, is played by Lisa Jane Persky. She initially comes off as eccentric, geeky and not very attractive, but wait until you see her on prom night later in the picture. If I was 18 I'd take her out without a second thought. Anyway, go to IMDb and check out a couple of recent pictures of her and witness what a truly beautiful woman she grew up to be.I should also point out that the film has a good, authentic Southern vibe like a handful of other films, e.g. Mississippi Burning, Ode To Billy Joe, Cat People (the remake) and even (believe it or not) Squirm. There's so much more I could say about this picture, but I'll leave it for you to discover. Once again, if you're in the mood for a good drama you can't go wrong.GRADE A- "},{"Title":"A great character study with phenomenal actors","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Great Santini is a character study. Bull Meechum (Robert Duvall), known as The Great Santini, is a hotshot Marine fighter pilot who comes home to see his family. But it turns out that he needs conflict; he is a warrior without a war. This causes him to take out his frustrations on his family.Bull Meechum is a great antihero. He is excellently written and three-dimensional. There are many times where the viewer despises him, and in the next scene, one feels sorry for him. This is largely due to Robert Duvall's performance. Robert Duvall is one of the few actors that can play any role (Johnny Depp is also in this circle of actors).While Robert Duvall is the best actor in the film, there is a great supporting cast behind him. The second most important character is Ben (Michael O'Keefe), Bull's eighteen-year-old son. The film is largely about him trying to connect to his father, and Michael O'Keefe gives one of the best performances from a young actor I've ever seen. Ben is very three-dimensional, sympathetic but flawed, and matures by the end. There is a scene where he has to disobey his father to do the right thing. He does the right thing, but you can feel his pain at his disobedience. The rest of the cast is great, too Blythe Danner in particular as Bull's wife, Lilian. Even the extras leave an impression. The cast has perfect chemistry, and one feels like one is looking at real people. A stuttering black boy named Toomer (Stan Shaw) befriends Ben. Toomer is not particularly bright, but he is one of the most likable and touching characters you will ever see on film.Despite the fact that this is a drama film, there is a fair amount of comedy. The cast bring the genius humor to life really well. For example, there is a scene at the beginning where Bull and company get thrown out of a bar for being rowdy. I won't spoil the ending of the scene, but it's genius. The comedy and drama are not incompatible. That's the best thing about the movie- it balances out so well.A "},{"Title":"Really Good, And Actually Very Emotional","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was another movie my Papa (I call my grandpa Papa and my grandma Nanny) and me watched, and another movie we watched and loved! I was really surprised, at first I was like, 'Aw man, stupid plane movie, of course Papa would like this...' But when I watched it I found out it wasn't about the planes, it was about Bull Meechum (Santini) and his family. And the emotion really packed a punch! I was sad! I never cry from movies, I do in stuff like The Dark knight Rises, Harry Potter And The Deathly Hallows Part 2, I cry at them because not only are they the last of the series, they're emotional and amazing! Amazing movie, highly, highly recommend! "},{"Title":"I am Santini, the Great Santini!","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Great Santini stars Robert Duvall as Bull Meechum, an idle marine pilot without a war. Military indoctrination, boredom, bottled-up aggression, and the stresses of living up to a confused version of masculinity, result in Duvall constantly feuding with, dominating and bullying his small family. Much of the episodic film consists of a series of macho rituals between Duvall and his son, played by Michael O'Keefe.The film is structured as a coming-of-age tale, O'Keefe juggling both hate and an appreciation of his father as he negotiates his own path into manhood. It's a bombastic, explosive melodrama, but the characters are too one-dimensional &#x96; Duvall's Colonel Kilgore from Apocalypse Now, an ogre with no off-switch, and no effort is made to explain why his obviously intelligent family sticks so close to him &#x96; and the film missteps with a last act sequence in which Meechum sacrifices his life to prevent an air-plane crashing into a residential area. This moment is designed to rehabilitate Meechum in our eyes, to portray men like him as being needed and necessary in the war against those who threaten our towns. He's a hard-hearted brute, the film acknowledges, but look at his soft, good and noble side. The film is set in 1962. The Vietnam war arrives with Meechum's death, the audience now ready for a little well-meaning murder, rape and pillaging.The film makes several interesting links between sports and warfare, and gives Meechum's daughter, played by Lisa Jane Persky, a number of good lines. She's constantly taunting her father, weaselling her way under his skin and getting away with it.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing for Duvall's scenery chewing. No alcoholic, abusive man who has faced disciplinary charges would be granted the opportunity to fly a fighter jet today. The air-force likes well mannered killers. "},{"Title":"Robert Duvall is awesome","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although there are a number of excellent performances in this movie, by Blythe Danner, Michael O'Keefe and Stan Shaw and the rest of the cast, Robert Duvall stands out in his performance as the warrior without a war. Depending on who you believe, this is an autobiographical tale from Pat Conroy about a military father who seemed to refuse to get too close to a family that he might lose at any time, given the nature of his job, a Marine fighter pilot. There are a couple of subplots that revolve around his son and their love/hate relationship. This is a story that many people can relate to, particularly the military brats, the military wives and anyone who finds themselves in a family with the father as the villain. But the bottom line is the performance by Robert Duvall. A larger than life characterization of a character that you can both love and hate. This film was originally titled The Ace and I found it originally on cable, Cinemax, I think. Thank goodness for cable, if for no other reason than for giving me the first opportunity to see this film. "}{"Title":"Story about a Marine pilot involving his frustrated career  and family  ; being based on an autobiographical novel","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lt. Col. 'Bull' Meechum (Robert Duvall) is a wildcat Marine Pilot stationed stateside ; at the beginning , he along with his family are living in Spain , then , they return to USA . The family is formed by father , mother (Blythe Danner) and children (Michael O'Keefe as Ben , Lisa Jane Persky as Mary Anne , Julie Anne Haddock as Karen and Brian Andrews as Matthew Meechum) . They are a dysfunctional family , rigidly governed by the father , as he abuses and deals them in military style , because he doesn't allow himself any other way yo show his affection .The motion picture mingles tenderness , warm humor , racism with harsh cruelties inherent with unsettling as well unpleasant main character , including his repressed emotions , frustrated career and family mistreat . According to author Pat Conroy, Lt. Col. Bull Meecham is based entirely on his own father, Donald Conroy, a Marine fighter pilot who referred to himself in the third person as The Great Santini. Donald Conroy took the nickname from a magician he'd seen as a child ; in fact Pat and Donald Conroy were on the set on the day . Producers gratefully acknowledge the technical assistance of the US Marine Corps , in the production of this picture . The movie was virtually undistributed and originally released directly to cable and airlines, under the title The Ace , when the NY Times reviewed it very favorably, it was pulled from cable, and released due to critical acclaim to theaters under the title The Great Santini . Very good acting by Robert Duvall as an aggressively competitive, but frustrated marine pilot strictly related to his family with whom he shares a strident and sometimes fun love-hatred relationship . Skillful acting especially from the youngsters with special mention to Miles O'Keefe . And standout performance by Blythe Danner ; despite playing the mummy , Blythe Danner is only 12 years older than children Michael O'Keefe and Lisa Jane Persky . Secondary cast is pretty good such as Stan Shaw , Paul Gleeson , Paul Mantee , Michael Strong and David Keith film debut .Atmospheric cinematography by Ralph Woolsey , filmed on location in South Carolina and in Samuel Goldwyn studios , Hollywood Calif. Cameraman used lenses and Panaflex camera by Panavision , prints by Technicolor . In 1981, the movie got nods for nominated for Academy Awards to actor and supporting actor. Rousing musical score by the master Elmer Bernstein in his particular as well as martial style . The motion picture was professionally written and directed by Lewis Jon Carlino who extracted good performances and well-developed events .He is a writer and director, known for The mechanic , Mafia , Seconds ; having only directed three films  Class , The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea and this Great Santini . "},{"Title":"Well crafted drama about a tough marine colonel...","Date":"13 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1st watched 10/11/2010 -- 7 out of 10 (Dir-Lewis John Carlino) Well crafted drama about a tough marine colonel played by Robert Duvall trying to juggle his career as a jet pilot trainer who moves often, with his family life. He runs his family somewhat like his teams in the marines but not unlike that career, he sometimes causes trouble because of his drinking and flamboyant behavior. At the beginning of the movie, the family is moving into a new town in South Carolina and they have to adapt to their new surroundings one more time. His son, played by Michael O'Keefe, is supposed to follow in his footsteps and he tries to oblige. The movie is light-hearted at first, but becomes very melodramatic in the last 1/2 hour(which, in my opinion, is the movie's only real fault). The son befriends a stuttering black man, who gets bullied by some racists, which provided a side story that really doesn't add much to the movie, in my opinion, but it's done well. The acting is very well done, especially when it's trying to show how the family copes. This overlooked gem gave the two male stars Academy award nominations, but the film was not distributed well and is not very well known. It deserves to be viewed more often, so go out there and rent or buy this one--- you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"I'd rather been a Bee or dog in this movie... Bill W makes an appearance!","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think Ben & Toomer are still talking; Ben may have him to the hospital by the year 2020. The accents in every character are way off, I'm thinking Bob Duvall could've played Major Dad a bit better than Gerald McRaney. Lisa Jane Persky (Mary Anne) gives easily the best performance, albeit brief. If you are looking for the Great Santini, you won't find him. There's nothing really great or redeeming in this movie, just another misogynistic abusive racist asshole father without the ability to cope- terrorizing those who love him. The 1970/1980's propaganda machine ran a successful Bill W campaign, claiming all drinkers as alcoholics rather than focusing on building balanced coping mechanisms. They created treatment programs to force the opiate of the masses down the throat of every drinker. If you can't shame the person then guilt and if no guilt then accept, shun and label. Thus, the great Santini was born. Somehow Bull's drinking becomes a central issue where it wasn't needed, a few racist slurs later mixed into the Roy G Biv of abuse, you realize the salvation of the family only comes in his death. Somehow the best fighter pilot goes down for no reason and he's redeemed through death; the family is freed from the bondage of a Ignorant jar-head.I realize a lot of people love this movie but those are the same people who see genius in the movie Ordinary People. I know it won an Oscar, I'm still bored 35 years later. If the characters had any self awareness, they would've asked Major Dad one thing... When did your vanity surpass Unit, Corp, God, Country. Hope they got Kendrick because his southern accent was an abomination too. "},{"Title":"Its strengths make up for its weaknesses","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the reasons The Great Santini is of interest is the fact that a movie like this probably wouldn't get made today, at least by a major Hollywood studio. The movie is in great part a character study of an individual (played by Duvall) who isn't very likable. Though I can picture some viewers being turned off by the film because of this unlikable character, I did find the character interesting to watch. He is so abrasive, even towards his family, that whenever he appeared I kept a close watch on him to see if I could find something to explain why this man was the way he was. I should also mention that Duvall's performance is extremely convincing, Oscar worthy as a matter of fact. In fact, all of the performances in the movie are very good.While the movie's performances and presentation of the title character make this worth a look, I will have to admit that they don't quite mask some significant flaws - mainly with the screenplay. The movie plays out like a series of vignettes instead of one strong plot thread that evolves over time. And quite often what happens in the vignettes could be completely taken out without hurting the rest of the movie at all. (Study how the predictable subplot with the character of Toomer is quickly forgotten once it ends.) Also, the ending is kind of weak, wrapping things up too quickly and not giving a real hint of what's to come of these characters. The movie, despite these flaws, does still have interest, enough that I'm glad I watched it. Though I feel it's definitely not to all tastes. I would recommend you first read up on the movie extensively before deciding whether or not to watch it. "},{"Title":"Underseen Movie with Stunning Performances","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This Movie has Echoes of Cable Television and it Shows. The Way it is Shot and Scored is Evident of Many of its Small Screen Siblings. The Music is Over the Top, Draws Attention to Itself, and is Obvious Most of the Time and the Cinematography, while Adequate is Sort of Bland and Unremarkable.The Attraction Here is Robert Duvall's Performance that Garnered an Oscar Nomination. The Rest of the Cast Struggles to Keep Up and Succeeds. Michael O'Keefe was Also Given a Best Supporting Nod as the Son, and is Overshadowed and by Comparison Duvall Kicks His Ass, and Leaves Him Whimpering.The Story is Autobiographical from the Book by Pat Conroy and it is the About a Warrior Without a War. The Viewer Wishes that He Had One Because it Can Be Painful at Times Watching this Patriarch Pound His Family Into Tip-Top Fighting Condition.Overall, it is a Fine Film with Just Enough Ingredients to Keep Things On a Somewhat Even Keel as Duvall's God Complex is On Display. It Seems the Movie is Underseen and Off the Radar and it Deserves to be Rediscovered. "},{"Title":"Duvall rules","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Duvall is one of the best actors ever.  In this film, he plays the role of the rough, tough father because he is afraid of becoming too close and emotional with his children.  The only time he can speak about his feelings authentically is when he's drunk.  Perhaps, Santini could serve as a metaphor for men everywhere.  At any rate, Duval does an awesome job creating this strong-willed character.  Watch Apocalypse Now and see a reincarnation of Santini I love the smell of napalm in the morning.  "},{"Title":"Simplistic and Good","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you are ever pining for a film that espouses wholesome family values but most of what you find is syrup-y, The Great Santini is the film for you.The theme of this movie is that love is a force of almost limitless, even frightening power, and life is all about the search for qualities to temper this force so that we can do it (love) with more ease, regularity and goodness. That we may get good at it, learn to live in it and speak it.The characters all have a lust for life, act unself-consciously and unapologetically. This is a portrait of a truly loving family. "},{"Title":"Warrior Without a War","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A nice character study-mood piece about a martinetish Marine (is there any other kind?) in the peacetime South in the early sixties. Robert Duvall shines in the lead, and Blythe Danner is lovely if a bit too serene as his long suffering wife. I especially like Elmer Bernstein's folksy score, which goes to show how good movie music can be, and how unique, as his piece for this film is one of a kind, managing to be both moving and inspiring. As to the film, it's an adaptation of a Pat Conroy novel, which I know nothing about. The movie, made on the cusp of the Reagan era, between the disco seventies and the go-go eighties, is a product of its time, and as such, fascinating. There's something for the liberals (a troubled black boy), and something for the hard right (a celebration of military life, or at least a meditation on it). As Bull Meechum (aka The Great Santini), Duvall gives a fine, unegotistical performance as a supreme egotist, and hits some very interesting notes. For instance, he plays Meechum as a stupid blowhard and bully, offering none of the redeeming intelligence and wit that, say, Robert Shaw brought to his shark hunter in Jaws. Yet we are supposed to feel for this man, whose bravery is unquestionable, and in wartime indispensable. The problem for Meechum is that there ain't no war, so he takes his frustrations out on his family, especially his son, and his men. I never particularly cared for the character even as I came to respect his good points as a man and, especially, an officer. There was something so unyielding about him, and so unoriginal, that my sympathies were all for his children and the men unfortunate enough to fall under his command. Were there a war, I couldn't help feeling bad for the enemy, too, as this is one Marine one would not want to tangle with, but I suppose that was the point of the movie. A stupid point, but a point. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing several times","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story of a warrior without a war - so he makes war on his family.  Robert Duvall is superb, as is Blythe Danner, his on-screen wife.  Technically and emotionally accurate portrayal of a family's life in the military. A film on many levels - worth seeing several times.   "},{"Title":"How could people be like this?","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's sad to think that people could actually be like this, but apparently there are such individuals. Lt. Col. Bull Meechum (Robert Duvall) is a military man without a war, so he uses all his energy to regiment his family. Immature and rather mean, Bull always gets his way...until they move to Beaufort, South Carolina. When Bull's son Ben (Michael O'Keefe) befriends African-American Toomer Smalls (Stan Shaw), it sets the stage for what's going to follow.The Great Santini is very well done. Since this was written by Pat Conroy - who also wrote The Prince of Tides - we can easily conclude that he must have had an abusive father. Also starring Blythe Danner, David Keith, and Paul Gleason (whom you may recognize as Clarence Beaks from Trading Places and the principal from The Breakfast Club). "}{"Title":"Story-wise, it's a mess...","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Muddled adaptation of Pat Conroy's book(briefly retitled The Ace at one point)features Robert Duvall as strict Marine Bull Meechum, raising his kids with an iron fist in 1962. Duvall is well cast but one-note in the lead; didn't this guy have another side they could've explored? Was he only about outbursts and confrontation? The character is written as such a hot-headed buffoon that he elicits no sympathy. Film is fatally doomed by irrational racial sub-plot that gets shoehorned in, possibly to take us away from the father for a few minutes but, alas, not to a better place. Michael O'Keefe as the son has a nice, mellow way with an exchange, and it's always nice to see Blythe Danner's work--and yet, she's wasted as the mom. ** from **** "},{"Title":"chilling","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I could not stand to read Pat Conroy's book because it upset me so much. The critics who reviewed it said that Colonel Wilbur Bull Meechum is the man that you will hate to love but you will. Hogwash! I hated him from the very beginning. Bull Mecham was a monster just like Loren Singer was on JAG. He was a great Marine, but a rotten person, husband and father. I don't know if people realize this or not, but Pat Conroy based the character on his father. I have always wanted to write a book and thought it would be a fun experience, however I pity Pat Conroy. This man is one of our finest authors and a true master with the English language, but I'll bet he has never enjoyed writing any of his books because they deal with the pain of his life and growing up in an abusive family with a father who was much, much worse then Bull Mecham! Robert Duvall and Blythe Danner and Michael O'Keefe as Ben all give wonderful performances. O'Keefe was nominated for an Academy Award as best supporting actor for his fine work. I think it is unfair that people think of Danner only as Gwenyth Paltrow's mom because she is a great actress in her own right! I felt so sorry for Lillian and the terrible burden she had to bear with this rotten SON OF A BITCH!!!!Robert Duvall made Mecham a complex character. There were scenes where he was portrayed as caring about his kids. However, I want to tell you something that Pat Conroy wrote in his latest book A Losing Season. He said that when he wrote The Great Santini, he by no means told the truth about his father! Donald Conroy was a monster. He said that his father still haunts his every waking moment. In Fact when his mother finally divorced his father on the grounds of extreme cruelty, she gave the judge at trial a copy of her sons book and said that was how his father really was! I could not stand to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"We Need Him On That Wall.","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In A Few Good Men, Rob Reiner's exuberant shredding of the U. S. Marine Corps, Jack Nicholson is the colonel on the witness stand who makes this hot but fatuous speech. You don't want to admit it but you NEED me on that wall! He's talking about the wall that separates the U.S. community in Guantanamo from the rest of the island of Cuba, but of course that wall is metphorical. It's the wall that keeps us from being attacked by all those enemies out there who are threatening us.In a fine performance, Robert Duvall, is a Marine Corps fighter pilot who exhibits plenty of what the Greeks called thumos, a kind of spirited contentiousness, a passionate desire to be recognized as the best at what he does. His problem is that while this works very well when he's in the air -- so we are told -- it doesn't apply easily to his home life, not even with a wife as understanding as Blythe Danner, and a couple of younger kids who find his huffing and puffing masculinity as much amusing as irritating. Okay, SPORTS FANS, it's oh-four-hundred, muster for inspection! He has the most trouble with his oldest son, Michael O'Keefe, who is turning eighteen and is a high school senior. That's an age at which you are supposed to be shedding some of the less-than-perfect influences of your childhood. It pits Duvall's Kill 'em all and let God sort 'em out attitude against the rules of the game. For instance, when your opposite number on a rival basketball team fouls you, you're supposed to continue playing fair. You're not supposed to follow your Dad's orders and knock down the offender and break his arm in the process, causing your team to lose.That basically is what the movie is about -- the love/hate relationship between O'Keefe and Duvall, mediated by the only truly mature person in the family, Blythe Danner. Duvall's headstrong attitude leads to some ancillary problems. One involves race. (This is South Carolina in the early 1960s.) Another is his problematic status in the Marine Corps. He gets drunk sometimes and he pulls unfunny, childish stunts on others. It's all pretty well laid out for us. The characters we see aren't stereotyped in any way, but recognizable human beings.A major weakness is the casting of Michael O'Keefe in the important role of Duvall's son and heir. He's not much of an actor and when he weeps it's an embarrassment. And personally I wish there had been more scenes involving airplanes because I love them, although I hate them too because they done me wrong once. What I mean, for instance, is -- well, okay, Duvall has been brought to Beaufort (pronounced Bew-fort) in South Carolina to whip a lax squadron into shape. And we hear his initial speech to the members of his new command, telling them that they will obey his orders as if they came from God almighty. This is already a cliché. We've seen it often before. But it's a GOOD cliché! That's WHY we've seen it so often before. Yet we get only about two minutes of watching Duvall chewing out his aviators from the cockpit of his F-4. More time spent watching Duvall do barrel rolls and a bit less watching O'Keefe dancing and weeping would have helped.I said the roles weren't stereotypes, and they're not, but I also have to say that Pat Conroy's novel explored the original characters in more satisfying detail. Duvall's character has a neat, rather Southern way with words, and Conroy has a keen ear for dialog. Duvall is allowed in the film to say, A warrior without a war -- and I count myself among that number -- has problems. And, as in the novel, members of the regular black-shoe Navy are called squids and rust pickers. But pruned out of the film is Duvall's drunken expletives at a party in Spain -- Spain, not Mexico -- in which he shouts abuse at the waiter and calls him a taco eater.The end is a little confusing. It's as if someone had decided that the movie was five minutes too long and took a pair of garden shears to the climax. Why doesn't Duvall eject from his doomed airplane? Because it's over the town of Beaufort. But Beaufort is a very small city, perched on the Atlantic Ocean. It makes no sense. The funeral that follows is handled with far more skill. "},{"Title":"Better character study than whole film","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lt. Colonel Wilbur Bull Meecham(Robert Duvall,well-cast and brilliant)is one of the best Marine pilots in the Corps and would be perfectly at home at any war(and were guessing he saw some action,either or both in Korea and WWII),gutsy,smart,determined and brave as all get out. Unfortunately for him,the years is 1962,and other than a VERY chilly Cold War(strange,incidentally,that the Cuban Missile crisis,to my recollect,never came up in this film. Not once!),there is no real battle for him to ply his well-honed skills.This does not bode particularly well for his large,loving and recessive family. His wife Lillian(Blythe Danner,lilting beauty),a head-strong Catholic Southern belle,adores her husband but is all-too aware of his temper and ego;his oldest son Ben(Michael O'Keefe in a truly underrated performance),is equal parts his own,thoughtful,sensitive young man coming into his own and yet very much like his father in more basic ways;the oldest daughter Mary Ann(Lisa Jane Persky,not wasting ANY of her scenes) feels like the red-headed stepchild,literally AND figuratively,and the two youngest(Julie Anne Haddock and Brian Andrews),who seem lost in the shuffle. They love their husband/father,but seem to be completely powerless against his unrelenting competitive persona and gruff persona. Bull saves his strongest lessons and,in his mind,greatest spoils for Ben,and this is where the movie is at its strongest.A side story where Ben befriends Toomer(Stan Shaw),the gentle,stuttering son of their housekeeper is well-meant and touching in and of itself,but seems somewhat misplaced here.As a whole movie,it feels like a bit of a mash-up;I suspect that screenwriter and director Lewis John Carlino figured that he had to boil down Pat Conroy's novel to make a neat,two-hour-fitting narrative,but it feels a bit forced. I'd also be lying if I said that I didn't think that some elements(the music,editing,pacing come to mind)age badly,because they seem to have done just that. With all that said,however,the actors from Duvall,himself a Navy vet to Shaw's Toomer are so heartfelt,intense and memorable that this movie is able to hold up with ANY vibrancy some thirty years after its release. Worth a look,particularly for military families and/or fans of the actors involved. "},{"Title":"Come for the Duvall, stay for the O'Keefe","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is not heavily reviewed on this site. Thought I would contribute one more in case some movie fans don't know this film is one of the top 20 films ever made. Not technically brilliant. There are all sorts of audio and sound looping mistakes. There is some deft camera work. During the big game, the camera dollies up and down the court for good capture of action. There are some long composed shots of the beauty of South Carolina. It is mostly medium shots and two shots of dialog. There are no long continuous shots, and it is quite choppy. Kinda like television. The dialog and the story are outstanding. Bull Meechum's speeches are pure military gold.  You are flying with Bull Meecham now. I s**t you not, gentlemen, this is the eye of the storm! I try to work that into my own speeches to this day. Another one that gets me, when racist Red Petus is shouting at (black) Toomer's back, Look at me! It captures his frustration and self-loathing perfectly. The entire scene of Ben's mother explaining the behavior of his father, after the harrowing basketball game, in the dark bedroom is worth watching again and again. Speaking of which, the scene where Bull tortures his son by bouncing the ball off his head is legendary in sports fan's and coaching circles. One, two, three... Cry!Great writing makes a great movie- but the acting positively makes this a high point of cinema. In my opinion, Robert Duvall is just as good as Robert DeNiro. His career is littered with high points and classics, but this one is my favorite. Most reviewers here say the character is unsympathetic. Duvall shows much of his tenderness when he wakes up his son at 4AM to describe the day 18 years before when he was born. The entire first 20 minutes show his sense of humor and his playfulness. When I first saw this in 1980 I loved the guy from the get go- and then the abusive basketball game riveted me to my seat. Duvall (and the script) show all sides of The Great Santini- the gift of fury, the love, the pride, the lust, the frustration, the anger, the ignorance,... everything in a father's heart. Maybe it's just something women don't get.Micheal O'Keefe captures high school youth, too. He cries a few times, and it really wrenches your heart. This is Blythe Danner's greatest achievement. I really felt Lillian loved Bull Meechum, and there was a back story there. Of course, we don't get the back story, just like the kids don't. Her scenes with her son Ben had the subtle gritty ring of realism. She says a lot with her hands and her eyes. The rest of the supporting cast is excellent. There are many stories and events in this plot. I wish it could have been longer to explore the younger sister, Mary Jane, and maybe the children's experiences in school with their peers.In conclusion, I would like to say that people who review the film and don't like Bull Meechum tend to not like the movie. That is unfair.(if you watch Taxi Driver over and over you must come to the same conclusion Travis Bickle is a scumbag, a loser, and a psychopath, but the acting and the movie are extraordinary, nonetheless) Also, I suppose that these people who react strongly never had a tough parent.I appreciated the rougher aspects of this character, and understood how he was missed by his family. His death is symbolic, because his son is now grown and is his own person within the story line. My own father was a tough, old, dinosaur. He didn't die when I was 18. But when I moved out and became a man, he turned into a hell of a guy. Kind, funny, patient... You could say that my 'old father' died. He just felt the best way to prepare your children for the world was through obedience, motivation, respect, and, yes, confrontation. "},{"Title":"The Great Santini and earlier release","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My comment is that The Great Santini should be on the list of one the best movies ever made. It contains that certain drama and factual/reality of a Marine pilot/military service during the 1960's. Assuredly, there is a whole lot of fact included.Even the can-of-mushroom soup was a trick thing that DID happen here and there during that era!Now, I still believe that I had originally seen the movie in 1977/78 under a different title as inilatly released (don't remember the title now). Does anyone know/remember? Yes, the movie was re-released successfully in 1979 and with great success. I Love the movie!What brought me here is simply Blythe Danner. Earlier today I watched for the first time Meet the Fokers. Wow! Blythe still is looking quite superb and so beautiful! Me and military? Former US Navy "},{"Title":"Comically Dramatic","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Great Santini is the story of a man in the Marines (Duvall) who's got a wife and four children. However, he's an alcoholic, and gets angry easily. When the family moves to Beufort, South Carolina, Santini makes a lot of pressure on his eldest son (O'Keefe) to avoid other the blacks and play basketball the best on his team. With all this pressure, the family goes nuts and crazy things happen. Although it's plot is that of a drama, Santini is a head-on comedy. Most everybody in the family will enjoy this, and is a must see. I rated it 8 out of ten stars because I really liked it, but the end seemed to drag on a lot. Worth seeing, funny, dramatic and enjoyable! "},{"Title":"I hated it!","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoliers ahead.Yes, I know this is a very respected movie, and I wanted to like it--I really did. Robert Duvall is brilliant; his character is so hateful that I just wanted to kill him. But the storyline and character behavior are ultimately so frustrating that it kills the whole movie. Duvall treats his family horribly, but aside from a few token protests, they indulgently let him march all over them with his combat boots. Even after he physically attacks his wife (an especial doormat), everybody is so ready to love and forgive him. They even grieve after the dictator croaks! Bull is an insensitive, abusive hog, but everybody still loves and respects him and, ultimately, the audience is expected to, as well. It seems to say that father knows best even when he puts you through a lifetime of hell, and I found this idea incredibly repellant--and I know whereof I speak. For fans of the stars only. "},{"Title":"Didn't care for it.","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think this movie is a bit overrated. Duval's performance is top notch, one of his best, but this movie has several unbearable flaws.First i have to say that the musical score was one of the worst i have ever heard. It sounds like a cross between seventies TV Movie music, and an old John Ford western. It literally made me want to cover up my ears. It was embarrassingly bad. And I'm not just expressing a dislike for old style music scores, This one would be bad in any decade. Wretched!The movie's style and direction are in terrible conflict with the story. The director seems to think he is shooting a feel good travelogue film. He is more interested in showing us beautiful vista's and slow motion scenes of people fishing, than in exploring the characters.If you have ever read the book, you will note the harsh nature of the main character. He has been toned down significantly in this film. It still makes for an interesting character, but the story loses some of it's power.The film has laughable dialogue in some scenes, and most of the other performances (besides Duval's) are hideous.Every scene in the film, excepting the basketball scene, seems mishandled, and makes you cringe at least once.watch this movie only if you are a Robert Duval fan.  "}]