[{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"63 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" MINOR SPOILERSMisunderstood classic remains one of Henson's finest and most personal films. It may seem funny to call a movie as beloved as this one 'misunderstood,' but people do seem to remember this one mostly for Jerry Juhl's snappy screenplay and Paul Williams's knockout songs. Now while these things are admittedly great, as is the movie's formal playfulness (screenplay-within-the-screenplay, film break, etc.), what distinguishes 'The Muppet Movie' from the other Muppet films is the serious, wistful thread that runs through the picture. It's a road movie, all right, but like most road movies, the pleasure is in the getting there, and the achievement of the characters' goals is tempered by uncertainty, and by the knowledge that they can never really go back again. Throughout the film, we are shown the down side of show business, even before the Muppets have 'made it' Piggy abandons Kermit without a second thought at a phone call from her agent, Gonzo expresses the loneliness and regret of a performer's life on the road in his haunting 'I'm Going to Go Back There Someday,' and, worst of all, Kermit is continually tortured and tested by Doc Hopper, who wants him to commercialize his art for the unholiest of purposes. (One can only wonder what Henson would have made of his family's management of the company after his death.) Kermit himself agonizes over his choices in the desert conversation scene, and the final 'Magic Store' number questions whether it's all been worth it, before concluding that it probably doesn't matter either way. All this is punctuated with the expected Muppet chaos and satire and deliciously awful jokes, and of course the serious stuff wouldn't work if it weren't. But 'The Muppet Movie' isn't just another jokefest, as the rest of the diminishing-return Muppet films would become. No, it's a lovely, gentle metaphor about the relationship between art and entertainment and business, and it's every bit as effective today as it was 25 years ago. 9.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Write your own ending  Existential awareness in hand puppets","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"52 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In many ways, the perfect movie. The Incredible Journey and Horatio Alger tale come together for a positive spin on the usually depressing subject of existentialism. In essence, the travails of the muppets boil down to the finale song of the movie Life's like a movie, write your own ending, keep believing, keep pretending. They create their own reality, which has all the trappings of every epic tale a lofty goal at the end of what is necessarily a obstacle-laden journey; an ever-increasing group of like-minded individuals for camaraderie; a nasty set of villians who are not beyond all redemption; and a big-budget Hollywood ending because, darn it all, they CAN.Only Jim Henson could pull this off. He walks the line between sentimentality and philosophy without swerving too long or too hard into either. Of course it seems odd that invest such weight into a film starring puppets, but in the end perhaps they are the perfect, uh, puppet to make these points. The movie's atmosphere allows for the pure enjoyment of the Hollywood dream, the happy ending, unnecessary cameos, and bursting into song at the drop of a hat. Usually these aspects are anathema to quality in film, but the self-deprecating manner under which the story is delivered makes for guilt-free viewing. One of the few films that can truly be called suitable for all ages.The other muppet-related films (including The Empire Strikes Back), while palatable, do not touch the simple grace of this film. Take, for instance, the musical number Hope that Something Better Comes Along, the duet of Kermit and Rowlf. Amusing in its vaudevillian goofiness, yet makes a bitingly crucial point about the motivations behind life choices. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"Life is a Movie","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"50 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  We all lost something important when Jim Henson died. But his magic alone wasn't sufficient to do more than clever skits, both before and after this gem. Some fated match of director, writers, songwriters and puppeteers came together to create an underappreciated masterpiece.Forget the kids -- this is a great work, period. Among the best story-films ever. And nowhere is the enfolding of reality and fantasy more rich than here. Naturally, you have the mix of humans (accented by celebrity cameos) and puppets. And some puppets are of humans, some of human-like animals, and some of animal-like animals. But that's just the tokens.The real novelty comes in the story. It is a film about the making of itself, with a wonderful sequence at the end where the film is represented in cartoonish props contrasted with a `real' rainbow. Throughout, one weaves between being in the story and observing the story. Kermit (Henson's alterego) says `I hope you appreciate I'm doing my own stunts.' Think about it.The songs, themselves self-referential, are important frosting `why are there so many songs about rainbows?'`Life is a movie, write your own ending, keep believing, keep pretending...' You don't get that in common fare. If you have kids, this is the most educational exposure you can give them among the kiddie offerings. There's nothing more powerful than the ability to perform abstract reasoning and the foundation of that is the play between what things are and what things represent them. Thanks and God bless you, Jim. "},{"Title":"Absolutely timeless","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  21 years, 5 more muppet movies, and several Presidents later, this movie remains a classic and, in my opinion, the best of all Muppet Movies.The entire family can enjoy this movie, and that's lost in current movies. Something that you would take your 6 year old to wouldn't really hold your interest, and vice-versa. The characters are in danger, but no real harm can be done. The characters are in stressful situations, but they don't shout profanities. What less would you expect from the beloved Muppets?I find myself cracking up at the running gags and little implied jokes in this movie. The funniest are heard under a character's breath. Not only that, but it has an absolutely inspired musical score. Never since this movie have the Muppets shown such a broad range of emotions through their music.All the Muppet movies are good. Even Muppets from Space, the least entertaining of the lot is fun. But if you want a really good time, get the original. You can watch it over and over... "},{"Title":"After this, nothing came close","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Jim Henson's The Muppet Movie is a charming, funny and brilliant film that can be watched AND enjoyed by adults and kids.  I feel this is my favorite childhood film because it combines great characters, great story, and great wit that it is irresistable.  The plot involves Kermit the frog (puppeteered and voiced by Henson) in his odyssey across America to follow his dream in Hollywood.  Along the way, he meets Fozzie Bear, The Great Gonzo (my favorite), Miss Piggy, Rolf, and DR. Teeth and the electric mayhem.This film has so many good things I can't even say them.  But it is memorable and every time I think of a puppet or muppet, I will think of this film.  Look for cameos from Mel Brooks, Dom DeLouise, Paul Williams, Madeline Kahn, Bob Hope, Richard Pryor, Steve martin, Edgar Bergen (and Charlie McCarthey), Elliot Gould, Carol Kane and the great Orson Welles.  Excellent and spectacular, one of the best films of the 70's.  A++ "},{"Title":"Why are there so many songs about rainbows?","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Y'know, it's very interesting watching this... half the people involved with it are now dead...Anyways, it's been a long time since I've watched anything Muppet related, but this stuff is pure gold. I'm a great fan of puns, and this movie has them quite well placed, but one of the amazing aspects of it is its pacing it's not really high-speed children's pacing where the filmmakers just randomly decide to move the story along without giving the character's depth, it's just kind of moves along with the characters wherever they want to go.Kermit the Frog is just an awesome character. His voice and the expressions on his puppet-face are fantastic. But above all, he points out why he's popular--he can sing and make jokes too!--but more appropriately why he's so endearing--he, without any effort, inspires everyone to search for their dreams. In the meantime, he also has to deal with himself, which is an uncommon theme in family movies.It also contains quite an ensemble of comedians making appearances here and there, some to great effect, others to a little less (I think Mel Brook's part was just a bit overplayed, do you?). Some parts of the film are just kind of odd. But it's highly imaginative and takes itself to the same destination from a very different direction.Moving right along...--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"the joy of Muppets","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Muppet Movie is a pure delight. I cant stop watching this movie. It has great catch phrases and one liners that will stick with you for years. A soundtrack to last a life-time. I consider Rainbow Connection to be a perfect song. Follow Kermit the Frog on his way to Hollywood. He is influenced to an audition for frogs wishing to become rich and famous. On the way he meets his future Muppet pals and a gaggle of legendary guest stars. This film has the last appearance of Edger Bergen and Charlie McCarthy. Kermit and pals must also doge Doc Hopper, a enterprising frog leg restaurant chain owner. The humor has a ridiculous charm. This is as close to Monty Python humor as an American writer can get. You will be beaming like a star all throughout the film. This film is a timeless and ageless classic. Add it to your collection now!!!  "},{"Title":"Wonderful!!!!","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Jim Henson as Kermit, Dr.Teeth, Rowlf and Waldorf.Frank Oz as Fozzie, Piggy and Animal.Jerry Nelson as Floyd Pepper, Robin the Frog, Lew Zealand and Crazy Harry.Richard Hunt as Janice, Statler,Beaker and Scooter.Dave Goelz as Gonzo, Dr.Hunnydew and Zoot.Charles Durning and Mel Brooks.cameos by Steve Martin, Carol Kane, Orson Welles, Bob Hope, Richard Pryor and others.This is the first Muppet movie of the billion others that came out, and is also the best, by far! This deals with Kermit the frog going on a trip to Hollywood and meeting the other characters along the way. This movie, along with being already good, has excellent songs performed by the Muppets, including Rainbow Connection, Can You Picture That?, Moving Right Along and others. This movie, unlike the other Muppet flicks, carries a strong sentimental value to me. It's such a nice movie. Also noted is it's many cameos featuring Steve Martin, Mel Brooks and a dozen others. It's really one of the best family films out there today!my rating-A plus. 109 mins. rated G. "},{"Title":"More entertaining than humanly possible","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Like all the Muppet movies, this movie is aimed at children. But that doesn't mean it's only for children. Heck, kids probably won't even get most of the jokes. The Muppet Movie is probably the best of the series. This one had a certain charm to it that the others never realized. This movie had great songs and humor for all ages. To think, people thought the Muppets wouldn't succeed on the big screen. "},{"Title":"a summary of the Muppet movie!","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  First of all i'd like to say that this movie is the greatest thing that ever happened to mankind. It is the best out of all the excellent Muppet movies, and every other movie out there! so BOO-YA  for jim Henson!This Movie is the first of all the  Muppet movies and the best. (boo ya) It's about a Frog (kermit) who tries to make to hollywood. along  with the awesome friends he meets on the way comes a couple of the greatest songs ever made that are bound to become classics, including the rainbow connectionin conclusion i would like to say that watching this movie was the greatest thing EVER!. If you havn't already seen it, then get off your computer and get you tushy to your nearest video store!!! (if they don't have the muppet movie, i'd sue them BIG TIME ) "}{"Title":"Wonderful. A funny and well done classic that can be enjoyed by both adults and children for it's special message and wit.","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Growing up as a kid one of my favorite things was Jim Henson's Muppets especially Kermit the Fog, I enjoyed the show had Muppet storybooks and action figures and even plush toys. So I just recently for the first time watched something of old pop culture history that being 1979's The Muppet Movie. I must say too that the film was wonderful! The writing and story was just great the film is very funny and it gives a good message in the end plus it's supported by appearances from many top notch stars. This film shows how the Muppets began their rise to fame as they showed it in their own way by doing their own movie! Remember the song dreams begin with a rainbow! Kermit has a fateful meeting with a big time talent agent and it's then that his hopes of becoming a star has him on a journey to Hollywood! Along the way on his journey for show business he meets his usual cast and gang of characters Fozzie the Bear(the bad comedian)the Great Gonzo(chicken)and the prim and proper Miss Piggy as all too have big dreams on the way out to California. Now enter the drama and road encounters with Doc Hooper(Charles Durning)who as a fast food mogul wants Kermit to promote his French fried frog leg franchise, yet probably Kermit is gonna be a cooked frog! Along the way the journey is funny and entertaining with fun and crazy mishaps and it's guided along with the witty lines and musical songs including the hit The Rainbow Connection. Plus it's supported just fine by appearances from legendary stars like Mel Brooks, Steve Martin, Richard Pryor, Dom Deluise, and Orson Welles. And in the end it proves a special and important message that as you see the Muppets learn that real life can actually be in the form of a movie. And really with your thoughts and dreams you can make your own movie. Overall a good classic that both adults and children will laugh with and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have always loved The Muppets. Though most children's entertainment then wasn't that likable, The Muppet's was. The Muppet's are very, very funny. They are probably the most likable children's characters ever. Not only did The Muppets have their own show. They also have starred in many films. from The Muppet's Christmas carol to The Muppet's treasure Island. The first Muppet's movie, The Muppet movie, was also, like the show and the other films, excellent.The Muppet movie is about how they all got started. Kermit the frog used to live in a swamp. Until one day a movie executive tells him that there are auditions for frogs in Hollywood. So Kermit takes off for Hollywood. Along the way he runs into lots of people such as Fozzie Bear, Gonzo the great, and Miss Piggy. Also, an evil man is trying to capture Kermit.All of the Muppet films are highly enjoyable. I mean they are all very funny. This film has many film appearances. Such as Steve Martin, Mel Brooks, Elliot Gould, Carol Kane, Richard Pryor, and Orson Welles. The Muppet films are all very enjoyable. I hear that Jason Segel is going to star in one soon. I can't wait to see it. "},{"Title":"A fine start for the Muppet movie franchise","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A bunch of full-length movies featuring the Muppets, created by Jim Henson & Co, have been made, but The Muppet Movie was the first one of them all, and the first in the original trilogy, which also features The Great Muppet Caper and The Muppets Take Manhattan. It was released seven years before I was born, so I obviously didn't get to see it at the time (nor did I get to see its two successors when they were first released). However, I saw a lot of the Muppets during my childhood, mostly after Henson's premature death in 1990. I finally got around to seeing this movie for the first time around the mid-nineties, after hearing the soundtrack. Unsurprisingly, I liked it at the time, and revisiting it in recent years hasn't exactly been disappointing.One day, while Kermit the Frog sits in a swamp with his banjo after singing Rainbow Connection, a Hollywood agent named Bernie comes by in a boat and urges him to pursue a career in Tinseltown. Kermit takes his advice and goes west. He soon meets Fozzie Bear, an unsuccessful stand-up comedian in a restaurant, and convinces him to come along. The frog is also noticed by Doc Hopper, the owner of a frog leg restaurant chain who wants Kermit to be his mascot. As a frog, Kermit is disgusted by this, so he refuses and leaves with Fozzie. On their road trip across the country, Kermit and Fozzie meet other Muppets who join them, including Miss Piggy (who soon becomes Kermit's love interest) and Gonzo. Unfortunately, as they all try to make their way to Hollywood, Doc Hopper, assisted by Max, is willing to do anything to force Kermit to become his restaurant chain's mascot, so Kermit finds himself in increasing danger! One thing many people praise this film for is the songs, and I can understand why. There is, of course, the Oscar-nominated Rainbow Connection at the beginning, and more good tunes follow, such as Kermit and Fozzie's catchy road song, Movin' Right Along, and I'm Going to Go Back There Someday, a poignant ballad sung by Gonzo. Never Before, Never Again, the song Miss Piggy sings when she first sees Kermit, is the only one I would consider rather weak, and their romance seems awfully sudden. The Muppets in this movie are generally lovable, just like they are on TV, and some of them provide a lot of the humour, including Fozzie, making his first appearance in the film hopelessly trying to entertain people in a restaurant with his stand-up, and, well, if you're familiar with these famous Muppets, you should know what to expect from each of them. Some of the live actors who appear briefly in the film can also be funny, such as Dom DeLuise as Bernie the Agent and Steve Martin as the Insolent Waiter. Also, it's not 100% comedy. There are serious parts of the film which they also did well.Watching this original Muppet movie again this year was my first time watching any of them since seeing Muppets from Space (one of the Muppet movies made after Henson's death, released in 1999) for the first time last year. I was very disappointed when I saw that film, which had never happened before when I watched any film or TV show featuring the popular puppet characters! Not only is that movie not very funny, I also think it's a tad too dark and cruel for the Muppets, as I stated in my review of it! However, I can't say I think the same of any of that movie's predecessors, including this one, released twenty years earlier. The Muppet Movie seems to be the most popular of the bunch, and since it has so much to like, not just for kids, that's understandable. I highly doubt there's much left to say about The Muppet Movie that hasn't been said at some point in the past thirty years, but today, it remains good family entertainment. "},{"Title":"Wonderful entertainment. Waka waka waka...!","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Who doesn't love the muppets?! Impossible it is to watch them without getting some kind of warm, fuzzy feeling inside. So, I guess what's important is that this movie seemed to very successfully capture what makes the muppets so special. I don't remember much about the details of the plot but the various moments and characters in the film I recall quite fondly. In fact, there was quite a nostalgic atmosphere to the whole movie but without being self-conscious in any bad way. Refreshing for someone who possibly gets too hung up on meticulous details and technique; the magic transcends all that other stuff. 'Tis indeed what movies are made of.So, how does the film achieve these things? Hmmm, nice question! Stumped am I? Let's see. Really, I feel like it's quite simple. The filmmakers believe in their material and don't take themselves too seriously in the process. I probably wouldn't say the film has many truly inspired moments, but it does have a certain life to it (that funnily enough a great many real people movies lack). A zest. You really want to believe in these funny little people and their adventures. They also have a certain innocence about them that makes them all the more endearing.Generally I get the impression that the people that made the movie just weren't afraid to try whatever felt right to them at the time which gives the whole thing quite a loose feel. Kind of like a really accessible and enjoyable extended jazz session. Lots of talent, little predictability and plenty of warm personalities coming through. The cameos were of course a bunch of nice surprises for instance. Maybe I don't feel I have much to say about it because I was half-asleep when I saw it (and/or as I write this review). Anyway, I'm sort of semi-repeating myself here but I really liked the sense of family the movie had. Full of love I suppose you might say. Again, a feeling of nostalgia comes to mind which not many films manage to achieve so effectively or effortlessly.And to repeat myself once more, one of the film's best charms is its very relaxed and welcoming atmosphere. Like the Nathaniel Hawthorne quote about happiness being (like) a butterfly, so The Muppet Movie greatly succeeds partially by not seeming to try to do so. Same with beauty being best undiscovered or untouched or unforced or something like that. Anyway, if that sounds sappy, I also reckon it was pretty hilarious.So, all in all, this movie was very funny, touching and difficult not to smile along to. Plus it features lots of great music! Highly recommended to all humans, both the young and the young at heart. "},{"Title":"It's not perfect, there's just absolutely nothing wrong with it.","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you haven't seen it, go forth and correct this oversight.  Then come back and read this.  The best word I can think of for how I still feel about TMM is fond.  Between vast improvements in special effects and changing ideas about how to make movies ostensibly for children, TMM may look a little weatherbeaten.  Nevertheless, it still fits like a favorite hat and keeps getting better with age.  Cameos and innuendo for the adults, wacky and, (dare I use the word), zany adventures for the kids (of all ages), and what is to me still the greatest ensemble cast ever assembled.  No, I don't mean the people.  Heartbreak, wonder, panic, music, and Electric Mayhem all come together in a film -- no, a movie -- that may not be perfect, it's just that there's really nothing wrong with it at all. "},{"Title":"The Original and Still the Best Muppet Movie","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have the same problem now that I had with this film originally A frog-killer has no place in a Muppet Movie, although the High-Noon gunfight is lots of fun and a giant Animal steals the scene. This film is amazing because there are no CGI generated special effects. It is all done with miniatures, animatronics, and over-sized Muppets. You can only imagine all the Muppet Performers, on their hands and knees, in a trench, dragging along the floor of the set with rich and famous Orson Welles. Most of the cameos work quite well and it is especially nice to see Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy for one last time. The Paul Williams score is almost perfect and he remains a very under-rated composer. He is a genius, and still plays Vegas in concert, from time-to-time. Miss Piggy seems larger-than-usual in this film. Note her extended proboscis (snout)! I love this film which is an unabashed send-up of Babes-In Arms (Let's put on a show.) similar to Muppets From Manhattan. Although Charles Durning is great as Doc Hopper in a parody of Colonel Sanders, it also seems a bit off for a kid's movie. But then, Jim Henson always did the unique and unusual, didn't he? The DVD transfer by Disney has some issues uneven and thin sound quality at times. It will probably play better on 5.1 sound system. A few images are grainy or off-focus. Extras No extras at all except for a short and disappointing 6-minute featurette.The film is much more fun than the recent revival film, The Muppets which is a valiant effort, but seems too sad at times, as it portrays the Muppets as has-beens from another era. This is the original Muppets in their prime, with their best material, and in top form. Waka! Waka! "},{"Title":"A fine entry into the Muppetational universe.","Date":"20 April 2012","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" An inspired combination of slapstick, music, vaudeville and charm, The Muppet Movie takes all the now familiar characters away from the Muppet Theatre where humans were the minority, and plonks them right among the (almost) real world.We meet Kermit alone in his swamp singing beautifully to himself, and after a chance meeting with the frog, a crocodile and a movie agent &#x96; yes it's that kind of film &#x96; Kermit is inspired to try to forge his own path in showbusiness.Along his journey to Hollywood he meets aspiring stand up comedian Fozzie, amateur stunt man Gonzo and a group of zany musos known as The Electric Mayhem. He also finds that romantic sparks fly when he meets a diva pig with delusions of grandeur.That's the core part of the initial Muppet group identified, the slightly awry element arrives in the form of a fat, sweaty guy in a white suit named Doc Hopper, who just happens to sell frog's legs as cuisine. He takes a shine to Kermit's pins and decides that he simply must have them to promote his wares, whether Kermit agrees or not.The remainder of the film is essentially an extended chase sequence as Kermit and the gang hightail it towards Hollywood with Doc Hopper and his toadying (no pun intended) assistant close behind.And this to me is the problem with the initial Muppet Movie, the best parts are the simple times, Kermit sitting on the log singing Rainbow Connection without a care in the world, the awkward but undeniable chemistry between pig and frog, the stoner-ish hep dialogue between the members of the Electric Mayhem, the stand-up bear who is terrible at stand up.They kinda lost me when the film veered into 'eating the primary character's legs' territory. They definitely lost my four year old in the looming torture scene, and nearly killed the poor boy when the Frog assassin clad all in black and looking decidedly evil showed up. (I really didn't remember these things from my previous viewings.) Despite these depressing and out of place sequences there is still a lot to love about the first Muppet Movie, the constant breaking of the fourth wall is already obvious, the general funkiness of the Electric Mayhem and the timelessness of Kermit's tunes, the cheesy jokes that are so bad that you can't help but smile &#x96; especially when delivered with such innocence and charm by a handpuppet&#x85; the inclusion of several big name cameos, none of whom for a moment let on that they are conversing with a sock, yet some of whom still manage to out-ham the very same talking puppets.The Muppet Movie finds a bunch of frogs, pigs, bears and whatevers coming to terms with their own existence, growing into their own skin and fur. Over the years some peripheral characters became more central, and others stepped back to spout occasional quips when required.Most of all this film showed that there was entertainment value to be found in these talking socks, and that people of all ages could enjoy their shenanigans guilt free.Final Rating &#x96; 7 / 10. 'Mature thematic elements' aside, this is a fine intro to the Muppetational world. "},{"Title":"What A Connection. Pure Genius From Jim Henson.","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" why are there so many songs about rainbows? as a relatively committed cynic, i find that man cannot live by purely edgy and cynical entertainment alone. too much cynicism and negativity can get shoved down your throat as much as optimism gets pushed at people. in a day and age when so much in entertainment is like 'South Park' or 'Family Guy' and 'The Simpsons', sometimes you need a change of pace. sometimes even things that seem trendy or novel and new, get tiresome and old news.don't get me wrong. i really like 'South Park' and 'The Simpsons', but i've watched so much of that kind of thing for a couple of decades and occasionally i like a change from all the nihilism and cynicism and find myself watching a old Disney film or something by Jim Henson with the Muppet puppets. i've grown a lot since my early days. even in my twenties i was unrealistically optimistic about things and life and people. well, eventually people and events in life changed all that. more than likely it was somewhat for the best. you can't always try to see the good in everything. that outlook has no balance. sometimes you need to address the negative in your environment, other people, and yes, in your self. there's a old saying that you can go to the other extreme of something, you meet your other self coming back around. but i don't think anything ever gets solved by being too negative or too optimistic.if you have seen Jim Henson's wonderful puppet Muppet fantasy 'Labyrinth', you might remember the characters at the end who tell the teen ager if you ever need us time and again..., well that's the essence of the Muppets and Disney for all adults, if ever you need those things from childhood that were fun, friendly, and made you feel safe, you should feel free enough to call on them. as long as you bring yourself back into reality to address serious matters. like other people.as far as the Muppets and the rainbow connection go, it's all good. i don't even think Disney has the track record of flawless perfection the Jim Henson experiance has. the Muppets and Henson never offend, but they also entertain effortlessly without violence and grotesque crudity and imagery.i'm always surprised how well the original film holds up decade after decade. i hadn't seen it in a while, and i was reminded again what a timeless classic it is. partly due to the memorable genius of Paul Williams as well as Henson.i also think that younger generations should be reminded that Jim Henson and the Muppets did not start with Disney. Disney simple acquired the Jim Henson genius decades later through monopoly purchase. i love Disney, but i hate the Disney trend for engulfing the works and talents of others. it would be a sad day if the genius of the Muppets becomes synonymous with Disney and Jim Henson was forgotten. give credit where credit is due, and all this is due to the incredible whimsical genius of Jim Henson. "},{"Title":"by far the best Muppet movie","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" If I rate the film maybe a bit high, you can blame it on sentiment. This is one of the first movies that I remember seeing and totally loving. I saw it at the drive-ins here in California in the late 70s. I was already a big fan of The Muppet Show on TV so I was primed for the movie, and the movie did not disappoint. Basically it takes the whole absurdist ethos of the Muppet show and transports it from vaudeville into a road movie. Kermit the Frog is on a quest to become famous; not because he wants to take champagne baths and ride in a private jet, but because he wants to make millions of people happy. Of course.Along the way he picks up all his beloved muppet friends, most endearingly Fonzie Bear who he meets at a seedy bar doing stand-up. They sing Movin' Right Along, a song that has always charmed me with its upbeat melody and its theme of friendship and shared discovery. He also encounters enough Hollywood movie stars to fill a Stanley Kramer movie, including comedy luminaries like Richard Pryor, Steve Martin, Edgar Bergen, Milton Berle, and Mel Brooks. Brooks in particular has a rather dull bit, and you are left feeling that Henson could have cut a few of these cameos out if he wasn't afraid of offending the stars. Anyway, as befits a road trip movie like this the very first person he meets is Dom DeLuise.The ending is one of the more odd examples of literally breaking down the 4th wall that you will find in any children's movie. The Hollywood dream seems to be crumbling all about them, when a real rainbow pierces the Hollywood set with its authentic joy and mystery. I'm sure this was meant to relate to some of Jim Henson's own personal or spiritual experiences.This is the best movie with Muppets by a long shot. If you or anyone else was wondering why the Muppets were so popular back in the 70s, considering how poor the movies have been for the last few decades, I think this film has at least aged well enough to provide a clue. "},{"Title":"Classic that stands the changing times","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Muppet movie is an instant classic. I remember the opening scene with the bird's eye view of the swamp and Kermit starting into (in my opinion) the most loved song in the history of songs. At this point my mom would always sing along with Kermit.Watching this title as a young adult it makes me smile. I can still sing along to my heart's desire. Like many Muppet films there are in jokes for adults that are( In my opinion) still funny today. My favorite line of all time is actually from this film, it's the last line spoken by my green, goggle eyed hero Kermit Life's like a movie , Write your own ending. That's what I intend to do! Thank you Jim Henson. "}{"Title":"Someday, we'll find it...","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Looking back on Jim Henson's works years after his death is like taking a look back into another time. For unlike most so-called creative types attempting to sell to, or worse yet cynically exploit, children nowadays, Jim never seemed to really forget what it was like to be a child. And if there ever was a moment in which he demonstrated this, Labyrinth aside, it is 1979's Muppet Movie. Filmed as an allegorical story about how Henson came to work in children's television as a puppeteer and ended up with a half-hour show of his own on primetime television, The Muppet Movie ends up an affirmation of everything more progressive, understanding sorts would say to children who did not quite meet the expected norm during the 1980s. And as we enjoy the fruits of an era in which we are gagged and bound from speaking about anything lest someone might get offended, the open celebration of difference or diversity that formed a large part of The Muppet Show is on offer here. I have said it in other comments, but I must say it here. A great light in the world went out the day Jim Henson died.The Muppet Movie begins with its cast sitting down to see the premiere of what were about to see for the next eighty or so minutes. In short, precise strokes, we are introduced to the major players as well as some of the minors. And when the story proper begins, boy are we given a great song to bring us into the moment. The Rainbow Connection painted both a beautiful and sad image of what the Muppets, especially Kermit, were. These were not just a bunch of felt puppets with singular personalities who combined to put on a show. They were living things based upon a part of all of us, only writ so much more boldly than we are used to. As each Muppet was introduced to us in turn, we saw another reflection of part of ourselves, and of course the children in the audience would respond differently to each character. Hence, everyone had a favourite. When Animal appeared behind a drum kit and attempted to eat a cymbal, I knew I had found one of mine. Nowadays, I am more of a Swedish Chef fan, but what the hey.Complementing the characters was a string of musical numbers that further developed their motivations and personalities. Can You Picture That? shared an insight into Dr. Teeth and his band as well as the creative soul of Henson. But the most relevant song to me was Gonzo's number, asking what he is and where he came from. Many of us would spend a lifetime gazing into the stars and, like Gonzo, saying we knew we would be going back there someday. Not that all the songs were so deadly serious, of course. Fozzy and Kermit share a number after they decide to combine their talent (or lack thereof) and hit the road. If any evidence were required that present-day musicians have lost the ability to use the pop structure to create something listenable, this number would be it. Never before, and never again, would the group dynamic of a cast and the music so perfectly complement one another. With the puppeteers and voice actors so perfectly on top of their game, the human cast had a lot to live up to.Which makes it all the more amazing that the human element also lived up to their end of the deal. Cameos literally pepper the film, with everyone from Steve Martin to Telly Savalas popping in to offer their support. Even Richard Pryor, the last man one would expect to see in a film about the Muppets, appears to set up a hilarious moment. Mel Brooks' cameo is just as disturbing to me as an adult as it was when I was a small boy, but I suspect that is because Henson knew why I would find it disturbing now. The big acting strength, though, comes from Charles Durning, who as Doc Hopper embodies everything both Henson and his audience determined to resist. At every junction, Hopper comes to either offer Kermit the chance to sell out and betray his own kind. Or perhaps offer stops being the right word when Hopper's attempts to ensure Kermit's compliance become progressively more forceful and violent. The whole thing is one big metaphor for how every artist has his heart broken by the world.Of course, Animal also shows up to remind us that just because our friends are not sweet and cuddly does not make them any less of a friend. In point of fact, Animal turns out to be the best friend that Kermit has in that moment. And that has been the core message of every good show or film Henson has been involved in ever since. That shunning or dismissing others simply because of linguistic or cosmetic differences could literally be the worst mistake one ever makes. There can be little doubt that in today's world where a moron in a purple suit can tell my sons they are not good if they do not have good feelings for fifteen seasons and still not come under serious investigation by child welfare authorities, Henson's creature workshop could never have got off the ground. To misquote the album title, daring to be stupid is one thing, but enforcing the choice upon others is another matter. The Muppet Movie demonstrates how Henson dared to ask us all to think, both inside and outside of the proverbial box. There will never be another entirely like him, but he never would want us to stop trying.Therefore, The Muppet Movie is the epitome of a ten out of ten film. If we were to send a film out into the cosmos to prove to intelligent life that we are worth more than being obliterated, this would be it. "},{"Title":"Muppets at their peak! A true classic.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  No contest, this is the best Muppet movie, followed closely by 'The Great Muppet Caper' and 'The Muppets Take Manhattan.' Once Jim Henson and Richard Hunt died, the Muppet movies naturally lost their steam.'The Muppet Movie' is a prequel to the wonderful Muppet Show, explaining how the Muppets first got together. There just couldn't be a better plot.(spoilers ahead) It starts off with Kermit playing a beautiful number on his banjo, and once a Hollywood agent remarks that he's got enough talent for the silver screen, Kermit hops on his bike (a classic scene) and heads West. Shortly thereafter he becomes horrified at the sight of a fast food place that serves frog legs! After Kermit pairs up with Fozzie, Doc Hopper, owner of the fast food chain, offers Kermit a job as a spokesfrog for the restaurants. Naturally, Kermie declines, and a frantic chase for the frog happens throughout most of the movie. Along the way Kermit and Fozzie meet many other familiar faces, and they've got to act fast if they want to make it to the audition!As usual with the Muppets, everything is spectacular. From the sharp humor to the elaborate sets and puppetry, everything shines like a star. If you love the Muppets or are a beginning fan, check out 'The Muppet Movie'! You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"A True Timeless Classic","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is such a great movie.  I loved it as a kid, and while I went through a nostalgic period recently I found this treasure and gave it the old test of time.  First viewing, absolutely fell in love with these songs - this has to be some of the best movie music ever!  That had be coming back for a repeat viewing or two, and the rest of the film really grew on me.  Now, I can definitely say it is one of my all-time favorite movies.  The Muppets are really great, and this movie catches them at in their prime, right off the height of the unforgettable Muppet Show.Essentially, it's a road movie.  Kermit the Frog leaves the swamp and heads to Hollywood, and naturally his lone journey becomes a giant group trip as he acquires a bear named Fozzie, a thing named Gonzo, a glamorous hog we all know as Miss Piggy, Rowlf the Dog, a big scary monster with a giant heart (Sweetums), and the greatest foam-based rock'n'roll band ever built, Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem.  Add unforgettable music, numerous celebrity cameos, some of the oldest puns in the book, and a cameo by Big Bird - and you have one great piece of cinema, now one of the most treasured videos I own.If your a fan of Jim Henson's Muppets, this is a must-see if you haven't already.  Fans of movies in general have gotta love it as well.  Probably the Muppets' greatest big screen venture to date. "},{"Title":"A Witty and Clever Movie For Kids Of Any Age.","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  There's just something pleasantly memorable about a little green frog singing and playing a banjo in the middle of a swamp.  The opening scene is a wonderful introduction for this truly excellent film. My favorite of the Muppet movies, this has excellent songs, some truly funny running gags and one-liners (and some that are absolute groaners, but they're still deserving of a chuckle.), and a fun group of Muppets and celebrity cameos.  Jim Henson is, and always will be, the definitive voice of Kermit.  The film itself is very gentle in tone without getting too syrupy, and truly entertains all the way through.With all of the quality children's programming that comes out these days, I can't help but wonder why more family films aren't actually made for the entire family like this film was.  This is a real keeper, although it seems a little hard to find at times in the stores. "},{"Title":"If You've Seen it, You've Found The Rainbow Connection","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" From my earliest viewings of Sesame Street to this absolutely wonderful childhood memory,The Muppets were and always will be part of who I am today. The Muppet Movie is not just for kids,it's for kids of all ages. All of us out there that have been able to stay in touch with our inner child,can always rent,buy or (from the library) check out this movie and feel good again. Not only that,we can feel what it means to be a loving caring person,all from these lovable characters created by the late-great Jim Henson,whom I wish was still with us.The film is simply about these things...Finding your destiny in life by not giving up on one's dreams,realizing everyone needs someone as a friend and great things happen when friends work together (not to mention just being allowed to laugh at something genuinely funny! Nothing made me laugh harder than Miss Piggy and her karate,Hiiii-yaa!! LOL. ..or the running gag,That's a myth. What? Myth,myth! WomanYes?The film works because the story is about Kermit and all his Muppet friends and how they all eventually band together to share one dream. The songs are great (thankfully not corny like in some kid films.) The celebrity guests are great too! Every kid should see this,over and over! In closing,I want to say that the song Rainbow Connection should have won the Oscar for Best Original Song in a 1979 film. I mean,who remembers the song from,Norma Rae ?! "},{"Title":"Great fun for young and old!","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I would have been about 11 years old when this movie was first released. All these years later at 37 and I had no qualms hiring it on DVD. Great entertainment for all ages. And what about the song The Rainbow Connection? SeeWhy are there so many songs about rainbows And what's on the other side? Rainbows are visions, but only illusions, And rainbows have nothing to hide. So we've been told and some choose to believe it I know they're wrong, wait and see. Someday we'll find it, the rainbow connection, The lovers, the dreamers and me.Who said that every wish would be heard and answered When wished on the morning star? Somebody thought of that, and someone believed it, And look what it's done so far. What's so amazing that keeps us stargazing And what do we think we might see? Someday we'll find it, the rainbow connection, The lovers, the dreamers, and me.All of us under its spell, We know that it's probably magic...... Have you been half asleep? And have you heard voices? I've heard them calling my name. ... Is this the sweet sound that calls the young sailors? The voice might be one and the same I've heard it too many times to ignore it It's something that I'm s'posed to be... Someday we'll find it, the rainbow connection, The lovers, the dreamers, and me.Laa, da daa dee da daa daa, La laa la la laa dee daa doo... "},{"Title":"Life's like a movie, write your own ending","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The first Muppet movie is by far the best. None of the subsequent films, particularly those made after Jim Henson's death, can match this movie's creativity, charm, and magic. The story to this one is a retelling of how the Muppets met. Kermit, persuaded by Dom DeLuise, sets out on a trip to Hollywood to become a star. Along the way he meets Fozzie, Piggy, and the rest of the Muppets. They are pursued by Doc Hopper (Charles Durning), who wants Kermit to be the spokesman for his chain of restaurants specializing in frog legs. It's very funny with some great songs and celebrity cameos. The cameos don't bother me but then I know who all of those people are. I don't know if many younger first-time viewers would recognize some of them or how much that might matter in the long run. I think of this movie as something that can be enjoyed by young and old alike and I hope I'm right. It would be sad if kids today couldn't enjoy it because it's not as flashy as the more recent Muppet movies or the celebrity cameos are dated. It's far better than those movies on every level. "},{"Title":"Classic is the Best","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" With the appearance of another Muppet film at the box office, it's time to go back and review the old ones. This is the original 1979 movie, not the 2012 relaunch. I believe this to still be the best of all the Muppet films, if for no other reason than it tells the story of the Muppets, not tell a story with Muppets IN it. It is a magnificent introduction to all of these great characters, or course focusing on Kermit, and I can't help but revert back to the seven-year-old me that fell in love with a frog and a bear and a pig and a dog and a....whatever, and feel the same excitement I had back then. The jokes remain as funny or corny as they were then and there's still all the heart and soul that Jim Henson and company breathed into them 35 years ago. And all the great songs! The only thing that is sadly aged is the cameo appearances of movie stars of the time, none of which my children recognize or have any idea who they are (okay, they know Steve Martin from the Pink Panther films and Mel Brooks as Yogurt, but most are unknown to them). Always worth a repeat or reminder viewing. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Single Movie Every Kid Should See & Every Adult Should Own","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Why are there so many songs about rainbows, and what's on the other side? Kermit poses this relatively simple double interrogative near the beginning of The Muppet Movie while singing his signature song, The Rainbow Connection. As time goes by, the question and the movie only gain profundity.I'm going to forgo the review of this movie as a children's comedy, but look at it instead as a classic for every generation to love with serious ideals and a heartwarming message that gains more warmth with each passing year.As the milestones in my own life come creeping up on me, I hear more and more the evocative strains of that elementary ditty, and realize that it can fit the soundtrack to anyone's life, because we all dream. And that is what this movie is about. It's not just a bunch of puppets-- it's a bunch of puppets having the strength to pursue their dreams, which is a good lesson for everyone.And while the humor and mirth of the film always feel good, they're not a fair judge of the movie. Only The Rainbow Connection and the powerful emotions it will realize. And it all fits in Rainbow Connection *is* the Muppet Movie, and vice versa. It's existentialism meets children's entertainment-- there's no simpler way to describe it. "},{"Title":"Kermit Rocks","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The first feature length Muppet Movie, and excepting maybe The Muppet Christmas Carol, the movie puppeteers the world over are still looking for as a guide. Disney has done the Muppets a dis-service and this movie proves it over and over again. Featuring classic comedians and guest star cameos, keeps to a simple but original plot, classic Muppet lame jokes, Paul Williams genius in song writing, and Electric Mayhem madness, and comes off with an amazing movie especially when you realize that the major cast are puppets. Only Croft has come close to Hensen's genius with puppets. Half of the fun today is playing is that cameo actor/actress still alive???? I can only hope Frank Oz and Dave Goelz and the rest of the surviving Muppeteers can somehow rescue and revive Kermit and Company from the deadly grasp of Disney. "}{"Title":"Someday we'll find it, the rainbow connection...","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film is one of my fondest childhood memories. Seeing the Muppets (at the height of their popularity) heading Hollywood, singing and dancing, with Miss Piggy googely-eying her beloved Kermit, Fozzie Bear doing his best as everyone's manager, and a generous cast of extras delivering a film that turned out to be okey dokey.Kermit's melancholy ukulele number Rainbow Connection was nominated for an Oscar that year, but was beat out by Norma Rae's It Goes Like It Goes. I'll pick Kermit's song any day! Get the kids and enjoy this timeless fantasy...someday they'll find it, the rainbow connections, the lovers, the dreamers and me! "},{"Title":"the joy of Muppets","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Muppet Movie is a pure delight. I cant stop watching this movie. It has great catch phrases and one liners that will stick with you for years. A soundtrack to last a life-time. I consider Rainbow Connection to be a perfect song. Follow Kermit the Frog on his way to Hollywood. He is influenced to an audition for frogs wishing to become rich and famous. On the way he meets his future Muppet pals and a gaggle of legendary guest stars. This film has the last appearance of Edger Bergen and Charlie McCarthy. Kermit and pals must also doge Doc Hopper, a enterprising frog leg restaurant chain owner. The humor has a ridiculous charm. This is as close to Monty Python humor as an American writer can get. You will be beaming like a star all throughout the film. This film is a timeless and ageless classic. Add it to your collection now!!!  "},{"Title":"The Muppets make the big screen","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have not seen this movie since 1979 when I was a teenager.  I grew up with the Sesame street muppets and later realized how much effort and time went into bringing these characters to life.  Jim Hensen was a genius and master muppeteer.  When I watched this movie the other day it took me back in time when I was younger and things seemed so much simpler.  For this bit of time travel I rate this movie a 10.The plot line explores how Kermit goes from the swamp to Hollywood.  The laughs and gags are classic muppetism.  I am glad these films are still around for the next generation.  I hope I never out grow the magic of the muppets. "},{"Title":"Secretly one of the greatest films of the last 30 years","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Too often it seems we run around in circles looking for things to satisfy our deepest yearnings- in music, in film, in life, whatever- only to find out, sometimes years later, that precisely what we wanted is right under our noses, or as the case may be, right in our past. The Muppet Movie was one of the first movies I remember seeing as a child, and it certainly enhanced my childhood and gave me a lot to think and dream about for a little kid, but the good news is that even now, it has lost nothing for me.The Muppets have always had a tremendous and subtle sophistication about them-- it's the type of thing that Disney always shoots for and rarely perfectly gets- that cast of characters who for children are endearing and accessible, but for adults have a whole different dimension of wit and personality that is hard to come by for even human actors half the time. And yet every muppet in this movie posesses that- even Animal! In fact, the movie- where the Muppets seem to be doing battle with every bumbling human to come along and attempt to take advantage of them (usually Doc Hopper but occasionally the excellent cameo cast)- is a metaphor for what I'm talking about. At the end of the day, the only characters we really believe in are the Muppets, not the humans- the humans come across flatter, less imaginative, far less inspiring. Kermit's combination of an existential dilemma and drive to succeed within himself are still chock full of beauty and honor, even to someone long since past grammar school. It's easier to care deeply about these Muppets in this film than hundreds of real human protagonists I've seen on the big screen.And as for emotional power- there are some movies that will cheer you up when you're down, and then there are films that will under no circumstances let you be down no matter how hard you try. This movie is definitely in the second category. It seems to achieve this firstly by the excellent script and aptly placed, well-written songs (when was the last time you could say that about a children's movie?), and secondly, oddly enough, by the directorial feel of the movie. Its pacing, its rambling-down-the-road quality, and its cinematic embellishments (the coziness of the restaurant that Kermit and Piggy go to, the eerie comfort of the desert fire, the smoky comedy club) all create this sort of intangible warmth that just radiates right off the screen. I wish someone today could recapture that again.So yeah, make sure your kids see The Muppet Movie. But don't commit the sin of growing out of it yourself. We miss you, Jim... "},{"Title":"The Beginning of a Quality Family Film Franchise,","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Muppet Movie is a fantastic movie with a very well developed storyline that is sweet,very funny and filled with lovable characters.The film is packed with a ton of fun and laughs that the whole family will enjoy and also has many beautiful music numbers,of course the Rainbow Connection is a great song.The movie is the first of the many films starring the Muppets that follow,they are great films that have never failed to entertain me and bring me joy. The film is also packed with many well known celebrity cameos,and all of them are gold,my favourite would have to be Mel Brooks.Fans of the Muppet Show should definitely watch and will love the Muppet Movie.Kermit recalls how he decided to try and make it big in Hollywood and how he met all his friends who end up coming with him along the way. "},{"Title":"I Guess I Was Wrong When I Said I Never Promised Anyone. I Promised Me.","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Of course I love this movie! What's not to love about it? It's funny, it's musical, it's entertaining, it's emotional, it's everything that embodies the Muppets!In this movie we see how the Muppets got their start to stardom and fame; it's sort of a very loose parody of Jim Henson's start to fame, if I understand it right. Kermit the Frog enjoys his life in the swamp, but begins riding his bike to Hollywood after an agent tells him he should go and make millions of people happy. From there, he runs into a number of characters who have the same dream of making it big in Hollywood Fozzie Bear, The Electric Mayhem, Scooter, The Great Gonzo, Camilla the Chicken, Miss Piggy, Rowlf the Dog, Dr. Honeydew and Beaker, and others. Since this is the first Muppet movie, it began the tradition of including celebrity cameo appearances. We see Bob Hope, Richard Pryor, Steve Martin, Madeline Kahn, Carol Kane, Orson Wells, Jim Henson's wife, Jane, Edgar Bergen - the man who inspired Jim Henson to go into puppetry - and many other celebrities. My favorite cameo, though, is Big Bird! Yes, Big Bird is in this movie! I'm on my way to New York City to try to break into public television. I love that line!So, why does this movie work so well? I think it goes back to the fact that the Muppets are giving us their own style of entertainment, rather than them trying to conform to something else. There are a lot of scenes in this movie that take place that, to be fair, don't really need to happen. They don't really move the story forward, but Jim Henson and his writers and producers knew just how to make this stuff work. Take the scene where Gonzo flies in the sky with the balloons. It's a nice scene, but does it get the gang to Hollywood any quicker? Not really. How about when they all get to Hollywood just to have the lady at the front desk tell them they can't come in? It lasts less than 2 minutes, and they get in anyway. Was it really worth it to have that moment there? Probably not. And with that, the ending is something straight out of a fairy tale. The Muppets go to Lew Lord and tell him they want to be rich and famous, and Lew Lord just grants their request just like that? There's nothing realistic about that! Had any of these scenes been done in any other movie by any other group of people or any other production studio, I would really hate them! But this talented group of people knew what to do to make it entertaining, delightful, and great. That's the magic of Jim Henson and his Muppets he gives us something that normally wouldn't work, and makes it work so well that we'd come to love it! That takes a lot of great talent and creativity! The songs are other elements that don't add much to the simple plot of the movie, but, again, they're done so well here that we come to love and remember all of them! Moving Right Along, Can You Picture That, Never Before, I Hope That Something Better Comes Along, I'm Going to Go Back There Someday, The Magic Store/Finale, but, of course, everybody loves and remembers the Oscar-nominated classic, The Rainbow Connection. They're beautiful, they're fun, and they're so very touching. They stay with us, in our souls! That is powerful! Everyone always talks about how funny the Muppets are, and that shows in this movie! But very rarely do you hear about the heartfelt moments as well. The Muppets remind you through the emotions they experience that they feel just like we feel. Kermit's overall objective in this movie is probably the best example of this. He doesn't want to go to Hollywood simply to become rich and famous, it's not as superficial as that. He wants to go to Hollywood because it's his dream. What Kermit wants more than anything is for his dream to come true. You really feel for him during the scene when he talks to his conscience. He actually begins doubting himself, saying he never promised he'd make it. I love his last line in that scene I guess I was wrong when I said I never promised anyone. I promised me. Kermit begins to believe in himself again, and is determined to make his dream come true. That's pretty deep! Again, it's not something as superficial as just making a lot of money. The magic of his dream comes from, as he shares with Doc Hopper, the fact that he shared his dreams with others and they shared the dream with him.With that, sidebar, was I the only one asking what's wrong with Doc Hopper? You're really going to spend time and energy tracking down one frog all over the country? Why not get another frog? Why not do something that doesn't harm frogs at all? This man is stupid.Once again we have great Muppet tricks that make us stop and ask how did they do that. If you look up the facts about this movie either on this website or on Wikipedia, you'll learn how the Muppets were able to drive. Everyone went crazy when they saw Kermit riding a bicycle for the first time! There's a lost episode of The Jim Henson Hour that explains it if you're still curious. It's called Secret of the Muppets, look it up on YouTube.Final thoughts The Muppet Movie is a great, fantastic film! It has everything you want a Muppet movie to have. This movie has been a favorite of mine since I was a kid, and I still love it now! Check it out, you won't be disappointed, folks! BOOYIKA! "},{"Title":"Will leaving you feeling warm inside","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Maybe it's my age, or maybe it was due to the fact that I was rarely allowed to watch children's television, but my early life was sadly without Jim Henson and his hugely successful creation The Muppets. Because of this, I've always felt somewhat reluctant, and almost undeserving, to tackle the Muppet movies, feeling that my lack of childhood experiences of Kermit, Miss Piggy et al with hamper my enjoyment of them, or I will somehow not 'get it'. Well, after 27 Muppet-free years, Marc swayed me into finally taking the plunge, and, I'm happy to say, The Muppet Movie was an amazing experience, and one that made me feel like I'd known the vast array of characters for years.After a chance meeting with a Hollywood agent, Kermit the Frog leaves the comfort of his swamp in order to travel to Hollywood for an audition. Yet he is pursued by fast-food chain store owner Doc Hopper (Charles Durning), who sees Kermit as the perfect face to head his advertising campaign to promote his failing French-fries frog legs business. Kermit has other ideas, and after a punch up in the El Sleezo bar, he escapes with Fozzie Bear (a-wacca-wacca!) and his Studebaker. Further down the road he picks up more eager passengers, such as Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem, the Great Gonzo, and Miss Piggy, who falls in love with Kermit after winning a beauty pageant.While the 'origin' movie is quite often the route that TV series take when taking the leap into movies, The Muppet Movie benefits from taking an almost classical take on the road movie. It is not about the destination, but the journey, and the journey is peppered from hilarious set-pieces, satirical swipes, and quite beautifully written (and performed) songs. The Muppets always appealed to all ages, and adults have the pleasure of enjoying many self-reflexive moments and audience awareness (Kermit turns to camera and says I hope you appreciate I'm doing all my stunts!), as well as cameos from the likes of James Coburn, Mel Brooks, Bob Hope, Steve Martin, Richard Pryor, Madeline Kahn, Elliot Gould, and Orson Welles.Amongst all the mayhem, there is also a quite beautiful moment in Gonzo crooning I'm Going to Go Back There Someday, recollecting his past in the sky and desire to return someday. Rainbow Connection is also a great song, but my favourite musical moment has to be Movin' Right Along, gleefully sang by Kermit (on his banjo) and Fozzie - the movie really came to life for me here. It's moments like these that really make this movie special, and something that can hopefully still be cherished by modern consumerism-obsessed children (if they can pull themselves away from their i-Phone). Marc warned me that if this film didn't leave me feeling warm inside then there is no hope for me. Well, thankfully it did, so maybe there's hope for me yet.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Having not seen this in years, The Muppet Movie retains its charm to my child-like heart","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" With The Muppets out on screens right now, I decided to rewatch the first feature that starred the late Jim Henson's creations for the movies-The Muppet Movie. This was pure entertainment from beginning to end especially with all those celebrity cameos that abounded with perhaps the most hilarious coming from Steve Martin and Mel Brooks. There was also an amusing and touching one from Edgar Bergen with his dummy Charlie McCarthy. Amusing because of what was said and touching because they were the inspiration for Henson's career and that Bergen would soon pass away afterwards which was the reason for the dedication at the end-Dedicated to the memory and magic of Edgar Bergen. Besides the mostly hilarious screenplay by Jerry Juhl and Jack Burns, there were also wonderful songs by Paul Williams and Kenny Ascher of which the most inspirational was The Rainbow Connection as performed by Kermit the Frog at the beginning and which was later Oscar-nominated but lost to It Goes Like It Goes from Norma Rae. Oh, and Charles Durning was a hoot as the villain. Now I think I'll go rewatch The Great Muppet Caper... "},{"Title":"Why Are There So Many Songs About Rainbows?","Date":"29 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Director James Frawley gives us the first in a line of many Muppet movies with The Muppet Movie. The movie is about Kermit The Frog showing us a film about how the muppets not only met but got their start. The film follows Kermit, Fozzie, Gonzo, Miss Piggy, Rowlf, and Dr. Teeth and The Electric Mayhem going across the country to find their start in Hollywood. Meanwhile Doc Hopper played by Charles Durning is chasing after Kermit to use him as a spokes person for his new french fried frog leg restaurant. The film includes cameos from Steve Martin, Richard Pryor, Bob Hope, Edgar Bergen(this is also his last film role),Elliot Gould, Big Bird played by Carrol Spinney and many more. The Muppet Movie is the first movie in a long time that has left me with a good feeling and a smile on my face. I definitely recommend The Muppet Movie.Rated G.1hr 35min/95min.****/**** "},{"Title":"Lights, Cameras, Action! What a brilliant movie!","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I am 17, and a biased Muppet fan, and while I love Treasure Island, Christmas Carol and Great Muppet Caper, The Muppet Movie absolutely deserves to be up there with the best of them. It is enormously entertaining, thanks to the snappy script by Jerry Juhl, and the film looks lovely, with some beautifully staged musical numbers. Speaking of the songs, I really liked them, sure they aren't the best song score out of the Muppet franchise, but they were very nice to listen to, especially Never Before and Rainbow Connection. Rainbow Connection is now one of my favourite Muppet songs along with First Time It Happens and Professional Pirate. The Muppets as usual were fantastic, particularly the always delightful Miss Piggy, and the chemistry between Kermit and Fozzie was great. And what a brilliant human cast- from Bob Hope to Orson Welles, from Madeleine Kahn(the same wonderful actress who brought us hilarious movies like What's Up Doc?, Blazing Saddles and Clue) to Cloris Leachman, from Steve Martin to Richard Pryor, all of whom made memorable guest appearances, if careful not to overshadow the Muppets in a fantastic film. 10/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Life's Like a Movie. Write Your Ending.","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Muppet Movie directed by James FrawleyKermit the Frog and friends relive the tales and stories of how they all came together.The Muppets star in their first feature film, bringing the magic they are known for to a bigger picture. The story is not too complex and is written as a prequel of sorts. The well written jokes appear as each character gets a worthy introduction. The cameos aren't just thrown in either, but written in as interesting characters, making one of the many peaks for our furry friends. "},{"Title":"More entertaining than humanly possible!!!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a great movie, no matter how old you are. The humor works on many different levels and the puns are too numerous to count. The best part of the movie was Kermit and Ralph the Dog singing Can't Live With Them, Can't Live Without Them. Once a year I grab my Muppet Movie laser disk, a couple cans of Foster's and sing along. "},{"Title":"Praised highly","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The film is well written and brilliantly acted out by the Muppets themselves.  The soundtrack contains some brilliant songs - Movin' Right Along being the best.  The jokes are well executed and contain the kind of burlesque humour that viewers of The Muppet Show expect to see each week. Of all the Muppet films, this is definately my favourite. "},{"Title":"I'm 17 years old, but I still love the Muppets","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Words really can't explain how much I love Jim Henson and his zany muppets.  But, I'll try my best...This is my favorite muppet movie (appropiately titled The Muppet Movie) because it is both hilarious and endearing.  It doesn't sacrifice it's charm for the sake of being funny. It's wonderful and lots of fun.  All the cameo appearances are great, especially Orson Welles and Steve Martin Finest Wines of Idaho...excellent choice.  And all the origonal muppets are great too  Kermit, Miss Piggy, Gonzo, Scooter, the Electric Mayhem, Rowlf, Sam the Eagle, Lew Zealand, and most of all, Fozzie Bear, Would you consider a bear in a frog suit?  The movie also has wonderful catchy tunes (whenever I go on a road trip I always sing Moving right along!)  I love this movie. "},{"Title":"A classic of cinema, in every sense.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is the most blindingly optimistic movie I have ever seen. It was released at a time when I was coming of age and didn't want to be seen by my peers going to a puppet flick - so I only caught it on video. 50 screenings later, it still works for me on so many levels; as a musical with excellent Paul Williams numbers; as a comedy with very impressive (and personal) cameo appearances; as a philosophical 'Hero's Journey' (Henson & Juhl deserve 'Joseph Campbell kudos' just as much as George Lucas!); and it is a wonderful touchstone to Jim Henson's career & life.Whenever I'm sick, or sad or need a little lift this film guarentees a smile and the hope for sunnier days ahead. "},{"Title":"One of the top ten films of all time.","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I  know you are thinking why would anyone put the muppet movie in the top ten films of all time? Here's my proof... it stands the test of time. It is as funny if not funnier than the first time I saw it. It has the muppets and catchy little songs for children and then jokes and stars for adults. There is something for everyone. I am thankful that my parents had this movie when I was a child because it is responsible for so many positive childhood memories. I am also thankful that I didn't watch it for awhile because it was so funny when I started to get all the jokes that I didn't understand as a child. The whole movie starts to take on a completely different meaning. Go see it again or for the first time. "},{"Title":"One of the Top Family Movies of All Time","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I can't help but feel so much for this movie, not only because of the talents of the Muppet performers -- but the message behind the film is priceless.  This movie is pure Hollywood! Kermit discovers in himself that he has something special, a talent that can make millions of people happy -- what dreamer can't identify?  He makes his way across the country finding friends who share his dream. He is given the chance to sell out doing French Fried Frog Legs commercials for a greedy businessman named Doc Hopper, but Kermit continually refuses. His scene alone in the desert gives me heartache as he contemplates the meaning of dreaming under a lost starry sky. Priceless songs by Paul Williams and cameos by some of Hollywood's most respected comedians, both older and new, give the movie a timeless quality. With all this heart and hope, it deserves much more praise than it ever gets.  It's so much a homage to the dreamer in all of us.   "},{"Title":"Maybe you should try Hare Krishna","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  THE MUPPET SHOW was one of the best family shows ever, in that there was really something both kids and adults could enjoy. This film continues in the same vein, with silly slapstick for the young'uns and clever dialogue, weird in-jokes and tons of celebrity cameos for everyone else. Great music too! "},{"Title":"One of the sweetest movies ever...","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie came out in 1979 just days before I was born! I am a lifelong Muppets fan, and I love this movie to this day. The Rainbow Connection and Moving Right Along are great songs. I still love Kermit and the gang (especially Dr. Teeth's band) and I think the critics Statler and Waldorf are hysterical!!! This younger generation has Barney and the Teletubbies, but give me my Muppets any day... "},{"Title":"Absolutely splendid!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is one kid's movie the adults love even more...it's got great songs, tons of humor, more celebrity cameos than can sanely be believed, and lots of wordplay, horseplay, and froglegs.  It's about everything and nothing, and is far better than anything the muppets have done before or since. "}{"Title":"For sentimental reasons 10","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was the first movie I saw on the big screen when I was 7 years old. And still when I  see this one on television I enjoy it as I did the first time... The songs, the funny dialogues....It's all supergiganticextraordinairy funny and sweet...... My kinda fun!!!  "},{"Title":"Muppets franchise still moving right along today","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" My 6 year old Daughter Julia liked the Muppet movie so much that she cried when we had to return it to the library. My Daughter Julias Artificial intelligence computer on the Planet Coaltrain said Angel In Awe Command Post Daddy. I am glad that your Artificial intelligence computer is an angel and a command post Julia. Since this is a holodeck my spaceship is probably orbiting your planet so we can talk all the time. The friendship between fozzie bears character and Kermit the Frogs character makes this a buddy movie. People my daughters age enjoy the cuteness of the muppets and the musical numbers. The cameos of people like Steve Martin and Bob Hope mean a lot to the parents. This was the first movie I rented on videotape in 1980. My sisters Becki and Shari and I watched it over and over again. The Presidents State of the Union address was a superlative speech yesterday. I think that selling Jim Hensons muppets rights to Disney was an important partnership for continuing Hensons dreams of entertaining children. "},{"Title":"Many Great Cameos, But the Movie Has Dull Spots, Too","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Kermit and his new found friends trek across America to find success in Hollywood, but a frog-legs merchant (Charles Durning) is after Kermit.I am not quite sure on how to rate this film... it has many great cameos, particularly of stars of that era (some of whom have since been largely forgotten, I fear). Mel Brooks is great, Orson Welles is great (despite his short appearance)... Bob Hope, Steve Martin, and more...And yet, I just feel like it never hits the highest notes. Sure, the puppetry was amazing and I much prefer it to CGI. But the Miss Piggy romance song? Terrible, terrible song and should probably have been cut -- it drags the pace down and is hard on the ears. And the plot is so simple, it is not much to speak of. So we have a good technical achievement here, but as far as a story goes, it is not much. The same film with actors instead of Muppets and this would have been forgotten.It has been a while since I have seen Great Muppet Caper or Muppets Take Manhattan, but I feel like they were better films... even the new (2011) film may be a better film... "},{"Title":"An all around fun film","Date":"9 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have been a part of the Muppet experience since a very young age. The first Muppet production I watched was The Muppet Christmas Carol from 1994. My grandfather, being a great fan of the Charles Dickens classic, was watched it and as I joined him, I was instantly transfixed. Then, I moved on to Muppet Treasure Island and Muppets from Space but I wasn't till a few years ago that I finally saw this classic. Back in the mid to late 70's, Jim Henson decided to make his successful new program, The Muppet Show, into a feature film. And that has helped the Muppets grow and has helped them become what they are today. This movie showed how the Muppet gang came together in a very entertaining and fun way. All of the main characters of the show, from Rowlf the Dog to Camilla the Chicken, and of course, Kermit the Frog, are all there along with a variety of songs. In addition, there are several cameos from stars of that time. Among my favorites are Steve Martin and, specifically, Mel Brooks. This is a great introduction for someone who is not familiar with the Muppets and is a must see for those who are. "},{"Title":"What  an  amazing  story","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Who doesn't remember The Muppet Movie???Kermit the Frog is now an American culture icon. What child doesn't appeal to this character?As the first actual Muppet film, the movie simply called, The Muppet Movie did very well. Kermit takes a Hollywood agent's advice and goes out of his home swamp to respond to the ad. Along the way he meets up with a pig, a bear, chickens a rock band and a few other quality puppets. Watch for dozens of cameo appearances like Madaline Kahn, Steve Martian, Richard Pryor, Mel Brooks and several more. I grew up watching this movie and I loved it. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite childhood movies","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a movie that will brighten up your day, for sure. Kermit the Frog, is just an ordinary frog in his swamp, when a talent agent stops by and tells him that Hollywood is looking for frogs to be in movie (lol). On the way, Kermit meets Fozzie Bear, Miss Piggy, Gonzo and his chicken Camilla, Rowlf, The Electric Mayhem, Bunsen Honeydew and Beaker. But also trailing Kermit is the proprietor of a restaurant chain, Doc Hoppers French Fried Frog Legs. All things considered though, Kermit and the Muppets make it to Hollywood.This movie is recommended for everyone, young and old.It has some wonderful musical numbers, like The Rainbow Connection, I'm Going to go Back There Someday, and Movin' Right Along. The Muppets also use many forms of transportation in this movie. Kermit rides a bike, Fozzie drives a Studebaker, and another car, Gonzo takes flight with a bundle of helium balloons, (which is one of my favorite moments by the way ;) ), and Kermit and the rest of the Muppets finally go the rest of the way by the Electric Mayhem's bus (Dr. Teeth, Floyd, Janice, Scooter, and Animal); who meet up with them in the desert after Fozzie's car breaks down.Even some Sesame Street Muppets make cameo appearances (i.e. Big Bird is walking along on the road, on the way to NYC to break into public television). The end is also a very heartwarming moment. Every single Muppet created is in the final scene, along with a final Rainbow Connection reprise.But those poor Muppets worked so hard on their movie set, then it all comes crashing down, and the camera explodes in a huge ball of sparks. You'd think everything is ruined and destroyed, But the rainbow comes shining through the roof at the end, and it all sums up the magic of this film, and you know everything will be all right.Perfect 10/10. Watch it, and you'll be enchanted by the fun and sadness of this movie. "},{"Title":"'Classic' Is Not A Big Enough Word","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" First of all, before I start my review, I just read every review for 'The Muppet Movie' here and I can't believe that someone could give a negative review to a movie like this. (Fortunately there was only one.) I mean, I can understand how someone may not like 'Star Wars' due to the whole Sci-Fi genre, but to not like a movie starring some of the most lovable puppets in the history of mankind is almost sad. Okay, I will step off my soapbox now and review this movie.'The Muppet Movie' came out when I was seven. All of my friends wanted to see this as their birthday movie, so I think I saw it about four times in the first month in theaters.As a child many things attracted me to this and all the other Muppet movies & TV shows. The singing was probably the main one. Most of the songs in 'The Muppet Movie' are classics. From Rainbow Connection to I'm Going to Go Back There Someday, they're entertaining and thought-provoking.As an adult I see 'The Muppet Movie' in almost a whole different light. Yes, the things that thrilled me about it as a kid are still there, but it's the little jokes and such that are just plain hilarious.I mean, when you think about it, Jim Henson is a sick man. Kermit is a frog and that is in love with a sweet pig that wears purple gloves and could karate chop you into two pieces. Fozzie is a stand-up comedian bear. Gonzo is a 'whatever' that is infatuated with chickens. Then you have two old guys that heckle, a piano-playing dog, a rock band with a maniac drummer, a Swedish chef that you can't understand and a number of other characters that are just plain eccentric.Yet, for these reasons and more, Henson has entertained millions of children and adults, giving us all something special to watch and remember him by. 'The Muppet Movie' will always remain in my heart for many reasons, but I think the biggest one is because it's a movie, unlike a lot of recent children's movies, that I feel comfortable to have my kids watch. Plus, I don't get bored out of my mind with jokes that are dumbed down to my kids' level.It's a great movie that is sure to be remembered forever. "},{"Title":"Watch it again for the first time...","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you haven't seen this film in a long time, or since you were a kid, WATCH IT AGAIN.  I forgot just how funny this film is.  The humor is brilliantly on two levels.  Children and adults can both enjoy this movie for different reasons.  I honestly cannot think of another film which made me laugh as much or as often as The Muppet Movie.  Watch it again for the first time. Possibly my favorite film ever! "},{"Title":"wow!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  this is one of best films Jim Henson had ever done! the plot is excellent, the muppets were brilliant along side an all-star cast! the songs were brilliant, especaily the Rainbow Connection, which well deserved the 1979 Oscar for Best Song, which it recieved, and I Hope that Something Better Comes Along is my personal favourite! It doesn't matter if you're a muppet fan or not, children and adults will like it a lot and will remain a timeless family favourite!  "},{"Title":"Jim Henson at his finest","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I admit this one of the first movies I remember seeing, so I have mostly positive memories. At the time I enjoyed seeing the muppets and the message to follow your dreams.  Later on I saw that Jim Henson put a fair amount of effort by include jokes that both adults and kids would enjoy. For instance the joke, Turn left at the fork in the road cracks me every time. This movie also has the talents of Telly Salvas, Edgar Bergman and his pupper Charles Mc Carthey ;two actors who are sadly not with us anymore. So the movie is great for all kids and kids at heart in my opinion. "}{"Title":"light-hearted fun","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Kermit the Frog is happily living in the swamps. Bernie the Agent (Dom DeLuise) is lost and suggests World Wide Studios' open audition for frogs. Kermit decides to go to Hollywood and finds various friends along the way. Doc Hopper (Charles Durning) tries to get him to be the new spokesfrog for his chain of frog legs restaurants. It's a string of cameos and light-hearted fun.It's the first theatrical film for Jim Henson's Muppets. Other than the awkward frog legs restaurants, this is simple childhood joy. It's nice to see each group of Muppets get introduced. There's a lovely feeling for everybody. There are a few catchy songs. There is something joyous about watching these Muppets walking around. I don't really like the villain. Maybe they should have used another Muppet. "},{"Title":"Muppets First Outing.","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Muppet Movie (1979) Dir James Frawley / Featuring Charles Durning, Mel Brooks, Austin Pendleton, Scott Walker, Dom DeLuise Imaginative family film about the magic of filmmaking and in particular the wonderment of the Muppets. Kermit the frog sits on a log playing his ukelele until Dom DeLuise rows by and offers him a copy of Variety, which has an ad for singing frogs. He decides to go to Hollywood to become a star and along the way he encounters fellow Muppet pals Fozzie Bear, the Great Gonzo, and Miss Piggy. Fine opening with detailed road movie plotting thanks to director James Frawley. Charles Durning plays the villain who wants Kermit as a trademark for French Fried Fog's Legs restaurants. Among his henchmen are Mel Brooks as a brilliant scientist who attempts to render Kermit a real frog through a machine but this will backfire. Others have rather standard roles. Austin Pendleton plays Durning's closest henchman who will have a change of heart. Scott Walker plays the nasty Snake Walker set to exterminate Kermit. Other celebrities appear briefly but memorably. It is a wonderful combination of movie stars interacting with these fictional creations and with great payoff. Imaginative family film that will appeal to children as well as adults. It succeeds in the wondrous magic of Muppet creator Jim Henson and the world he creates. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Hollywood's current super couples are no threat to Pig and Frog.","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Replacing moose and squirrel as the top non-human super couple of television, Kermit the Frog and Miss Piggy moved onto the movies in the late 1970's and never looked back. Miss Piggy, already a T.V. diva, even went as far as to protest on the Oscars as to why she was not nominated to which host Johnny Carson told her the only Oscar she was worthy of was Oscar Mayer. Kermit, of course, was much more humble, and coming from the swamp as opposed to a luxurious sty, that makes perfect sense to me. In fact, if it wasn't for Dom De Luise paddling through that swamp on a boat and finding Kermit strumming a banjo singing The Rainbow Connection, he might still be there today! It is De Luise's suggestion that he get himself to Hollywood and present himself as their newest romantic star. After all, the last time frogs made an impression in Hollywood was those nasty ones who along with some snakes and other swamp creatures invaded Ray Milland's plantation in the horror epic Frogs. The musical adventure follows Kermit's journey, his romance with beauty contestant winner Miss Piggy, and most nefariously, Charles Durning's desire to use Kermit for commercials for his chain of frog's legs restaurants which of course makes Kermit hopping mad. All of the muppet regulars join Kermit and Piggy for their journey to Hollywood and dreams of movie stardom. Even Big Bird makes an appearance, turning down Kermit's offer to join them, trying to find his way to public television rather than that dangerous world known as Hollywood.There's a dozen cameos by various celebrities of the era (and a few of the past) including Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy as judges in Miss Piggy's beauty contest, Bob Hope who makes jokes while selling Kermit ice cream, Richard Pryor as a sarcastic balloon salesman, Milton Berle as a shyster car salesman, Steve Martin as a sarcastic waiter who almost spoils Miss Piggy and Kermit's date, Cloris Leachman as an officious movie studio secretary (sneezing as she is surrounded by the furry creatures invading her office), and finally, Orson Welles as a very imperious seeming movie mogul who hides a huge heart of gold underneath his enormous girth.The Rainbow Connection, Kermit's theme song here, has almost surpassed It's not easy being green as his theme song. After many years of making the rounds on every variety show and of course Sessame Street, the muppets moved onto a very popular syndicated show which lead to their transition into the movies. This was one of the biggest hits of the 1979 summer season and has stood the test of time, even if some of the cameos by the various older stars may not ring any bells of familiarity with today's younger audiences. As for the other songs in the film, they are vibrant and peppy, if shortened for the movie with lyric changes that were heard on the original soundtrack album. Miss Piggy really hams it up with her big solo, Never Before, Never Again, but even that is really worth a Golden Apple. Seldom after has Hollywood given us entertainment that continues to appeal to practically everybody to this day. "},{"Title":"The first Muppet caper","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" With the Muppet Show being a big hit on television, The Muppet Movie quickly followed but a non Henson company man (James Frawley) was tasked to direct which led to creative differences and a film that is a little distant from the hit television show.After meeting a Hollywood agent (Dom DeLuise) by chance, Kermit the Frog leaves his swamp to go to Hollywood. He is pursued by fast food mogul Doc Hopper (Charles Durning) and his henchman (Austin Pendleton) who wants Kermit to promote his failing frog legs business.What is essentially a road movie Kermit meets other Muppet characters such as Fozzie Bear in El Sleezo bar, Dr Teeth and the Electric Mayhem, the Great Gonzo and Miss Piggy.In a sense the film maps out how the Muppets formed and the film is a mixture of slapstick, star cameos, songs, comedic set pieces as well as taking satirical swipe at the commercialisation of modern times. The film has a surreal even Pythonesque appeal with humour directed at kids and adults but it does not always quiet come together but is still better than some sequels which had more direct control by the Henson clan.Lord Lew Grade pulled some favours as he enticed stars such as Telly Savalas, James Coburn, Milton Berle, Mel Brooks, Cloris Leachman, Steve Martin, Richard Pryor, Madeline Kahn, Elliot Gould, Carol Kane, Bob Hope and even Orson Welles. "},{"Title":"Through the filters of nostalgia","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I love the Muppets and I know this film is a precious childhood memory for many, but to me they didn't stand the transition from the small screen all that well. The Muppet Movie lacks the special combination of subtlety and insane mayhem of the TV show, the combination that made it perfectly enjoyable on totally different levels for both children and adults - the film is directed much more clearly at children, if somewhat older ones than the Sesame Street audience. The attempt to create a coherent narrative makes the whole thing feel way too tame while not creating a very interesting story. Having said all that, The Muppet Movie does have some very funny moments, superb musical segments, and a wonderful collection of guest star cameos - some Muppet Show veterans, some a complete surprise. For all that, for some beautiful landscape shots, and for one more chance to meet all those wonderful characters, it's still a minor classic worth rewatching. "},{"Title":"puppets of glory","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" And so, we finally get to learn the origins of Kermit the Frog, Miss Piggy, Fozzie Bear, and the rest. Of course, The Muppet Movie is more than a series of absurd gags (but make no mistake, there are quite a few of those). The main issue is friendship and standing up for what one believes in. Still, it's fun to watch Kermit elude the lascivious Doc Hopper (Charles Durning) and the Doc's meek assistant Max (Austin Pendleton) while meeting the rest of the Muppets on the way to Hollywood, and to spot the seemingly endless number of comedians in bit parts.OK, so we could be cynical and note that Jim Henson's work got excessively commercial after he died. But still, the movie is a perfect representation of Henson's original vision. And besides, how can you not like Steve Martin's performance as the waiter and Mel Brooks's performance as the scientist? The Muppet Movie is one flick that you can't afford to miss! PS director James Frawley is the son of William Frawley, who played Fred Mertz on I Love Lucy "},{"Title":"Life Is Your Dream, Stop Watching and Start Fulfilling !","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It's about one dream got fulfilled. Kermit the Frog /Jim Henson tells us cinematically how he reached finally to make his own movie/this movie! It's about hunting the chance to succeed. And because its own genuine truthfulness it succeeds for me.Once, in some magazine I found this movie in a list for the most underrated movies ever. It is indeed. Yes, it doesn't have the excellent hilarity of the original TV show, or the fancy Hollywood adventure (as their next movies, for instance; The Great Muppet Caper). It got one man's dream, insistence and innocence. That's enough for me. And perhaps for that list's editors.Actually you'd never find this sense of vagabondage, self-suffering, dream's sheer value, or the collective desire to be, in a Muppet movie again. It is their only road movie yet, with all the uniqueness of the case. And, in the same time, it's one of the happiest biography-movies ever; look at the cameo of Henson's other famous character (Big Bird) who at one moment tells Kermit that he's going to New York to break into public television, which already happened through Henson's landmark TV show Sesame Street (1969)! It's like Henson says I Did It. This feel of pride touches you yet in a lovely humble way, as someone chronicles his achievements while making another new one.I loved exceptionally the movie-in-the-movie matter; Henson doesn't get board out of assuring that he and the rest of his creative buddies are basically viewers, simple viewers just like you. So the viewer also can make their own movie/ their dream. This meaning hasn't been ever clearer before.There is a delightful magic all over it. You feel all the time a romantic sensibility, with a taste of latent dolefulness too. Look at the intro of Kermit. From choosing the arborous location, to the tender camera's motion and the so smooth editing ; aside from being a holy cinematic moment, it personified coming back to nature, the beauty of the innate talent, and the loneliness of Kermit and his dream as well.And the songs! Ohh, I've never been fascinated with a musical like this unless very few. Never Before is a complete classic. I'm astonished how big performers such as Sinatra or else didn't cover it ?! Moving Right Along is the Muppets' own optimism's anthem. Or Find Your Rainbow Connection where the lyrics, the melody, and the singing deliver the meaning smartly and enjoyably. Actually I consider this, as a whole, one perfect soundtrack for a dream's journey.It reminds me with (The Band Wagon &#x96; 1953). Actually it doesn't need much of thinking to realize that (The Muppet Movie) bears a resemblance to this great classic; whereas both of them are musical comedies, based originally on one lonely artist who wants to be, and center around making a musical; it's the way some movie makers see their dream, and then recreate it in a movie, yet as beautiful as a dream.The ending was the weakest part. How the Hollywood producer just convinced this easily ??? The movie was sluggish there. Or maybe, just maybe, this is the movie's own definition for what a stroke of luck is ! As you see, this script teaches us, the hopeful dreamers, that it needs a lot  talent, faith, togetherness, solidarity, patience, a bit of failure.. depression.. being lonely, prosperity granted by God (aka  luck), and a portion of hypocrisy as well (Kermit commends Miss Piggy at the final number then apologizes to us clarifying how forced he is  Hollywood Talk !).It's a musical comedy about making a musical comedy, or the musical comedy for this group of unknown yet talented misfits. A lot of stars got to support it, but the real star of it was the pure essence or the extract of Henson's dream/life/movie  Life is a movie, write your own ending. WAW ! So you can be the hero of your life ?! Make your own destiny ?! Great men did it. Jim Henson is one. Yet, he's the one who told you that it isn't impossible. You can do it too. "},{"Title":"THE MUPPET MOVIE (James Frawley, 1979) ***","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The first feature-length adventure of Jim Henson's beloved muppet characters is a very competent musical comedy vehicle as Kermit The Frog leaves his carefree, swampy surroundings for the bright lights (egged on by stranded Hollywood agent Dom DeLuise who overheard him singing); on the way, he meets Fozzie Bear (a pitiful stand-up comedian at James Coburn's El Sleazo Caf who has Telly Savalas for a bouncer and Madeline Kahn a patron!), the piano-playing dog Rowlf, bestial drummer Animal and his laid-back, funky band, egomaniacal beauty queen Miss Piggy (in a ceremony presided over by Elliott Gould and Edgar Bergen), etc. All the while, Kermit et al are pursued by frogleg burger magnate Charles Durning and reluctant acolyte Austin Pendleton, sold cars, ice cream and balloons to by, respectively, Milton Berle, Bob Hope and Richard Pryor, served food by insolent waiter Steve Martin, nearly brainwashed by mad German scientist Mel Brooks and, finally, land an audition in the offices of movie mogul Orson Welles (who has Cloris Leachman for a secretary)! The pleasant song score comes courtesy of Paul Williams who also makes an appearance as the resident pianist at El Sleazo's. For the record, I have recently acquired four of the subsequent Muppet movies and should be watching them in the weeks to come when their turn falls due. "},{"Title":"A Little Frog with a Big Dream","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A delight from start to finish.If you don't like the Muppets, then I just have to feel sorry for you. This terrific film doesn't simply cash in on the Muppets' popularity -- it's a well-conceived and well-written film in its own right. It's got great songs, and it has that thread of wistful melancholy that was always present in Jim Henson's creations and which is most personified in the character of Kermit the Frog. I always responded to this as a kid, and it's what makes the Muppets still enjoyable to me as an adult when other material aimed at children drives me crazy.A huge cast of big names appearing in cameos makes this film feel like a kiddie-sized version of Around the World in 80 Days, except that it's about 80 times better.Grade A "},{"Title":"charming movie with timeless appeal","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I first saw this movie as a teenager when it came out in theaters, way back when. Seeing it again, nearly 30 years later, I was surprised at how well it has held up. The gags are still funny, the interaction between characters works great, and the cameos come off better than ever. (Steve Martin's has to be the best one.) My kids (9, 11, and 14) all loved it, and the music is good enough that they are still humming the tunes many days later.I would suggest that before seeing the movie, you should view at least a half-dozen episodes of the Muppet Show, to get a sense of the back-story behind the characters, otherwise the movie won't make all that much sense. "}{"Title":"Clearly the Best of the Muppet Line","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" As Muppet movies go, this is easily and clearly the best. It features loads of cameos by big named comedic stars of the age, a solid script, and some great Disneyesque songs, and blends them together in a culmination of the best display of Henson's talent. The story is basic, and the jokes are many-leveled in order to amuse both the adults and the kids to which this was marketed, without exposing them to ideologies their parents may not find desirable.This is simply fun, but it is also a well made, well written, beautifully endearing classic.It rates an 8.9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"When Miss Piggies Attack","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This wonderful movie captures so many elements of what makes a family comedy funny, entertaining, sweet and memorable, it's difficult to decide where to start.From the opening number, Rainbow Connection, Paul Williams's excellent score sung with gusto by Kermit D. Frog, which gives us a prologue of what the whole adventure is about, throughout the story, this is one fun movie.Essentially, it's a road trip movie, where Kermit travels cross-country with a dream of pursuing a rich and famous contract to entertain. Along the way, our green hero meets a series of other aspiring actors, comedians, singers, and musicians, who coincidentally, are muppets like Kermit himself. Is this how the Muppets really started? Approximately how it happened, Kermit tells us.Not since It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World has the cameo formula been used so prolifically and successfully. The aspiring stars encounter many recognizable faces during their Odyssey; some just blink across the screen, but others have very memorable cameos. Steve Martin's amusing bit as a rude waiter is probably the best. Puppeteer Jim Henson's nod to his inspiration, Edgar Bergen, is especially touching.Anyone who ever watched the Muppets TV show will get to see all of their favorite characters, they're all here. The puppetry work is magnificent; look especially for Kermit riding a bicycle (how dey do dat???) In-jokes and references to old movies are everywhere, but the best one-liners are reserved for Kermit himself. An example when the crooks are terrorizing Kermit and Piggy, she affectionately says to her short, green, and handsome beau, I wouldn't give up this evening together for anything, would you? Uhhh, make me an offer.... I also love the gunfight at the OK Corral scene brilliantly absurd silliness.Gotta get Movin' right along now, but to summarize a good natured movie that can be enjoyed by anyone, regardless of age or movie genre taste. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Timeless Fun for the Whole Family","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The mature one-liners come with machine-gun rapidity right from the start.Man in boat I'm lost. Kermit Have you tried Hare Krishna?Kermit That's pretty dangerous to be building a road in the middle of the street. If frogs couldn't hop, I'd be 'gone with the Schwynne.Fozzie The dancing girls are off tonight.  Kermit The crowd is getting ugly. Fozzie You think the crowd is ugly...you should see the dancing girls.Fozzie I don't know how to thank you. Kermit I don't know why to thank you.The visuals are a real treat for the kids - will we ever forget seeing the muppets with real legs? Kermit riding his bike, Fozzie dancing...Perhaps the screenplay can't compete with the modern use of computers (Shrek, Monsters Inc., Ice Age, Finding Nemo are sumptuous visual feasts); but the charm and timing of the Muppet Movie hearkens to a simpler time that warms the heart. "},{"Title":"There Are Muppets Everywhere!","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Muppet Movie is one of those films that just puts a smile on your face. It is silly and totally outlandish, but it has a unique charm that makes it a worthy and endearing production in the end. Kermit is persuaded to go to Hollywood by agent Dom DeLuise to make it big as an entertainer and ends up escorting his Muppet friends along the way. He must also dodge Charles Durning though as he wants Kermit's frog legs. Cameos all over the place and the amazing theme song, The Rainbow Connection (which even received an Oscar nomination for that year), continue to make The Muppet Movie one of the more memorable fun trips to the theater in the late-1970s. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"The Drinks Are On The House","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Quality entertainment all around. The spectacle of Kermit on his bicycle is one thats as memorable as ANY in cinema history. There's just not a bad thing to be said. Tons of muppets, great cameos, slapstick, puns, whatever you want, its here. The lovers, the dreamers, and me INDEED. "},{"Title":"You've got a home at the Magic Store!.","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The first of the Muppet films! And at the time there were skeptics who said that A Muppet film couldn't be done. Boy, were they proved wrong! Jim Henson and co. provide pure entertainment throughout the whole picture.SPOILER WARNINGSThe film is essentially a road movie.  After meeting a Hollywood agent and learning that a big film studio is holding auditions, Kermit the Frog hits the road, picking up various friends on the way.  First he meets Fozzie Bear, telling jokes in a nasty cafe.  Then they meet Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem, and then Gonzo and his chicken friend Camilla, and then the incomparable Miss Piggy, and finally Rowlf the Dog.  All of these guys decide to head for Tinseltown to hit the big time.But there is trouble in the form of shady Southern businessman Doc Hopper.  He intends to open a chain of frog-leg restaurants and wants Kermit to be his spokesman.  Doc won't take no for an answer and tries just about every trick in the book to get his way.  The Muppets themselves are brilliant, Charles Durning as Doc Hopper is a suitably hissable bad guy, and the celebrity guest artists who cameo are all great, particularly Mel Brooks as a mad scientist and Steve Martin as an unbelievably sarcastic waiter.  The best part of the movie is without a doubt the songs, the stand outs being the Oscar-nominated 'Rainbow Connection' and Gonzo's song 'I'm Going To Go Back There Someday' (which inspired the plot of the later MUPPETS FROM SPACE).  A treat for all the family! "},{"Title":"Pure, unadulterated, undiluted, unabriged genius","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  One of the greatest offerings of the 70's, the Muppets offer worthwhile entertainment for kids without speaking down to them. This movie is still as good 23 years later and the celebrity cameos really add entertainment value. "},{"Title":"The Muppets, Who Are They? Where Did They Come From? And How Much Do They Cost?","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS          The Muppets have all gotten together to view their very first motion picture. It tells the story of how they all met. The whole gang was there Kermit, Miss Piggy, Fozzie, Gonzo, Bunsen, Beaker, Scooter, even Statler and Waldorf, the critics. The movie opens with Kermit in the swamp singing about rainbows. He's suddenly greeted by Bernie, a Hollywood agent lost in the swamp. He tells Kermit about Hollywood, where dreams come true. As much as he hated to leave the swamp, he wanted to fulfill his destiny, so Kermit hopped (pun intended) on his bicycle and headed for Hollywood. He didn't get very far, due to a steam roller ran over his bike.              He arrived at the El Sleazo Cafe where he witnessed the worst comedian in the business Fozzie Bear. Kermit saved his act by dancing with him on stage. The performance was witnessed by Doc Hopper and his assistant, Max. Hopper was opening a chain of frog leg restaurants. Yes, a restaurant that served frog legs for people to eat. Gross. He wanted Kermit to be his spokesperson, but Kermit declined. Fozzie wanted to accompany Kermit to Hollywood so they jumped in Fozzie's Studebaker that his uncle loanded to him while hibernating. The distance between Rhode Island and California was very long, but they could make it. Along the way they run into Big Bird. They ask if he would like a lift, but he declines. He's going to New York to be on public television. Maybe he could be on a children's show located on an inner-street where humans and monsters co-exist. 'Possibility, you know; They meet Dr. Teeth and his band, Floyd, Janice, Scooter, Zoot and Animal and a weird plumber, Gonzo. Gonzo and his chicken Camilla accompany Kermit and Fozzie who trade in Fozzie's classic Studebaker for an old Woody. They get it from used car salesman Milton Berle. They stop at a fair where Gonzo purchases a bunch of balloons from Balloon Vender Richard Pryor and Fozzie get's ice cream from Ice Cream Vendor Bob Hope. Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy entertain, and when first laying eyes on Kermit, Miss Piggy falls head over hooves. She joins them.         Doc Hopper continues to plague Kermit and pals. He hires a frog killer to go after him. They were even kidnapped while dining at a restaurant with Waiter Steve Martin. Mad Scientist Mel Brooks tried to electrocute Kermit, but Miss Piggy gives them whatfor; when experiencing car trouble, it's Dr. Teeth to the rescue! Kermit decides to stop running and stand up to Doc Hopper, so they stop at an old ghost town. Kermit meets Dr. Bunsen Honeydew and his assistant, Beaker, who show him their latest creation Insta-Grow Pills. Animal eats some and it really comes in handy when Doc Hopper tries to eliminate Kermit and pals. So, on to Hollywood! When they get there, Lew Lord is fascinated and prepares a standard Rich and Famous contract for Kermit the Frog and Company. And there you have it!        A pretty good movie. Back when good old Jim Henson was around and did the Muppets. Now a bunch of other guys are in control and messed up everything he did. There's an all-star celebrity cast in the movie! Many have passed on, but some are still alive. If you're a fan of The Muppet Show, or even if you aren't, then I recommend The Muppet Movie!- "},{"Title":"the best of all 'road movies'","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have just seen this movie for the first time in 23yrs...and oddly enough those numbers should make me feel OLD...but infact the very opposite...its amazing to think a soundtrack to a film can influence ur music tastes for decades to come (should that be admitted or not?)smart writing and clever (buffy the hand puppet episode?) it has stood the test of this cynical 34yr old's time...the best of all 'road movies' with everything from a look to the stars (gonzo's lament) ala Lion King to a 4ft pruneand for godsake bring back a movie with obvious cameoslife's like a movie write your own ending "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is one of the greatest Muppet movies I have ever seen! I have it on DVD. My brother likes it, too. The movie is about the Muppets trying to get to Hollywood for the audition to become rich and famous. The film is so hilarious! The Muppet Movie is a must see for every Muppet or Jim Henson fans. Followed by other great Muppet films and shows! Excellent!10/10 stars! "}{"Title":"I will pass this one on to my kids..I love it.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Colorful, scenically pleasing, humorous for the adults..but mostly fantastic adventure with all the lovable muppet characters and their songs.  I still cry at the end.  The interactions with the muppets and people are very believable.  This kind of masterpiece cannot be made today.  (The movie where the muppets go to space proves that) "},{"Title":"Ah, a bear in his natural habitat... a Studebaker","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  First and foremost... this is NOT a children's movie.  True, children can enjoy it and will laugh but, as with the Muppet Show, Rocky & Bullwinkle, the great old Warner Bros. cartoons and even the Animaniacs, kids don't really get the jokes... they are written for the adults.  For example, how many kids know that a bear was the emblem of Studebaker? Or recognize Dr. John as Dr. Teeth?  I have also been told that this movie is actually Jim Henson's autobiography... he, of course, being Kermit (BTW, when we lost Jim so tragically, they should have let Kermit go to... he just isn't the same without Jim) and his group builds as he pulls new friends into his magical gravity pool (Frank Oz, especially).  The other great thing about MM is Paul William's soundtrack.  Unfortunately, it is not available on CD and, since I don't own a turntable anymore, can't listen to the record but it is one of William's three masterpiece soundtracks from the 1970s (the others being Phantom of the Paradise and Bugsy Malone), but in college (yes, college) in 1980, I used to drive my roommate nuts because every morning as I would get ready to leave, I would listen to the record.  None of the other Muppet Movies has ever managed to capture the charm or the magic of the original. They have had their moments but they are truly kids films, but at least we grown-ups have the Muppet Movie for ourselves... and a thing... whatever Gonzo is. "},{"Title":"The Muppet Movie","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was basically a film telling the story of how all the Muppets met and went to Hollywood for fame and fortune. It starts with Kermit the Frog (Jim Henson) in the swamp being told by a lost boat guy he has talent with singing and jokes. So Kermit decides to head for Hollywood. Along the way he meets many new friends including Fozzie Bear (Frank Oz), The Electric Mayhem Dr. Teeth (Henson), Floyd (Jerry Nelson), Zoot (Dave Goelz), Janice (Richard Hunt), Animal (Oz) and Scooter (Richard Hunt); The Great Gonzo (Goelz), Rowlf (Henson), and of course Miss Piggy (Oz). With cameos by Edgar Bergen and his puppet Charlie MacArthy, Mel Brooks, James Coburn, Dom DeLuise, Elliot Gould, Bob Hope, Steve Martin, Richard Pryor, Telly Savalas, Orson Welles and Paul Williams. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Paul Williams and Kenny Ascher. The Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Rainbow Connection was number 74 on 100 Years, 100 Songs, it was number 67 on The 100 Greatest Family Films, and The Muppets were number 47 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Very good! "},{"Title":"Arguably one of the most innovative musicals of its time ...","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Arguably one of the most innovative musicals of its time and genre, 'The Muppet Movie' is clearly a musical rather than a film. Although it has the exhausted storyline of having a dream to make it in Hollywood, the soul of the music comes through more than the script and the characters. "},{"Title":"The Muppets hit the big screen","Date":"25 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Muppets made their big screen debut in this 1979 film, which acts as a blue print for all the others that have followed it.Wisely showing how the Muppets came to be this film has all the charm, humour and cameos that we have come to expect. It also boasts the classic song 'The Rainbow Connection', which continues to be as profound today as it was then.I think the film is quite slow in places and obviously the big name cameos at the time are less impressive today for younger viewers.However it's fun and enjoyable enough viewing and is certainly one of the better outings for Kermit and the gang. "},{"Title":"Exceptionally good but too many inane cameos","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I enjoyed THE MUPPET MOVIE very much. It was the first of the Muppet movies and is by far the best because it's so creative and fresh. With later films, the ideas just didn't seem quite so original. But here, we get to see Kermit and Miss Piggy riding bikes (an incredibly difficult scene), an excellent ensemble cast and just a lot of fun. I loved every minute the Muppets were performing and I would have rated the film a lot higher except for one serious problem. In this and most subsequent Muppet films, some powers that be felt there was a need to include lots of non-Muppets--in particular, many, many cameos by stars. Some worked fine (such as Charles Durning's) but many just seemed irrelevant and slowed the picture to a grinding halt. Probably the worst of them was with Edgar Bergan. Yes, he was an amazing man who inspired Jim Henson and the rest of his crew, but the tiny scene he's in just wasn't needed nor were most of the cameos. Still, despite this big complaint, it's a great film for the entire family--from the kids to even the most demanding adults. "},{"Title":"Good movie!","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Muppet Movie is just not for kids but adults as well.It has a lot big stars in the film.I was amazed by how the muppets were like Kermit riding a bike and Fozzie driving a car.The film is funny and very entertaining and I think this is a movie for everyone to enjoy! "},{"Title":"Bright Comedy Loses its Way","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Starts off cheerily enough with the two best songs of this Muppet musical, The Rainbow Connection and Movin' Right Along. After these two catchy numbers the first big screen outing for the Muppets kind of loses its way, despite some bright comedy.All the favourites are here, including Kermie, Miss Piggy, Fozzie, Gonzo and the gang. Even with the entire crew along, the film struggles to stay afloat for its hour and a half plus running time. Features an amazing gathering of guest stars, including Dom DeLuise, James Coburn, Richard Pryor, Madeline Kahn, Steve Martin, Mel Brooks, Elliot Gould, Bob Hope, Carol Kane, Telly Savalas, Orson Welles and Big Bird! Co-stars Charles Durning and Austin Pendleton.PS Didn't James Frawley go on to direct Fraternity Vacation? Go figure!Thursday, December 30, 1999 - Video "},{"Title":"Unfunny, and Painfully Slow","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'm very thankful that The Muppet Movie is not my first exposure to these characters. I've seen many of their movies before, as well as their TV show, so I know that these characters are capable of being funny. Had I seen The Muppet Movie first, however, I likely would've avoided the muppets like the plague. A truly terrible film in just about every respect, The Muppet Movie is a disaster, and I find it strange that other people don't see that.In a nutshell, The Muppet Movie is about Kermit the Frog, who is convinced he may have a career in film, and goes on a crazy road trip to Hollywood, picking up new friends to come along. Things are further complicated, however, by a villainous man named Doc Hopper, who's intent on using Kermit to promote his fried-frog-leg business.This is not a complicated story. And yet, The Muppet Movie seems to have found the most convoluted way possible to tell it. The story is completely unfocused, and the whole production lacks any kind of cohesiveness. At times, I began wondering if this was really the entire film, as it seems that major scenes or necessary dialogue were missing somehow. Perhaps there was initially a longer cut of the film, but it was condensed in editing. Research may prove beneficial, but I'm not sure how much more time I want to waste on this film.The Muppet Movie also suffers from fairly poor comedy. I'll admit, the first 20 minutes has some pretty memorable scenes, and the many cameos (while a bit excessive) were fairly amusing. Yet, after the first 20 minutes, the whole film is a complete and utter drag. Paced absurdly slow, with almost no successful humor, The Muppet Movie is mind- numbingly boring.At the same time, many of the jokes are painfully terrible. Most of the time, it's hard to tell apart clever parody, or awful joke. I'm sure a lot of the humor was hilarious 30 years ago, but today, none of it really works.At least the songs are good, right? Well, no. Yes, Rainbow Connection is a classic, and Movin' Right Along is pretty catchy, but the rest of the songs are weak. Never Before, Never Again, is completely forgettable, and immensely dull. I Hope That Something Better Comes Along sounds like the lyrics were written by an eight year old, and I'm Going to Back There Someday just sounds like a bad rip-off of Rainbow Connection. Still, none of these songs are even close to as awful as Can You Picture That? I very nearly skipped this song because I despised it so, and in retrospect, that might not have been such a bad idea.The acting is all right, though hardly revolutionary. The human cast is basically just there to either move the story along, or interact with the muppets. Still, Charles Durning is pretty funny as Doc Hopper. And the many, many cameos are at least worth a smile. Still, Steve Martin's cameo may be one of the strangest I've seen. It wasn't so much funny as it was odd.The score, by Paul Williams, is fun. The uses of the Rainbow Connection theme are great, but there's not much here to note.The Muppet Movie is simply terrible. Slow, unfunny, poorly written, and with terrible songs, this is a disaster, and I can't believe how highly it's often regarded. Even the first 20 minutes, which I mentioned earlier as the funniest part of the film, never made me laugh. A handful of smiles and some clever cameos are all The Muppet Movie has to offer. In my opinion, it could only please the nostalgic, or the desperate. "},{"Title":"More Hobbes, please","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Walt Disney, Jim Henson, and George Lucas.  Under normal circumstances, the public accepts their work without thinking.  It's thanks to 'Howard the Duck' that Lucas received his pitfall, Henson had 'Labyrinth', and Disney destroyed our collective imaginations and our perception of history with 'Davy Crockett', '20,000 Leagues Under the Sea', and 'Johnny Tremain'.  Only 'Bambi' is his redeeming grace.  In reality, their work is too simple to be taken seriously and only due to other people's actions, namely Steve Jobs and Irvin Kerschner, that we remember their names better.  Magicians need more than charm to become true wizards.My favorite comic strip for the last 18 years has been Calvin & Hobbes because of Calvin's integrated reality.  There is the real world where Calvin exists, then there is the hallucinatory world where Hobbes exists with Calvin, and finally there is Calvin's imagination where he envisions himself on occasion.That is the most detail I've ever seen in an everyday comic strip.  This movie is almost on the same level.  Here is the grand exception.Like many kid films in the genre, the people (adults in particular) are cruel and cynical to better contrast the humanity and niceness of the Muppets.  So this film relies on a non-human tradition similar to Lynch's Elephant Man.Who'd have thought a kids movie from the 70s would have this much retaining power?Final Analysis = = Learn from this... "}{"Title":"For the Kids","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The movie debut of The Muppets has Kermit and company heading west seeking Hollywood stardom. While it's fun spotting stars in cameo roles, they are given little to do. The script is quite lame, with only a few chuckles here and there. The film is aimed primarily at kids and they will enjoy it, but it's tough going for others. Kermit is an adorable character and he and Miss Piggy make a cute couple but that is not enough to sustain a feature film. Rainbow Connection is a nice tune but the other songs are not memorable and there are too many of them. Although only about an hour and a half long, it seems to go on too long. "},{"Title":"I've seen detergents that leave a better film than this...","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In case you don't already know, the plot of this film is the singing talent that is Kermit treks to Hollywood as a merchant wants Kermit to be a spokesman.  From that basic plot, not much happens.  There are a few laughs along the way, but not enough to sustain the film.  In fact, it gets downright boring in the final third and after the Muppets get to Hollywood, it seems that the film will never end.  The film also contains a couple scenes that may disturb children.For genuinely funny Muppet movies, I'd recommend The Great Muppet Caper and Muppets From Space. "}]