[{"Title":"Who is 'VGER'?","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"113 out of 171 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture is the first film in the Star Trek series, the most successful series in movie history.  After all, the fact that a movie series can hold the public's interest for 21 years (and nine films) and that the whole Star Trek concept is alive and well after over 30 years says something about the genius of Gene Roddenberry, Star Trek's creator.People seem to cricitize this film heavily.  Some of the criticisms of the film that I have heard in my discussions with people include phrases such as frightfully boring, way too long, and chronically lacking in action. However, if that is all you saw in the film, then you clearly missed out on the film's beauty.  This film is not about guns, explosions, blood, or machismo.  It is about the philosophical relationship between logic and emotion.The film is masterfully directed by Robert Wise, the academy award winning director of The Sound of Music.  The film reunites the original cast of the Star Trek series with a few new faces ... Stephen Collins as Capt. Decker and Persis Khambata as Lt. Ilia.  It also recaps the events that have transpired in each original series character since the television series in the late 60's with a sensitivity to newcomers to the Star Trek universe.  It effectively introduces newcomers to Star Trek without insulting the intelligence of those of us who are thoroughly familiar with Star Trek.The plot features an intelligent, logical entity that calls itself VGER. VGER is an innocent entity with one mission ... learn all that is learnable... transmit that information to the creator.  VGER in its incredible journey has in essence gained knowledge that spans the very essence of the universe.  VGER now has set a course for Earth in an attempt to share its knowledge with its creator.  VGER believes that its creator is on Earth.VGER becomes a threat to life on Earth when its destroys three Klignon vessels and a Federation space station with incredible destructive power. To counter this threat, Admiral Kirk takes command of the Enterprise and leads the Enterprise in an intriguing battle with this alien entity.While battling this alien entity, Admiral Kirk, Spock, and the rest of the crew learn about the relationship between human logic and emotion.  They explore philosophical issues such as Is this all that I am? and Is there nothing more?.  I believe Spock summarizes the quest for answers to these questions by his statement about two-thirds of the way into the film that indicates that logic alone is not enough.  They eventually learn to appreciate the unique attributes that make us human ... our weaknesses ... and the drive that compels us to overcome them.In conclusion, this film has a great plot, great special effects, and excellent music and cinematography.  Definitely see it if you are truly interested in taking a philosophical journey into the essence of what makes us human. "},{"Title":"Star Trek Done Right!","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"120 out of 191 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" It's amazing how many Trekkies I meet describe Star Trek the Motion Picture as A good sci-fi film, but an awful Star Trek movie.....And that's when they're feeling generous! This statement can't be farther from the truth. The story is well written and director Robert Wise makes the characters believable. The movie is not filled with the goofy jokes and ridiculous Shatner back-flip fight scenes that some Trekkies seem to enjoy. Instead, the battle with the mysterious alien entity reveals the dynamics and inner conflicts of the crew. Spock realizes that pure logic alone cannot answer all, but must be coupled with emotion in order to tap into our creative imagination and see the possibilities of our universe. Kirk is portrayed as a daring and brilliant captain, who learns that as a leader he needs to rely on the expertise of those around him. He is a more believable figure who is fallible and struggles to learn from his mistakes.The Enterprise is not envisioned as an easy to fly wonder ship that requires no more than the main Trek cast to run, but as a complex machine that needs precise tuning of components balanced by a crew of hundreds. The scene where Spock and the engineering crew struggle with balancing the mathematical models needed to program the warp engines convey the real dangers of space flight. Additionally, both the visual and audio effects add to the impact of this movie. For a film made in '79, before the advent of believable CGI, the special effects are superb. Believe it or not, I've noticed special effects scenes in Independence Day taken directly from Star TrekTMP footage (scan the shots of the inside of the mother ship (ID4)when Will Smith is making his escape run). All in all, the ingredients of good character development, believable conflict, and hard science make this movie the true precursor to Star Trek The Next Generation. Unfortunately, Star Treks III, IV, and V avoid the hard work this movie required and depend on the silly antics of its maturing crew. "},{"Title":"an under-rated film","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"77 out of 118 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This was an under-rated film in the first version, and it is improved a great deal with the changes that Robert Wise made just a few years before he passed away. There has been a backlash against this picture, mostly for two reasons; it was not Star Wars, and it was not what people expected of Star Trek.If you put these expectations aside, and if you also have some attention span and willingness to relax into a picture this is a remarkable experience. I often here people use words like boring, too long etc. Well yes, if we are expecting a quick-hit, film that can be digested in 90 minutes like a TV show, this is not that type of film. If we apply these standards to Lawrence of Arabia, 2001, Blade Runner, Bridge on the River Kwai, or Citzen Kane (which Robert Wise edited, none of these films would have ever been made.If you put Star Trek The Motion Picture in context of it's scale and the craftsman involved you start to appreciate it's quality and elegance. Robert Wise does not need qualification. He brings an elegance and texture to work and life in space that StarWars has not put to screen to this day.Star Wars even now seems like nothing more than an impressive exercise in effects and sound. It is always reminding us that it is a movie. ST-TMP on other hand departed into an immersive experience developed by Robert Wise, with the amazing talents of Doug Trumbull and John Dykstra, and the enormous contibutions of Jerry Goldsmith. Likewise, the photography, the scale of the sets and the editing of the film all contribute to a immersive world that saturates the viewer into the film.You gain a lot of knowledge and appreciation of this film and the experience that they achieved by watching the Director's Edition DVD and listening to Wise, Trumbull, Dykstra, Goldsmith and others discuss the production. This was a uniquely creative and enormous effort, and considering the technological limitations, the demands of the studio, and the many demands of the Star Trek Bible that qualified the creation of the movie. I am pleased to see that other reviewers here have come to appreicate this movie many years later. I encourage the skeptics to find the time to relax and watch it on the biggest screen you can find. "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Motionless Picture","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"42 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadThis film is not slow; this film is like geological time. It felt like several years long. When I waited in line for hours, in 1979, after Paramount acted like it was the second coming, you had a whole lot of angry people. By the time the film was over, the theater was half empty. Some people were asleep, I am not exaggerating. Long shots of every possible angle of a poorly glued, crappy model. Do you blame them? I really like Alan Dean Foster; this is the man who wrote ALIEN. Let's look at this great script; an intelligence way ahead of us and it cannot tell scans from weapons attacks? It only thinks sentience is machine based on its travels through the universe it never encountered organic intelligence? Its ignorance of organic life is so profound, it needs to hijack a bald woman and remake her as a mechanical probe? It thinks a cheap piece of junk some monkey boys sent into space is like it is? Was Alan on medication when he wrote this?The acting, even for Star Trek, is just awful. This film was legendarily bad; the studio went nuts and rushed Wrath of Khan out as fast as they could, they even used the effects scenes from this movie. If you watch carefully, in Wrath of Khan, you can see the scenes they lifted right out of this. They had no choice; the Trekkie's had a baby when this came out. It is so slow, boring and poorly written. Wise made my favorite movie The Sand Pebbles, what happened Bob? It is the worst film made in the entire 1970s; nothing even comes close. We are the Creator? In your dreams, pathetic humanists. Oh, how they loved saying those words every humanist's dream to be God. They killed off theirs, they believe, and their quest is to make themselves God. Yes, this hyper intelligence never knew you made that piece of junk and needs to bow down before you. I am going to vomit. Trust me, you do not need to know the esoteric plot; it is the most boring movie you will ever watch. I filled a room with 12 people; within a half hour everyone but me and my best friend were sound asleep. Robert Wise never made another Trek movie for a reason young people; when this was released people were really, really angry. The first 45 minutes, nothing and I mean nothing happens. Bring a pillow and an alarm clock, you will need them. "},{"Title":"As far from the restrictions of TV as it could possibly be.","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"52 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Oooh, a difficult one this. Very difficult indeed. Unless you are particularly patient, or are a hardcore Star Trek fan this is going to take some effort to stick with. It doesn't seem like a Trekkie movie. Nowhere near as much fun as Wrath Of Khan, or First Contact. Not as much humour as The Voyage Home. In fact, there is no humour at all. Something that cripples the film badly. Everything is very straight-faced and sincere. To introduce someone to Star Trek with this film would be a bad idea.Being the first Trek product since the original series one might expect the familiar campy story lines and beaming down to M-class planets - a bit of desert 10-minutes drive from LA - but there's none to be had. Veteran director Robert Wise has crafted a film very much in the style of his original version of The Haunting. His w-i-d-e-s-c-r-e-e-n compositions are beautiful and he really manages to lift Trek from the small screen to the cinema screen. It was a hard undertaking, but he set the standard for nine sequels to date.The plot has a giant alien force destroying three Klingon ships on its direct course with earth. If the Federation doesn't stop this thing, it will blow up the planet. Admiral Kirk leaves his sunny San Francisco home to assume command of the Enterprise from Captain Decker and stop the alien menace. But Decker has a chip on his shoulder. The new Enterprise is not finished yet and he doesn't appreciate Kirk moving in on his territory.Very slowly the original crew return and are in command of their posts again and there is a weird new navigator, a bald-headed, celibate alien woman named Ilia. Decker seems to have a thing for her. For some reason.Once they reach the mysterious alien mass, the crew learns its name is Vger. Ilia is kidnapped and replaced with an android. Spock is driven to tears as he finds TOTAL logic in Vger actions and motivations. This is all sub-subtext and the actual explanation behind Vger might not come as a surprise to most. Once they fly inside Vger's mass of clouds and orifices it takes a healthy hour for the damn thing to be fully revealed.To criticise a film for its length may be an ignorant thing to do. Audiences today are too satisfied with any plot lasting less than 100 minutes. This is not a good sign. Films with the scope and, dare I say it, class of Star Trek The Motion Picture need their full and proper running time. Coherent story lines can be sacrificed for fast paced, exhilarating storytelling, or a dull, seemingly endless narrative can be the result of a big story being fully fleshed out. It's difficult to achieve both length and pace. Sadly, this film doesn't. But it looks very good, is well directed and has the balls to bite off more than it can chew. "},{"Title":"The Most Beautiful Science Fiction Movie Period....","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"93 out of 165 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  **No Spoilers**I think Orson Welles said it best in the trailers for this film.It will startle your senses. Challenge your intellect. And change your perception of the future....by taking you there.Indeed it will and does.Let me start off by saying, by all means You don't have to be a fan of Star Trek to get into this movie. I'm not. Just watch it, and the motion picture will do the rest. I've been told countless times that Star Wars is the greatest Sci-fi film of all time. I'd like to correct those people. Star Wars is the greatest action and special effects sci-fi film of all time. Nothing more....and nothing less. I'm a big fan of Star Wars. It was my favorite sci-fi movie--even beating out Alien, 2001, and Starship Troopers.That was until I saw this film. I remember right after watching Star Wars that I felt good inside because it was a rush that one can only get--from eye candy. Star Trek The Motion Picture gave me a different rush--a more profound touch that made me realize movies can have a deeper meaning. Much like 2001, this deals with life....actually more about the meaning of life. The purpose of existence. Some of the best quotes in cinema history can be traced to this film. My favorite line is from Spock. It pretty much sums up the theme of Star Trek The Motion PictureEach of us, at some point in our lives, turns to someone - a father, a brother, a God - and asks, Why am I here? What was I meant to be?One thing that really stands out in Star Trek The Motion Picture is the musical score by Jerry Goldsmith that makes me wonder if it was blessed by God. Star Wars could never get me to buy the soundtrack on CD. This movie has. I wonder why this didn't win an Oscar for best score.Now to the plotWhen three Klingon (Alien) Starships are attacked and erased from existence by a vast giant omnipotent cloud, drifting in space; a close by Star Base finds out that not only is the cloud headed directly towards them, but is also on a direct path for Earth. The Star Base in question (The Epslion 9) sends a message to Star Fleet for a Starship  to be sent and prevent it from reaching Earth.The only Starship in enough range to stop the cloud in time is none other than the famous Enterprise from the infamous 1960s television series. The Starfleet legend and hero Captain Kirk and the rest of his crew from the also famous five year mission of the show, make a comeback for one last mission (and many more later, but those are other movie reviews).Before the crew can start on their mission, they patch up old wounds put aside their anger for each other to face the menacing unknown that awaits them, realizing this may be the last time they speak to one another...alive.Not much is known about the cloud or why it is erasing everything in it's path from existence; other than what Spock, the science officer of The Enterprise, has sensed from it....It only knows that it needs, Commander. But, like so many of us, it does not know what.Suspense eats away at you when the final showdown between The Enterprise and the intelligent vast cloud finally comes. And the movie doesn't stop their. Like I said, the movie talks about the meaning of life.If you can, buy the director's cut on DVD or VHS. This IS the most beautiful science fiction movie you will ever see. "},{"Title":"Substandard Orbit","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"28 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Like a slug-paced parade that never ends (and that's just the first half-hour), iconic director Robert Wise brings to the big screen the beloved characters from that wonderfully cheesy '60s sci-fi TV show that, although it didn't last very long (three years), snowballed into an even larger cult following throughout the '70s, enough to merit a motion picture - too bad it had to be this one. William Shatner as Captain James T. Kirk returns to the Enterprise with a solemn, angry air, as does McCoy, even grumpier than Kirk... And finally Spock - duller than even a Vulcan should be... As they set out to intercept a giant mysterious cloud heading to earth to... blow it up. A boring side-story involves the new young Enterprise commander (whom Kirk must replace), portrayed by the milky Steven Collins, and a very sexy bald chick who's as grumpy as the rest of the cast... especially when she becomes a robot, or something. And most of the film has the crew standing on the bridge, gazing out in awed-wonderment at all the expensive, and impressive, special effects - the only thing somewhat worthwhile. But the eye-candy gets stale quick since there's nothing solid to chase it with - and we're FINALLY led to an incredibly lame twist ending that tries hard for Kubrick-esquire wonderment but ends of pretentiously stale. If this were a condensed forty-five minute episode of the original series it'd still be a throwaway, lacking the mysteriously brainy chess-match aura that made the show so endearing, interesting, and fun. The next film, THE WRATH OF KHAN (which actually has a title), is where the film series should've started. Not only is there a palpable villain, but the three leads are actually likable, and the classic side-characters, including Scotty, Uhura, Sulu, and Chekov, have more to do than stand around looking... familiar. "},{"Title":"Action Packed Classic.","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"51 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is bursting with action scenes! The scene where Kirk stares at the Enterprise, the scene where Scotty stares at the Enterprise, the scene where Bones stares at the Enterprise. The scene where the Enterprise is being stared at by Kirk is also a highlight. The scene where the Enterprise is being stared at by Scotty. The scene where the Enterprise is being stared at by Bones is another great one. The scene where they are ALL staring at the Enterprise at the same time is one of my favourites. The scene where the Enterprise is being stared at by ALL of them at the same time is even better.I love this movie! It's long. I took a girlfriend to see it and by the time it was over I had not only kissed her but we had had three children and a holiday in Greece. "},{"Title":"A different kind of Star Trek","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"44 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently watched this movie for the first time in ten or fifteen years. When I was younger I thought this one was even worse than Star Trek V, because as bad as The Final Frontier was, at least it had some action and colour.The version I just saw wasn't the new Director's Edition, just the old video, but I was still completely surprised by just about everything -- partly because I hadn't seen it in so long, and partly because it's so totally different from all the following Trek movies. I even kinda liked the silly space pajamas everyone wears.After this, the movie series turned to action-oriented stories, a more militaristic look and feel, and infinitely less challenging concepts. True, the pacing of Star Trek The Motion Picture drags in parts, and the behavior of its stars is a little cold and stiff. But instead of treating us with space battles and phaser shootouts, it gives us long, loving shots of the newly revamped starship Enterprise, and instead of rather tawdry plots grounded in mundane reality, it takes us on a metaphysical voyage into an unknown, bizarre, and palpably huge alien device. The relationship of the three main characters has changed a little after several years apart, and they're each getting used to things all over again Kirk has to deal with the unfamiliar new ship; Spock, after trying to purge his emotions, must confront his human half; and McCoy is shanghaied out of retirement for the trip. Decker and Ilia, the new characters, provide enough interest that they were virtually resurrected as Riker and Troi in Star Trek The Next Generation.The sense of scale is important. The cloud surrounding V'Ger is gigantic, and the ship at the heart of the cloud is a whole world to itself. The Enterprise must fly into the cloud and communicate with the ship, and it's the only time in any of the ten movies that the heroes actually confront something new and unknown. This was a staple of the original show, and some of the best episodes of the spin-off series. The subsequent films were content with setting their battles and chases in space, but Star Trek I actually wants to explore that space. The question at the centre of the film, posed by Spock, is Is this all we are? Is there nothing more? Kirk, Spock, and V'Ger are all searching for an answer to that question.However, the thing that definitely drags the film down is the sound. The red alert blares every other minute, and mechanical computer voice-overs announce just about everything they possibly can. In the process of updating the ship, they've emphasized the computers and mechanics of the vessel in a way they never had before or since, and the effect is jarring and interesting at the same time. The Enterprise is much more of a physical ship traveling in space, and less of a device to facilitate storytelling.The visual effects are amazing enough to warrant some digital cleaning, and the movie should be seen in widescreen, preferably on a large television.It's too bad that this movie wasn't more of a success, because I would like to see more Star Trek in this style. After many years and many TV shows, I admit I've gotten a little tired of space battles.UPDATE I recently watched the Director's Edition DVD. The sound effects are fixed, and the film has been re-edited to tighten the pace ever so slightly. The changes made are not on the level of the Star Wars special editions, but they do make the movie more watchable. It's a little more coherent now, and I like it even more. "},{"Title":"Beam me out of here Scottie, this one is boring me to death!","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I think I saw this when it came out in 1979. Just watched it on DVD (got the boxed set of the Star Trek movies for Christmas). This movie is bad, a real stinker. Plot is essentially a remake of one of the original series episodes. (Sorry, I'm not enough of a Trekker to remember them by name, but the episode was better.).I have never seen so many reaction shots. Show a special effect (many similar to, but not as interesting as the sequences in 2001, A Space Odyssey filmed a dozen years earlier). Follow special effect with reaction shot. Then another reaction shot. Then another special effect. Then another reaction shot. The amount of interesting dialog could fit on the back of a cereal box, in large print. Spends so much time showing the exterior of the Enterprise it seemed like porn for nerds. Slow pacing. I was thinking it would be a good exercise for a film class on editing to see if you could get a good 45 minutes out of this. But I'm not sure it would be a fair assignment. Look, I like Star Trek. I watched it in the '60s, watched it in syndication in the '70s, have seen most (perhaps all) of the movies. Have seen many episodes of each of the ST franchise. This movie stunk. Most significant fact about this movie -- William Shatner appeared to be in better shape than when he was in the series, or in later films. Of course he may have been wearing a trussI looked up Robert Wise's other credits, and he did know how to tell a story at one time. But I can't imagine he was proud of directing this one. Ultimately, skip this one. Even if you got the boxed set and think it would be fun to watch them all in order. If you do watch it, keep the remote handy to speed through the many special effect / reaction shot sequences. "}{"Title":"This is what science fiction is all about","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"27 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Watched this one after few years, didn't remember what it was all about. Oh yes, it was the one with V'ger...aka amazingly beautiful Persis Khambatta...with her head shaved. Most beautiful bald woman I can think of right now...The film is about huge unbeatable cloud approaching and threatening Earth, only thing standing in between is Enterprise with it's legendary crew. It appears I enjoy the film more and more each decade I see it again.I thought there was slightly too much time used on introduction and drafting of old crew, but once the action began it kept me on edge of my seat all the way through. Don't think that action I mention was fighting and shooting, it wasn't. Perhaps lack of silly fighting makes (all too) many people to say that this film was too long and slow paced. Well, I disagree - this is exactly the kind of science fiction I love, you are given chance to use your own imagination. Some say pacing and the film is similar to Kubrik's 2001...I won't argue against it.The film had amazing special effects for it's time. No, not amazing, incredible. But don't watch it for special effects only, the real interest of this film lies in the nature of the alien cloud and Enterprise crew trying to figure it out and trying to cope with it. Special effects were used as a tool to launch YOUR imagination, as they should be.This film is probably closest to spirit of original series, without much campiness though. A thinking man's Star Trek film. What a wonderful treat. They don't make films like this any more.9/10 "},{"Title":"The Director's Edition is Bob Wise's definitive vision of Star Trek The Motion Picture.  And what a vision!","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"47 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This DVD version has improved and restored and made Star Trek TMP a pleasure to watch rather than a chore.  You're less inclined to hit fast-forward in those lengthy scenes. This movie will resonate well with mature-age viewers because the story is not what you would expect from today's action packed cinema.  I appreciated the movie more as I got older.  Bob Wise explains on the DVD that production was extremely rushed and had no time to preview the film with an audience that would now after 20 years, tell him to tighten the opticals and emphasize characters.  This is precisely what he has done in the DVD version and its magnificent.Aesthetically, the DVD version shows you the best Star Trek The Motion Picture can possibly look.  Film is sharper; color is dead on however there is still a lot of film grain present unfortunately.  My guess is they cleaned the original negative up as much as they could but it had deteriorated so much in storage, or was badly preserved.  Certainly looks better than my bad pan/scanned  VHS copy.The DVD truly shines with its brand new sound mix. This isn't your standard stereo to 5.1 DVD conversions like they are doing for movies pre 5.1; they have gutted it up and added new stuff.  The original release was so rushed that very little in terms of ambient sound and special effects audio elements were done on the sound mix amongst other production elements. For this DVD they went back to the original audiotapes and remixed them digitally.Goldsmith's score sounded fantastic when it originally came out now sounds even better on the DVD version.  It's tremendous, you will hear what your suppose to hear now with the added advantage of 5.1 surround sound. Goldsmith score truly has a chance to soar now by stretching into a clean high fidelity 5.1 environment rather than being squeezed onto a mono or stereo track.  Bass kicks in often especially on big musical cues.  You'll hear nifty panning and those surrounds and subwoofer will definitely get a workout.  In instances they isolate different parts of the orchestra through different speakers, mainly the bass and percussion.Most onstage dialog was re-recorded afterwards because of onstage noise due to mechanical devices etc; this is now common practice in the industry. The result is cleaner dialog that comes prominently out of your center speaker. The dialog audio is good, but on occasion it shows a mild muffled and tinny quality probably due to age of material or analog technology of the time, nevertheless I guarantee you, the average viewer will like it, I'm just being picky. In short the movie will sound almost as good as if the movie was made recently.Not only having rebuilt the original audio they have put in more surround elements, like ambient bridge noises and computer voices.  Not sure why they changed the `Intruder Alert' voice, I don't mind but I guess it was because they rushed the sound mix in the 70's and chose that voice as a last minute thing.  There are other elements that have been changed, for the better I would say.The DVD contents have been remastered with Wise's overseeing.  There are too many subtleties to comment on so shall briefly discuss a few.   Before opening credits you are treated to Goldsmiths V'ger/Love theme, a nice touch.  Then you hear the bombastic Star Trek Theme. Newly done credits over moving starfield.First main new special effect is the Vulcan landscape, tilting from sky to the surface. Then cuts to a new matte painting of the beautiful orange sky. Originally Spock shields his eyes and in the reversal, not only is there no sun there is little sky visible.  The new matte painting now fits in nicely.San Francisco sequence has been redone, 3 new matte paintings that better show the futurized city, Golden Gate Bridge and a bigger shuttlebay.When they get into V'Ger they encounter a weapon heading towards them that is suppose to dissipate, in the original it simply disappears instantly, now we see a new visual that shows it dissipating just before it hits the ship.Later we see a probe heading towards the ship on the viewscreen and then through some hokey editing it appears on the bridge.  This has been replaced with an improved FX shot showing the approach of the entity on an exterior shot.A new 'Wing Walk' sequence.  Breathtaking new CGI's that show the away-team walk from the hull to the V'Ger stage, some using the original live action shots.  New FXs for the most part are based on original storyboards.  They didn't go overboard with the effects which is good, Bob tells us that they made FX that they could only do in the 1970's, unlike Star Wars whom George Lucas went overkill on new FX when he redid his in the 1990's.There are trims, some rearrangements of shots for the better.  E.g. Ilia/Deckers exchange of looks, Kirk's `Oh My God', his second `Viewer Off.' I suspect they had to edit within Jerry's score, or have to also edit Jerry's score to accommodate the new editing, if so they have done it very well, I couldn't notice.  Some lengthy scenes remain in its entirety, e.g. flying up to the enterprise, I don't blame them for not trimming them, some are sentimental.The 2 DVD's come with a plethora of information. Audio commentaries by the director, 2 special effect's guys, an actor and the composer guide you through the director's edition.  Text commentary by Okuda gives even more scene specific info.  Disc 2 gives you most of the trims, deleted scenes from the TV and Theatrical release not used in the DVD version and an outtake of an abandoned visual effect.  Plus 3 documentaries about the abandoned TV series STPhase II, Directors edition DVD and the movie itself.  Plus advertisements/trailers plus storyboards.A MUST BUY FOR FANS! You'll Love It!  "},{"Title":"At Last The Definitive Version!","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"37 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture - The Director's EditionStar Trek The Motion Picture is by far the most important of the series and in my opinion also the best. This Director's Cut has improved and tightened the 1979 theatrical release to create a truer version of the director's original vision. In most cases Director's Cuts ruin the original Motion Picture they set out to improve, yet this film is the exception. What Robert Wise did here was very necessary and it has been accomplished with great reverence for the original material. This is now the authoritative version of Star Trek The Motion Picture and justly so.What I admire about this first incarnation to the big screen is the faith that Robert Wise obviously has for his audience. Scenes are purposely slow which allows the atmosphere of the film to wash over the viewer like a warm bath rather than being bombarded by action and explosions as in the second of the Motion Picture series. There are obvious references to Stanley Kubrick's 2001A Space Odyssey (1967), which I admire because to want to aspire to those heights and nearly succeed can only be regarded with respect. I have to say that the production design by Harold Michelson has never been bettered. The scope of his sets gives real life and location to the interior of the Star Ship Enterprise. The gathering of the whole crew in the lounge for example or Kirk emotionally trapped in his quarters by the dark glass sliding doors. The bridge of the Enterprise has never looked, sounded or functioned better. (It would have been nice to hear the old sliding door sounds!)A criticism would have to be levelled at the costume design, which I found uninspired, dreary and slightly camp. Decker's skin-tight body suit reveals more than modesty should allow! I suppose underwear is obsolete in the 23rd century? Kirk's sleeveless white shirt is quite off- putting, as I couldn't stop staring a William Shatner's extremely hairy arms. Yet these are my only criticisms. I really enjoy this film and have done so since its release. This version finally completes an unfinished work and improves upon it to such a degree that Trekkies will have to reevaluate yet again which is the best of the Motion Picture series. As for me apart from the original series this is Star Trek's finest hour! "},{"Title":"We don't call this Star Trek the Motionless Picture for nothing.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"23 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture should have been a big heads up for Treksters that Gene Roddenberry was losing his way -- either that or his vision of Star Trek was always markedly different from what most viewers thought they were seeing.  The studio also had a hand in sending the production down a wrong road, mistaking the popularity of Star Wars, which was released two years earlier, for audience fascination with special effects.The film is very deliberately paced -- Slow Motion Picture would be a generous subtitle.  It lacks virtually all of the charm and humour with which the series was infused.  The chemistry between the actors, and so the characters, is entirely absent.The plot, what there is of it, seems to be based on The Changeling, an episode of the old Star Trek series, and on a bad episode of Space 1999.For a real reunion of the crew of the Enterprise, forget this blunder and look at Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan.  Nicholas Meyer knew what virtues make Star Trek the pop-cult phenomenon it is, and he knew how to put it on the big screen. "},{"Title":"I, a die-hard Star Trek fan . . . recommend it be avoided at all costs!","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"30 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a Star Trek fan and there was a lot of hype building up to the first Star Trek film--ten years after the last season of the Original Series. Alas, as much as I, a die-hard Star Trek fan, enjoy looking at the expensive new model Starship Enterprise, this is one of the most boring films ever made! I recommend it be avoided at all costs! If you want a movie to contrast with Star Trek The Motion Picture, watch Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan, directed by Nicholas Meyer. Instead of watching the most expensive (and most boring) Star Trek film made, you can watch the least expensive yet the best. Star Trek II is hands-down the best Trek film period. Second-best is (surprise, surprise) Star Trek VI, also directed by Nicholas Meyer (I sense a pattern). However, Star Trek The Motion Picture did break the ice for the Star Trek films and set the bar low so that Mr. Meyer could show off his directing expertise. The pain of Star Trek The Motion Picture can be lessened by listening to The Blue Danube waltz (a la 2001 A Space Odyssey) during the laboriously long segments showing the Starship Enterprise. Yes, I am a Star Trek fan. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I am amazed that so called Star Trek fans or Trekkers or Trekkies or whatever it is you choose to call them, don't seem to love this movie. Maybe it's because I'm not a big fan of the TV series or the new generation or any of the TV versions of the show really (except Enterprise which I thought was also really underrated), but I loved this movie. It had a great feel to it, was shot really well, was a well written story, the ending of it was absolutely fantastic. It was a compelling story with a mystery aspect to it. Great sci fi and effect, great storytelling. Good performances, at least as good as the TV show. I guess because it was different from the usual Star Trek series people were a bit disappointed by it but I thought it was great. The best Star Trek movie in my opinion is still the second one, Wrath of Khan, but the original Star Trek movie is probably second best in my opinion, with the later movies really suffering in quality, and I have no real love for the next generation series or movies at all. The new movies I haven't seen yet but I have high hopes! "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Never Ending Special Effects Slide Show","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  When Star Trek The Motion Picture was originally released, I was eager to see it, so much so that I traveled fifty plus miles to a theater in Huntington W.V. to see it.  After Star Wars, I was anxious to see the transfer of Star Trek to the big screen, where it would not be saddled with the confines of the budget of a t.v. series.  I should have saved myself the trip.The budget is up there on the screen, and the makers of this movie are darn proud of it.  So much so that they forgot to give us a decent story line, any interaction worth between the crew members, or any decent dialogue between the crew members.  What we end up with is two hours plus of gosh, gee whiz, isn't that cool, special effects that are extremely pretty to look at.  A dozen roses is pretty also but I don't want to sit and watch them for over two hours either.We have one long long long sequence outside the Enterprise while it is in space port.  We get a long long sequence of the Enterprise going through a worm hole early on, that is neither intense or exciting, just hazy.  Later, we get lots and lots and lots and lots of shots of the Enterprise traveling through a space cloud.  I do believe I actually dozed off through this sequence and was surprised it was still there when I woke up.  Then as if that weren't bad enough, we get another never ending scene of Spock doing the future equivalent of a space walk!  Perhaps they should have called this Star Trek The Never Ending Special Effects Show.  When it was over, and I left the theater, I have to admit it was nice seeing the old Star Trek gang back together again, for one last time as I was sure that after this Galaxian Slide Show, it would be their last appearance.  It was one time I was glad I was dead wrong about something.This review refers to the original theatrical release.  I'll watch the DVD directors cut when I'm ready to take a nap.  "},{"Title":"It's Continuing Mission","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture has its unique place in cinema history as probably the first television series to get a big screen motion picture. Completely due to its special fan base, the like of which has never been seen before or since.In order to keep the phenomenon going Gene Roddenberry knew he had to have something special to offer and he did. The continuity from the television series was accomplished effortlessly, in fact one of the new characters Commander William Decker is the son of William Windom who was another starship captain in an episode. More I can't say less I give the plot away.In fact Decker played by Stephen Collins would be commanding the newly fitted Enterprise if it were on a routine mission. But with the threat of an immense alien being on a direct path to earth now Admiral James T. Kirk takes command of the starship himself and with Decker reunites all the old crew from the TV series to meet the threat.Fans of the original series will also see the similarities in plot between another episode involving the Enterprise meeting up with an old space probe that now has taken on some new functions. The same idea forms the basis of this film's story although in every way it has been expanded and a new ending conceived. Here's a hint, a budding relationship between Collins and new ship's lieutenant Persis Khambatta is what ultimately saves the earth.Just as you remember them William Shatner, DeForest Kelley, Leonard Nimoy, James Doohan, Nichelle Nichols, George Takei, and Walter Koenig are all back and completely in character as you remember them. The new people Collins, Khambatta and the rest are integrated nicely into the story.Star Trek The Motion Picture received three Academy Award nominations, for Best Art&Set Direction, Best Visual Effects, and Best Musical Score. The special effects never overwhelm the telling of a good story which is the primary mission and best asset of the original television series and its successors. If you're not a Trekkie before seeing this film, you may be come one upon viewing. "},{"Title":"Superior slice of science fiction adventure filmmaking; a resounding Star Trek tale for older fans and newcomers alike.","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The first Star Trek film of 1979 is an exciting, expansive and rather tense first foray into feature length filmmaking for the popular franchise - a bold going where very few, if any, television shows had gone before. There's a polished sense of spectacle, adventure and smarts all wrapped up into one about it; a sheen of precision and careful planning about the production &#x96; a sense of craft to it. Indeed, The Motion Picture rather than the movie, or anything else for that matter, is a perfect subtitle for something that has a swagger about it; a piece that has pretensions to be something a little more than your average space adventure blast 'em up, without possessing much in the way of arrogance that comes with a self-conscious knowledge that it's heading down this respective route. The film is set in a distant future further still within deepest of deep space, and yet its chief source of spectacle arrives in the form of the speaking; reasoning and communication between a number of its characters, most notably its protagonist and new-found antagonist during the final act.The film follows a relatively familiar, if unspectacular, singular line framework, for sure - in that regular battles must be conquered along the way to ending where they do and that the individual misunderstandings crew members have with each other need to be resolved, but it is remarkable how by the time the final act as arrived, the piece is willing to abstain from conventional conclusion. We begin with the focusing on what will come to form as the film's primary source for plight a huge energy cloud thousands of miles away from an Earth, whose own measurements of time has seen it reach the 23rd century. We observe some spaceships passing by, our eye unsure on what to focus on as lingering shots of the crafts and the distinct turrets that stick up out of them capture our gaze more than anything. A cut inside reveals some ugly looking creatures using an alien language and distinct technology, technology they use to attack the large purple energy cloud before it itself wipes them out with relative ease. The desired effect of lingering on space ships we have never before encountered, and therefore require time so a to become familiarised with them, before cutting inside to reveal the ugly creatures said edit reveals and concluding the process by having those creatures killed off, is an effective procedure establishing distinct hierarchy within this new world and immediately implements this glowing energy cloud at the centre of all the film's tension and wonder.Director Robert Wise has effectively blended a slow-burning approach to telling a space adventure with an overall narrative framework of race-against-time. The cloud is heading for Earth; it's unstoppable; nobody knows what it is or what it wants and thus far, has only reacted aggressively to what it's encountered. Luckily for Earth based space programme organisation Starfleet, the one ship nearby and able to head on out to intercept and investigate is the famed U.S.S. Enterprise harboured at its sunny, welcoming, radiant and busy-bodied San Fransisco headquarters; far away from the large, open, gloomy, ominous locales of the previous sequences. Said ship is, of course, headed up by its chief a certain Admiral named James Kirk played, as in the TV show of the 1960s, by William Shatner, somebody whom storms in unopposed and assumes control from acting captain Willard Decker (Collins) thus nicely teeing up the friction existing between the two of them thereafter. The film also makes decent use of a back-burning item in the form of The Enterprise's overall physical state, its potential to malfunction ominous when we recall what the energy cloud is capable of to fully functioning ships; the death of two people trying to use the transporter beams rather-a stark forcing home of this.The crew will eventually come to be made up of varying people of varying ethnicities, in that an African American; a Hmong man; a young Aryan; etc. will form the nucleus of the ship's diverse operators, successfully getting across a sense of the whole thing being a multicultural effort. Also along for the ride is Indian actress Persis Khambatta's alien life-form named Ilia, who's given a Lieutenant rank and shares a romantic history with the demoted Decker. Of the original crew, a foil arrives for Kirk in the form of the ship's doctor named Bones McCoy (Kelley), whereas male specimen of the Vulcan race variety Mr. Spock (Nimoy) comes aboard when he is drawn to the cloud due to the effect it had on his usually transparent emotional state. Wise shoots the unveiling of The Enterprise, as it undergoes repair work in a series of longing close ups. Kirk and one of his engineers very slowly veer up to it in a transport pod, the reaction on Kirk's face and a general sense of awe is inferred onto the audience, namely the die hard fans of the show, so as to help along the reaction as The Enterprise is revealed on the big screen for the very first time. Wise shoots what feels like all corners of the ship, from all possible angles and compositions, as people stand around it on apparatus seeing to it a literal repair job for what's happening within the film, a metaphorical preparation/revealing job as the final touches are made and the big reveal is made.The film is a surprisingly remarkable piece of drama, with Wise wedging great peril out of the simplest of ideas such as the being on collision course with a small but devastatingly effective asteroid as well as some uncanny happenings during other encounters which are instead helped along by the special effects that greatly enhance the ominous predicaments, rather than just cruelly ageing film and sapping out drama. The film is engaging and workmanlike enough in equal measure to work as both decent escapism and as smart, brooding science fiction. "},{"Title":"Genuinely wonderful and inspiring, but misunderstood","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" First off, I am a Trek fan, but not obsessively so.Secondly, this is not your standard Star Trek film, it is entirely different to all the subsequent movies. Indeed by Wrath of Khan a completely different tone had been adopted for the series.The Motion Picture is much closer to 2001 A Space Odyssey in feel than it is to Wrath of Khan - it is mystical, profound, moving and intelligent. It is also, as others have noted, stunning visually.Sci-Fi has rarely felt this epic. The sheer scale of the VGER craft, and the secret that lies at its heart are astonishing and humbling. This is a film about what it is to be human, presenting this timeless question in a new and provocative way.Forget your preconceptions, and watch the more recent Director's cut. This is a wonderful film. "}{"Title":"Star Trek The EMotional Picture","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" When Star Trek ended in 1969, it led to the birth of the entire Star Trek phenomenon. Once it disappeared from TV screens, it awakened the spirits of fans all over the world. Paramount had no idea that such a huge fanbase existed for the series, and wasted no time in putting the show back on the air through re-runs and syndication. It eventually grew out into the cultural phenomenon it is today.But the fans weren't completely satisfied with just having repeats to enjoy. They wanted Star Trek back. They wanted whole new adventures. With Star Wars developing its own SF phenomenon in the late 70s, Gene Roddenberry shrewdly decided now was the time to bring Star Trek back. To the big screen.But Star Trek The Motion Picture opened to indifferent response. Despite what many people would have you believe, the film was not a box-office flop. It recouped handsomely on its investment. It was just seen as a profound disappointment to the legions of fans who had held a candle for the series all these years. Many people felt the group ensemble had become swallowed up by the Hollywood movie machine. And it started off the whole belief that even numbered Trek films are bad, while the odd numbered sagas are good.But I'm going to go out on a limb here, and say that Star Trek The Motion Picture is a damn good film. In fact its a film that deserves more respect than it gets. Many of the future Trek spin-offs owe a lot to this film. Because without it, its doubtful there would have been a Star Trek The Next Generation (interestingly the theme music for the show originated in this movie) at all. And it has some of the most breathtaking special effects you're ever likely to see in a Star Trek film.A gigantic space cloud is on a course to Earth. Its already destroyed three Klingon Attack Cruisers, and Starfleet may very well be next. The Enterprise is in drydock, and the only vessel within range that can intercept the cloud. Now Admiral Kirk (William Shatner) uses the crisis as an opportunity to retake command of the upgraded Enterprise, and takes the ship on a wondrous journey through the deepest recesses of the mysterious cloud to discover its intent.I think Star Trek The Motion Picture is a sadly unappreciated film. At its core is the very ideal that Star Trek stands for. Exploring new frontiers. Pushing back all the boundaries. Boldly going where no one has gone before. All of the other Star Trek films have sadly avoided the exploration of the unknown. Pt 1 is the only film in the series that made a conscious decision to map out and expand upon the idea of space exploration in the show, while the others put the cast at the mercies of some extremely variable plot lines.A lot of people have criticised the film's almost snail-like pace. But the best type of SF starts slowly, and allows it to build a sense of grandeur. Films like Alien, and especially 2001 A Space Odyssey. In fact as I watched the film, I was reminded of the time I saw 2001 for the first time. The same sense of wonder. Of something transcendent and immense. Few SF films have touched upon the profundity of space and time like 2001 did. But Star Trek The Motion Picture is one of the few that can join the club.The way the mystery slowly unfolds is conducted quite beautifully. As the Enterprise penetrates deeper and deeper into the cloud, you become quite enthralled. And awed. Paramount allegedly lavished a 47 million dollar budget on the film, and it shows. The special effects sequences are absolutely dazzling. The cloud's interior resembles a vast kaleidoscope of colour, textures and lighting. There is so much to see in every corner of the screen. No matter how many times you watch the film, you will notice something different.There were times though that I felt the effects technicians were using every opportunity to show off. The outside tour of the Enterprise is a bit longer than it needs to be. The wormhole sequence could have been edited out altogether, and the Enterprise's journey through the cloud sometimes felt like a guided tour of Universal Studios. But contrary to popular belief, I felt the cast weren't overshadowed by the effects. Unlike most film/TV crossovers, Star Trek opens up onto the big screen with tremendous confidence.As usual, Chekov, Sulu and Uhura only fill out the background while Kirk, Spock, McCoy and Scotty take the stage. But that doesn't hurt the film as much as you might think. Spock in particular gets a hefty dilemma to tackle. Trying to purge himself of all emotion, he finds himself drawn to this vast entity. A creature of pure logic and no feeling. Sensing a kinship, he comes to share some of his own experiences with it, and the two are all the better for it. Watching Spock shed a tear is subtle, understated and very powerful.The film's finale could seem an anticlimax, especially after the protracted buildup. A NASA satellite evolved into a new lifeform trying to make contact with its long dead creator. There is something amusing about such a vastly powerful entity capable of storing entire star systems within itself, yet it can't even scrape the dirt off of its own nameplate. But I still think Star Trek The Motion Picture is an underrated effort. It has much to recommend. The theme by the late Jerry Goldsmith is haunting, eerie and uplifting at all of the right moments. Its a dazzling visual experience. Quite thought-provoking. And so much better than all the negative publicity would have you believe. "},{"Title":"Best Star Trek movie for real fans.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is NOT for casual movie fans. It's only for the true star trek fan. It's a bit long-winded. It's surely not the most actionful movie. This movie, instead, is dedicated to true Star Trek fans.The plot is quite original (especially when considering the time it was produced!), and is really thoughtful.For people who didn't understand this movie, just don't rate the movie. I am not going to comment on a genre which i don't like either. This movie is dedicated to a small group of Star Trek lovers. If you think you are one of those, you really have to see this movie. It's one of my best! I gave it a 10. "},{"Title":"STILL the best Trek movie of them all","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek TMP has been panned since its' release for being slow, boring, cold and pretentious. I disagree...Star Trek TMP is STILL the best of the nine movies to date. I find it amusing that fans always go on about how Trek never captures Gene Roddenberry's vision of the future...but here, when they actually GOT it for once, all they could do was pour scorn. TMP is an *epic*...full of imposing images, with suitably majestic music. The sequence where the Enterprise penetrates V'GER's cloud barrier is a visual tour de force akin to 2001 - the movie that TMP owes the most to on all counts. The whole film emanates an air of unearthly weirdness that I dig enormously. Almost every shot is packed with visual information that demands repeat screenings. Granted, the film's pacing is bad, but that's because Robert Wise wasn't given long enough to cut it properly! Vital character scenes that should have remained were deleted...the extended cut brought out on video shows just how good the movie could've been had they just spent a bit more time on it. Now that the heavily reworked DVD edition is out, people can see the movie as it should have been from the beginning. BRILLIANT movie...damn the critics. For the next two films, it was forced humour and mawkish melodrama...you can keep that, I'll have cold alien beauty any day.Belated update...the DVD Directors Edition is the only way to see this movie. Truly brilliant...TMP as the late Bob Wise wanted it to be. If you can't get that, the TV version is better than the theatrical cut, even if the sound is appalling and some of the matte effects aren't there! "},{"Title":"A true classic which is critically unrecognised.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek the Motion Picture is a true classic that is critically unrecognized. Unfortunately this is because today's audience doesn't see the beauty and message behind this Robert Wise (the sound of music) masterpiece.When wise vision this film he dreamed for it to have the impact which 2001 gave to its audiences, but sadly audiences of the late seventies had already found a new and more interesting form of sci-fi - Star Wars.It is because of this lack of interest, which caused people to criticize it as boring, uneventful and Lacking action and pace. This however is not what the true Star Trek television phenomenon was ever about. It was based on moral issues and meaningful story themes and this is what Wise has built up in The Motion Picture. From Spock's emotional struggle to V'GER'S missions true purpose, which are both connected as humane achievements which prove to be what both beings are all about.Another aspect that Wise introduced into the Star Trek phenomenon was the critically acclaimed special effects. He thankfully succeeded to awe us with the magic he created through the images and wonders then and still to this day.Unfortunately the acting and dialog in the films center became a quite stale, causing it to drag on for a period of time. But when you have a main cast whose only real big experience was in television nothing really can be helped.Not only Star Trek fans but also people looking for a movie with true meaning and a great story should definitely look this movie back. With the new Directors special coming out this year which has been reworked with extra scenes, updated special effects and sound, which were all in Wise's original vision, but couldn't be produced due to budgetary constraints added, this film will hopefully be recognized for the classic sci-fi movie it is.  "},{"Title":"An Underrated Star Trek Movie","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" (Note Based on the Director's Edition version.)Star Trek -The Motion Picture took years of fan efforts, writing, and planning to get moving. The results of the filmmakers, especially at the hands of the late great Robert Wise, proves to have been well-worth the effort. While the original version was lacking in several key areas, this director's edition version completes the film and creates a fine science fiction film.The acting in the film is good stuff. All of the show's original cast members return to their roles as if they had never left them. This is especially true with Leonard Nemoy, whose performance as Spock is the films single best performance. The chemistry between him, William Shatner and Deforest Kelly is still there and it is apparent in many scenes in the film. This is true especially in the final third of the film after Spock's mind meld with V-Ger.The two major additions to the cast (Stephen Collins as Decker and Persis Khambatta as Lieutenant Ilia) are both welcome additions and they hold their own when up with the rest of the cast. Their relationship is the emotional center of the film and they alone really do sell the ending of the film.The films special effects are top-notch even today. The original effects are still as convincing as ever and they really do sell the films story. The space dock sequence in particular is a marvelous piece of special effects work and is the final shot of the Enterprise in the film as it goes into warp speed. The wormhole sequence is impressive also and the new CGI additions help out immensely. Indeed the whole V-Ger journey sequence is one of the most impressive special effects pieces ever to be put on film. The new CGI pieces add new shots to the film including an awe-inspiring reveal of the V-Ger craft.The film is perhaps best described in that it is Star Trek meets 2001 A Space Odyssey. The film does have some action and suspense to it (the wormhole sequence for example) but overall this is a think person's movie. The film takes some of the way-out there ideas of the New Age and puts them into something that is both entertaining and thought provoking. The writing of the film is nothing special in terms of dialogue. If you just read the lines the film wouldn't be that impressive especially in many of the arguments between characters. This is a perfect example of how good actors can make an average script into a great movie. But the script does have a great premise to it. The premise of V-Ger might sound a little bit familiar to die-hard fans of the original Star Trek series but overall it is still a very original and novel premise.The music Jerry Goldsmith score for the film is, for lack of a better term, a masterpiece. The overture of the Ilia theme is a beautiful piece of music and serves as the emotional center of the score. There is also the much more famous piece of music from the film the main title theme. The main title theme is a loud, bombastic, and exciting piece of music to say the least. Its quieted down version pops up throughout the film and it never fails to carry a sense of excitement and awe when it appears. This score is arguably the best that Goldsmith created in his long career and it is a shame that he didn't win the Academy Award for this score.Star Trek &#x96; The Motion Picture is the think person's science fiction movie. While it might be tediously paced for many fans used to the more action driven films of the series, if you want a film that is both entertaining and awe-inspiring, then this is the film to see. This is the one of the best Star Trek film and a classic of the science fiction genre. "},{"Title":"Exciting and spectacular movie that originates the continued series cinema","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The film deals with the veteran crew that abandon the contemplated retirement to aboard the Enterprise Starship NC 1701 for the confrontation a bizarre foe in shape of giant space entity that's devouring planets and destroying everything in its relentless rout toward Earth . As our heroes are propelled into an epic chess game of life and death, love will be challenged, friendships will be torn apart, and sacrifices must be made for the only family Kirk has left his crew . Star Trek series remains as a landmark in the science fiction story and continuing the cinematographic adaptation , director Robert Wise makes an interesting film . This epic story is concentrated on characters as well as thrill-packed action and special effects although there're numerous of that too . The movie has thrills , tension , emotion, suspense and sensational spacial scenarios like is customary development of the franchise .Spectacular, exciting , fast-paced , thrilling this is the description of this new outing of Star Trek , film that reinvents the saga through a perfect pulse narrative that does not give a second of rest to the spectator who is trapped for two hours approx. in a genuine visual spectacle . It's essentially a follow-up to the television episodes . In the Star Trek movie the protagonists are incarnated by the usual saga TV , thus are Captain Kirk (Shatner), Spock (Nimoy), Bones (Deforest Kelley), Scotty (James Doohan recently deceased), Uhura (Michelle Nichols) , Chejov (Walter Koenig), Sulu (George Takei), plus appear Captain Decker (Stephen Collins) and lieutenant Ilia (Persis Khabatta), both of who will have an important final role . For comic relief in charge of the various jokes in relationships between James T.Kirk with Bones or Spock and even Scotty . The storyline is developed upon interesting characters as well as the action and magnificent production design and special effects realized by John Dykstra and Douglas Trumbull . Friendship ,idealism , humor, fellowship , humanity are issues which abound and will please the fans as well as the initiated . The yarn has a climatic and stimulating ending . Stirring final amazing the spectator , in which the moving and spectacular scenes create a perfect union that terminates with an ending that leaves you stuck in the armchair facing the formidable spectacle as a privileged witness . Jerry Goldsmith musical score (habitual series musician) is exceptional and impressive ; he composes an impressive musical accompaniment to the film . The motion picture was rightly directed by Robert Wise . Fans of the series will find very amusing and fun . It is fun to watch and Trekkies are sure to love it , and getting a high grossing . The flick will appeal to the science fiction lovers and the trekkers. "},{"Title":"A superb philosophical movie!","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture relaunched the USS Enterprise and its crew led by Captain Kirk (William Shatner) into a dangerous mission. A gigantic cloud is making its way towards Earth and has already destroyed three heavily armed Klingon Cruisers as well as a Federation Deep Space outpost. Along the way to their rendezvous with the cloud Captain Spock (Leonard Nimoy) rejoins the crew. He is able to repair the ship's untested Warp Core and the Enterprise reaches the cloud with a day to spare. They begin a hazardous mission inside it and along the way their navigator Ilia (Persis Khambatta) is kidnapped and replaced with a probe from the alien ship named 'Vejur'. Ilia-Probe states repeatedly that Vejur is seeking his creator. When his signals go unanswered Vejur begins an attack on Earth which is halted when Kirk and crew discover that Vejur is infact the Voyager space probe that was lost three hundred years earlier. To complete Vejur's programming Commander Decker (Stephen Collins) sacrifices himself and merges with its massive databanks. A stunning and beautifully designed film that explores many deep issues and is sadly underrated by many Star Trek fans.10/10 "},{"Title":"Is This All We Are, Is There Nothing More?","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I've heard George Lucas talk about the change of pacing between films of the 1970's and of films now. He talked about how the pacing of the first Star Wars film was considered rapid at the time but by today's standards, pretty slow. I feel the same can be said about the first Star Trek film (The Motion Picture). The first hour of this film is quite a drag. The special effects are dated, but sometimes that can be forgiven if the story around it is epic (Original Star Wars). The story for this film is embroiled in mystery as we don't even know who or what the villain is for close to an hour and a half. Overall, I think I can say I enjoyed watching Star Trek The Motion Picture as it brings back all of the same characters and dynamics from the original series, but the story dragged and I don't feel like this was the particular plot they should have revolved the first feature film around.The enterprise this time is investigating an alien spacecraft that gets mysteriously close to earth, known as V'Ger. Captain Kirk returned back to his position as head of the Starship Enterprise. Kirk replaced the new head of the enterprise, Decker. Obviously, you know that the dynamic between the two will have plenty of tension knowing there's two captains in the same ship, but it doesn't go to the extent that a normal Hollywood film would do.Yes, the tone and feel of the film is the same as the series but I think it was lacking the magic. There's a lot of time in the film spent on showing the numerous special effects shots and set pieces they created for the film. With that said, I don't feel like there was enough time spent on character development for people who didn't know the characters from the TV show. It's not that Star Trek The Motion Picture isn't a good entry in the series, it's just that there's merely nothing special at all about the film. Its constantly told to us that this mission is to save the entire human race and has a huge scope, but we don't really see that being played out. I liked the ending reveal involving V'Ger, but it didn't save the film from being an average entry in a history franchise.+Same feel as the series+Cool reveal-Don't get a sense of the scope they were going for-Too much time spent on establishing shots and showing off average special effects6.3/10 "},{"Title":"Leonard Nimoy and Harve Bennett, RIP","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The recent deaths of Leonard Nimoy and Harve Bennett made me want to see Star Trek The Motion Picture. Amid all the nerdy stuff, the movie is more of a philosophical look at humanity's place in the universe. V'Ger's communication attempts mirror HAL's discussions with humans in 2001. Even Spock - usually the guy who has a problem understanding emotions - proclaims Logic is not enough.It probably surprised people that Robert Wise (previously known as the director of West Side Story and The Sound of Music) directed a movie that was sure to appeal to nerds. I, for one, imagine songs like I've Just Met a Girl Named Ilia and The Stars Are Alive with the Sound of V'Ger. But Wise knew what he was doing here (he was wise to direct it, you might say).My personal favorite of the the Star Trek movies is Star Trek IV The Voyage Home, in which the Enterprise goes back in time to pick up some whales. But I also recommend this one. The franchise remains one of the most intellectual ones ever (the Star Wars franchise always seemed like it went more for high action). It's not a masterpiece, but I enjoyed it.As for Nimoy and Bennett, there's no doubt that both of them lived long and prospered. "},{"Title":"Absolutely beautiful to look at,but the film's pacing is unbearable,I honestly think i'd rather watch Paint dry.","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember loving the T.V show as a kid, the original that is, and watching The Wrath Of Khan quite a bit, however the Original is just a big bore. The special effects still hold up decently today,the acting itself is just fine,it's gorgeous to look at. But the film is highly confusing,with a story that often seems all over the place. What was the point in giving us characters we don't give a damn about? I mean they didn't give us Spock, until halfway into the film, and by that time I had stopped caring completely. I thought the film was finally going somewhere with the growing tension between,Captain Kirk and Decker,but it all just seemed to stop after that,by growing more and more boring by the second. Maybe I didn't get the point to this movie,maybe I just didn't get it,but according to other reviews on here,I'm definitely not the main minority. I Can see why this movie angered a lot of Star Trek fans,It's downright dull,nothing ever really happens,and it gave us non interesting characters. It's well made,it looks great visually,the special effects as I said,are decent,even breathtaking for that time,but at 136 minutes it's unbearable at times.The Performances. William Shatner IS Star Treak if you ask me. He created an icon,a legend if you will,in Captain Kirk. But here he seems uncomfortable,and rightfully so. The film is all over the place and Shatner does what he can with the material. Leonard Nimoy is pretty good as Spock. To some his non socializing skills may be annoying,but I thought it added a great sense of mysteriousness to him,I also enjoyed his banter with Shatner. DeForest Kelley is solid as a rock as Bones,I really liked him. Persis Khambatta is downright creepy,I don't know if she was intended to be that way,but she sure Creeped the hell out of me!. Stephen Collins's smug performance here is on and off. I thought his character was rather needless to be honest,except for a couple of scenes with Shatner that provided tension.Bottom Line. I feel fans are probably half and half on this film. The casual viewer will surely be bored,but die hard Trek fans will surely find a lot of worthwhile stuff,i'm sure. I won't watch this ever again,but it did have a decent amount going for it. It's a milestone in movie history,but none one I care to revisit. Worth a look for historical purposes,but not much else.6/10 "}{"Title":"Unique in its own way","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  YELLOW ALERT...COULD BE SPOILERS!!!I would guess that THE MOTION PICTURE is supposed to take place a few years before THE WRATH OF KHAN, THE SEARCH FOR SPOCK, and the other following films. The UFP uniforms are gray, light blue, yellow and white, and the transporters are still functioning slowly, as they did in the original series. I actually love this movie more these days than I did when I used to watch it as a youngster. It's complex plot and story are somewhat difficult to follow, unless you are a child genius or just the offspring of a hard core Trekker/Trekkie. My mom is a Trekker, has loved Star Trek since the original show came on in 1966. Every Saturday night, without fail, she tuned in to the adventures of the Enterprise, and she passed her love of these characters and this imaginative world of math and physics, science and logic, and endless possibility on to me. About every other year, I get a yen to watch the six films featuring the original ST cast, and I always learn something new from them. THE MOTION PICTURE was criticized as boring, the acting wooden and uncharacteristic, and while I admit that THE MOTION PICTURE is not my favorite of the six films (that honor goes to THE WRATH OF KHAN) it is my SECOND FAVORITE. I think it is a wonderful, downright beautiful film, full of dazzling special effects, an astounding plot, and all the humor and warmth that Trekkers expect from the characters. Spock (Leonard Nimoy) finds himself feeling bereft in spite of his efforts to rid himself of flawed human emotions. Sensing a kindred presense in space whose emptiness mirrors his own, Spock joins Admiral/Capt. Kirk (William Shatner) aboard the Enterprise, which has been deployed to intercept a strange alien vessel in the form of a blue cloud. The main plot is to learn about the alien vessel and to find out why it is heading purposefully towards the earth. During their journey to the center of the vessel, a crew member, Lt. Ilia (Persis Khambatta), a lovely member of the seductive Deltan species, is abducted from the Enterprise, and a probe looking exactly like her is sent by the alien, intending to collect information on the crew of the Enterprise.Spock realizes that the alien cloud is the presence he felt, and convinces Kirk that the intruder is a living machine, operating on total logic, with no emotion. With wisdom that spans the universe, yet with emptiness, because now that it has learned everything logical and scientific, it wonders what to do with its knowledge. The simplicity in the seemingly complex and over our heads plot is suddenly apparent. In short, the machine, although completely perfect in science and logic, is lonely and empty. It has taken on a life of its own, and with life comes the frustration of unfulfillment. The alien, who calls itself Vejur is seeking that which created it and sent it into space to collect knowledge. Vejur wants to give the Creator what it was sent out for, and to join the Creator and evolve beyond the emptiness of being a logical machine.The visually beautiful scene in which Commander Decker (Stephen Collins) Ilia, and Vejur join together was at first something that stymied me. Beautiful, with lights and energy, but what the heck was happening??? Now I understand Vejur wanted to physically join with a human being. You could think of it as some sort of sexual function, but I think rather it was two beings, one a machine, another, a human, who felt empty and unfulfilled. We're not really told why Decker jumped at the opportunity to end his existence as we knew it, but somehow he just seems through the film like someone who isn't quite fulfilled with life, someone who somehow just never fit in. Did Decker, Vejur and Ilia die??? No, but they ceased to exist in the way they had been existing. They evolved into something higher, a higher level of being. Maybe pure energy. Or maybe simply the joy of the spirit when fulfillment is at last achieved. Perhaps one of the most astonishing and appealing things about the first Star Trek film is that there were no evil villains, just an innocent being trying to find answers.Such an interesting movie. Science fiction at its finest.  "},{"Title":"The Only Really Good Star Trek Movie","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I have a great admiration for Star Trek The Original Series. But none of the Star Trek movies are really good. First of all, let me just say that I don't care for the movies based on The Next Generation. I have watched Generations and Insurrection. I hated them. You might say that you would need to watch the TV series before watching any movies based on it but the reason I watched TOS was because I was amazed by The Motion Picture. None of the movies based on TOS are very good, other than this first one. The Wrath of Khan is about as overrated as TMP is underrated. The Wrath of Khan doesn't have much more action than The Motion Picture, despite what fans might tell you. And Khan and Kirk don't meet in person. How disappointing is that? The rest of the first six movies are only okay. J.J. Abrams's reboot was insanely stupid. It was so stupid that I haven't even watched Into Darkness.Anyway, TMP is highly underrated. I really liked the themes, the special effects, and the music. Some people have said that it tries too hard to be 2001 A Space Odyssey but I liked TMP more because 2001 has no interesting characters. Star Trek The Motion Picture is a science- fiction movie that is almost as good as Blade Runner, in my opinion (which means that it's very good). "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing work with more than meets the eye.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture is, in my opinion, the best of all the Star Trek movies.  It's direction is superb and its creativity is on par with the best of science fiction movies. Many people who have seen it found it boring because it spends a lot of time on each scene.  Similar to Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey it has a lot of slow camera shots of space, the various ships, etc... combined with awesome musical scores.  I found that this slowness helps bring you into the whole futuristic world and subsequently assists you in believing the rather far fetched story. Apart from the obvious things about the movie, it turns out that it has a very interesting and subtle underlying story (or at least message) that only comes out in symbolism (missed by most everyone including me) and perhaps with some of the logic vs. emotion, evolution of living things and love. I was introduced to this at a barb-e-que one Memorial Day.  A philosophy professor (specifically Eastern philosophy) pointed out that the whole platform on which V'Ger sits is in the shape of (I forget now exactly what he said) some Hindu temple (or something) and that V'Ger sounds out a Hindi (or possibly another Eastern language)word for love. This would go along with the story of the machine becoming sentient and, in the phase of being a child, now searching for the meaning of it all and requiring love.  I don't know how much of this pans out, but check with someone who is well versed on Eastern philosophy and ask them about this movie and how it relates.  The person who turned me on to this had much more to say about it and myself and those present only understood about 20% of what he said (many PhD candidates in the related field of mathematics). One of the main characters, Lt. Ilia, was portrayed by an Indian actress who spoke Hindi, so it is possible. Regardless, the movie not only has a compelling, if hard to swallow, story coupled with beautiful photography and direction, but it also gives the audience a lot to think about. "},{"Title":"Star Trek A Comotion About a Picture . . .","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Star Trek The Motion Picture', originally released Friday, December 7th, 1979. - ORIGINAL Theatrical Version, 1979, Running Time 2hrs&12mn, Rated G by the MPAA - SPECIAL Extended Version, 1983, Running Time 2hrs&23mn, Rated G by the MPAA - The DIRECTOR's Edition, 2001, Running Time 2hrs&16mn, Rated PG by the MPAA - CONTENT for all three versions includes Mild Adult Language, Mild Sexual Innuendo and Mild Violence. My take *** (Out of ****) - or 7/10 on the IMDb Scale.'Star Trek The Motion Picture' is the big screen debut of the continuation of the science fiction television series 'Star Trek'. The show chronicled the adventures of the crew of the space-going USS Enterprise. The ship explored the galaxy during a historic five-year mission under the command of the charismatic Captain James T. Kirk. Other crew members included the logical first officer/science officer Spock, a half human/half Vulcan hybrid (Vulcans are an alien race, complete with pointed ears) and the passionate country doctor Leonard Bones McCoy. The TV series ran on NBC from 1966 to 1969. 'Star Trek' takes place in the latter half of the 23rd Century. Mankind has formed alliances with many alien races from planets throughout the galaxy, collectively forming The United Federation of Planets. These societies thrive peacefully and continue to develop together and independently. To protect this Federation from hostiles and seek out new lifeforms and new civilizations is Starfleet. This organization is diplomatic and scientific, yet serves as a military force as needed. The movie opens two & 1/2 years after the completion of the starship Enterprise's five year mission. The spaceship is orbiting Earth, in a dry-dock of sorts, completing a complex overhaul. The planet Earth is in the path of a potential destructive alien intruder. The now Admiral Kirk (William Shatner) doesn't have time to spare during this crisis. He takes a grade reduction to captain, wrestling command of the Enterprise away from a less experienced skipper (Stephen Collins), and sets out to counter the alien threat before it can reach Earth. Most of his original crew has been re-assembled for this undertaking. Shortly after Kirk & team embark to stop the intruder, Spock (Leonard Nimoy) joins them on their quest. 'Star Trek The Motion Picture' trades in on the action, good drama, suspense and wit the TV series offered to a degree. Kirk & company are here pretty much for the ride, instead of being the leaders they're known as. The movie moves at a slow pace, gradually getting into the intricacies of the alien menace. There's a lot of time adoring spaceships as they travel through space. There's not much in the way of real character development. Despite the compromises, 'Star Trek The Motion Picture' works on some level. It's interesting to see the familiar crew in action once again. There are some very fundamental questions asked in the movie that we all have asked ourselves. I found those questions to be intriguing. STTMP wants to be intellectual and it succeeds a lot of the time. Jerry Goldsmith, the film's music composer, provides us with one of the most memorable scores in motion picture history. This is a huge plus for a movie noticeably deficient in personality. This lovely score helps to make up for that. The film almost plays like an elaborate special effects music video set to this grand rousing score. I appreciated the film on this level too. The special effects by John Dykstra were highly imaginative for the late 1970s. They still hold up well over the decades and continue to enthrall me, especially with the mystery of the alien intruder. The intruder sound effects also succeed in giving me an appropriate sense of awe and dread. The 2001 Director's Edition is the best version of the movie. The theatrical version was rushed to make the movie's scheduled release date. It was regarded by director Robert Wise as incomplete. 'The Director's Edition' restores Wise's planned vision for the movie. This version streamlines the pace of the movie, adds a little more depth to the characters and has the originally desired sound-mix and completed special effects restored for this edition. 'Star Trek The Motion Picture' was followed by nine sequels to date and four new TV series. There is an eleventh movie currently in production. 'Star Trek The Motion Picture' was a shaky start for the launch of the 'Star Trek' film series. It's better to simply except this picture for what it is, rather than for what it isn't. It's not a perfect movie, but it did what it set out to do. It invited me for a journey offering good special effects, a great music score and a beloved crew back on the job. The movie also gave me something to think about. It could have been a better movie, but it's still a marginally satisfying one. Though clearly not for everyone, I recommend it to those who would welcome the philosophical ride it offers. "},{"Title":"A muddled epic","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"26 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture - Stardate 7412.6Of all the Star Trek films, this is the most impersonal and epic - which necessarily isn't a bad thing. This film really isn't about the Star Trek crew, but about the vast visual effects laden V'Ger and how the Enterprise spends 2+ hours exploring it. The score by Jerry Goldsmith only accentuates this epic-ness - this is one of his best scores and brings a majestic quality to the Star Trek crew. Never really is this film funny (unlike 4) or action-packed (unlike II) but regardless will always have a place in my heart because it tries to be as epic as Star Trek can possibly be. Overall, a 7 out of 10 (mostly because of the state-of-the-art effects of its time in 1979 and a superb score by Jerry Goldsmith RIP). "},{"Title":"Starts slowly. Almost humorless-Trimed down to a G rating","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this as a roadshow premier with entrance and exit music. Here's an interesting fact Several scenes were edited out to make it G rated for general release. It involved Kirk's ex-wife and a Vulcan in a two transporter tube malfunction. That made it necessary for Spock to join the crew. She was horribly disfigured and the audience gasped in horror; so they took out about 10 minutes and re-worked the entire story without her. All her scenes were cut from the later versions! I have never seen this again, not even on the extended or Director's cuts with extras! (It's also in the novel.) Model-maker Douglas Trumbull (2001) takes a real long time to tour the exterior of the newly-refitted Enterprise.This really slows down the action. Other scenes (inside Vi'ger's mind cloud) are brilliant, but also challenged my attention span. Apparently everybody was in love with 2001 and edited it thus. Lack of humor? Well, in the movies'official novel, there was quite a lot more going on between ILIA and Decker. They have a steamy past and she has hormonal tears. They can't help loving each other, as they are both imprinted for life. (Also an idea borrowed from the TV series) This is all toned-down in the movie. Other gripes Don't space-women own underwear? Vi'ger is a re-working of the Nomad entity from the TV series. Their physical joining at the climax of the film (sorry-couldn't resist) obviously creates The Borg. Yet this is never mentioned in any Star Trek film. (Lots of sparks but still G-rated.) Most enjoyable on disc, as you need to create your own intermission. It is 145 minutes with extended scenes and music. "},{"Title":"The Original isn't always the best","Date":"18 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The motion picture is not a very good movie and I can understand why is usually called The motionless Picture. Although is title to be a adventure and action film ,about seventy five percent of the flick, is some guys wearing stylized pyjamas talking for scientific theories, which would be fine with a kid friendly documentary about science, but in a movie it comes out as boring. If you want a lot of dialogs in an adventure and you aren't Tarantino then don't do it. To be perfectly clear I don't hate it, I honestly think it looks quit pretty,but looks only in a movie are not enough and the the three nominations for Oscar seem to me a bit to much and the fact it didn't won proves me, from my point of view, right. I know that this review may angry some trekkies, but lets be honest here, the Motion Picture does not hold up, sorry but despite that it isn't for any reason a bad film, the fact remains that is boring and dated. "},{"Title":"The search to find and stop V'GER (vee-jurr).","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" As a young adult I used to watch and enjoy the Star Trek TV series in the late 1960s and early 1970s. This 1979 movie is the first of a series of Star Trek movies and it features the same actors from the TV series. Shatner and Nimoy, arguably the best-known, were born only 4 days apart in 1931 and are in their late 40s when this movie was made.Set approximately 300 years into the future, William Shatner is of course Captain Kirk, taking over the re-worked Enterprise after a few years away, to command a mission to find and stop a great power that is threatening Earth. Also after being away for a mission on his native planet Vulcan Leonard Nimoy as Spock returns to the ship. I suppose the other best-known of the bunch was George Takei, in his 30s here, as Sulu.The visuals are amazing and very nice for a movie made almost 40 years ago. The story takes its time and when the spaceship encounters the mysterious mass and cloud the film spends a lot of time showing us its trek inside.Miss India and model Persis Khambatta is a new character, Ilia, and a force field comes aboard the ship and takes her away. Later an android with her form and features returns to the ship, as an emissary of the machine power that controls the cloud, demanding that V'GER communicate with the one who is the creator. Watching it today on Netflix streaming movies I am struck by how well this movie has held up over the years and is still entertaining.SPOILERS Back in the late 20th century space probes caller Voyager were sent on deep space trajectories to gather data and transmit back to Earth. This fictional Voyager 6 was captured by the entity and some of the letters were smudged so only V...GER were still easily discerned, thus it became called V'Ger. It was full of data and needed the code to allow it to transmit, to its creators. This solved the problem and the threat to Earth was averted. "},{"Title":"I sense puzzlement. We have been contacted.","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I must have more patience watching movies than the average person. A lot of the reviews for this picture on the IMDb board fault this one for being long and boring, and yes, there were some slow spots, but I liked the way it built to an exposition of the space cloud's indestructible power and the relationship of the V'ger to the Creator. Revisiting this one I was somewhat surprised by how much more advanced the cinematography was compared to 1977's Star Wars. I'm not looking to start a battle here between Star Wars fans and Trekkies, I don't consider myself either one, but I do enjoy both movie franchises, and in the case of Star Trek, I liked the original TV series a lot as well.Coming a decade following the end of the TV show, I thought the film paid tribute to that series with the basic plot used here. A couple of my favorite shows relied on Captain Kirk (William Shatner) defeating an alien force via the use of circular logic to break a conundrum. In Episode #2.3 - The Changeling - Kirk faced off against a NOMAD computer aboard the Enterprise that had an imperative to destroy imperfection. Similarly, in #2.24 - The Ultimate Computer - the Captain used logic in appealing to the humanistic programming of an M-5 computer that threatened the ship.With Star Trek The Motion Picture, Captain Kirk and the crew of the Enterprise battle wits with an entity calling itself V'ger, a living machine the size of a planet, which had amassed so much knowledge that it achieved consciousness. A hook linking the plot line back to the present day was rather cleverly inserted into the story. V'ger was a contraction of America's Voyager 6 space probe, designed to collect all data possible and transmit the information back to Earth. The massive probe, given the form of Lieutenant Ilia (Persis Khambatta), had little regard for the carbon based units it encountered on it's mission, forcing Kirk, Spock (Leonard Nimoy) and Commander Decker (Stephen Collins) to constantly rethink their strategy in dealing with the V'ger entity.For their first reunion in over a decade, I thought all the original players did a credible job in bringing their characters together aboard the newly refurbished Enterprise. Staying true to their original characterizations, it was cool seeing Kirk, Spock, McCoy, Scotty, Sulu, Chekov, Uhura and Chapel all back together and taking their familiar places aboard ship. The addition of Commander Decker was another of those neat links to past ST continuity, he being the son of Captain Matt Decker (William Windom) from the TV series episode #2.6 - The Doomsday Machine. And finally, Persis Khambatta provided something startlingly new and fresh to the franchise, a bald headed female officer who became the repository for the V'ger entity on this galactic space mission. "},{"Title":"Welcome Aboard...","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember the first time I watched this movie, I did hide my opinion that was a slow, no action movie, the kind of 2001 A Space Odyssey with more dialogue.Today, as I watched this movie, not only it was a re-introduction to the Star Trek universe with all the original characters, but it made sense that the crew had to pass the test before going to further adventures.Well written, cast is great, sad about the costumes (okay, in later movies, they are better...), exceptional special effects, but overall, I would rank this one as a slow-paced episode of the Star Trek Franchise.Many fans did disagree with this movie at time of release for oblivious reasons, however, with time passes, this Star Trek movie's worth a second opinion. "}{"Title":"35 years of classic track","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek the Motion Picture was probably the film that first introduced me to the Star Trek world, the fact it was more than 10 years after the original series had been cancelled was perhaps a bit of a risk by the studios and perhaps they couldn't even have imagined what a hit they had on their hands.Cult followings, events, entire series of magazines dedicated to the crews of the ships, the technology, engineering facts and more.We are constantly sending out probes deep into the stars who could imagine if one was actually reprogrammed and sent back to earth with a message? What would the impact be? These are just some of the aspects of the film that make it so apt for today.Oh how I long for another trek on TV thank you for 50 years of Star Trek "},{"Title":"To Boldly Snore Where No Man Had Snored Before","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I actually saw this poor resuscitation of a classic when it first spattered across the big screen. Disappointed? &#x96; yes young? &#x96; also a resounding yes. The only thought I remember carrying out of the theater, that cold eve in 1979 was, 'Please &#x96; no more sequels - please.' I can only remember the disillusionment I felt after witnessing this pitiful reboot, I could not remember the, 'why.' In order to give this picture a fair ado, I opted to sit through this bore-a-thon one more time. Was it worth it? Well a bit of a yes and a bit of a no. The 'yes' &#x96; some studio powerhouse wisely overlooked this obvious failure, and signed off on some really entertaining successors - brilliant move and thanks for that. Now the 'no' &#x96; the movie still is boring. Drawn-out visuals; sluggish script and an overall slow pace makes a 'Fast Forward Button' a necessary. This movie was so bad, I surprised it did not sweep the Oscars. I will say , it was nice to see the old crew again&#x85;even a splash of their new Chief, Yeoman Rand (Grace Lee Whitney) was cool. Even with the crew getting older, their potential is glaringly obvious, just not used...too bad. Anyway, I guess I would recommend this movie to any and all Star Trek fans&#x85;it is a filler&#x85;or maybe more of a continuation, intended as an introduction to more worthy and exciting journeys. It is worth a look, just don't use it to judge its successors "},{"Title":"More Awe Than Inspiring","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Veteran director Robert Wise brings to the big screen the beloved characters from the classic '60s sci-fi TV show that, although it didn't last very long, snowballed into an even larger cult following throughout the '70s, enough to merit (thanks to STAR WARS, which made outer space bankable) a motion picture too bad it had to be this one...William Shatner, as Captain James T. Kirk, returns to the Enterprise with a solemn bitterness, as does McCoy, with a fake beard and even grumpier than his boss... And finally Spock, duller than even a Vulcan should be... As they set out to intercept a giant mysterious cloud destined to blow up earth. A side-story involves the new young Enterprise commander, played by Stephen Collins, and a beautiful bald woman as grumpy as the rest of the cast... especially when she becomes a robot, or something possibly non-human.Most of the film has the crew standing on the bridge, gazing out in awed-wonderment at all the expensive, and impressive, special effects the only thing somewhat worthwhile. But the eye-candy gets stale quick since there's nothing solid to chase it with, and we're finally led to a limp twist ending that tries hard for Kubrick inspired wonderment but ends up pretentiously stale. If this were a condensed forty-five minute episode of the original series, it'd still be a throwaway, lacking the mysteriously brainy chess match that made the show so endearing, interesting, and fun. Kirk, having no chance at outsmarting this particularly formidable alien, must simply learn about it... so where's the challenge? "},{"Title":"Don't confront this with star wars","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I've always confronted this with star wars, and said that one's better than this, but now by watching this movie again I kinda changed my opinion. This particular movie of the series, not talking about the reboot or the sequels, is more a philosophical science fiction like 2001 or Solaris, than an action sci-fi as Star wars. That also means this is slower, but that won't mean that it's bad. Simply different.THe huge minus to the star trek universe is special effects and set designs. Special effects are most of times unrealistic. Set designs look fake even for being science fiction starship locations. So that's my only complain... if we see 2001 even if 11 years earlier still looks more realistic. To me it's hard to believe that this movie had almost the triple of budget that star wars had. So that's the reason I'm not giving a 9 or 8 to this.What is to note the music, composed by Jerry Goldsmith, not really a composer I'm used to hear in movies, that actually reminded me much of many John Williams compositions "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Motion Picture","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" To think this this film came out when I was just one year old, just like Star Wars which came out a year before I was born, makes me think...my God Jim...I'm old!I've never been a huge Star Trek fan and never will be in all honesty. I did always enjoy the films with the original classic crew but never got into any of the TV series, especially the new stuff. I always preferred the Star Wars franchise for many reasons but mainly because it always looked so superior in virtually every department. This first Trek movie really does show the difference between the two franchises which both appeared in the same era, not taking anything away from Star Trek but it always did look more fake and plastic looking.The effects in this first movie are a mixed bag really. The sequences towards the finale inside V'Ger don't look too bad (nice 2001-esque fantasy lighting effects), various spaceship shots look nice throughout and the costumes although drab don't age too badly. For the most part this film has aged badly if we're brutally honest about it, I don't wanna keep comparing it to Star Wars but there is a clear difference in quality which still stands to this day.What I did always like about Trek was the way it tries to be realistic or at least approach things in a realistic fashion. I'm Not sure if they are merely homaging or copying '2001' but you can clearly see the influences in one sequence as we are treated to a grandiose panorama of the Enterprise as she sits in her docking bay accompanied by a stirring Trek instrumental score. This epic approach is a far cry from the flashbang blaster fire and roaring starcruisers of a certain George Lucas affair. Star Trek is definitely aiming at the grown-ups here, the real sci-fi enthusiasts who name Kubrick's space opus as their holy bible...which Wise clearly did too.I do like the way Wise gave the film a slow pace. Lots of character and background building alongside plenty of mission dialog and technical problems that might occur in reality for such a scenario. Its all classic Star Trek as you would remember from the original series but on a sexier scale with props that actually do look kinda real. In fact there's even more politically correct...goody two- shoes...prime directive...Federation type babble than you can wave a stick at, and Shatner loves his speeches.The film was criticised for this slow unadventurous style but personally I like it, its one of the more realistic Trek movies offering exactly what you got with the original TV series...but prettier. I still to this day don't really understand why some folk (even Trek fans) don't like it. The main aspect of this film I like is the plot, yes the plot. Seems straight forward enough as the team are sent to intercept a mysterious alien phenomena heading towards earth, but I liked how the plot has its intriguing twist at the end. Again just like the classic show you get the danger and mystery with a cute little twist to keep you on your toes. Its not groundbreaking but it just makes you think a little, right up to the very end you're unsure what the hell will happen. How Kirk will save the day and what's the deal behind the alien cloud thing, that's good story telling right there methinks.The continuity from the TV show to the big screen was handled well I thought although I'm no Trek expert. You have all the crew doing what they are best at of course, some new crews members (redshirt fodder perhaps?), plenty of well known typical Trek visuals and sounds, the crew handle most of the action from the ships bridge via the good old big screen on the wall and the Enterprise looks slick with a bit of spit n polish to tart it up for the big screen.Sure its not an in your face phaser fest with hand to hand fights against large lizard men but I for one thought the serious route was a good way to go. The film is more of an exploration adventure, it takes its time, slowly builds up, lots of space jargon...you don't know what their on about half the time but it just sounds good...I use my realism card again. It feels like a point n click strategic adventure game for your PC...I guess?One of the oddest things when you think about it was the fact Wise directed this. You tend to remember Robert Wise for the Hollywood epics 'The Sound of Music' and 'West Side Story' which are two of the greatest musicals ever made probably. So its kinda funny to think he directed the first Star Trek movie, then again he did direct 'The Andromeda Strain' and 'The Day the Earth Stood Still' so he did have some good sci-fi experience.Overall the special effects look fuzzy in places, lots of beige colour schemes going on with the ship and crew, plenty of nasty bluescreen evident I'm afraid...but its still very enjoyable sci-fi. Star Trek has its own little niche of being semi-serious and approaching everything logically but still utilising just enough fantasy to make it a charming pleasant ride.7/10 "},{"Title":"The Story of the Ship That Flew Really Slow","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Not a whole lot happens in this movie. In fact you could even use the words awful and boring to describe it. Maybe because it's not about the characters we're used to. The characters we see are lifeless except for maybe Dr. McCoy. The original series characters weren't bland they were just calm and didn't argue a whole lot. These people have their characters stripped away and we are forced to endure a ship flying into a giant space cloud.The film's tagline claims to be about the human adventure but that is a lie. Humans have flaws and come with remarks that make them them. But perhaps we're missing the picture. The Motion Picture. Which is the starship Enterprise. It's about staring at it for two hours. Seeing how far we could go. What's lingering behind that space cloud? Could it be life? If we're going to focus a whole movie on staring at a starship going to explore what might be alien life why not have the Enterprise itself become a source of harvesting alien life that's growing inside it? (a concept they did in the Next Generation) If we have to do a story about staring a starship for two hours why not turn a twist? Have the Enterprise literally be The Motion Picture that we are watching. Or maybe explain why it's going so slow. Maybe an alien is screwing it up and Scotty has to fix the engines while ship slowly drifts toward an asteroid?The music score redeems the film somewhat and is the only reason to watch it. All and all, this is not the deep grand story of us in space that was the purpose.UPDATED After giving this film a second chance to grow on me I can say I liked this in a different light now. After taking a look at 2001 and Interstellar I think I get this kind of thing now. The film is something beautiful to look at if it's on TV and there are things. The film is at least profoundly boring. There is something about it to be talked about and made fun of. I stand by that this is not the human journey that it should have been. But even so, it is closer to the mark of getting its morals across than perhaps The Original Series was. This did have balls for trying to be different. "},{"Title":"A mystery masterpiece disguised as a Sci-Fi","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" It's rare to see a true and awesome mystery script on a sci-fi movie in which most audience expect to see high speed space battle scenes attached to a cheesy and easy to digest script and that's why Star Trek series are not as suitable as Star Wars for children as they could find them boring and slow and guess what? Nagging children make parents nervous so no wonder why this particular title never got the ratings it deserved. Starting from the script, hands down that was the best I've ever seen on such movie. It was so well written and deep that I could imagine Stanley Kubrick behind it and also the slowness of the movie was a reminder of Kubrick's 2001 although the scenes were not as polished. The production was top of the line with attention to every detail. As of year 2015 that watched it again, almost nothing looked dated. Special effects were also marvelous although there was some scenes on the beginning of the film which could have been better. A true masterpiece. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Star Trek's ten year reunion","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah Star Trek, how I loved this show. I was in my junior year of college when this movie premiered. I was struggling academically, and yet I cut a day of classes to wait in a blocks long line to see this film. The rumor of a Star Trek motion picture had been circulating for years before this film was made. Lenard Nimoy had written the Awful I am not Spock, and had held up the filming with his refusal to put on those ears again. Now FINALLY, I would be able to see Star Trek as I had dreamed it COULD be, with a thoughtful script (or so I hoped) and a massive special effects budget. So how did it stack up? Like most fans, my reviews were mixed. First of all, it should be understood that Gene Roddenberry clearly made this movie FOR THE FANS! Those who had not watched (and re watched) the show faithfully were simply never part of this film's intended audience. On the other hand, those who had lived and breathed Star Trek during its years long syndication run, were mostly not disappointed. For example, the very long fly by sequence of the Enterprise in space dock was clearly designed to say LOOK at what we've done to the ship! Isn't it the Enterprise you've been longing for?! The wistful look on Kirks face as Scotty gave him the grand tour was reflected in every fan's face. Boring you say? How can you even think that? Every fan had been dreaming of seeing the Enterprise in space dock for YEARS! The catharsis of that experience cannot be overstated.Which brings me to my first quibble with the movie. During much of the fly by sequence, the Enterprise looks too small. It's as if someone in the model dept. got the scale of the ship slightly wrong or mispositioned the camera. It's just not quite believable as an aircraft carrier sized space ship. Now that is not to say that the sequence is a total flop. When we see the first full frontal view of the ship that first time (with a perfectly scored musical accompaniment) I felt the hair on the back of my neck stand up while simultaneously feeling a lump in my throat. And the last stretch of the flyby finally corrects the size perspective. On to the plot and characters. To say that Bill Shatner over-acts most of his lines cannot be overstated. And who choreographed that scene where he extends his (sweaty) palm to Doc McCoy. When he says dammit Bones, I need you. Badly! I half expected them to kiss. Can you say AWKWARD!? I've seen young teens on a first date that looked more at ease. Indeed, only Scotty and McCoy seem totally at home in their old rolls (although Scotty acquired quite a roll and looked like he had eaten far too many Kosmik Kreme donuts). Thankfully, Lt. Uhura, Sulu, and Chekov looked like they hadn't aged a day. Unfortunately, the lovely yeoman Rand looked like she had spent the last few years tanning on Vulcan without sunscreen. I've seen old catcher's mitts that had better skin. Speaking of looking better, who came up with the idea of a bald headed sex worker to be the main love interest? She claimed her oath of celibacy was on record but I can't imagine she'd have to worry about breaking that oath. And while we're on the topic of sex appeal, I must say that the clothing worn by the women (except the follicularly challenged one) was about as un-sexy as possible. I realize that a lot of the extras were long time Star Trek fans, and girl nerds are rarely shapely, but that's no reason to dress so many in baggy jumpsuits.As we look at the overall story, I must say that the plot was pretty un imaginative. A voyager space probe gets a huge boost from an alien machine race that can't be bothered wiping the soot off of the probe's hull and so is named V'ger. Uhm, that plot reveal element is on the level of a high school creative writing class (as is most of the story). So why did I give this movie 8 stars? Because against some mighty unfavorable odds, the Star Trek franchise made it to the big screen more-or-less intact. Yes, the writing was bad, the new characters stupid, and some of the special effects slightly tattered. However, as a reunion of the familiar old faces, it was rather satisfying. As I said earlier, this movie was a gift to the fans who had been dreaming of a Star Trek motion picture for nearly a decade. It would go on to spawn several new TV series based on the show as well as other motion pictures. I would have preferred a better script, but who knows. If the movie had been delayed further, it's possible it would have never been made at all. And THAT would have been a tragedy. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, yet slow Star Trek film debut","Date":"26 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I've been trying to track down this film for a little while, as it's very difficult to find on DVD. I managed to finally get my hands on it when I purchased the Star Trek film collection on Blu Ray. I don't consider myself to be a Trekkie, but I consider myself to be a science fiction fan, and having seen a few episodes of the original series, I know that the show's strength lies in its dialogue, characters and ideas.Star Trek The Motion Picture does not disappoint visually, especially in high def. The effects have held up in much the same way that Star Wars' effects have; the miniatures are sleek, and the lighting creates a rather convincing outer space illusion from time to time. There are also 2001 A Space Odyssey vibes on a regular basis.However, instead of being consistently stimulated, I found myself yearning for more character interactions. I wanted to see Kirk investigate unfamiliar territory with Spock, McCoy and a poor ensign chap. Bottom line, I wanted more action. All of the characters, even Kirk, play second banana to the sets and special effects, which I found to be rather boring.However, I feel like this was a good start for me to get into the Star Trek films, and I look forward to watching the rest of them.*** / ***** "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Motion Picture","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" A machine planet lends a hand to a fellow (if inferior) machine by providing it with the technology capable of doing its job, collecting data, the destination returning to its creator, but not just wanting to bring back what it stores, this V'Ger wants to mate with the one who gave it life. That's it as far as synopsis. Certain ships, like two Klingon cruisers (one Imperial) and a massive Federation vessel, Epsilon IX, are both absorbed (electric bolts from a circular burst of plasma energy appear from an enormous cloud and when this hits ships it looks as if they are totally vaporized) and V'Ger is headed for Earth. The newly constructed Enterprise, refit and remodeled from the old ship Kirk used to captain for five years, 2  years absent from the center chair (and obsessively desiring to captain the new one, given his position back after some intense needling of Starfleet, using Earth's current predicament as a means to do so), will intercept V'Ger and try to stop it from destroying Earth, its next stop, on a course for the planet. Kirk has an uneasy relationship with Enterprise Captain Dekker, because he basically robbed the young man of his command. This tension lasts throughout the movie, and rightfully so. All the cast members return. Bones, drafted against his will back to Starfleet because of Kirk's influence. Spock, not accepting the Vulcan ritual Kolhinar, because the consciousness of V'Ger was calling to him, rejoins the Enterprise while both are on route to meet the cloud. V'Ger takes a member of Kirk's crew, Ilia (Persis Khambata), using her human features as a probe, collecting Data, but she has been duplicated too perfect and even though she's essentially a machine, memories and feelings remain deeply buried but there. So Dekker, who had a romance with Ilia on her home planet, at Kirk's urging, will attempt to convince V'Ger not to destroy carbon-based units (the Enterprise crew and those living on Earth), while Spock has designs on traveling further inside the cloud (this is after the Enterprise is tractor-beamed into the cloud's center control, soon released and resting at a complete stop until they learn more), actually mind melding with its central power to try and get answers. What is V'Ger looking for?Well, like many Star Trek fans, I have the same basic likes and dislikes as others, similar to the typical critiques. I hate the uniforms (the untucked shirts), but love the sets. The new Enterprise is my favorite the white exterior and the look when dark or in full light is just beautiful to me. Kirk's method of regaining command is interesting because it was done in a rather secretive way, back-stabbing the capable Dekker character. The Dekker-Ilia romance does nothing for me, but it is important to the screenplay for the new birth of a lifeform metaphysical conclusion (the Enterprise emerging from an explosion of blue light in the black starry space gives me a hard-on). The plot, long-winded and rather mediocre, just doesn't cut the mustard for me personally, but it does service us with lots of Douglas Trumball visual magic, as we go inside the cloud and witness all sorts of unique imagery, stylistically colored, with fascinating patterns, most of which looks as if we were inside a computer. Spock's initial boarding of the Enterprise, his cold reception of a delighted crew funny to me, but awkward when you see the disappointment and bewilderment in the expressions of everyone after the Vulcan turns his attentions to the task at hand&#x85;learning what V'Ger is/wants. Director Wise allows some scenes to drag on, because he seems to care more for the visual effects than a tighter story (the shuttle trip with Scotty and Kirk travelling to the Enterprise; The Enterprise tractor beaming into V'Ger's cloud), but, as irony would have it, the look and technological aspects are the movie's strengths. Like a lot of fans, I was happy when the second film changed its method of execution, because The Motion Picture has the pacing issues and a story that lacks oomph even if it jump starts the franchise. The wormhole sequence, the Enterprise leaving space dock (and the busy chaos of its repairs prior to release), the transporter malfunction killing two officers, and Spock's trip into V'Ger's main ship are definite highlights that add dramatic highs despite the number of lows. Overall, a failure with high spots here and there. "}{"Title":"Not bad, just kind of a weak start for the series","Date":"17 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" One thing we don't see often is a TV series taken to the big screen. Usually once the show is over, it's definitely over. But if it's a show like 'Star Trek,' there's so much more to explore. Despite only lasting 3 seasons, the original series gained quite a following. It took 10 years, but the first feature film became a reality. However, the reception to it wasn't the greatest. Many fans and critics were none-too-thrilled with the result. Now over 30 years old, how does the film hold up? It's not a classic by any means, but it's not one too dismiss either.Pros Well acted. Electrifying score. Fabulous production design. Most of the effects have held up. Steady direction. Moves at a good pace most of the time. Great cinematography. Some neat ideas.Cons Emphasizes spectacle over plot. Lacks characterization. Some dated effects. Some scenes drag on too long.Final thoughts For this first film they really could have come up with better. That being said, what we do get is still a pleasing adventure. There's enough awe and competency in the acting and directing to keep this afloat. Things could, and would, only get better from here.My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"This movie always gets short changed","Date":"10 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, I'll concede that it is not a perfect movie Star Trek or otherwise, but it is not nearly as bad as many people (ST fans especially) would have you believe.Even in its original version it is still light years ahead of most other SciFi fare of the day.And I think that this is the problem that people have with it -- it wasn't Star Wars.But it was specifically intended to not be compared to SW. Even the promotional material centered around this idea with the tag-line There is no comparison. ST-TMP is a movie that is meant to be experienced from a more intellectual perspective. I don't mean this in any negative way. it just cannot be experienced with the expectation that one is going to see heart-pumping action sequences and scenery chewing. It requires the audience to be contemplative.What ST-TMP gives us is a deeply metaphysical story that attempts to answer the greatest of all human questions Is this all that I am? Is there nothing more? ST-TMP is true SciFi. It is not space battles and action sequences, although these would become much more a part of the stories of the future films. (ed note There is nothing wrong with action and battles in SciFi - I love SW as well. ST-TMP is just different and stands on its own.) Some particulars The special effects - Simply outstanding. Doug Trumbull's work in creating the visuals is wondrous and at times breathtaking. The fly-around the Enterprise in spacedock is worth the price of admission.The music - Jerry Goldsmith's score should have won the Oscar. The theme itself is legendary, and Goldsmith's use of new sounds and instruments, atonalism, and aleatoric writing is, as always, a joy to experience.The acting - has its moments, but is nothing great. When has a SCiFi movie ever had great acting.This is a much better movie than it is often given credit for. As another reviewer said, it did what it was designed to do and that is bring Star Trek back.As a Star Trek movie, I rank it near the middle from best to worst - 2,4,6,8,11,3,1,7,9,10,5.As a SciFi movie, I would put it up there with Silent Running, Logan's Run, and other more thought-provoking 70's genre movies. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good, but exhausting at 132 minutes","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I have decided that I wanted to tackle an entire franchise of films. When posing this idea to Tom, he immediately stated that I should see all of the Star Trek films. Eek, I thought!! Not ever being a fan of it, I had only been exposed to the original series that was shown constantly on BBC Two as I was growing up, and the later series The Next Generation, that I had seen a few episodes of from the late '80's, and I was never enamored by it - I am certainly no 'Trekkie'. My only experience of the films was the very recent J. J. Abrams 'reboot', that I have to say I thoroughly enjoyed. With trepidation, I began the series, inevitably, from the very start. And I have to confess I was pleasantly surprised with it, despite it being an odd number film (if you are unaware, the fan world suggests that only the even numbered Star Trek films are any good).The main crux of the story focuses on an unidentified phenomenon that is heading towards Earth, destroying everything in it's path. This brings back together the original crew of the Starship Enterprise Kirk (William Shatner), Spock (Leonard Nimoy), Bones (DeForest Kelly), Scotty (James Doohan), et al. Their task is to stop the strange enemy. The villain of the piece is certainly an interesting one. A more cerebral monster, in a state of existential crisis, the team have quite a task to penetrate it's unknown dangers.Aside from the awfulness of Shatner - he genuinely can't act - the characters are interesting, and with Kirk's usurping of the Enterprises captain at the start seems to create an interesting duality. This is quickly thrown to the side. There is an interesting and theoretically disturbing scene at the start of the film, we see the teleportation units that 'beam up' crew members go horribly wrong. The result - whilst not seen - is horrifying, as the fundamentals of teleportation require that the body is broken into it's most basic molecules and reconstructed in a different place. This transaction was never completed, and therefore the bodies of the travelers, are never fully restructured.With some science consultancy from the great sci-fi writer, Isaac Asimov, the film surely had some credentials. The special effects were overseen by Douglas Trumball and John Dykstra, and the results are often astounding, even today. Whilst not capturing the fun and excitement of Star Wars (1977), this more cerebral, esoteric space adventure, offers a more 2001 A Space Odyssey (1968) stance on space than the Flash Gordon/Buck Rogers elements of Star Wars. It's not a great film, but I was absolutely amazed that it was actually good. However, at an exhausting 132 minutes, the film could have been tighter with a few trims here and there. It would have benefited with a 100 minute running time.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"An Aging Sci Fi Movie That Still Resonates Its Serious Fun of the Original","Date":"8 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Thirty one years later, this movie seems dated with inferior special effects, particularly in the beginning, on Vulcan and other superimposed features that seem to be artificially moving on the screen. There is the prolonged musical and lengthy introduction the Starship Enterprise following 2001 A Space Odyssey's (1968) in their prolonged musical approach to the Space Station in orbit around earth. There is a lot of set up, introductions, shake downs (going into warp drive scene) that in contemporary terms would be boring and listlessly inactive as non-action and unnecessary. In 1979, this was a director with a new toy, experimenting and showing off a new vision of the elements of the Star Trek with a larger budget. But understanding the nature of the movie and the times it was released, the built up anticipation of Trek fans, the focus on detail is somewhat understandable. Unfortunately, outside of that context, the movie has aged and rust spots have appeared. Even so the unknown menace in this movie remains one of the most intriguing in sci fi movie history in appearance and overall immensity of the threat. Like Forbidden Planet (1956), this original Star Trek has as its core a solid, inspiring sci fi revelation of the mysterious unknown and established like Alien (1979) released the same year, a fascinating and involving movie experience in the sci fi genre though the latter has held up better. Some of the images and the eerie immersion into the visual and ominous or brilliant submersion into the sci fi experience has been rarely exceeded since.Bone's entrance scene is both wooden and authentic and mature, a mixed presentation. The set design especially of the Enterprise is both simple, modern, elegant, yet also almost artificial and makeshift in its presentation. The color scheme as on earth are at times almost comic-book crass, yet sharp and clear. As a plus, this movie version has seat restraints available for bridge crew, something even most sci fi movies even today fail to incorporate, also a nice display of computer graphical sequences that rival any sci fi portrayal in existence today.As Star Trek (2009) was heavily dependent or respective of the music of the television series Star Trek The Next Generation (1987), so does the original movie use and reflect back on the original television series (1966) theme music and voice over narration used in the series. Spock's little personal voyage outside of the Enterprise will be replicated in a different fashion in A Mission To Mars (2000) climatic reveal scene. Spock's own personal trek of self-discovery is also a subplot of interest in this movie, the would find a parallel experience with Lt. Commander Data's own personal struggles that occurred in the Star Trek The Next Generation (1987).Whether the purportedly emotional divisions scenes are compelling or simply tokenism can be debated (that between Stephen Collins and Williams Shatner and Shatner's exposure to weakness or the romance angle and the distinctly different form of its resolution). Does Captain's Kirk's personality and character become more than two-dimensional television figure in this larger than life feature film version? Are the attempts at challenging Kirk's seeming invincibility and inward introspection really believable or just a superficial attempt? And what about Spock's interaction with the Enterprise crew with long pregnant pauses, in some ways are as awkward as the seeming artificiality as when Spock is first seen in the episode the Menagerie Part II (1966) and yet there is a sense of authenticity to it at the same time.But the primary focus, the experience of first contact is intense and riveting as any in sci fi movie history. Yet the eventual Lost in Translation (2003) approach to immersing into the alien landscape can be both plodding or meditatively pure depending on one's perspective. Like First Spaceship on Venus (1960), there is a new level of sensory experience, perhaps even more thrilling than 2001 A Space Odyssey's psychedelic stargate sequence. As for the particular facial cuts are both haughty use of superficial expressions and long sequences of pretty Christmas-like lights or a running sequence of the actual glimpses of travel into the unknown of eerie, wonderful and bewildering sights. The music by Jerry Goldsmith (nominated for an Oscar for best original musical score) is haunting and majestic at the same time.The alien probe scene is at once seemingly photographically amateur in appearance and stilted and yet also quite authentic and genuine in the old fashioned film hand-held canister camera fashion like today's hand held videos of The Blair Witch Project (1999) today. But rarely has the immense scale of an experience been filmed or portrayed in any sci fi movie as seen Wavelength (1983) ending scene using a much more simplistic object or the sense of immensity as with Alien (1979) and the Nostromo and the context of the alien planet itself or even 2001 A Space Odyssey (1968) when the space ship Discovery is in proximity to Jupiter and the strange alien monolith.In the end, the movie's underlying premise is one of emotions, the search for meaning and self-identity, in the face of loneliness and the need for love. The movie contains the universal call for tenderness and connectivity - like an intelligent, lost puppy. The path to a solution comes from the sense of enlightened and humorous tender firmness that has underlain the original television version itself (of Dr. Bones' astute dry humor, Spock's fusion of logic rationality with feelings, and Kirk's instinctiveness perception of the nature of things). The end for some can be considered as a man's ultimate dream fantasy, for other's it may come as a overly fancy, simplistic answer covered over with the sound effects reminiscent of the earlier sci fi movie classic, Forbidden Planet (1956). Overall, this movie still retains its powerful serious hardcore sci fi integrity in both plot and visual and auditory intensity regardless of its aging and outdated, sometimes wooden appearance. "},{"Title":"To boldly go where Bob has gone before (DVD)","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" It was moving to see that at his great age, one of the most respected Hollywood directors is still eager to revisit his Trek movie and immortalizes this late work with his commentary. It's all the more interesting that in my opinion, his first vision was really great SMTP was a masterpiece in science fiction movies. But as I have seen it long ago, i can't really notice the differences between the two versions. The most evident is the exit on the hull because it's true that the original perspective was really bizarre.But then, I felt that the return of the franchise was refreshing the colored suits are gone for bright uniforms that aren't filled with any military spirit unlike all the others sequels. The Goldsmith's score is exceptional and the long, never-ending trip to the Enterprise is perfectly tied with the characters. On board, Ylia was an outstanding newcomer that confirms science fiction can speak with less.Above all, this mission is a success I can't find any other science fiction movies that illustrate the unknown territory. For 2 hours, you go to a wonderful, mysterious trip with unseen and artistic environment. In addition, it's also a philosophical quest wondering about knowledge, humanity and religion. The movie is so rich that its visuals have set the standard for all the sequels, and that the probe element has been used again in ST4 and the quest for god in ST5! Maybe the characters are a bit tensed and melodramatic but what about the failure of ST3? Here, it fits with the subject and as good franchises, the core of characters allows multiple mood in each movie. Just pick the one you are looking for! Well, for me, the 12 years / 6 movies mission has been completed backwards so I left them as a young crew and thank them for all those good times! "},{"Title":"Beautiful under-rated Star Trek film by critics and fans","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is truly magnificent. Beautiful. I thought I wouldn't like it because of the bad reviews by critics and fans but boy were the critics and especially the fans wrong. This is a truly beautiful film that is in such heights as 2001 A Space Odyssey. This is a wonderful film that captured my attention from the first scene, from the first minute. This is a truly magnificent film adaption of the TV series. Star Trek doesn't need action scenes to be entertaining, I don't mind a film whether it has action scenes or not, just an entertaining story. I love the latest sequel, prequel and reboot Star Trek because that is what Gene Roddenberry would have loved to have done and if he was alive would have loved the film deeply. The film may rely heavily on special effects but at least it didn't rely on effects much as films do today. The effects are breath taking and throughout the whole film I cannot imagine the film even being made in 1979. 1979!!! It's like this film stole all the other 70s film special effects budgets to create the most awsomest and ageless effects ever. The story is great and is very Star Trek The Original Series. The film is over-long but with the effects, story and acting I really don't care. The film is scary, mysterious and just Goddamn beautiful and every Star Trek fan who pans this film really needs to reconsider whether they are a true Trekkie or not.This film is just awesome, I cannot say how brilliant this is. When watching it it's like I'm on drugs, I've never been on drugs and never will but at least this drug that I'm high on won't shorten my life, just give me a high excited level and make my heart beat double the usual beat.Other reviews have praised the film for it's score and I will not disagree. Jerry Goldsmith and John Williams are two of my favourite composers but thank God Jerry did it because otherwise it would have felt like Star Wars if John did it. Every music piece in the film sounds like an overture at the beginning of a musical that consists of snippets of music from the show. Fast beats, slow beats, high beats, low beats. It's just beautiful and makes me want to scream out Star Trek a thousand times on top of my roof because of how beautiful it is.I give it a 9 out of 10 because I felt the film ended a bit abruptly with some unanswered questions but if I forgot that then it would have got 10/10. A brilliant film that is so super "},{"Title":"The Human Adventure Is Just Beginning","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" A vast energy cloud appears in deep space, destroying all it comes into contact with, and heading towards Earth. Admiral James Kirk utilises this emergency to take control of the Starship Enterprise and head out to meet this mysterious nemesis &#x85;For my money, the original Star Trek movie is the best one. Unlike the others, it really goes for a big existentialist science-fiction theme, and I think it succeeds quite well. Okay it may be a bit pretentious, and yes it could do with some trimming, but it's a big story on a big canvas and cinematically it's terrific, a sort of midway point between 2001 A Space Odyssey and The Fifth Element. What appeals to me most about it is the evocative nature of the galactic environments - like the best escapist movies, after watching this you really feel like you've been in outer space; a two-hour holiday in the future. The visual effects and the production design combine seamlessly to create a truly unique atmosphere. The movie's detractors may argue that the lengthy effects sequences are boring but that misses the point - this is a film all about the wonder and majesty of the universe, and all the shots of the Enterprise, the endless heavens and the enigmatic energy cloud contribute to that. Besides, the effects by Douglas Trumbull and John Dykstra are simply sensational; some of the best model and matte shots ever created for film, as huge craft pan and tilt above us and we creep along bizarre, unfathomable vistas. Equally good is Jerry Goldsmith's loud fanfare of a score, with a fabulous trumpet main theme, driving strings, and weird electric guitar cacophonies - this was a particularly prolific period in his illustrious career and this is one of his very best suites. He also scored four of the subsequent Star Trek movies, and his heroic theme was also used on the credits of both the Next Generation and Voyager TV shows. I have to say I am not that fond of the Star Trek cast, but they're pretty good here, especially given the heavy nature of the story, and as usual Nimoy comes off best. For fans of the series it has a nice the-gang's-all-here element, before they all got too old. Collins makes the best of his usurped role, and Indian model Khambatta is memorable with her regal features and bald head (she's a Deltan, whatever they are). If you're a real full-on Asimov/Clarke/Heinlein science-fiction fan, or an effects junkie, this is the movie for you, a surprisingly grownup and philosophical tale of alien contact. Based on a story by prolific sf author Alan Dean Foster (Pip & Flinx, Spellsinger), this supports my credo of movie series and sequels - the original one is almost always the best one. "},{"Title":"For Star Trek Fan's Only","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Some 10 years after the original Star Trek series had gone off the air (with the exception of syndication) the franchise was reborn with a feature film, it is a tribute to the dedication of the series fans that this mediocre movie succeeded and generated sequels (several of which were considerably better).The story contrives as was likely necessary to reunite the familiar crew from the TV series in-order to investigate a powerful energy cloud of unknown origin that is on a collision course with earth.Unfortunately the early part of the film plays like an origins story with lengthy character (re)introductions and even more lengthy re-acquaintance with the Starship Enterprise. While this may have been seen as necessary for new viewers or those that needed re-acquaintance it resulted in a very slow start to the movie. The extended shots of the Enterprise in space dock were apparently a result of wanting to show off the rather expensive special effects, and this wasn't the only example.Beyond the (re)introductions of the characters we are also introduced to two new characters that in retrospect either should have been discarded or rather should have been more fully developed into well rounded characters Once we reach the alien entity we are subjected to rather lengthy kaleidoscope like effects for the cloud which may have been as impressive achievement to some but went on far to long for most viewers.The performances were by and large what people were expecting, some were a little wooden but the much loved characters were back, and allowances are made. The second film would change peoples expectations in this area.Director Robert Wise has certainly made a number of very good films including The Sound of Music, West Side Story for both of which he would win the Academy Award. Here though whether this was simply a miss or whether the studio forced him to release a movie with which he was unhappy the result is the same. "},{"Title":"To slowly go where no man...","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Star Trek' ran on U.S. television from 1966-69, and was created by Gene Roddenberry as a kind of 'Wagon Train' in space, a show about Man's struggle to survive in the hostile environment of the cosmos. The U.S.S. Enterprise is on a five-year mission to 'seek out new life, explore strange worlds and civilisations, to boldly go' etc. You know the rest.After its cancellation, that seemed to be that. But in syndication, it developed a fanatical following. Fans not merely admired the show, but actively worshipped it. The momentum to revive 'Star Trek' grew as the 1970's progressed. In 1973/74, an animated version appeared, which disappointed some but for my money equalled the original in terms of quality. Plans to make a sequel series entitled 'Star Trek Phase Two' were scrapped as soon as 'Star Wars' became the motion picture industry's biggest ever hit in the summer of 1977. A movie was given the green light.To direct, veteran Robert Wise - who also made 'The Day The Earth Stood Still' and 'The Andromeda Strain' - was hired. The script was by Harold Livingston, author of a number of 'Mission Impossible' episodes but who curiously had never contributed to 'Trek'. He developed an existing outline entitled 'In Thy Image' by Alan Dean Foster. The plot concerns a strange object detected heading towards Earth. It initially zaps out of existence some Klingon warships, before turning its attentions to an Earth space station. Star Fleet decrees that the newly refurbished U.S.S. Enterprise be brought out of mothballs - once more with Captain ( now Admiral ) James T.Kirk - in command. His presence tees off the ship's new Captain, Decker ( Stephen Collins ). With the original crew assembled ( along with Deltan Navigator Ilia ) the Enterprise shoots off to meet the threat head on.Released at the end of 1979 to great fanfare, 'Trek' disappointed many fans. The dreadful new costumes were the least of the film's worries. The story was simply not strong enough to support the film's two hour ( depending on which version you view ) running time. It was not particularly original, owing a debt to an episode entitled 'The Changeling' ( a robot in search of its creator ) as well as an animated story called 'One Of Our Planets Is Missing'. Wise gave the impression of being so enamoured of Douglas Trumbull and John Dykstra's S.F.X. he could not bring himself to trim any of their work. Unfortunately, it was these lengthy sequences which slowed the pace down to little more than a crawl. A good example of this is at the beginning when Scotty ( James Doohan ) gives Kirk ( William Shatner ) a tour of the new-look Enterprise. The shuttle goes slowly up the length of one side, then slowly down the other. Even Jerry Goldsmith's magnificent music could not conceal the tedium. Later on, the Enterprise enters the thick murk surrounding the entity known as 'Vger' and the movie grinds to a bum-numbing halt. You can boil an egg in the time in takes Kirk to get to the heart of the cloud - and eat it and wash the eggcup afterwards. Worse, the chemistry that existed between the characters has been virtually forgotten.The script had problems too. When a bearded 'Bones' McCoy ( the splendid DeForest Kelley ) returns to the Enterprise, Kirk tells him Bones...I need you badly.. Well, you can imagine the derisive laughter that line caused in cinemas.Though it initially looked as though Leonard Nimoy would not return as 'Mr.Spock', he changed his mind. Although as Spock had just left Vulcan having undergone some sort of ritual designed to purge himself of emotions, it was difficult to tell if he was glad to be back or not.Among the new characters, Stephen Collins' 'Decker' was best, coming across like a younger 'Kirk'. The late Persis Khambatta's bald-headed 'Ilia' had all the impact of a marshmallow. On first meeting Kirk, she said my oath of celibacy is on record!. Presumably she wanted to discourage any crewmen who were thinking of running barefoot across her head.This is not really an adventure story as much, more a philosophical tract on the nature of God. You come away thinking nice but so what?. Disney's 'The Black Hole' - which came out at the same time - was more fun by comparison. Fortunately, it made enough money to justify a sequel - 1982's vastly superior 'Wrath Of Khan'. Wise later reedited his film for a D.V.D. release, with no real improvements noticeable. "},{"Title":"Not too bad, as a beginning","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I base this on the Director's Edition. I suppose part of the explanation behind why this movie is, well, the way it is, is it's simultaneously attempting to reacquaint old viewers with the core people and their relationships, and introduce it to new-comers. A good deal of this consists of establishing, and as a direct result, the characters don't have a lot to do, nor is the overall story given as much screen-time and attention as it could, considering that this is the longest of these. The plot isn't entirely original, if the resolution is satisfying. The moral is also retread ground. This isn't particularly action-based, but, rather, something to think about. That may have been to further distinguish it from Star Wars. This does, however, come off as relatively Hollywoodized, maybe especially when compared to the show itself. All of this isn't to say that this is poor... it certainly has its worth. There is genuine drama and tension herein. It feels like a film, grand and epic, with a masterful score, fantastic(although probably improved in the newer releases) special effects, and a budget that allowed it to achieve a greater scope. The pacing is uneven throughout. The language is gratuitous, albeit not harsh. This contains more of such than the entire television series put together. This isn't as fine for children to watch as earlier efforts in the franchise, though aforementioned(be aware that there are a few disturbing details) is the only thing that isn't handled in a tasteful manner. And there is a reason this has been referred to as The Motion Sickness. The acting is solid, and this in general has next to no silly or goofy moments, but works as a serious piece(just don't take *all* of the science as fact). Thankfully everyone remembered how to portray their roles, and the writing is credible as well. This should be seen as a starting point, from where the later entries would spring forth. The 2-Disc DVD set holds a commentary track, several deleted/additional scenes(of varying quality), a bit of promotional material including trailers and TV spots and a couple of featurettes/documentaries(one on the making and another on the recent retouching, both are well-done) many of which are interesting and worth the time. I recommend this to Trekkies as well as those who have never seen any Star Trek, and fans of sci-fi that holds food for thought. Just know what to expect. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Yes its Slow and Long, It's still one of the best Treks.","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" When a second Star Trek series got canned in the late seventies, Paramount and Roddenberry searched for a vehicle that could reignite the so so TV show that had developed legions of followers. The end result is this long, operatic and effect laden film directed by Robert Wise of West Side Story fame.This film has ups and downs. The new Enterprise looks great, along with the still unexplained new look of the klingons. The deep and existential exploration recalls classic Kubrick in 2001. However it is these great things about the film that tear it down to casual viewers. It's slow, often painful pace will drive most viewers to go refill drinks during takes. Of particular note is what I call The Enterprise Parade. An extremely long take as Kirk makes his way to his old ship. It takes forever and the orchestral music will drive modern fans to tears, and not of beauty. Shatner's usual non acting as well as the complete lack of any comedy, make this a hard film to sit through.But despite all that, this film still contains one of the best twists in sci-fi history and will please the more hardcore fans of trek. Still though, if your looking for action and fast pace, avoid this film like the plague, and go see Wrath of Khan. "},{"Title":"Star Trek let down.","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek the Motion Picture was my first experience in disappointment. It came out when I was in the sixth grade. Just two years earlier, I had been wowed by Star Wars. Already a Trekker, I could not wait to see what Gene Roddenberry was going to do with his franchise. Never in my life was I so bored at the movies. Older, I stand by the statement I made as an eleven-year-old. It begins several months after the end of the first five-year mission. Scotty has just spent the last 18 months refitting the Enterprise for her new commander, Captain Will Decker. Unfortunately, something is approaching Earth, eating planets, asteroids, and Klingons in its path. It is up to the Enterprise to stop it. Rear Admiral Kirk uses the emergency to get command back, and re-activate Dr. McCoy. Spock has retired and is going through the final purging of his emotions known as the Kolinhar. Of course, Spock shows up. I will concede that the movie has a magnificent score, and keeps with the television show's spirit of exploration and contacting new life forms. It also unveils the new and improved Enterprise. However, it drags and drags too much. The Enterprise spends too much time going through special effects for the cloud, reminiscent of Stanley Kubrick's overindulgence in 2001 A Space Oddessy. In other words no action. No star battles, no hand-to-hand combats, or Kirk and Spock out-thinking a hostile alien or nemesis. And who came up with those pajama-like uniforms? There is too much introspection, too much philosophizing, and too much of the Enterprise stuck in the midst of weird special effects. The worst part is there is no chemistry between the characters prevalent in the television shows and the latter movies. They serve as props to the new Enterprise. Of course, this was a segue into Star Trek's glory movies, II, III, and IV. I guess just like the series, it got off to a rocky start. "},{"Title":"Overly Criticized-- Still One of the Best","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" My favorite Star Trek films are The Wrath of Khan and The Final Frontier, but this original 1979 classic ranks right up there. Directed by the legendary Robert Wise (The Day the Earth Stood Still), this mind-blowing motion picture event has great special effects, a great story, great music, and even great performances (from everybody except Shatner).The only real problem with this movie is a small one that people seem to fixate on so often. Like Steven Spielberg's 1941, this movie is infamous as a rushed mess with big special effects and no real heart. However, I honestly believe that people who say that about either of these movies have never really paid that close attention to them. TMP has plenty of heart-- from amazing romantic scenes between Stephen Collins and Persis Khambatta to the jaw-dropping finale.And while this film can be considered nearly identical in story to the original series episode The Changeling, that's not necessarily a bad thing. After all, we face similar challenges every day in our average lives. Why is it so unusual for it to happen to famous people?I love the original series, but I'll take this first any day. "},{"Title":"poses some interesting philosophical questions,but..","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" it just takes too long to get there.the movie is 136 minutes and in the first the first 65 or so,not much of any import happens.at least in my opinion.about halfway through,the story picks up a bit,but i didn't really find it all that engaging or compelling.there just doesn't seem to be much sense of urgency given the threat that the Enterprise has to deal with.i also found the movie lacking in excitement or suspense.as i said in the summary,the movie does pose some interesting philosophical questions,but it doesn't do much more than that.normally,that might not be such a bad thing,but in a Star Trek movie,i kinda expected some excitement and sense of danger,as well.to be perfectly honest,i think the threat in this movie is not as developed as it could have been.i found the movie to be more of a showcase for the special effects,and visually it does look quite nice.and the musical score is quite good.it's very fitting for the movie.overall though,i think this is a case of style over substance.i'm not saying this is a horrible movie,but i was disappointed.my vote for Star TrekThe Motion Picture5/10 "},{"Title":"Still most profitable of all the Star Trek  films.","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek the Motion Picture is a very underrated and under-appreciated Star Trek film. In fact trekkies often state that this movie, which is clearly one of best Star Trek films ever made, is their least favorite film in the entire series! That's a true shame. However STTMP is still the most profitable of all the Star Trek feature films. Star Trek The Motion Picture is a epic, cerebral sci-fi story with very little mindless action. Most kids and young action minded adults won't like it. The film has amazing effects when it came out and a best Star Trek score by late great Jerry Goldsmith plus a first time when i saw the bald and exotic Persis Khambatta.. Star Trek the Motion Picture is easily the most realistic of all the Star Trek films and clearly is the closest a Trek movie has come to Gene Roddenberry's view of the future, and the only Star Trek film that was a true 'motion picture'. a sci fi film about big ideas, intelligently scripted and designed to make you think, such as 2001! Only cristism I find was rushed production time that didn't give Robert Wise enough time to screen test it before its release. "},{"Title":"It just keeps dragging along!","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" A whole decade had passed since the demise of the Star Trek TV series by the time the first movie was released. I wasn't around to witness the theatrical release of Star Trek The Motion Picture (it was seven years before I was born), but from what I've read, it didn't get very positive feedback, which I can now fully understand. After watching it for the first time not long ago, I sure hope it was the last time as well, and I know many others could say the same about the time they watched it.In this movie, the five-year mission on the U.S.S. Enterprise is now over. The ship has since been redesigned, and now has a new captain, Willard Decker. However, when a strange, destructive cloud is discovered as it travels through space, and is reported to be headed for Earth, Admiral James T. Kirk is sent to reclaim command of the Enterprise. With the other original crew members from the five-year mission (such as Mr. Spock, Lt. Cmdr. Uhura, Lt. Cmdr. Hikaru Sulu, Cmdr. Montgomery Scotty Scott, and Dr. Leonard Bones McCoy), along with new crew members, the U.S.S. Enterprise is now on a mission into space to stop this cloud and save the Earth! Star Trek The Motion Picture is very slow-paced, which isn't always a bad thing. However, in addition to the slowness in this film, not much really happens in it at all. Throughout the film, crew members very rarely ever leave the ship, and even when one or more of them does, they don't go anywhere interesting. To make it worse, this first installment in the Star Trek movie franchise is rather long (over two hours in length), so this dullness goes on for a very long time! While watching the film, I had trouble keeping up with what was happening, but didn't care! Basically, the only positive thing I can say about Star Trek The Motion Picture is that one quote from McCoy (Spock, this 'child' is about to wipe out every living thing on Earth. Now, what do you suggest we do? Spank it?) put a very slight and brief smile on my face, but one mildly amusing quote obviously can't save the film. I get the feeling I'm even being too generous giving this movie a 4/10! Star Trek was a groundbreaking TV series in the sci-fi genre, and got itself many die-hard fans. Fans had to wait a while for the first movie to finally be made, but when it finally happened, they were in for a huge disappointment! Fortunately, a handful of movies followed Star Trek The Motion Picture in the franchise, and there are definitely much better ones than this! No matter how big a Trekkie you may be, there's likely no guarantee that you will enjoy this movie! In fact, I suggest you avoid it unless you want over two hours of what isn't really that far from staring at a blank screen for that long! No wonder this movie has often been referred to as Star Trek The Motionless Picture! "},{"Title":"T'Was the Best of Star Trek, T'Was the Worst of  Star Trek","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek - The Motion Picture will probably be known as the most controversial of all the Star Trek movies that have or will ever be created. There seems to be little middle ground, you either like it or hate it. As a Star Trek fan (and proud of it!) I should have liked it, but did not. It came across as a re-telling of one of the animated episodes from the mid-seventies (it's true! I forget the episode's name, but it involved the same type of plot!). The characters seemed too wooden, too serious, even their uniforms had a blaaaa feeling to them. There were instances when the camera seemed to jiggle a little when switching scenes, giving the movie a rush order feeling. Of course, other Star Trek fans felt and still feel differently. Some look upon it as THE Star Trek film, the best ever created! All in all, I would have to say it was flawed. Like the first Dune movie (back in 1984-1985), it was aimed at a pre-existing fan base instead on John Q. Public. If you liked Dune, you liked the movie. If you didn't, forget it! LIVE LONG AND PROSER, FELLOW TREKKERS, TREKKIES, AND TREK WHAT-HAVE-YOUS!!! "},{"Title":"Where no TV show has gone before","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Correct me if I'm wrong, but as far as I know Star Trek is the first low budget TV show to get a blockbuster make over, not the last. But certainly the first. Now for the movie review. Long, extremely long, incredibly long, annoying long. Basically I'm saying it's long. The human characters were there and I love the fact they used the original cast and the new editions are cool. But it is kind of long and slow, one of the slowest movies in a long time, as slow as 2001. But not as confusing as 2001. Anyway, that's my only major complaint about Star Trek The Motion Picture, long and slow. Great effects, acting and the story basically works and there is a twist near the end that I will not spoil. But if you can stand staying awake through the slow part, then it makes it worth the wait. 7 STARS. "},{"Title":"ST FILM ONE Epic Trekking of Momentous Proportions","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" When all's said and done - and many have said it - it was the pacing that made most of the episodes of the original series so watchable. Of course, they had great ideas written into the plots, but it was those moments of tension and action during each act which made them so exciting. For this, the first film follow-up to the sixties original series and the animated show of 1973, the filmmakers focused on an idea - and pacing be damned. I first viewed this film when it played in theaters in '79; I was in my late teens. Afterwards, I told the first person who asked me - how was it, that I nearly fell asleep in my seat. I was young; I'd seen all the episodes in reruns and had been dazzled by their energy. This film was like the anti-Trek to me at this point, a complete reversal of the things which made the original show so great. We are asked to worship the Enterprise when she first appears, waiting to be launched, but the sequence ends up alienating us - forcing us to wait as the story pulls to a dead stop - a major miscalculation to be repeated a few times. It was a somber, even depressing mood throughout the film's storyline, with most of the main characters (especially Kirk & Spock) quite grim, as if they'd just escaped a Romulan prison after 10 years of captivity (wait, Romulans do not take captives). Yes, there was a major threat to be faced, but there was not so much anxiety as just plain dark moods, for some reason.But, there were no Romulans in the film; there were Klingons, however, briefly new brutish versions who encounter some vast mysterious entity out in space as the film begins. It's this initial sequence which immediately sets the tone and, unfortunately, the slow pace for the rest of the film. The lovingly-detailed warships move slowly towards their fate, as the camera pans over, under and all around. This really tests the patience of most in the audience and it's magnified later when the Enterprise slowly - oh, so slowly - drifts over the surface of the gargantuan vessel which we will soon come to know as V'Ger. The story takes place only two and a half years after the end of the 5-year mission of the original and animated series. Kirk is now an admiral in Starfleet Operations. Spock seeks to purge himself of all emotion on his homeworld of Vulcan. McCoy has grown a beard and gone into private practice. The rest (Scott, Uhura, Chekov, Sulu, now Dr.Chapel and even Rand) are working on the tail-end of the Enterprise's 2-year refit. The interior of the ship had changed quite a bit. So had the uniforms - an abrupt shift to an almost monochrome palette; it looked like everyone was caught in their leisure suits. All this is, by necessity, covered very briefly; after all, we need the time for that wormhole problem they encounter soon, when everything goes into slow motion. The scripted dialogue seems unrefined, uninspired the grand reunions we wait for are anti-climactic, with Kirk constrained to comments of how he needs McCoy, then Spock. No, really? The new characters are Decker (son of The Doomsday Machine Decker), the young new captain of the ship who must stand down for Kirk in the one hint of melodrama, and the Deltan female who has taken a vow of celibacy. Hubba-hubba. So off they go, to save the Earth, which we finally see for the first time here in the 23rd century, specifically San Francisco (no real change in the skyline after 300 years? come now!). It's at about this point, watching the film a 2nd and 3rd time, that I realized this was a film made for 2nd and 3rd viewings. All the hubris attached to viewing it the 1st time is now almost gone. I could kind of let go of my nostalgic inclinations of worshiping a legendary sixties series and try to savor the elegance striven for by director Wise and the screenwriters. Our beloved characters have been transposed to a thoughtful awe-inspiring quest, seeking answers to hazy, almost mystical questions. They're surrounded by $40 million dollars of budget (in seventies dollars!), a grand expense which will probably never be matched in the Trek film series. On my 2nd viewing, I had the luxury of settling back and studying these characters, as they steadily but surely get closer to some metaphysical answers. Was this copying 2001A Space Odyssey? Perhaps, to some extent, but if one had to pick a science fiction film to copy...Overall, they had trouble getting into a certain groove again, perhaps reflected by the characters' years of separation, but I could even relax now as Scotty takes Kirk on that lengthy exterior tour of the starship - it can be cool, sure. Now, if I was coarse and flippant, I might point out that Kirk and his crew probably should have guessed half of those answers sooner, based on their experiences from an earlier adventure, titled The Changeling. But, I won't do that. No, let's just leave it where it is, a grand if flawed experiment in magnificent Trekking, which may just gain more appreciation in time. At the conclusion, the Enterprise appeared to embark on its next 5-year mission, but we never saw it, except in comic books. No, we next see the Enterprise crew about a dozen years later(!) in The Wrath of Khan. That was when Kirk really began to regret...but that's a story for another time. "},{"Title":"Simple Plot OK- Film Over Produced","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This film sold a lot of tickets because it was the first time in over 10 years that the original crew of the Enterprise had gotten together since the series was canceled. NBC canceled it's most popular series with teenagers in the 1960's because they didn't know anything about target audiences in that era.When they chose Robert Wise to produce this he created tremendous special effects but all of them are over-produced & so long that they make the viewer bored & interrupt the plot flow of the movie. There are shots showing the Enterprise in the hangar waiting for launch & in the nebula later on which if they were shortened would improve the flow of the film. It is not surprising Wise would do this, as if you want another example of this watch The Hindenberg to see the same thing in too many blimps shots interrupting some excellent acting by George C Scott.Overall, this film sold tickets because the original cast was back, & the original series was so popular in re-runs, that this was a slam dunk for the box office. "}{"Title":"A Little Slow","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I had to watch this movie three times before I could stay awake through the whole thing. I was never much of a trekkie when the TV show came on, but I was a little curious about this movie.It seems that Captain Kirk is now Admiral Kirk and they're having to try to communicate with something that is draining power and destroying spaceships. (At least it kicked some Klingon butt before the Enterprise decided to get on the case.) It is something called Vejur, and, as the movie progresses, the slowness of the plot is worth the wait once you find out what Vejur is.Normally, this doesn't bother me too much, but maybe it's because they tried to stretch what used to be a one hour TV show into a two hour movie. There just seemed to be a little bit too much padding. No need to develop most of the characters, we already know who they are. And there is no need to spend a whole lot of time developing Captain Dekker and Ilia. True, they need to be developed, but it seems they spend way too much time with this. Dekker is just annoying with his bitching and whining every time Kirk gives him an order. Kirk is his superior officer, dammit, he should obey his orders.Even with all this, STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE isn't bad. It's a lot better than STAR TREK V anyway (and I can't remember what that one was called). 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An epic sci-fi","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Although much slower paced than its sequel, I find this film to be very similar in style to those 1950s epics, such as the 'Ten Commandments' and the like. Lots of orchestra music, and sweeping camera angles really add to the whole atmosphere. Whilst not entirely suited to trek fans, (I agree with 'rlopes2905' comment on that point) with its slower pace, and long running time, it is in keeping with the original vision of the whole concept. Exceptional special effects for the time. Very similar in style to Robert Wise's previous (and very good) 'Andromeda Strain'.Each actor has his own entrance to the film, which is a good way of re-introducing those main characters. Persis Khambatta and Stephen Collins, whilst not in the subsequent movies, play good solid roles here.In summary, this film and the next in line, 'Wrath of Khan' are (in my opinion of course!) the only two films of the whole series that are exceptional. "},{"Title":"visually grand and emotionally better than it's remembered","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The first Star Trek movie was produced at a time when the only other Trek were seventy-nine NBC episodes shot ten years earlier and endlessly syndicated. The initial and enduring reaction to the film was and is that it was cobbled together from a half-written script bolstered by nostalgia and the special effects technology bonanza propagated by Star Wars and Close Encounters. The fact is, those effects are pretty special -- from the Klingon battle to the vision of Vulcan to the Enterprise hanging in dry dock and its magnificent launch to the starship's penetration of all those bizarre layers of the V'Ger cloud -- and they all fold in quite effectively on the film's double-braced story now-Admiral Kirk's obsessive struggle for control over his destiny and Spock's search for knowledge he can never possess without first understanding himself. Though it may lack the punchiness of some of its sequels (notably Nick Meyer's stellar The Wrath of Khan), the film has a vision and scope that made it then and makes it now a movie event in a way that very few of today's blockbusters can match. With imagery as much Kubrick as Lucas, a magnificent Jerry Goldsmith score, a still-friendly story dynamic that brings together old friends, an impact on every Trek incarnation to follow (particulatly, The Next Generation) and a sense of being a genuinely good and noble experience, Star Trek truly is a human adventure. "},{"Title":"Impressive but sterile","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture is clearly the biggest-budget Star Trek Movie to date, with its detailed special effects, expansive sets and occasional crowds of extras. Unfortunately, all that money seems wasted on a story that's kind of a snoozer.That's right, as you've no doubt often heard, this movie is slow. However, I must confess that slow is an imprecise criticism. What does it really mean? After all, Sergio Leone movies are slow, and people love them...When people call the Motion Picture slow, what they really mean is that they don't care about the plot. V'ger - a big blue cloud - is a very surreal and not too engaging enemy. And its search for self-actualization is kind of interesting, in a psychology textbook sort of way, but it's not emotionally involving. Paradoxically enough, this film about human adventure is so sterile and cerebral (in the pompous sense of the word) that it's ultimately alienating.The other big problem is that the regular cast members are poorly characterized. Kirk is like a bossy brat, trying to wrest control of the Enterprise from Decker - who is himself a truly bland personality, distracting from all the characters we know and like better. And Spock's all wrong, too. He's basically 100% Vulcan in this movie, cold and distant, no longer game for verbal sparring with McCoy or buddying around with Kirk. In fact, the three-way Kirk-Spock-McCoy dynamic that makes Star Trek tick is basically absent here.I'll admit that the Director's Edition DVD improves the film, if only by providing better sound quality and a few new effects shots. That's why I upped my IMDb rating to a 5/10. But even on DVD, all polished up and spit-shined and simonized, this is still kind of a boring movie. Not slow, necessarily - just sort of preachy and bad! Imagine how disappointing it must have been in 1979, for the fans who'd been waiting for it for years... "},{"Title":"Terrible pacing, but good ideas/ sci-fi","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" At 136min of runtime this send-off Star Trek into cinema suffers terribly from overlong, drawn out pacing and some dated music. At least 20 min should have been cut out of just viewing the alien cloud with the synthesizer guitar effects or whatever those were. Also badly lacking was the humor found more pervasively and robustly in subsequent installments. There was little from McCoy or Scottie and indeed neither Spock nor Kirk. The dialogue is straight and narrow, mostly serious. Aililla and Decker are definitely interesting characters but under-developed. They need to be better drawn out for being so central to the story. Star Trek 1 has a good plot idea no doubt, but spends way too much time showing characters gawking at the monitor. Editing is highly in need here. The final scenes with V-ger and crew the last 15 min at least help resurrect the movie from tanking completely. As it is this movie stands behind most of the others with exception of of course 5. If you can handle the poor pacing and be patient during the middle third, the ending picks up. This is definitely mixed. "},{"Title":"Music and Persis","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" It's been over 25 years since I first saw this (still catch parts of it every so often on cable), and only two things are still memorable. One is Jerry Goldsmith's theme music that later was used as the theme for STTNG. It was so good, I remember buying the sound track when the film was released, and was the only 8-track tape I ever purchased. The other was my reaction when I first saw the stunning Persis Khambatta (plus, I believe her baldness added even more to her exotic beauty). I would think my expression must have been very similar to the expression on Shatner's face during his seemingly endless closeups while looking at VGER (sort of like his famous pause-acting look only stretched out over a few minutes). There is one brief scene, though, that places her in my count-on-the-fingers-of-one-hand pantheon of all-time screen beauties. Immediately before Decker's hair begins to sparkle, there are two quick closeups of her looking quite hotly at him. I have never seen a woman look more beautiful on film than in those few moments. "},{"Title":"Wonderful special effects but lacking in plot & character interactions","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Only because of the great special effects and the fact that as a Trekkie, I was thrilled to see all my TOS favourite characters together again, could I speak even remotely well of this first Star Trek movie. The plot is plodding and not in the least memorable. Even worse, while all the Enterprise crew is back, the old chemistry of their interactions just isn't there.The setting is three years after the original five year mission of the Enterprise. The legendary Admiral Kirk is summoned to command the newly refitted Enterprise on a heroic mission to intercept a strange alien craft which has destroyed everything in its path and is now headed to earth. Joining Kirk are Dr. Leonard (Bones) McCoy, engineer Scotty, and all the rest of the old crew except Spock. The half Vulcan is on a soul searching quest of his own, but comes aboard the Enterprise with all the appropriate drama later in the movie.First, the beautiful special effects. It's both a visually stunning and an emotionally moving spectacle when the magnificent, newly refurbished USS Enterprise emerges from dry dock to boldly go forth into space once again. Probably no Trekkie in the theatre audience back in 1979 had completely dry eyes. There are beautiful sequences reminiscent of 2001 A Space Oddessey, another painfully slow moving film and one which I personally disliked. The spectacular special effects in this first big screen Trek are simply not enough to make this a compelling movie.The theme of logic versus emotion should be engaging, though the plot is so slow, it's hard to become truly involved with any of it. The alien spacecraft turns out to be a logical entity named VGER, which is programmed to learn everything possible and transmit that information back to its creator. Its ultimately threatening quest becomes intertwined with concepts of logic and emotion. Some find it all beautiful, but to me it not only lacked action but failed to capture MY emotions.Really, there's no fun here at all and no character development either. For me, Star Trek is all about the characters, especially the Kirk / Spock / McCoy interactions. The old chemistry of the Enterprise crew seems sadly lacking. A couple of new crew members are introduced including Commander Decker, handsome but not very interesting. More notable is the bald Lieutenant Ilia, who has previously had a romantic relationship with Decker. She is a Deltan navigator who has taken an oath of celibacy before working with other species, rather an entertaining little character twist.Personally, I would lap up ANY movie with the old TOS crew. However, looking objectively back at this film, it was definitely a disappointment. I agree with a comment that the storyline would have been great for a one hour TV episode, it just wasn't enough for a movie. My own personal view is...lots of great effects but not enough story or character development. "},{"Title":"Pure of heart and vision.","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, by now we all know the underlying story of ST-TMP. There's no need to go over the plot again. If you are a fan of the original series and the mythology that grew from it then this film will appeal to you. Don't go looking for typical space opera adventure ala Star Wars... you won't find it in this film. It's slow moving and asks for more cerebral involvement. Here's what you will find -A progressive development of the characters immortalised in the original series, especially those of Kirk, Spock and McCoy. -Truly mind-boggling graphic effects. -An uplifting and positive view of a future where we have not destroyed ourselves via war or pollution. -Arguably Jerry Goldsmith's finest score ever created for a motion picture. The themes are hauntingly hypnotic, majestic and lyrical. So good was this score that Gene Roddenberry had the main title reused for Star Trek-The Next Generation. -Beautiful cinematography and careful use of symbolism.Watch this film with an open mind and you will be rewarded. The DVD release features a fully-restored print, with enhanced digital effects and elements re-edited that were deleted from the original cinema release. Robert Wise personally controlled and re-directed the production of this beautifully restored version. "},{"Title":"Solid Science Fiction","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" To all who have mentioned that this movies lacks the humour of the series has missed out on the subtleties of the characters being united for the very first time after the first mission and the awkward familiarity of this new circumstance. The humour is there, it is just not as deliberate as the next 5 reunions where they play more upon that as well as them getting older.To all who mentioned that this is a slow movie has missed the full scope of this film. The musical score alone is hypnotic and powerful and when combined with the visual effects and the on par acting of Her crew results, in my opinion, in a sci-fi classic....not to mention the ground breaking special effects and techniques developed for this film. Watch the text commentary and/or the audio commentary and special features (disc 2) of the director's cut to learn more. I was impressed. "},{"Title":"An excellent addition to the Star Trek canon.","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" 1979 was a tough year to be a sci-fi film. The recent memory of films like 'Star Wars,' '2001,' and competition from the genre re-defining 'Alien' the same year were all going to raise certain expectations of what 'Star Trek The Motion Picture' could or should have been. Consider also that there was great emotional baggage where this project was concerned. Fans of the original series had created a huge set of expectations that were going to make this project both eagerly anticipated and highly scrutinized.'STTMP' is largely successful. It has two great and highly memorable set pieces. The first is early in the film and involves an incident with the transporter. The second comes near the end of the film when the true identity of V'Ger is learned. These alone would make the film worth watching but the camaraderie of the crew, the philosophical depth of the screen play and the excellent and steady hand of Robert Wise make this film a welcome addition to the Star trek canon.Thematically the film looks at something very basic and innate. It asks Is this all that I am? Where does the quest for knowledge lead? What purpose is there when I answered all the questions I needed to ask? What next? 'STTMP' borders precariously between hopeful existence and complete and total nihilism. If there aren't answers to these questions, then what is there?There are flaws. Many criticize the length of the film but I think that the pacing is just right for the most part. It is a meditative and intelligent film and the questions that it asks need a little time to percolate and mix with the grey matter between your ears. Robert Wise was a graduate of the Val Lewton school of film-making taut direction, tension in steady crescendo and an unseen antagonist with a big payoff. Those early lessons pay off well in this film. It may actually have been to his advantage that he wasn't a passionate fan of the original. He was able to come to the project and approach it with a cool, dispassionate eye. Things unnecessary to the plot were eliminated so that only the core of the story would be addressed. Unfortunately one thing that this eliminates is the heart and the comedy of the original series. If I missed any one thing greatly in this movie, I regret the loss of the comedy that would be restored in later films. My only other minor objection was the style of the costuming -- mercifully aborted for the subsequent films in the series.Great Oscar-worthy score, complex fun, and a welcome return to the series. Essential viewing for fans of the series and a good introduction for those who are new to the Star Trek universe. "}{"Title":"Class reunion on the Enterprise","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this during it's initial theatrical release and have seen it a couple of times since but have never viewed the director's cut DVD. I liked this movie. Veteran director Robert Wise had worked in the sci-fi genre before directing a couple of my favorite sci-fi flicks in The Day the Earth Stood Still and The Andromeda Strain so I expected this would be good and I wasn't disappointed. This has been widely criticized as slow and awkward and lacking cowboys-in-space shoot-em-up-thrill ride style of Star Wars but that didn't affect me at all. The story by Alan Dean Foster could have been a little better worked through by screenwriter Harold Livingstone and whoever else had a hand in it but the end result is a good film. Robert Wise, toward the end of his long career may not have been the best choice to tackle this project and probably should have went to a younger director who could have more firmly handled all the inevitable problems this film would face. Dealing with Paramount studio executives and the egos of the reunited original Star Trek cast while balancing an inflated working budget and a huge technical cast and at the same time delivering a product on time and in competition with a revival in sci-fi space epics to please a cult base audience and appeal to a wider general audience and be true to the original series and it's creator Gene Roddenberry. Wow! Impossible after a 10 year hiatus of Star Trek. Elements that would doom a picture to failure but Wise delivered, admittedly a flawed film, but a good film nonetheless. Nominated for three Academy Awards for Best Art Direction, Best Music Score and Best Effects for the team lead by Douglas Trumball, John Dykstra and Richard Yurich. I liked how it unfolded after a decade since we saw the Enterprise and her crew last. kirk is now an Admiral in the star fleet and is eager to get back at the helm of his former and now revamped ship. William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelly, James Dohan, George Takei, Nichelle Nicols and Walter Koenig are all back from the original TV series along with Stephen Collins and Persis Khambata. Bones McCoy is reluctant to give up his comfortable occupation on Earth and return to space and is paranoid about the transporter because of all the problems he's seen with the people it transports not being reassembled correctly with hideous results. We also see how big the detentions of the Enterprize really is as it hovers in dry dock above earth and shuttles and repair crews fly around it. Kirk treats it like a hot rod to the discernment of Scottie and wants to blast out into hyperspace instead of breaking it in. We get to see in perspective how fast the ship really is as it goes into it's warp speeds blasting from earth's orbit past the planets of the solar system and into deep space in less than a minute. Great music score from Jerry Goldsmith and great special effects and the Voyager spacecraft that had been launched by NASA three years before this films release shows up here too. I would give it an 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It is the rebirth","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Criticized as the Motionless Picture, Star Trek The Motions Picture's slowness is greatly exaggerated.In fact, there is no such thing as a good, slow movie. If the movie seems slow, then it is incapable of keeping your attention for very long. With either action, suspense or intrigue.It's like you walking at a brisk pace, you see someone walking slowly, yet you find that person so intriguing, you slow down at the same speed as that person. Now that person is no longer slow, that person is now walking at the same rate as you.Star Trek the Motion Picture brings forth intrigue and amazement that doesn't condemn it as a slow movie. The epic scope of the movie, the mystery of the invader, the incredible visuals, the interesting story line. Albeit there are slow moments that do hurt the movie, but not enough to ruin it.Unlike some movies, this one isn't fueled by testosterone. Doesn't need pointless language, nudity or violence. It brings forth one of many things that make Star Trek irresistible. Venturing into the unknown.The movie is about the reuniting of the crew of the newly refitted starship Enterprise, and to investigate an incredibly powerful alien entity approaching Earth with the power to destroy it. And every step of the way, the mystery of the alien entity builds.The movie is remarkable even with extreme restriction on both time and budget. Being bounced from being a canceled pilot of Star Trek Phase 2, to a TV movie, to a grand motion picture. Many tight schedules to meet its release date. Some of the concept of the script was improvised. And still brought forth and excellent rebirth of Star Trek.Not recommended for people who suffer from testosterone poisoning, but definitely recommended for people who can look beyond the believable.Give Star Trek The Motion Picture; 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not for the Weak Willed V'ger","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Of all the Star Trek movies, this one is the most like the TV show. When one looks at the vastness of space, the Enterprise seems to be more or less on a highway rather than exploring the galaxies. There always seems to be something in the way. Those darned cosmic clouds. I would never consider myself a Trekkie, but I have certainly spent a good part of my life devoting myself to Kirk and the boys (it breaks my heart to see him such a mess these days). This has the Serlingesque plot of dealing with real artifacts of a bygone time; much as several episodes were. Kirk gets to emote all over the place. Everything is so serious. But they win the day by making use of their earthling intellects (with a little Vulcan thrown in for good measure). I know that some believe this to be a thinking man's (or woman's) movie. I wish it weren't so simplistic. With Star Wars  stealing their thunder, Roddenberry and the other writers should have come up with a masterpiece. Either they weren't up to the task or they were trying to pander to a lightweight crowd. I don't know. I'm glad there were a few others afterward, using the original cast because if this was the legacy, it would have been a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Big screen outing set after the original series the Enterprise has been refitted.","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The motion picture is the first time I really had anything to do with Star Trek I had seen a few episodes of DS9 but had never really had anything to do with the series I saw this when I was 12 and loved it great special effects,characters I became a fan of the show after this. Admiral Kirk is asked to take command of the refitted Enterprise and replace Captain William Decker as commanding officer on board also are all the old crew except Spock (who arrives on board a few days into the mission) also a new navigator Lt.Ilia who later has something horrible happen to her she is an old girlfriend of Deckers.The mission is to destroy a strange nebula that has destroyed a communications space station and three Klingon ships a good film OK perhaps the story is not the best but it is OK.A well made film that paves the way for five more films however I still say the best Star Trek film is The Wrath of Kahn. "},{"Title":"Unfairly maligned...","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Note -- this review is for the recent director's cut.What we have here is a true science fiction movie -- intelligent scriptwriting, combined with great (re)introductions to the Star Trek cast and crew.The movie tries a bit too hard for profundity at some points, which is why I've knocked a point or two off. However, most of the time it actually succeeds in being profound, a rare achievement for Hollywood. Combine this with an entertaining script and you have a blockbuster formula.The changes made for the Director's Cut are all worthwhile, most of them enormously improving what was already a very good film. A great job was done with this, and if you haven't seen the new cut it's well worth a rental.Apparently this movie did very well at the theater. Why it's so maligned now, I have no clue. They really don't make movies like this anymore, particularly Star Trek movies. In other reviews I've heard this compared to Star Trek 5 (the worst of the series) and my jaw dropped nearly to the floor. Did certain other reviewers see the same film than I did? Maybe it's because the film plays best on the big screen, and not as well on small television sets. I was lucky enough to see it at the theater, and thoroughly enjoyed it. 4/5 stars, or 9/10. "},{"Title":"Has Boldly Gone Where No Movie Has Gone Before","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Quite simply one of the best star trek movies made. Robert Wise has come up trumps again following the classic THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL. A powerful alien cloud has destroyed three powerful Klingon vessels in one swipe and is headed for Earth. Kirk and co. return to face the entity in the USS Enterprise, refitted after it's legendary five year mission.The first thing that hit me when I first saw this on beta-max twelve years ago (I still had the machine and the tape of the TV version then and still have it now!) was the music. It was hauntingly beautiful. It felt as though it BELONGED in the movie. Although the theme was used throughout in many altered versions, the main theme used at the end was the best version. Not only was it graceful, but it stuck in your mind long after the movie had finished. Many a time I found myself whistling the tune without knowing it. The special effects were mind blowing when I first saw it and, I suppose, still are (The little kid in me still thrills when he sees them!) even though I am now twenty-two. The video version is a good film. A bit difficult to follow (considering that they only had a few months to film the movie AND do the special effects!) but still a good movie. Now the DVD version comes along and the movie gets a rebuff. Recut, re-scored and new effects, Robert Wise's vision finally got the version it deserved Twenty-six years after it was released. Side by side, the Directors edition wins because it's more understandable, the effects are better than before, it moves along at a cracking pace and is all the more better for it. On the other hand, the video version also wins because it is a testament of human endeavour to get something done on time and that the effects were the best at the time (and I suppose still are!). If you can, get hold of the 1979 video version and the 2003 DVD version and compare them for yourself. I just think both versions are cracking pieces of entertainment in their own right. "},{"Title":"Director's Cut is Great Improvement","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I've always loved Star Trek. I was 13 in 1979 when the first motion picture based on the popular TV series came out. I waited so long to see it and ultimately was disappointed. I remember being dismayed that the producers/director passed up on exploiting a great idea in favor of what seems to be two hours of blue cloud visual effects. And not very good blue cloud visual effects--the whole film looked like an amorphous blue blob. For years I called it Star Trek--The Motion Boredom. Then the new Director's Cut came out on DVD...and WOW!! What a difference! From the documentary included with the release, it seems Robert Wise was very rushed to get the film out on time and had to release the film in it's original below standard shape. THIS DVD release is the movie he says he wanted to make. Everything looks less stilted, the special effects actually add to the awe and provide context for the events on screen. Gone are the endless blue sparkling clouds. Now we SEE the VGer vessel and its activities with clarity.But the greatest improvement is in the sound department. Gone are the annoying faux-computer klaxon's announcing everything from a red alert to the flushing of the officer's head. Everything, audio & visual, enhances the viewing experience, ceases to distract and really makes for a much better film.If you've only seen the old one, give this one another try. "},{"Title":"A problematic mess but still enjoyable","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this the first week it came out. I can't remember exactly which theater in New York City it was but this was before the infestation of multiplexes. Few people ever get to see a film on an immense screen anymore. That's how I saw this film and it really helped. The Slow ponderous special effects were magnificent on the big screen. The V'ger cloud and the vast interior looked incredible. The long shots of the Enterprise were great looking too. The effects had a jewel like sparkle to them.The film had a long and troubled history before it came to the screen. I remember interviews with Roddenberry where he's complained about Paramount interference with the story and script. He claimed that one executive wanted to somehow insert the Easter Island statues into the story because he was reading Erich Von Daniken's ancient astronaut theory books. An early example of marketing department interference in movie making. Unfortunately what was new then is apparently the only factor making fantasy films these days. At some point Paramount came to the conclusion that Star Wars was successful only because of the special effects and they had the director emphasize the effects over the acting. Perhaps this is why Robert Wise didn't direct another film for a decade.The whole cast seems uncomfortable, especially Shatner. I read that the cast had problems with some of the things the script had them say and apparent disregard to the Star Trek mythos.Another problem came with special effect team hired. They had never created effects of the magnitude needed for the film and it became apparent that they could never do the job. By the time the decision to remove them was made there was very little time to finish the effect shots. Trumbell and Dykstra went into overdrive and their shop ran 24 hours for at least a month. It was publicized that the final negative was delivered only a day before the premier screenings around the country. I can attest that some of the print I saw had extensive watermarks from rushed drying during developing.The first network showing of the film a few years later (ABC, I believe) included several scenes that were removed before the theatrical release. Most of them were character scenes that gave the production more of a Star Trek feel. One scene needed effects to complete the setting (an exterior of the Enterprise) but was shown anyway. There were scaffolding and movie lights visible! One last thing, I didn't really notice the amount of time the actors spent starring at the view screen in the theater (I went back a second time). When you watch the film on a small TV, it's really annoying. "},{"Title":"Needed more character & less staring.","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was my first experience of Star Trek. I loved Walter Koenig as Bester on Babylon 5 so thought I'd check out his prior role. Unfortunately Chekov's share of the action & dialogue (along with Sulu & Uhura) was limited indeed. However I did enjoy Dr McCoy's scenes & I sympathised with the unfortunate Decker who has his ship usurped by the less than admirable Kirk. I detested him on sight. Look out for the alien who was just as appalled as I was. I'm a fan of the tough security teams on Babylon 5 so was disappointed by the ineffectual Starfleet variety. All they do is stand or ask dumb questions. To add insult to injury they're forced to wear dreadful helmeted uniforms. The staring scenes (worst offenders - Enterprise & V'Ger) are frankly boring. It's the people I want to see, not the technology. The soundtrack is beautiful but the overture with the star scape soon gets tiresome. So the 2nd time I viewed the film I used the FFW. Not a bad film but they should have concentrated more on characters. Final rating 6/10. "},{"Title":"Vintage Bob Wise","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know this film has drawn criticism for its slow buildup and low-frequency dramatic action, but I believe that this is a fine movie and the best of the movies surrounding the original crew. Bob Wise's direction is classic of his style and the story line is reminiscent of the old series. Star Trek for years held the attention of sci-fi fans who preferred the hard core quasi-realistic what if over the decidedly non-scientific space opera style of Star Wars. Star Trek veered from this reputation in several of the subsequent sequels in pursuit of blockbuster status.The sets in this movie are fantastic and pioneer a sense of realism now very popular in cinema. The ending left me a little unsatisfied but all-in-all a pleasant way to spend an evening if your a trekkie.  "}{"Title":"Better After Time","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes,  I know that Star Trek the motion picture seemed like it  focused more on  the special effects than the human interaction. When I first saw it I felt that way a  little ,that it wasn't enough like the series. Recently though, I saw it on television and apprecitated it a lot more-- to the  point of believing it was more like the series and better than The Wrath of Khan.  It seemed more aimed at thinking adults than the cowboy and Indians ray gun stuff which is more for kids. "},{"Title":"The Creator","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know if I'm a die hard Star Trek fan or not, but I do know that I liked the original series and found bright spots in Next Generation and Deep Space 9. I've always felt that the reason Star Trek films are generally better than other TV series to film adaptations because they managed to reassemble the original cast, which fans loved because they never had to deal with drawing comparisons between a movie cast reinterpreting the beloved characters and the original cast themselves.Reassmbled a good couple of years after the original series was canceled, James T. Kirk (William Shatner) reassumes command of the newly refurbished Enterprise from current Captain Will Decker (a much younger Stephen Collins of TV's 7th Heaven), allegedly the son of the Commodore Matt Decker character played by William Windom in the Doomsday Machine episode of the old series. Why? Because there's a big ass alien cloud heading for Earth and destroying (or is it absorbing?) anything and everything that gets in its way (Klingon battle ships, Federation space stations, etc). Kirk is unhappy not being out there hopping galaxies so he uses this incident as a reason to take back his old ship and crew, sans Spock (Leonard Nimoy), which hurts Decker. Yep, Kirk's a man for the nostalgia of his glory days. After meeting an old flame of Decker, the humanoid Ilia (Persis Khimbata), getting caught in a worm hole and nearly being killed by an asteroid, Spock, who's on a soul search of his own, joins the gang and fixes up the Enterprise's last few bugs. From there, they get sucked into the cloud and embark on a dark, atmospheric, visually stunning and psychologically gut wrenching adventure of Paramount proportions.The cast is good in their way, with Collins and Khimbata standing out as Decker and Ilia, respectively. Rather than present the audience with a big shoot 'em up adventure film, the writers have instead provided a more cerebral adventure, delving into feelings regarding how we view our existence and how some higher life form, in this case, the cloud that calls itself V'GER and seeks the Creator, might view us. The film is also a bit dull and dreary at times, lacking the panache of its sequels, but this is still a good film, highlighted by what eventually became the theme for the Next Generation and some very impressive special effects.The special director's edition on DVD makes a real mess out of the film, sadly. I know this film's been chopped up a bunch of times, but I always liked the one special longer version from 1983.  "},{"Title":"Wake me up when it's over","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was a huge Star Trek fan back in the 70's. At college, my friends and I would faithfully watch the reruns without fail, over and over until we knew every line in every show. The shows were campy, the plots nonexistent, and the acting painfully bad. But we watched nonetheless!And so when the first movie finally came out, I rushed to the theaters hoping for the best. Sad to say, it was even worse than the TV show! I wouldn't have thought that possible.The movie starts out great! The Klingons are nasty and vile and exactly like I thought Klingons always should have been. But after the first scene with the Klingons, the rest of the movie ... well, sucked.If you haven't seen the movie, I'd say it's worth renting, if not for historical purposes. After all, we ARE talking about Star Trek. But if you are looking for a useful purpose to buy the DVD, I'd recommend skeet shooting. "},{"Title":"quick, Bones!  the dramamine!","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first and, until the advent of Star Trek V, arguably the worst of the Trek films with the original cast.  The plotline is hackneyedAnother Big Bad Probe Coming To Menace The Earth.  Oh yeah That's new. As another reviewer at the time observed, unlike Star Wars, where the spaceships zip across the screen, in this Canis Magnus of a film, the spaceships take forever to get somewhere, and, when they get there, nothing happens.  STTMG is one of that rare breed of action/adventure films that starts off at a dead run, and within twenty minutes is down to a dead crawl, and then stays that way for the duration.  Adding to the tedium is the cartoonish acting.  Example Grace Lee Whitney, the new transporter chief, watches two people turn inside out as a result of a massive malfunction in the transporter and gravely intones Oh, no...they're for-ming.  Oh, no. . .she's act-ing!  Steven Collins plays Decker, the new captain of the Enterprise whose authority is usurped by now-Admiral Kirk.  While we have nothing in particular against Collins, he goes through this entire movie looking like he's on belladonna.  Check those eyes!  Rounding out the Fresh New Faces is Persis Khambata, who plays Ilea, the Deltan who's taken an Oath of Celibacy - probably as a counterpoint to Decker's Oath of Stupidity. Persis, evidently, thought this film would be her breakout movie; instead, it took her from the depths of the unknown and skyrocketed her to the heights of obscurity. STTMG looks like a movie that was written by committee.  The characters are bland, the effects, while okay, are nothing special, the running time is padded out with a plodding tour of the redesigned Enterprise in spacedock, and that scene with a pop-eyed Sulu apparently staring, mouth agape, at the interior of the colossal V'Ger probe is absolutely hysterical. Badly ( and rightly so) received by critics at the time, the Director's Cut, released a few years ago with added footage and updated effects, does absolutely nothing to improve this loser.  As an uncle of ours, who was a wine taster, once said If you took manure and put it in a bottle, then twenty years later took it out and put it in a fancier bottle, when you opened it up again it was still manure. This is a Trek film for hard-core Trek fans only - the ones who would watch a test pattern if it had a Star Trek logo in it.  For the rest of you, who want a GOOD script, good acting, decent effects, and a soundtrack that isn't anemic, save your money.  "},{"Title":"She Cannah Take nemore, Captain!!","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Who hasn't heard of Star Trek? Oi, you at the back! I know you've seen it! Fans of Star Trek have long held this Trek adventure as underrated. Yes the original version might have been rushed and yes, it might not have made any sense whatsoever but the Directors version is SO much better. The plot is still the same Mysterious cloud heads toward earth. We humans don't know why. Only that it decimates three klingon ships and has a powerfield bigger than Uncle Festers gob! So, Kirk takes over the new Enterprise from a clearly cheesed off Deckard to go greet its new visitor. Now, I've seen the two versions back to back. And I have to say, Robert Wise really redeemed himself on this. While I thought the original version was good, this version is SOOOOOO much better. Its a shame that the commentary seems to have been wrote down and recorded separately instead of together as it seemed informative but was a tad boring. But if you get the chance to watch the new version, don't pass it by thinking Huh, the original was rubbish. Give it a go. Go on, you know you want to!!!! "},{"Title":"The Beginning of Another Hit or Miss Film Series.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE is some kind of rarity, a film based on a TV series with the same characters and the same actors that somehow works.  Captain Kirk (Shatner) and Mr. Spock (Nimoy) return to the Starship Enterprise to help prevent an alien attack on Earth.  As always, films like STAR TREK are very likely to produce sequels.  Go figure.  The only disappointment here is the film's length, but if you like the Trek movies as well as the TV series, this film is highly recommended.3 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Lacks fun and emotion, but it's a spectacular and often intriguing space saga.","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  ** 1/2 out of ****The first of the popular sci-fi franchise, Star Trek The Motion Picture is also the entry that I feel most divided on. Here is a film that strives to be cerebral and thought-provoking, a movie made with the best of intentions, but in doing so, much of the appeal of Star Trek is lost. Yes, the warm and witty human element is missing. The characters that are here are certainly those of the crew of the starship enterprise, but change their names and they could simply be a different crew entirely.The premise is interesting, and certainly less campy than one might reasonably have suspected back in 1979. The film opens with three Klingon bird-of-preys that are attacked and engulfed by a giant alien cloud. Concern about this heightens when the course trajectory for the anomaly shows it's heading for Earth. Sent to prevent this possible global-scale destruction is Admiral James T. Kirk (William Shatner), who takes back the command of the starship Enterprise from Captain Will Decker (Stephen Collins, the guy from 7th Heaven, believe it or not).On the bridge of the ship include old crew members Sulu (George Takei), Uhura (Nichelle Nichols), Chekov (Walter Koenig), and good old Mr. Scott (James Doohan) down in engineering. Brought out of retirement is Dr. Bones McCoy (DeForrest Kelley), against his will, too, but eventually grudgingly tags along. With Spock (Leonard Nimoy) the last to arrive, the crew is reunited in their journey to the mysterious alien cloud, a hostile entity which appears to be alive.What I've just described probably sounds like a great adventure, and make no doubt about it, several aspects of the film are terrific, even brilliant. But overall, The Motion Picture is maddeningly inconsistent, often poorly placed, and sloppy in terms of plot execution. In some ways, this doesn't even feel like the Star Trek many had come to know and love back in the late 60's. TMP is sincere in its attempts to be a cerebral saga, so director Robert Wise makes certain to take the film as deadly serious as possible; there's not an ounce of good humor to be found here.Given the premise, such a concept should be taken seriously, but not at the expense of the characters or the entertainment value. TMP does sport its tense moments, particularly in the opening scenes and later when the Enterprise enters the cloud and the crew slowly makes some startling discoveries about the anomaly's origin. The scene where an entity seemingly made of light invades the bridge and attacks the crew is even quite frightening, simply because Wise, well, wisely knows to keep us interested by venturing into the unknown.But much of the portion set in the cloud is rather tedious. Too much of it is spent looking at bizarre images as opposed to the crew speculating on the cloud's purpose and existence. Does anyone remember that similar The Next Generation episode, where the crew finds themselves trapped inside this black anomaly and encounter a higher being called Nagilum? Those 45 minutes were creepier and more entertaining than TMP. That's not to say all the material involving the alien anomaly isn't involving. The last half-hour finally gets to the speculation and theories we expect, so it makes for a thoroughly entertaining climax.The cast is about what you'd expect if you're a fan of the series. William Shatner's acting style is a sincere attempt at being serious, and no, it's not a particularly impressive performance, but he is the embodiment of Kirk. Surprisingly, Shatner would go on to deliver impressive performances throughout the rest of the series. Nimoy and Kelley are good as always. But the main focus of the film appears to be with Stephen Collins and Persis Khambatta. They've got a weird pseudo-romance going on, or had at one point. Neither performance is very good, but Khambatta still looks beautiful even with a bald head.So it seems my appreciation for The Motion Picture lies mostly in the visual and auditory sense. The special effects, great for their time, are still eye-popping by today's standards.  Hell, the effects weren't even totally surpassed in quality until either Star Trek Generations or First Contact (and I'd argue the f/x in Insurrection, though good, was a step backward).  The movie looks even better in the director's cut, with a revamped opening credits sequence and a couple of new visuals (the look of Vulcan is terrific). Arguably as impressive is Jerry Goldsmith's rousing score, a memorable theme which outdoes even John Williams' work in Star Wars. Both aspects deserved their Oscar nominations.With this film, it often feels as if though the filmmakers were just desperate to introduce Star Trek to the series, and thus didn't quite put as much effort into this as they could have. The potential for a character-oriented epic adventure was there, but Wise left out the characters, so what we're left with is a visually spectacular saga that didn't quite reach the mark it should have. I still recommend The Motion Picture, but at least five of the sequels would turn out to be better (or at least more enjoyable) films (First Contact, The Undiscovered Country, The Voyage Home, The Wrath of Khan, and Generations).  "},{"Title":"Excellent beyond the sci fi genre","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  As classic as any of the classic original Star Trek episodes, this film has a decent story (albeit recycled), excellent dialog, excellent acting, good pacing, and excellent ? Excellent directing too.Dialog Between Kirk, Spock, McCoy; not a word is wasted in any scene involving any two of these characters. Every interaction relates directly to the crisis at hand, or to deep personal relationships, or both. Occasional light-hearted everyday interactions break the tension.Acting Shatner - Duty above all, though not always timely, despite even his own ego. Glory, when time permits (even understanding and compassion). Nimoy - Truth above all, even when it conflicts with lifelong teachings. Kelley - Both. Keeps the two heavies in line, (psychologically, philisophically and medicaly), despite their egos (and his own otherwise peaceful retirement).Pacing Slow and intellectual, pays homage to the best of the original series. Star Trek is about ideas, possibilities, and ideals first, action and adventure second.? Don't know what to call it. Despite the slow pacing, the script has the various contending forces up the ante on each other at critical moments. The real excitement comes not from sci-fi premise, but from human interaction (even though some of the players are alien).Directing related to all of the above.The excellence of this movie transcends it genre, doubtful enough to make a general classic, but certainly excellent far above and beyond just sci-fi. "},{"Title":"Awesome, awesome, awesome","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I picked up this little jewel at a flea market in Hickville, IL.  Upon watching it, I immediately felt the old Star Trek nostalgia I remember so well from Star Treks III and IV.  It is a great movie and lives up to the Star Trek legacy very well.  It doesn't have the most action out of all the Star Trek movies, but it is very cerebral and someone who loves space lore will love this movie.  Everything about the movie is great, from the special effects (which are stupendous for the time period) to the refitted Enterprise, which doesn't look straight out of an early 60's comic book.   "},{"Title":"Slow...but I liked it.","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  (this refers to the director's cut)This film is basically the marriage of 2001 and the original Star Trek series.Yeah it's slow, but the pacing is steady. From reading the other reviews on this page, the original cut was a lot worse, which I probably think had something to do with the rushed production. I liked it though. Lenoard Nimoy and DeForest Kelley were excellent as the foil friends from the original series. Shatner was good as the late 70s all-American that we all know he is. The focus is on him for the first half of the film, but by the time V'ger appears, the film has shifted focus to the characters around him (notably, Spock, Decker, and V'ger) I won't give away the ending, although the chances are that if you're reading this, you probably know it already, but it is basically what happens in 2001, except the shoe is on the other foot, or perhaps both feet.But there goes my pedilection for irrelevancy again. Just watch it, and you'll understand what I mean.8/10 "}{"Title":"If you're not looking for action, it's good.","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has a reputation for being a turkey, but really it's not that bad.  The problem was it's not what people expected of Star Trek.  The  original episodes moved at a quicker pace and the dialogue and the settings usually had more the feeling of a stage play than grand movie.  The creators of this movie sought to do something a bit different and they  succeeded in that but, by changing the formula, they apparently also succeeded in alienating some of their fans.That said the movie has interesting visuals, great music, an engaging cast, a touching love story, and one of the most eerie and mysterious adversaries ever.  There is very little action so it is certainly not for everyone, but I'd say that if you liked 2001, Blade Runner, or Solaris, none of which were thrill-a-minute movies, you will probably like this movie.  If you liked those movies and Star Trek then you're in for a treat.  Just be ready for something slow and atmospheric. "},{"Title":"The original and the first Star Trek movie is still impressive some 25 years later.","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have read a lot of comments regarding this movie,but in all of the overall status is this The Star Trek franchise is a big business and it all started as just a mid-1960's science fiction TV show and from there went from being HUGE during the seventies. The reason a loyal following of the original TV series,repeats of the episodes in syndication during the 1970's and 1980's started a cult following which included several spinoffs including during the early 70's a Saturday Morning cartoon series,ten movie spinoffs and a host of others that continue to be successful to this day. Yes,even as we speak...STAR TREK RULES.......In 1977,Paramount Pictures decided to bring this highly successful science fiction TV series of the 1960's to the big screen which in turn would reunite with the original cast,which at the time was in production and would bring on a host of heavy laden special effects advisors to have it ready for release into theatres by 1979. Star TrekThe Motion Picture,premiered in theatres and was released during the Christmas season of 1979 by Paramount Pictures. The studio production costs was spent in the millions to bring this extraordinary film to the big screen in a way Star Trek was never seen before,and it was just that,breathtaking special effects and high adventure as the crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise embarked onto a new and unknown frontier of space and infinity. The film at the time of its release was a megahit grossing over a million dollars on the day it was released and it was very good despite some mixed reviews,but still to this day this film was the one that started it all The first and the best Star Trek film in the series. This was indeed a classic which consists of the original cast;William Shatner,Leonard Nimoy,DeForest Kelley,James Doohan,Nichelle Nichols,George Takei,Walter Koenig,Majel Barrett,and also introduce two newcomers Indian actress Persis Khambatta and actor Stephen Collins.Synopsis When an unidentified alien encounter destroys three powerful Klingon cruisers,Captain Kirk,who is now Admiral Kirk, returns to the newly transformed Enterprise to once again take command which consists of the cast acclaimed Star Trek TV series to mobilize at warp speed to stop the alien intruder from its relentless flight towards Earth.Nominated for three Oscars and won two for its impressive special effects and also best original score(from composer Jerry Goldsmith) this was indeed a grand epic adventure on a impressive scale with great writing from Harold Livingston,and story idea of Alan Dean Foster and direction from Robert Wise,who is not stranger to science fiction,made several great sci-fi classics before this including The Day The Earth Stood Still,and The Andromeda Strain. There are two versions to this movie which is out on video and DVD available from Paramount Video. Check out the special director's edition and also the extended longer version,which features an additional 12 minutes of extended footage.Kudos to Gene Roddenberry and actor DeForest Kelley,R.I.POut of the ten Trek films that are out,let me just say that they are several that are really goodStar TrekThe Wrath Of Khan,Star Trek Generations,and Star TrekThe Final Frontier.  "},{"Title":"Where No One Has Gone Before","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The late Gene Roddenberry's Star Trek is one of TV's greatest oddities. During its original network television run on NBC from 1966 to 1969, Star Trek never ranked any higher than No. 35 in the Nielsen ratings, and it was axed after the end of its third season.  But reruns in syndication during the Seventies helped build a large and worldwide following for the series; its millions of fans became known as Trekkies.  And what had once been a failed sci-fi TV series instead mushroomed into a seemingly never-ending series of films, all of them significant hits at the box office.  STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE was the first, released at the end of 1979.Most of the series' original cast, especially William Shatner (as Kirk), Leonard Nimoy (as Spock), and DeForest Kelley (as Dr. Leonard Bones McCoy), are reunited for this extremely lengthy first Trek film, with a redesigned U.S.S. Enterprise as the centerpiece, and a new captain (Stephen Collins) whom Kirk, now basically promoted to Admiral, lords it over.  On this mission, and onboard an Enterprise that has not been tested, Kirk and company are sent out to intercept a massive alien cloud heading towards Earth.  The alien force calls itself V'Ger and has taken control of the body of one of the crew (Persis Khambatta) in order that it may make contact with the Enterprise.  It also transpires that the alien cloud has intercepted and taken control of an ancient Voyager space probe that had been launched from Earth three centuries before.  In essence, this probe has returned to Earth looking for its Creator.  But in its search for the Creator, it is threatening Earth with destruction.  As it had been in the TV series itself, here it is up to Kirk and his crew to convince V'Ger that those of their species are the ones that created it.Originally budgeted at $5 million by Paramount Pictures when production started in the summer of 1977, STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE quickly grew from a modest undertaking to an extraordinarily ambitious and visual spectacle; the final cost, once it reached the big screen, was a then-astounding $40 million.  Much of that money, not surprisingly, was spent on the production design and the elaborate special effects work.  As a result, and with the measured pace at which the story was laid out, many audiences thought it very tedious.  STAR WARS had been in release for two and a half years; and the gee-whiz heroics of that film were far removed from the perceived ponderousness of STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE. Indeed, this film owes as much to 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY as it does to the original series itself.Still, the reappearance of the cast from the original series is welcome. When it came to directors, Roddenberry, serving here as the producer, made an excellent choice Robert Wise, whose credits included the 1951 sci-fi masterpiece THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL and the 1963 horror classic THE HAUNTING, among many others.  For the special effects, Wise got top-notch work from the masters in that field, Douglas Trumbull (2001), John Dykstra (STAR WARS), Richard Yuricich, and many others.  Finally, STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE is blessed with a superb score by veteran composer Jerry Goldsmith, who won an Oscar in 1976 for THE OMEN, and was nominated again for this film.  Besides its main theme, which was used for Star Trek The Next Generation, the score seems to utilize a combination of motifs from Claude Debussy's Nocturnes and Gustav Holst's The Planets.In its final 144 minute form, STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE is still a long movie, but its ambitious scope makes it eminently watchable, despite its flaws (some of which came inevitably with the original series itself). It's not a masterpiece, but it is arguably better and more intelligent than what mostly passes for science fiction in our day and age. "},{"Title":"Very slow and boring","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its was certainly the worst of the Star Trek films - a very slow, plodding film, probably done (unfortunately) in the vein of 2001 - everything is shown in minute detail, and whilst may be accurate, it is not at all needed.  "},{"Title":"Get the Director's cut; it's much better.","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know it's a bit unorthodox, but I gave this a 7 somewhere in between my rating for the original release (the rushed version) and the new director's cut release.  On the commentary track, the director explains what went wrong on the original release and what they've done for the director's cut to make the movie the way they'd originally wanted.  They even added some things.  The new version is much better in terms of pacing (which was the problem with the original release) and in many other areas.  It's well worth watching; you'll forget the previous version and come away thinking, dang; that was good! "},{"Title":"Accomplished update of classic 60's series....","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw the film version of STAR TREK - THE MOTION PICTURE in early 1980 around Easter time at a now-defunct cinema in my home town. Before I saw it, I heard horror stories of kids falling asleep in the cinema, that it wasn't up to the standard of the original show, it lacked passion and character.Well, to those who doubted it, I have to admit, you can be wrong some of the time....Having recently bought the new DIRECTOR'S CUT on DVD, the film still retains it's excellent visual style. UK fans were given a pleasant surprise on the film's TV premiere in 1984 when the extended version containing additional scenes was played instead of the theatrical version.Trekkers may well criticise it for the different style compared to the original show, but it was a MOVIE, not a TV SHOW DISGUISED AS ONE!!!. The sequence of the new Enterprise in drydock with Jerry Goldsmith's wonderful soundtrack playing alongside gives me goosebumps (In an interview, Goldsmith described his score as 'grand opera')If you go in with a more open mind to it, you will enjoy STAR TREK - THE MOTION PICTURE even more.A good progression of the original show. "},{"Title":"Slow and dated","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Based on R1 DVDHaving missed the original theatrical run of ST I looked forward to seeing it and the much vaulted 'improved' effects on the DVD release. Alas the extended sequences seemed over extended and the story was at best the subject of a standard ST-TNG TV episode. It was pleasing to see a still fit Kirk (and crew) strutting between the stars.6/10 for sci-fi fans anyone else could give it a miss. "},{"Title":"Slow and dated","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Based on R1 DVDHaving missed the original theatrical run of ST I looked forward to seeing it and the much vaulted 'improved' effects on the DVD release. Alas the extended sequences seemed over extended and the story was at best the subject of a standard ST-TNG TV episode. It was pleasing to see a still fit Kirk (and crew) strutting between the stars.6/10 for sci-fi fans anyone else could give it a miss. "},{"Title":"flawed but good","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie clearly has several defects.  First, it seems to take forever for the mission to get started.  The back-story of Captain Decker and Ilia are explained in a couple of cliched lines.  There is hardly any real action in the story; most of the characters just look out the main viewer for long periods of time.  However, there are some good aspects such as the sumptuous score by Jerry Goldsmith, a quite stunning looking cloud and alien ship entity, and an ending that although is not as deeply profound as `2001', is clever.  I must recommend the Director's Cut DVD.  It adds some special effects that the filmmakers literally ran out of time to create.  More importantly, it subtly tweaks several scenes to give the movie a much better flow.  Therefore, a 6/10 for the original movie version and a 7/10 for the new DVD.  "},{"Title":"Interesting idea, but it is pretty slow as oft mentioned","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I guess I SORTA liked ST TMP.  The concept of V-ger was interesting, even if a recognizable homage-to/remake-of the original series' episode, The Changeling.I found it worthwhile overall (a daring opinion among most Trekkies), but I did get a little fast forward trigger happy at the over prolonged special FX parts, which are now a bit dated and boring anyway BTW.  Many other viewers apparently agree with me on that one.If you can get past the many weak points in this film, it has some sort of philisophical value I guess.  V-ger is almost like a primative human being, ignorant, yet a bit intelligent and seeking answers about its existance and trying to find the creator.  It is also an evolution.  A simple first generation earth probe becomes a super powerful being.  The superior being understands its purpose far less than the simpler form.Anyway, here's my final analysis.  This movie only made it at the box office because of the decade long demand for more Star Trek.  It was actually the next move, the more action packed Wrath of Kahn, that kept interest so to speak.  This movie COULD have been the better remembered classic rather than it's successor if it hadn't tried to be so visual and have so little emphasis on development of everything else. "}{"Title":"Fortunately, the box office success of this movie set the stage for much better sequels which followed it!","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie no doubt came about as the result of a huge following for the original television series which ran for a couple of years in the mid 1960's (1966 and 1967 I believe).  The original tv series was oddly fascinating and the main characters on the series, Captain Kirk and Dr. Spock, became household names.  Over a decade after the demise of the tv series it was revived as a major motion picture and all of the principal cast was brought back to reprise their roles. The crew is brought back together aboard the U.S.S. Enterprise when it is needed for a mission to save the planet earth from a 'cloud' of 'energy' headed on a direct course for the earth.  Time is running out. The U.S.S. Enterprise seems to be earth's only hope.  Will the star ship and her crew be able to save the earth?  Will the crew and ship perish in the process?  Those are the elements of suspense in this movie.The acting is okay and the special effects are okay and the directing is okay in this film.  Unfortunately, the pace of the story is extremely slow.  Star Trek  The Motion Picture lacks action, humor, real suspense and even character development.  It is stated in the documentary that this movie was made under the pressure of a deadline which was very challenging.  Well, it shows!  Additional editing and work on making the film more stimulating would have been wise choice.For Trekkies and buffs of science fiction movies, Star Trek does have some nice touches, and they will no doubt be delighted to see the original cast back together again.  All others beware!  Fortunately, this box office success of this movie set the foundation for much better sequels which came after it.  I give this movie a 7/10.    "},{"Title":"Great effects but unaffective storyline","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek - The Motion Picture in my opinion is for the die hard fans. Personally i thought the storyline didn't interest me long enough to keep track of what was going on. The special effects for the time are amazing which picked up an oscar nomination back in 1979 and it has an excellent score by Jerry Goldsmith also nominated.I loved many of the Star Trek movies but this was one of the poorer outings of the Starship Enterprise.  Nevertheless its still worth a look.  I gave it a 5. "},{"Title":"Too much on the effects not enough on the characters","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  (minor spoilers)This first movie outing into the Star Trek universe and it totally forgets what made that universe interesting.  While the plots varied wildly in the original series the one thing that held the whole thing together was the interaction of the character and the suspense. The first problem with the movie is it is basicly a reworking of the original episode The Changeling; while there was enough to keep thinks interesting for 45 minutes that idea doesn't have enough to keep things going for 90 minutes much less 2 to 2.5 hours. The second and worst problem is that instead of filling up the time with character interaction or even flashbacks to previous unseen adventures the viewer is treated to a special effects free-for-all that seems to be set on trying to create the feeling of 2001.  Unfortunately this is totally at odds with the feel of the Star Trek universe which is why this film has the most  derogatory alternative titles by fans of any Star Trek film Star Trek The No-motion Picture,  ST the Stillmotion picture,  ST the Stopmotion picture, and my personal favorite ST The Slowmotion Picture.  The director's cut just add to the agravation because it is basicly 11 more minutes of special effects.  Most fans either skip this film and go to Star Trek II Wrath of Khan or hit the fast forward button a lot.  "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Boring Picture","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Since I had seen most of the TV episodes, I had high hopes for the first Star Trek film. They were dashed. Not only is the plot at least a partial rehash of one of the episodes, the pacing is incredibly slow. A particularly bad sequence is the lead-up by the shuttle to the Enterprise. It took forever! On the plus side, the film did get off to a rousing start both visually and sonically (Jerry Goldsmith's score is stellar) and the special effects were good for their time. The acting is competent. All of the original beloved cast knew their characters and the newcomers were good as well. But like I said the film just drags too much. More than several of the vignettes could've been shortened. I should also mention the production value and the special features on the Director's Cut DVD are of very high quality. It's too bad the main feature isn't worthy of them. 5.5/10. "},{"Title":"At lot of people seem to hate it, but at least it brought Star Trek to the big screen.","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  6 out of 10 (review of the 143-minute edition, not the director's cut)The first of the popular sci-fi franchise, my appreciation of Star Trek The Motion Picture lies mostly in the visual and auditory sense.  The special effects (more abundant here than possibly any other entry), great for their time, are still eye-popping by today's standards, if not also a bit dated. Arguably even more impressive is Jerry Goldsmith's rousing score, a memorable theme which outdoes even John Williams' work in Star Wars.  It's the plot and pacing which could use more work.The premise is interesting, and certainly less campy than one might reasonably have suspected back in 1979.  There's an alien cloud that's destroying everything in its path and it's on its way to Earth.  The Enterprise, led by James T. Kirk, is sent to prevent the possibility of the end of all life on Earth.  Thus, into the cloud they journey, making a monumentous discovery of the cloud's origin, intent, and purpose.Oddly enough, as interesting as the story is, the pacing is very slow and the movie is often rather tedious.  In style and tone, there's much resemblance to Stanley Kubrick's 2001, without quite the same intelligence and knack for visual brilliance.  While Star Trek is a feast for the eyes, it does little to extend beyond that.  Admittedly, once the Enterprise enter the cloud, things pick up a bit, and the plot eventually delivers the intriguing ideas and concepts we've long expected from it, but it's unlikely impatient viewers or anyone who grew up on the sci-fi/action movies of the 90's will be awake long enough to get there.Still, much as I have to complain about, the film is always watchable, with several standout scenes (the six-minute loving look at the docked Enterprise, played over Goldsmith's wonderful score, is one such moment). The cast, led by William Shatner and Leonard Nimoy, is in solid form, ten years in hiatus hadn't changed the crew's camaraderie.  Directed by Robert Wise, he aims for cerebral sci-fi, though given the rushed ending, it feels as if though the movie's primary goal was simply to re-inroduce Star Trek to the mainstream, and at that, it's a success.  "},{"Title":"Second worst Star Trek movie","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, it has some good scenes (most funnily this are the scenes, most people dislike about that movie), but it's soooo long and has so little story behind that. I do love Star Trek, but this movie isn't too good, only ST3 is even worse. "},{"Title":"The Journey Begins","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  A bold attempt to resurrection the huge following for Star Trek.  Did it work as a film?  There's two sides to this.  Yes in a way it did bring back together the original crew, and no, it does not give a great story.  The problem this production is faced with is how much time should be spent on characters and how much for the story.  Ultimately the production gives us characters.  Which leads to long scenes of actors staring at screens or spouting exposition at us.  This is not helped by the menace approaching Earth having a limited appearance.However the saving grace of the film is Jerry Goldsmith's score.  A true master piece.  The music gives the film its energy and drive which is sadly lacking in the direction.Overall its a good film, but a times when it drags, it really drags. "},{"Title":"* * 1/2 out of * * * *","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first twenty five minutes or so are great. Fantastic music, including the newly used Star Trek theme. Drags a bit after that. I'm not a Trek fan, I;ve never seen the tv show, but I have seen the first four films and must say that I enjoyed the first three very much, even this one, although it's not as good as the others.  "},{"Title":"* * 1/2 out of * * * *","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first twenty five minutes or so are great. Fantastic music, including the newly used Star Trek theme. Drags a bit after that. I'm not a Trek fan, I;ve never seen the tv show, but I have seen the first four films and must say that I enjoyed the first three very much, even this one, although it's not as good as the others. a "},{"Title":"Epic beginning for the Star Trek movie saga","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although this film is often berated, I feel that it's an excellent beginning to the  saga of Star Trek movies now 10 in number. It's grand, epic, heroic and true to  the Star Trek ethos. Goldsmith's score is incredible and it fits well with Wise's  direction. Two brilliant examples are Kirk's journey to the Enterprise in space  dock and the crew's trip through the mysterious depths of V'ger. I particularly  liked the tag line at the end of the movie - The Human adventure is just beginning - which in my opinion sums up the reason I watch Trek in the first  place. From it's start in the 60's, the Star Trek series has been an attempt to  explore that statement. What does it mean to be human? Star Trek The Motion Picture did a wonderful job at looking at this question while raising some of it's  own. Will computers eventually replace carbon-based life forms? How does a human differ from a machine composed entirely of raw data? Could there be more to life than the accumulation of facts - what about emotion and morality? A  real pleasure to watch and a recommended film to all explorers at heart. "}{"Title":"Not What we wanted","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although most people would disagree with me, Star Trek The Motion Picture was an OK movie. I feel though as if the creators at the time thought that what people wanted was a big-budget special effects roller coaster (keep in mind this was just 2 years after Star Wars). But what people really wanted was a movie that followed more closely to the TV show. I only reccomend this movie for Star Trek fans, and only if they have seen alll the other ones first. "},{"Title":"Imagery Overshadows Characters","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek, in its many incarnations, has always held its greatest appeal in its characters.  When one watches an episode of the various TV shows, or one of the films, their is an expectation of how each individual will react to a situation.  With the original series cast, there is plenty of bickering, banter, and life that resides in the relationships they have created with each other.  In essence, Star Trek is about the viewer knowing the characters, and wanting to see how they rise to a challenge.  It is this central component that Star Trek The Motion Picture fails to recognize. There is an obvious over-reliance on (very poor) visual effects throughout the film, which manages to bore rather than engage the viewer.  The plot is actually rather clever, and has the feeling of a fifties sci-fi thriller, but makes the fatal mistake of becoming more important than the character interactions.  The plot of a Star Trek movie should essentially provide a framework for the characters to engage in dialogue, solve problems, and entertain the audience with their idiosyncrasies.  Instead, it seems to take an eternity for the crew to become assembled aboard the Enterprise, and seemingly half the film's running time has elapsed before Kirk, Spock and McCoy are actually in a scene together, which is a major misstep considering that their relationship is what made the original show so entertaining in the first place. The story preempting the figures that make Star Trek what it is is poorly balanced in this film, and as a result just makes it a dry, uninteresting exercise in sci-fi and visual effects.What results is a bloated, over-long, and relatively pointless movie.  It is remarkable that the franchise continued after the many failures of this particular entry, though we as fans of the series may be thankful that the film makers recognized the problems and changed gears so as to allow for the voyages of the Enterprise to continue on the big screen.    "},{"Title":"The best Trek film","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watching The Motion Picture (Director's Edition) really feels like taking part in a journey through space, into the unknown. Jerry Goldsmith's score is superb and really holds the whole thing together and the effects and modelwork are excellent, especially the Enterprise craft and bizarre V'ger cloud interior. The following more commercial films were less philosphically ambitious, far more violent action movies- TMP is true to Gene Roddenberry's original Star Trek concept of understanding, tolerance and hope. "},{"Title":"A good film for the successful series.","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 1979 (i wasn't alive then) most probably a stampede of star trek fans crowded outside first showing of this movie. I am not suprised. The special effects for this movie (especially as it was made in 1979)were brilliant. Excellent heart-racing scenes were also shown. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie, while not the best of the original cast movies, is good. I think why some people tend not to like this movie is it's more like a sequel to the movie 2001 than it is a Star Trek film. I believe if you take it in this context it is a good movie. Someone who is use to the close knit friendships that appear in the original series might not see this as much in the film; accept for McCoy's occasional wry humor. For someone who knows nothing about Star Trek and its characters this movie might have more appeal. I do enjoy this film. It is a refreshing new look at the Star Trek universe, and has some great special effects. I give this film an 8 out of 10. The second movie Star Trek II the Wrath of Kahn would prove better and bring back some of the friendships that existed from the series. "},{"Title":"Star Trek is back and it is great","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  After ten years of no Star Trek this movie came.  This movie had a turbulent past, as it was originally suppose to be the pilot episode of a new Star Trek Series with almost the entire original cast.  There is a long history about how the movie came out.  The movie was postponed partially because of the success of Star Wars and technical problems but most of the problems came from behind the sets.  This movie at one point was supposed to be the flagship series for a supposed Paramount television network that never went off the ground.  The story changed at many points but this was the final story and this is a great movie.  This has everything you would expect from one of the original episodes.  There is mystery, there is thought, there is philosophy; this is just a great movie.  In this movie Admiral Kirk is going to be on the Starship Enterprise with it's new captain, named Decker.  There is a force that is coming toward Earth.  It destroys almost everything in its path, and no one is quite sure what it is.  I have to admit in this movie the special effects are awesome.  They work even today, and will astound viewers in modern times. It is great to see all of these people together again.  All of the actors are great and they work just excellently together.  The editions to the cast are so-so. Most of them were suppose to be in the original cast in case Shatner walked out because he felt he was not getting paid enough.  I am not sure why it is Shatner was so popular.  The truth is he was extremely arrogant and not a very good actor.  His bad acting showed in the series as well as his arrogance.  Shatners ego was definitely a force Against the show as few people like working with him  A lot of people do not like this movie.  That is too bad.  I think this is as good as any movie I have seen, let alone a Star Trek movie.  What else do Trekkers want?  This movie has action, it has all kinds of action, it is intelligent it is every bit as good as the original series.  The editions to the cast are fair.  Persis Khambatta and Stephen Collins are good.  Khambatta is notably bald, and that is quite interesting.  I guess they were not given enough time in the movie.  They were forced into the movie where there were already established characters that the world over knew about.I admit twenty years later this movies special effects blew me away.  The scenes in the middle of the movie freak me out.  When the Enterprise goes into V'ger it is quite scary.  The plot is great and the movie is well written.  I like this movie because it combines special effects and acting, not to mention writing and the result is an excellent movie.Overall this is a great movie.  I love watching all of these characters back together again, saving the universe, taking on the bad guys and this is so good.  This was a fine beginning to the come back of Star Trek.  I wish there were more of the original crew, but I will take this and the rest of the movies.   I am partial I guess I think all of the original movies are great.    "},{"Title":"story of transformation and human potential","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, I am not a Trekkie, nor a cult film freak... just someone who loves a good story...that said This film does not deserve the bad wrap that so many people give it.It is one of the films, of a very short list, that truely speaks to humanity with a vision of potential.  The film was very ambitious with its effects for its time, had trouble getting started with staff and studio issues, and had an impossible deadline for completion.  The special edition DVD is fantastic since it allowed the director to come back and complete it the way it should have been, as any other picture at paramount is usually given. The effects were done by the same guy who did close encounters for Speilberg.All the behind the scenes aside, The film is classic star trek, but with a very difficult subject, even for Gene Roddenberry in his own domain. Dealing with spirituality, the human condition, fear of the unknown and the basic drives of people is tricky to deal with and classicly done with archetypal characters.  The simple characters and dynamics of star trek from TV (though developed over a long time) are perfect for examining these things like a mythic greek play does.If you have never seen this my attempts to refer to scenes by discription could be considered a spoiler skip to the next paragraph. All you have to do to see this is listen to what spock says or explains to the crew (and audience) about what is going on.  I can think of 3 scenes one when spock is in sick bay after the mind meld, one when spock cries (towards the end), and the end huddle next to v'ger.  This is the maturity of spock's character and the integration of emotion and reason.If this film is so bad how could it have launched so much in the future? For the ones that dont think this is a great film, it says a lot about there own character or interests, one of a few things they did not get it (watch those spock scenes again) or they don't care about self transformation and growth and the human potential or they just dont like space films and archetypal characters like star wars. But if you like those things you will like this picture.Watch the film, be inspired by the human potential and check out the special edition director's cut DVD.Olias "},{"Title":"Gag me with a phaser!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a comment on the theatrical release and not the more recent director's cut which I haven't seen. But I don't see how this could have been turned into a watchable movie without major surgery, and even then the scars would show.I was addicted to the original series (in reruns) as a kid, and went to see this in its initial release full of anticipation. So the movie opens, there are establishing shots of San Francisco and Starfleet Headquarters, and we follow a single ground transport into said Headquarters. The camera focuses dramatically on the doors. They slide open, and there, for the first time in almost ten years is Captain -- no, *Admiral* -- James T. Kirk!-- With a hideous new toupee that looks as if a tribble has taken up permanent residence on his head.-- Wearing what looks for all the world like a glorified dental assistant's uniform-- And I'll swear to this day he had a girdle on underneath.Well, that set the tone just perfectly, didn't it?The rest of the movie similarly disappointed. Sure the new ship model looked great, but after the first hour or so (well, that's what it felt like anyway) of loving closeups I really wanted to get started with the story, which at that point in the story had yet to materialize in any real way. On board, you find the entire crew has taken up careers as dental assistants, with '70s hairstyles even more disturbing than the modified '60s hairstyles of the series. I include Persis Khambatta's shaved head among the frights. When the story finally does get going, it turns out to be a rehash of the second-season episode Changeling but with a much larger budget. This explains the glacial pacing I suppose; they had to stretch out one hour's worth of story into a two hour movie. (The extraordinarily lengthy establishing shots of the Enterprise must have been a highly convenient way to burn off some minutes.)I was left with the sick feeling that the quality of the original series was largely due to its budget limitations, and that what I had just seen was the sort of boring tripe that would have been routine if only they'd had the money for it. If that's the case, then thank goodness for penny-pinching networks and impecunious studios. The rest of the movies frankly appear to confirm this. Only every other one seems to approach the original in quality, and number 5 sank into such an abyss of mewling idiocy as to put me off the movie series entirely.All in all, an inauspicious start to a mediocre oeuvre. I haven't seen it again in over 20 years, and I don't intend to. "},{"Title":"HEY YOU !! WAKE UP !!  It Ain't Over Yet!","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great epic-type story that says so little in so much time. Let's take Star Trek and envelop it in a '2001 Odyssey-ish' execution.So how come I still like it more than I don't?The (twist) ending was worth it. Hell, even I got a little lump in my throat. But so many intimate character opportunities were sacrificed for spectacle. And the characters are the reason why the series endures in syndication. They're all back, but give them something more to do besides posing and looking...and looking some more. Thank goodness for 'Wrath of Khan', cause somebody(s) took notice and learned from the first one.The Director's Edition is a huge improvement. The new effects are breathtaking AND seamless with the original version. The 5.1 sound is fantastic. But the special effects are overkill...like someone inviting you to a buffet lunch, then forcing you to eat the entire buffet. The ONE thing I was looking forward to was tighter editing to the dry dock sequence (along with a half dozen other sequences); but Robert Wise decided not to interfere with Goldsmith's music. This is a case of the director allowing the score to take precedence over story...and as beautiful as the music is, music should seldom dictate film pacing, it should be the other way around (even I found spots where the music could have been seamlessly trimmed for this section). Someone (another reviewer) wrote that during this sequence, you got time to get a sandwich. I'll go one better and say you got the time to MAKE a sandwich; a triple decker please! and take your time slicing those tomatoes; go ahead! shred lots of lettuce; of course everyone knows toast is better than plain bread (so what if your toaster is slow, it won't matter). By time you get back to the movie with sandwich in hand (or eaten), Kirk will still be proudly staring at his beloved Enterprise from the windows of the (let's do a tour approach...on your left is the sleek metal design...) shuttle. And he even knits his brow a couple of times while tilting his head for a better view. Yeah...I know! It's SUPPOSED to be an emotional homecoming.The acting does gets better in the following sequels (till Shatner yanked the acting rug out from everyone's feet in #5; they're all redeemed in #6). Not the actors' fault, partly due to constant (sometimes daily) script re-writes and no time for retakes...PRINT IT!! I'm glad they restored some of the dialogue from the expanded version and trimmed some unnecessary dribble from the theatrical one.The 'Restored' documentary is great (so are the two others). The film commentary loses alot of validity as Wise rationalizes some editing decisions and his over indulgence on trivial shots that were obviously sapping the film's escalating budget (the worm hole took that long???). Still a lesson on how NOT to do some things in film making. (Not to worry Bob, 'Sound of Music', 'Day the Earth Stood Still', 'The Body Snatcher'...excellent examples of fine film making.) And small wonder that Nimoy didn't participate in the new documentaries, but found time to contribute to the new edition of 'Wrath of Khan'.Overall, I'm happy to own the dvd. 6.5 out of 10. Still could have used some tightening! "},{"Title":"Never intended to BE Star Wars...","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many of the comments in this group sadden me.  They truly do.One thing you have to bear in mind is that this film was not meant to be Star Wars.  Neither the producers nor the cast ever thought of it that way. (In fact, Robert Wise mentions quite plainly in the DVD commentary that they were going for the epic feel, the huge film that makes you think.)I do not know if all the negative comments about this film are posted by people who just want to be spoon-fed cartoonish laser battles and little morality plays that require no thought...But if they are, then it is no wonder they are dissapointed.There is no over the top evil villian type.  There is no backwoods farm boy who will rise up to be the savior or the universe or some such crap.  It is, simply a group of people coming together (With skinned knees and bruised egos and all) to face and ultimately attempt to defeat a supremely powerful and unknown entity.Admittedly, I feel the evolution of the characters (Spock, in particular) was handled better in the Director's cut of the film.  You really get the feel of Kirk's passion for command, his anger management issues surrounding Decker, and ultimate assumption of a father figure-like personality, not only for Decker, but the entire crew.  Spock really shines as the most interesting character in the film.  From his initial failure at controlling his emotion, to his overcompensation by acting like a cold computer, then to his final revelation in Sick Bay.  Good Stuff.And as geeky as this may sound, I do feel that this version of the Enterprise is one of the most beautifully crafted ships in all of Sci-Fi. The drydock sequence, along with Goldsmith's masterful score, is designed to make our hearts beat just a little bit faster.  And it succeeds. Wildly.All in all, it is one of those rarest kind of films.  The kind that entertains, that makes you think, and fills you with hope. "}{"Title":"Star Dreck","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Who else but the pretentious Star Trek folks could take themselves so seriously that they re-tread one of the more mundane and forgettable plots from their 1960s TV show and turn it into a TWO-hour star bore. The space snooze cruise to meet the misunderstood V'ger is unbelievably dragged out for the sake of showing off all those expensive optical special effects. I've seen grass grow faster. Scotty must have replaced the antimatter fuel with Valium. What's more, the dialog and editing is clunky. thankfully, some of the later Trek films were far more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Just take the movie for what it's worth","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really do not understand all the negative comments made about this movie.Yes STTMP has it's flaws but doesn't every movie have it's flaws?Just take the movie for what it's worth.  This movie was made for the fans of the TV series and I am sure almost all true fans of the TV series liked this movie.  The bottom line is the producers were able to bring together the original cast 10 years later and make this movie and a pretty above average movie was made.True this movie is no where close to a 10 but at the same time it isn't in my opinion anywhere close to a 5.7.Ignore all the negative comments you might hear about this movie. Watch the movie, don't analyze it and just take the movie for what it's worth.  A fun time watching all the original cast members back together doing sci-fi stuff.This movie really should be rated at least a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Don't bother with the theatrical cut, the extended versions are better","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  After a 10-year absence and a wildly successful syndication run, it was inevitable that STAR TREK would make a comeback. And what a rocky comeback it was. Several scripts were pitched for a movie and rejected, a planned TV revival fell apart (although the revival's pilot script was recycled into the final film), the project became a film whose budget was bloated by the costs of all the failed prior attempts (the film itself cost $25 million; the $20 million spent on all the other attempts boosted the budget to $45 million), the FX house hired to do the film ripped the studio off and forced Paramount to hire two other FX outfits to do the film under super-tight conditions, and ego clashes between Gene Roddenberry and screenwriter Harold Livingston resulted in the script being written as it as was filmed. And as a final insult, director Robert Wise was denied the chance to properly edit the film, and critical plot points were cut in order to emphasize the FX. The end result was STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE, an unfinished film that left the cast feeling so betrayed that they almost didn't reunite for the sequel.I first saw this film when I was three years old, when it ran on ABC in its extended version. This is the version I grew up with, and it's the one that cemented my love for Classic TREK. The great scenes of Spock affirming his friendship for Kirk in the sickbay, Spock crying on the bridge out of the realization that he and V'ger are kindred spirits, the spectacular flyover where we saw the Enterprise in drydock (never before or since in any other incarnation of TREK has the Enterprise looked more gorgeous than it did in the first six movies), the hilarious scene where Sulu makes a fool of himself in front of Ilia, Jerry Goldsmith's magnificent score&#133;all of that stuff enthralled me as a kid. Then I saw the theatrical version, which LACKED all of the good stuff in the ABC broadcast&#133;and man, did it suck. Watching that version made me see why the film was so savaged upon its release. Then along comes Robert Wise, deciding to do a final re-edit of the movie (which he didn't get to do back in 1979) and complete the film as he intended. The end result is an amalgam of the lifeless theatrical version and the character-rich ABC broadcast, complete with new CGI FX sequences that were planned for the original release but weren't completed in time.So how does the new, finished cut stack up? Well, I'm disappointed that the Sulu-Ilia exchange was left out, as was the sexually immature species joke that ended the scene, and I really wish Wise had used the Kirk-McCoy argument from the ABC version instead of the theatrical version. (The theatrical version makes Kirk look like a arrogant creep, the ABC version shows him tormented over his feuding with Decker and shamefully agreeing with McCoy's criticism). Thankfully, the cut scenes are included as supplements on the DVD. But overall, Wise's final edit of the film is very good. The subplot of Spock's bond with V'ger is restored to its rightful prominence, the pacing is tighter and sharper (it moves a tad faster than in the other versions), and all but one of the new FX scenes are excellent (the asteroid explosion in the wormhole is greatly improved on, we actually get to see what the V'ger exterior looks like, Vulcan actually looks like Vulcan now, etc.). But the scene where the points of light form a bridge from V'ger to the Enterprise looks like something out of a video game. (Oh, well, you gotta try, right?) The film still has the same old flaws the acting and direction are both unsteady at times, largely because Gene Roddenberry interfered with Livingston so badly that script revisions were constantly delayed and because the film is largely confined to the bridge crew reacting to what's on the viewscreen. That, and the Starfleet uniforms suck. Not only do they look like skintight pajamas, but there's no color to them at all. In fact, the whole Enterprise is so gray and beige that in the rare moments when you see orange cushions or blue and purple lights, they burst out like beacons. The ship and costumes are too dull and lifeless, especially compared to the colorful uniforms and ship decor of the follow-ups. And while the late Persis Khambatta is serviceable as Ilia, she looks awful without hair. Even the Paramount execs realized it was a stupid idea to shave her head. Would it really have been so hard to let her keep her hair and give her some body markings like the Trills in other TREK incarnations? It certainly would have looked less ridiculous. And the storyboards on the DVD are pathetic; they look like they were drawn by a 5-year old.But for all that, the director's cut still casts an enchanting spell, because it retains the character-rich feel of the ABC broadcast and avoids the plodding emptiness of the theatrical cut. That said, the film is not for everyone. I fully understand why this film is a love-hate deal. But for those who like the film, the DVD is highly recommended, if for no other reason than for the three documentaries covering the making of the film and Wise's re-edit. The interviews with script doctor Jon Povill, Livingston, Stephen Collins (who played Will Decker), and others are fascinating. William Shatner is especially insightful and thoughtful in his interview for the DVD, which makes for a marked contrast with his silliness on the STAR TREK II DVD. If you disliked the theatrical version of ST TMP, maybe Wise's re-edit will be more palatable to you. The best way to describe this film is that it deals with the mind of STAR TREK, while the sequels are more about the heart. "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been so much more.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  As you know, I'm a big fan of the original Star Trek, but I had yet to see all the feature films in full. I can now add the original motion picture to the list. I viewed the 2001 Director's Cut DVD.You'd think that the combination of all the cast members, alongside the late, great, Gene Roddenberry and two-time Oscar winning director Robert Wise (West Side Story, The Sound Of Music) would add up to the spectacular. Sadly, this movie never lives up to lofty goals you'd think it would achieve after 10 years.The story Earth is threatened by a strange entity from outer space. James T. Kirk, who is now a Commander in Starfleet; returns to the helm of his beloved U.S.S. Enterprise along with his crew; including Dr. McCoy (who had retired) and Mr. Spock, who'd gone back to Vulcan. One of the crew members is Ilia, an alien form the planet Delta, played by the lovely Persis Khambhatta, who on the way to the entity, is captured by it, and returns as some sort of spokeswoman for it. The entity calls itself V'Ger, and is looking for The Creator. It's up to the crew to try to figure this puzzle out.While the film has gorgeous special effects, it dwells too much on long scenes of space. There seems to be too little dialogue, too little of that Star Trek magic from the T.V. show. While a guy like me knows the ins and outs of the characters, someone new to the canon would wonder what the fuss is all about. Too much of the film is built around it's gorgeous-ness. The story, which I found to be a little bit The Squire of Gothos, a little bit The Doomsday Machine, and a whole lot of The Changeling, did get interesting once they were getting close to the solution.The acting is as good as it was on the original series, and Stephen Collins (as new Enterprise Capt. William Decker) and Khambhatta deliver fine performances. The movie drags seriously at certain points, and I had trouble staying awake at points that crawled, but the last 30 minutes are very good. Still, it doesn't matter how good or bad this film is, it didn't hurt the Star Trek franchise a bit.The DVD contains the new version of this film with gussied up SFX and the movie that Robert Wise originally wanted it to be like. Plus, three documentaries, including one that sounded a bit ironic They were in a rush to have the movie out in December, 1979; you'd wonder if they would have made the film's action (or lack of action) any slower if they could have taken their time. Also, the usual commentaries, a ton of deleted scenes, storyboards, trailers, and a look at the latest Star Trek series Enterprise.I have to admit, for a woman who was given a role to play a bald-headed alien, the late Persis Khambhatta was a stunner. Maybe bald is beautiful for women, too... "},{"Title":"Shockingly good!","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"    I've never been a huge fan of the Star Trek series, but I've loved just about all the movies that I've seen so far.  So I got the movie a while back on DVD and finally got around to watching it just the other day.  I'm not quite sure why, but I had pretty low expectations for the film and after seeing it, I have to say that I was thoroughly impressed!  I loved the story and the special effects are really good for the time that it was made.  I thought the story was a bit slow at a few points, but not too bad.  The acting was quite good as well, on all accounts.  Like I said, I thought the story was excellent and very interesting.  I would definitely recommend watching this film if you haven't seen it already.  If you're a sci-fi fan like myself then hopefully you'll like the film.  If you're like me and have seen a few of the other Star Trek films and have yet to see this one, you should definitely see this one.  Thanks for reading, and enjoy the film,-Chris "},{"Title":"I'm glad this was not the first Star Trek film I saw","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is really not a good Star Trek film. In fact it is the worst that I've seen yet and if this would have been my first Star Trek film, I probably never would have wanted to see another one again. I mean, this film just oozes of 70's filmmaking. The story takes too long to develop, the acting is at times really bad (the bald headed chick sucks REALLY hard) and the story is not good either. The only ones that get away with average to acceptable ratings are Spock, Scotty and Kirk. The rest is just not good. The love story between the bald chick and the commander is also totally stupid.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"What this movie meant to trekkers","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not a flawless movie, and because of plot similarities with an old episode of the series has been dubbed Where Nomad Has Gone Before. (Nomad being a primitive early version of V-ger).  But rather than find fault, let me recall my own reaction when it came out.  Remember, we die-hard trekkers had been listening to Gene Roddenberry promise for TEN YEARS to revive Star Trek.  We never thought it would happen.  And of course, we had never seen anything on the big screen.In the scene where Scotty takes Kirk out the enterprise and they do a slow pan around it, many of us including me were in tears.  The splendid scene on Vulcan, even though it is a painted backdrop, had us reacting in a very un-Vulcan fashion also.  The new look for the Klingons, so familiar now that the way they looked in the series was explained by not being explained in an episode of Deep Space Nine, was sensational.  Spock finally integrating his human and Vulcan half was, well, fascinating. I could go on and on (also about the flaws, but as I said above...).  Just one more detail.  In the original release, the transporter accident near the beginning of the film was rendered at greater length and much more horrifically.  The transformation from human form into some lump of flesh was given in much more detail.  It was in fact one of the most frightening horror scenes I've ever seen in a movie.  It must have been cut in later releases by popular demand so as not to scare the kids.Star Trek is such a perennial industry now that the younger among you won't appreciate what a ten year dry spell meant to us.  "},{"Title":"Sedate but seductive","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's often said that the cinematic resurrection of Star Trek was underwritten by the box office jackpot of Star Wars two years before. Whatever, as a non-Trekkie who has never managed to endure more than ten minutes of any Star Wars entry, I back Robert Wise's revival to last longer as a work of art.Wise had proved his competence in high-tech sci-fi a decade earlier with The Andromeda Strain. The versatile craftsman is mindful that he has a duty to more than the cultists of Gene Roddenberry's series. He delivers a stately, sometimes soporific but ultimately enthralling rehash of one of SF's oldest but most haunting notions the man-made machine that has the power to transcend and dominate its creator, unless he takes the ethically questionable step of dismantling it in the nick of time.Here we have what might, following 2001, be called the HAL Dilemma, with a whodunit twist- who or what is V-ger and what does he/she/it want? The mysterious summoner of the Enterprise finds its voice through the mysterious Lt Ilia, whose kinkily bald pate, shorty tunic just covering her modesty and splendid Aryan features are neutralised (sex is never foregrounded in good SF) by her unearthly stare and grating, incessant demands that the carbon units yield up their information.With the expected quotient of hocus-pocus physics, splendid sets, daft thermal-underwear uniforms and bursts of light show from 2001's Doug Trumbull, time passes pleasantly but none too dramatically from the initial reunion- needed to jog the TV viewer's memory if he hadn't kept up with syndicated reruns- until the movie's pace quickens. It builds towards a grand climax after Spock falls sick. (Maybe Brits like Star Trek because the repressed affection of the half-Vulcan and Kirk is so like British men's friendships?) The denouement, which won't be told here, can stand comparison with the great 1950s SF films, such as Forbidden Planet and The Incredible Shrinking Man.The Motion Picture succeeded in re-animating Roddenberry's concept commercially. It paved the way for more TV cycles, besides five further features with the old firm. And here one should salute the remarkable atypicality not only of a big-budget Hollywood production which trafficks confidently, without banality, in ideas, but does so through the thespian efforts of a true ensemble team an extreme rarity in the land of the star system.How tempting it must have been to chuck in an A-list name or two to insure against failure. None of the Enterprise's seven senior officers were big kahunas or still in their first youth by the time they took their theatrical bows. Shatner and Nimoy, primus inter pares, had figured in scattered TV movie parts and busted pilots; the others were less lucky. None had thrown off their Trekkie identification, and by all accounts some were none too pleased to be called back to the colours the feud between Shatner and Scotty Doohan would become tense.No matter- lined, grizzled and competent character actors inject restraint and weight into a script that deserves it. Special effects and Jerry Goldsmith's resonant score (he knocks spots off the pompous John Williams) stand in for strenuous physical action. The quiet white-noise hum of the cabin underscores the tension of their plight as V-ger sucks them in. Shatner's performance takes a while to snap into focus, as if he's bemused by his recall to the bridge; but Nimoy's handling of his baffling persona is a tour de force.Young spectators who are restless at the measured rhythm of this film, the absence of sex and violence, should try again when they are a little older. Savour the sinking-in of the metaphysical message and the subtle teamwork of those oddly costumed pioneers. Later entries would be more comic, swashbuckling or PC, but it was right that the tone of the franchise's comeback should be meditative. Star Trek at its best, like all good cinema fantastique, is an essay in the excitement of ideas the longest-lasting and least injurious thrill we thinking reeds can enjoy.  "},{"Title":"The Directors Cut","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Directors Cut of this movie on DVD is magnificent.Finally the huge score and incredible visuals are allowed to work fully together. The movie has never really been seen in as good a form as this before. It is truly worth another look (Agent10... give it a go!).I know this has always been a controversial Star Trek movie and one, it seems, a favourite to trash. Perhaps it would have been critically better recieved if aired originally in this version, instead of being rushed to the screens.Please do give it another chance.I have to give it an 8.5 out of 10.BoC. "},{"Title":"Welcome back","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although I agree that the film is very slow, and the special effects shots were too long ( although they were fantastic ), it is still great to see the original crew back in action. The story is actually quite good, although I am led to believe it borrows heavily from an old episode, not being a die-hard trekkie I never noticed. William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, Deforest Kelley, James Doohan and all the other regulars all slip back into their roles with ease. Plus the beautiful Persis Khambatta makes an interesting addition to the crew alongwith Stephen Collins as Decker. Jerry Goldsmiths score is excellent and helps make the overlong effects sequences bearable. I think the storyline is quite well realised and offers a better answer than other sci-fi films, 2001 for example. All in all an enjoyable Star Trek film but not as good as the second one or my personal favourite Star Trek IV The Vogage Home. ***7/10*** "}{"Title":"singing Star Trek! Adventures in Space! /singing","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok Im a Trekker BFD, and knowing the words to the original theme song might scare off a few, but at least i dont speak Klingon...  Anyway, this movie I saw well after its special effects were new and flashy, but I really am pleased with how the movie is done given the time.  Ok, its nowhere near the best, and is in fact in 8th place if i had to rank the 9 ST films, Insurrection being 9.  This movie was, and plays like a elongated TV episode, not a movie.  Hey, the plot is great and finding weakness given the time it was done is hard to do.  Very imaginative and creative, especially the V'ger thing.  I recommend getting the Director's Cut, which i have, and makes it infiantely more enjoyable.  I sat down and burned a whole day watching it, and the bonus DVD, which is simply amazing.  Trekkers, youd best get your ass in gear if you havent seen this classic yet. if theres one thing Sci-Fi fans are good at, its no passing judgement on films with outdated effects. "},{"Title":"Consider this before passing final judgment","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm afraid I'm one of the many people who came away from this movie feeling that you can never go home  again.  As many before me have said, this movie was  too worried about competing with STAR WARS and not  worried enough about capturing the spirit of the original television series, whose major strength  was its characters, rather than its pyrotechnics.This movie suffers from what I call the  Take advantage of/Taken Advantage of Syndrome.   That's when the filmmakers decide to take advantage  of some resource that wasn't available to others  before them, and end up being taken advantage of  by that very resource, because it takes over.  The  resource in this case is all those big-budget  special effects that weren't an option when the  original TV series was being made.But there are four points I would ask you to  consider before passing final judgment of this movie.First, as Marshall McLuhan was famous for pointing  out,  The medium is the message, and television  and movies are very different media.   So, any feature film version of a television series  must create some feeling of It's just not the same. Granted, this is a shaky defense, since  later STAR TREK movies succeeded where this one  failed, but that may be partly because filmgoers  subsequently adjusted to the different feel of  the big screen, and partly because the filmmakers  subsequently realized they had to take this  into account.Second, at least some of the missing rapport that  everyone complains about may have been inherent in  the storyline.  Remember that the original crew of  the Enterprise hadn't worked together for ten years,  that they were being reunited under adverse  circumstances, and that several of them didn't want  to be forced back into active duty.  Those  conditions could hardly have been expected to  produce a congenial working  environment.Third, if you go back and watch the original series,  that famous characterization and rapport was not  present to the same degree in every episode,  particularly in earlier episodes, such as  The Corbomite Maneuver, and The Man Trap.Finally, whatever might be wrong with the movie,  the story does incorporate some important and  profound issues, such as the validity and importance   of faith.  I can't be more specific lest this review  become a spoiler.  Well, this aspect of the movie has  been discussed by others, who've done a better job  than I could do here, so if you want to know more,  go and read what they've said.Regarding the director's cut, which is the version  available on DVD, it does include some improvement  over the two previous versions,  There are, however,  several things I would have done differently.   First, along with trimming that long-winded trip  through the V'ger cloud, I would have also trimmed  the equally long-winded sequence in which Kirk flies  all around the Enterprise, looking at her from every  possible angle.  I also would have kept at least one  of the exchanges between Sulu and Ilia that were  added for the television version.  Fortunately,  everything that was deleted is included on a  supplemental disk.  "},{"Title":"abstract Star Trek","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The general storyline, is O.K. typical for any sci-fi movie, but the whole flow seemed pretty hard at times to figure out, and the overall feel of this movie, didn't seem to fit in with the original cast, I think.But, the special effects are perhaps the best in the whole movie series! next to Star Trek 6.  The musical score is also a treat to the ear, worth noting, is Jerry Goldsmith's unique score handling during the scenes with V'ger.All in all, the special effects and all the wonder I just describe are the one reasons to see this movie, don't let the storyline confuse you too much, but hey its a sci-fi movie, and it's a trek, give it some credit.  7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"What's with those uniforms?","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the second worst Star Trek movie (behind the completely forgettable Final Frontier).  I honestly felt nothing for any of the characters.  And, those uniforms are just SO BAD. The idea of V'ger was good, but the way it was played out was just not good. "},{"Title":"Director's cut was what I was waiting for.","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to admit I was not a fan of the original series when I saw this film in the theaters in '79.  But I enjoyed this film so much I went to see it three times.  I was not bothered with the long effects sequences with the Enterprise or V'Ger's cloud since there was Jerry Goldsmith's fabulous score in the background.  It got me hooked into watching and enjoying reruns of the series.I did rent this movie numerous times in the early 80s when it was released on video and attempted to buy it in '87.  By that time the original theatrical version was no longer available for sale but was replaced by the absolutely horrendous Special Longer Version.  This cut of the movie suffered from bad, bad, bad editing, adding in scenes that were not complete (specifically Kirk leaving the Enterprise in search of Spock where you can clearly see set scaffolding at the edges of the screen) or were quite rightly dropped on the editing floor for the '79 release, and chopping up Jerry Goldsmiths score and using certain music inappropriately for readded scenes.  This release was garbage (I understand that Trekkies loved it. Whatever!).I was happy to see the results that the Director's Cut produced.  Although I question cutting a frame here and there and some additional effects scenes (I don't think I needed to see the entire VGer spacecraft.  It lost some of it's mystique.) I am pleased to see a version that comes close to the original that I love.  "},{"Title":"Great science fiction film, even greater as a DVD","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture has always been a controversial film (among Trekkers, at least) because there is much argument over just how good (or bad) the film is. I believe that it is quite possibly the greatest of all the Star Trek films. It is an epic adventure, whereas most of the films, storywise at least, could be television episodes. The story of ST TMP is very intelligent and thought provoking. The plot is quite simple, but the questions it raises are anything but. When it comes down to it, ST TMP is indeed about the human adventure it is about seeing how far humanity could go, based on our limitless imaginations. Many have criticised the film's elaborate effects sequences, and many think these smother the story and the characters, but I do not think this is so. The effects, grand as they are, are indeed used only as a storytelling tool on this film. In the original theatrical version of the film, this may not have been the case, but the masterfully re-edited Director's Edition regains the balance between story, character and visuals that was lost as a result of the film's hectic production troubles close to the release date of the film. The new Director's Edition has several amazing new effects shots that were created by Foundation Imaging for the film. They are amazing not because they are grand and spectacular, but because they are subtle. Anyone who didn't realize the film had been re-edited and augmented last year would be forgiven for thinking all the shots in the film were original 1979 material. The DVD Transfer Picture 7/10. The picture quality was disappointing. While it must be taken into account that most effects films of the era have very grainy pictures due to the large amount of optical compositing used to create effects shots, this DVD's image is still a lot dirtier than you would expect. There are numerous scratchy film elements used, and the actual DVD authoring is problematic, so on this front, the DVD was a bit of a let down. It's still far superior to any VHS or LaserDisc editions of the film, and many shots do look far sharper than in other editions of the film. Sound 8/10 For an old film, the soundtrack on the DVD was surprisingly sharp and well-defined. The only area of the audio that gives away the film's age is the dialogue. Due to noisy conditions on the set caused by lighting effects and projector-screens used to create display panels, most of the dialogue was re-recorded in ADR. This makes the dialogue stand apart from the newly mixed Dolby 5.1 and 2.0 tracks, but this is a minor flaw that one can't complain about given the limitations of filmmaking technology in 1979. Extras 7/10 The Director's Edition DVD was one of the first double-disc editions produced by Paramount. So it is very refreshing to see a Star Trek DVD with extra materials included. The three documentaries are interesting, but do not go into much depth, but the 90 minutes or so covered by the documentaries are interesting and informative nontheless. There is an extensive library of deleted scenes and trims, and it is not surprising upon viewing these that they landed on the cutting room floor. The archive of TV spots and trailers is my favorite aspect of the DVD's features disc it is fascinating to compare conventions of 70's movie advertising to those of today. The commentaries on Disc 1 are also interesting, but are a little formal given the fact that the commentaries were recorded separately and edit into the one track. The DVD's novel subtitle Commentary by Trek Tech guru Mike Okuda was the highlight of disc ones extras for me. All in all, I recommend this DVD whole heartedly to Trekkers, and science-fiction collectors as well.  "},{"Title":"Beam me up,Scotty. * * *","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star TrekThe Motion Picture-The Director's Edition is an improvement over the original released back in 1979.It's technical wizardry and effects have been finally completed via CGI and digital effects.This is a pretty good film although not as good as it's sequels.The only sequel it topped was Star Trek VThe Final Frontier which had to be in my honest opinion not as well made as the rest.The film came to life on the big screen on December 7,1979 reunting the cast from the Star Trek television series from the mid to late 1960s.When the film was released,it would pave the way for television shows being translated to the big screen.William Shatner,Leonard Nimoy,Deforest Kelley and the rest of the crew return to the USS Enterprise to save Earth from a mysterious vessel who wants to find it's creator.The film can be slow at certain times but it's surrounded by visuals and some humor that makes it very easy to sit through.Apart from Star Wars,you really shouldn't expect loud fast explosive effects and fast speeding spaceships followed by a loud score penetrating the action.This film is more on the quiet more relaxed fantasy type.Director Robert Wise and his crew had to race against time to complete the film's visual effects which was nominated for an Academy Award.(Alien won the award).I have to say that watching this film wasn't an exciting experience.It was pretty amazing to watch and some of the effects are outdated but at the same time impressive to view.The DVD version is PG rated while the 1979 version is G rated.Star TrekThe Motion Picture-The Director's Edition is actually the finished version of the film.The film was never finished when released back in 1979.The DVD version is Robert Wise' version.The way he intended it to be shown. "},{"Title":"Well Done","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie in itself is good.  They cleaned up a lot of the more annoying drawbacks in the original version in the Director's cutDVD (not that I think Robert Wise had much to do with it).Very good bonus features.  All the Star Trek movies should be fixed up and redone this way. "},{"Title":"The first is not always the best!","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The average Star Trek-Fan of today doesnt like this movie very much. And with good reason The universe in Star Trek has expanded so much that this movie looks like a very narrow and small place. But what those people seem to forget is that this movie is beginning of a series of movies and television series after the original Star Trek was cancelled in 1969. So, ten years later Gene Roddenberry and the cast try to get a new access to Star Trek as well as the viewer. That is no easy task!To make sure it is a success Paramount hired one of the greatest directors, Robert Wise. No specialist in sci-fi, and that is the problem. For him this universe seems to have no meaning and so it is no wonder that the characters lack the behavior wed come to love in the series. But without The Motion Picture, Star Trek would not be the franchise it is today and despite all its flaws, it is not a bad movie! Its just different from what we expect today! The best way to judge it is to watch it! Give it a try! "},{"Title":"The human adventure is just beginning for the first time. . .","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, take that into account when you read this. This is for Star Trek The Motion Picture - The Director's Edition.WARNING SPOILERS HERE!I recently just got a DVD player for my birthday and quite frankly, there was no other movie I wanted for it besides Star Trek The Motion Picture - The Director's Edition. I inserted the disk and was greeted by the menu screen in the form of the Enterprise viewscreen. Pretty cool.The MovieConsiderably different than my VHS version. Yes, it is still over 2 hours long but the new features make it endearing.Our story is about an alien cloud venturing towards Earth and destroying everything in its path. Enterprise is the only Federation starship that stands in its way. But this isn't the same Enterprise that you saw back in 1969. No, the new Enterprise is the most advanced ship in Starfleet, but the ship is launched prematurely in order to intercept the intruder .(whom we'll come to know as V'Ger)The ship unreadily warps away, but is caught in a dangerous wormhole. To make matters worse, an asteriod is pulled into the wormhole directly in front of the Enterprise. With no shields available, Captain Kirk orders ship's phasers to destroy it, but Kirk's unfamiliarity with the redesign of the Enterprise nearly destroys the ship, but Commander Decker is able to fire photon torpedoes at it time thus saving the ship.A shuttlecraft is delivered to the Enterprise containing Mr. Spock recently back from Vulcan. He is able to fix the engines and the ship speeds to intercept.Upon reaching the cloud, it fires two energy bolts at the ship. The first is deflected, but if the second connects with the hull of the Enterprise it will destroy the ship. Fortunately, Mr. Spock is able to send friendship messages at the right speed and convinces the alien to cancel his attack.The Enterprise enters the cloud and upon reaching the center, a probe from the alien materializes on the bridge and captures Lieutenant Ilia. She is then killed, but the probe takes her form and is sent back to the Enterprise to investigate on behalf of V'Ger.Mr. Spock suits up in a thruster suit and ventures alone into the innards of V'Ger. Upon his arrival, he discovers that V'Ger is a living machine. In an attempt to mind meld with the V'Ger sensor, he is incapacitated and returned to the Enterprise.Now in Earth orbit, V'Ger threatens to destroy all life on the Earth in order to find his creator. V'Ger believes that the carbon units on Earth (humans) are repressing the creator, but Captain Kirk is able to convince V'Ger that they know why the creator hasn't answered his call. V'Ger then pulls the Enterprise to it's brain island where Kirk and crew discover that V'Ger is actually the old Earth probe Voyager 6. The try to instruct V'ger to transmit the data to them since they are essentially the creator, but V'Ger destroys it's antenna leads in order to have the creator personally deliver the final transmit code to allow the probe to evolve. Commander Decker volunteers to represent the creator and joins with V'Ger along with the Ilia Probe. V'Ger then moves on to another dimension and Earth is saved. The Enterprise warps as away and the human adventure is just beginning. . .Score  8 / 10The SoundIn this director's cut of the film, the sound has GREATLY been enhanced. The controls make sounds when pushed, the displays beep and hum, the annoying computer voice that monotonously drones EMERGENCY ALERT! or INTRUDER ALERT! has been replaced with an alarm that is remeniscent of the original Enterprise's red alert sound and the famous whistling of the bridge returns! The full overture from Jerry Goldsmith is also included in chapter 1 as a bonus. Plus commentary from director Robert Wise, Jerry Goldsmith, and Stephen Collins among others is included.Score  10/10The VideoPretty good. There are a few blurbs noticeable (especially during the opening shot of the Klingon cruisers) but besides that it is pretty clean. There are also some new shots. Vulcan actually has a sun now! Shots of the Golden Gate Bridge in San Franscico at Starfleet Command, the actual destruction of the wormhole, V'Ger's torpedo being cancelled, the probe invading the Enterprise, Mr. Spock barely making it through V'Ger's orifice are some new shots that fans and non-fans alike will enjoy.Score  10/10The ExtrasTwo discs mean anything to you? Disc 1 features- Star Trek The Motion Picture - The Director's Edition - Commentary from the afforementioned personalities - Text commentary from Micheal Okuda - Scene selectionDisc 2 features- Documentaries Phase II The Lost Enterprise, Re-directing the Future and more. - Deleted scenes from the 1979 theatre version and the 1983 version plus the unused space walk scene featuring Kirk and Spock. - Trailers - 8 TV Commercials - Storyboard archives - Enterprise Promo SpotScore   10/10Overall  9/10The movie is easily the best Star Trek DVD ever released. Maybe one of the greatest DVD released this year. Yes, the movie is still long and sometimes boring, but with everything else you get, it pans out. "}{"Title":"Slow paced but never a dull moment","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The VeeGer idea is an absolute stroke of genius. Whoever came up with that should go down in history as having created one of the most brilliant sci-fi stories ever. The SFX still look good after 2 decades proving the phenomenal budget (at that time) was well worth it.Wrapping up the package is a memorably atmospheric music score from heavyweight Jerry Goldsmith. Highly recommended.10/10 "},{"Title":"A love or hate it experience, underappreciated by many","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  To be brutally honest, there are not that many films that fall into the love-it-or-hate-it category, but this is definitely one of the few.Master director Robert Wise (he also did The Sound of Music, The Haunting (original), Somebody Up There Likes Me, The Day the Earth Stood Still and the very popular West Side Story) managed to deliver an almost unique big-budget science-fiction masterpiece that raises the topics of God, evolution, creation and the universe and how we fit in with them relatively speaking.Many people say that it is a boring film, that nothing happens. That is, of course, a blas generalisation made by people who fall into the 'hate-it' category mentioned previously. Those who fall into the 'love-it' category (and I am one) would claim that it holds your interest effortlessly and rewards the more-than-casual viewer.What cannot be denied is that it is a wonderful audio-visual experience. Jerry Goldsmith's score is arguably the finest he has ever written, making it one of the all-time best film scores. He combines pompous majesty with delightful love themes and aggressive bombast in such a manner that few composers ever achieve. Director Robert Wise makes superlative use of this most critical component. As he does of his stunning visual effects which gave the science-fiction movie genre (just shook up by the success and style of Star Wars) back a more composed and respectful stance. Wise proved that Star Wars wasn't the only way to make a space-set movie and was rewarded by solid box-office, technical Oscar nominations and the knowledge that his foundation was built upon to produce a long-running movie franchise (about to hit it's tenth entry in 2002) and several TV series.The fact that Paramount has since over-milked this particular cash cow does not diminish the wonder of the original film version. If you are in two minds about whether to see this movie, wondering whether you will like it or not, think no more. No review will be able to let you know what to expect or whether it is 'your sort of film'. I urge you to watch it and then decide whether you love-it or hate-it. "},{"Title":"Not exciting, but very admirable.","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen the new DVD version of this movie as well as the original version, and I will say that this movie is without a doubt slow, drowned in special effects, and not very exciting. But it has certain things that made the original television series so special, and it is a very admirable movie. To put it very simply, Star Trek stands above all other sci-fi series, including Star Wars, because it can psychologically connect the crazy world of science fiction, with all its spaceships and space aliens, to human beings living on Earth today, whether it be in its drama, suspense, or comedy. And Star Trek The Motion Picture attempts to do that. One of the biggest problems of the movie is that the story is simply not very accessible. Saving the whales in Star Trek IV is accessible, battling an old enemy whom you respect in Star Trek II is accessible. But the story here is confusing, drawn out, and not very satisfying. But the deep, intriguing internal struggles that the characters battle throughout the movie, and the human insight that we get through the analysis of the journey and desires of the huge alien that the Enterprise faces here is the kind of stuff that only Star Trek gives, and it is a highly commendable rarity in cinema and television. The new DVD version re-edits the movie in a way that is easier to follow and it adds some great special effects that were intended for the movie when it was originally made. Though the new special effects part is neat, the re-editing is more important because it is the psychological story that is most significant here. The human journey combined with the exciting, intriguing stories is what makes Star Trek great. While this movie may not have the exciting story, the human journey is there, and that alone makes it admirable and, for some, worth seeing.           "},{"Title":"Unfairly Maligned","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first ST foray has been unfairly criticized in my judgment.  Wise's directing is slow, but beautiful.  The film is more successful in the character development.  Yes, I said it.  Not only do we meet old friends again, but they show us so much more, and take ST to a new level.  I understand that for some there aren't enough explosions, but the excitement and challenge of discovery and first contact drive this movie.  Stephen Collins is terrific, and so are the Big Three.  I am glad that Nick Meyer took control of the series to give it its Horatio Hornblower edge, but this adventure is still a lot of fun, and that is what really Star Trek is all about. "},{"Title":"STTMP Director's Edition...finally","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  After twenty years of silence, director Robert Wise answers his critics and fans alike with the completion of StarTrek The Motion Picture. Perhaps the closest any sci-fi film has come to approaching the sheer visual spectacle and audience-intelligence-interraction quotient of 2001 A Space Odyssey, STTMP DE should at long last close the books of even the harshest detractors who have over the years claimed the original studio version to be slow, overly-drawn-out and long winded. Even for this fan of the original release, the new (old?) cut is quick-tempoed, clean and free of hands-on studio involvement. The folks who spliced this version together were obviously honored to be involved, and more importantly, respectful of the film's history and original aspirations. Let's face it...if not for the overwhelming success of this movie...in its' original, incomplete form, Star Trek would be considered a syndication success that ran its' course and no more. Mr. Wise has, upon being given the OK to COMPLETE his film, delivered what was previously a good sci-fi movie and transformed it into the genuine genre masterwork those of us believers who have held on for all of these years knew was lurking just beneath. Though not perfect, the new Director's Edition is a terrific achievement, and just the sort of item we've been begging Paramount for since the advent of DVDs. Yes, the sound is not up to The Phantom Menace standards and yes the abundance of film grain is more than a bit unnerving. The new Vulcan skyline, San Francisco Starfleet terminal, and V'ger island sequence more than make up for those shortcomings. The music is as beautiful and serene as its' ever been and honestly, you'll never see a more moving and profound crippling of an asteroid as what takes place in a (decidedly 1970's) wormhole with deep, room-shattering Dolby bass...with visuals to match. Photon torpedoes second to none. Bravo Paramount, and bravo, Robert Wise, for taking the time and effort finishing what is now a truly great science fiction film. "},{"Title":"Directors edition is great!","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm happy for director Robert Wise. He finally got to release the film he wanted to back in 1979. This Trek film is one of their best in this incarnation. It's trimmed, and has some extra footage plus new CGI effects and some stuff taken out. This well-balanced film is now a great joy to watch. Pick up the DVD because it has over 7hrs. of stuff (including the memory wall raw footage shot but not used in the film). Bravo to Robert Wise for giving us a great first Trek film!!! "},{"Title":"Director's cut review","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes I do agree with what many have said about this movie...that it is often too longwinded, slow moving and is basically one hour worth of plot stretched into 2hr 20min. But I have to say, despite that, after Wrath of Khan this is the second best Star Trek movie, perhaps a guilty pleasure for me as I'm not really a trekkie. The plot I found to be more interesting than many of the following movies. I think the visual effects of the cloud/V'ger were very stunning and Jerry Goldsmith's score is first rate.I had heard that this DVD director's cut was going to edit out many of the long sequences that dragged the movie out but I was misinformed. The long Shuttle sequence with Kirk, Scotty and the Enterprise is still there in it's entirety. I'm still stunned at how awkward this scene feels when viewing it. It seems to bring the movie to a screeching hault. 15 minutes later we get several shots of the Enterprise leaving dry dock anyway, so it seems unnecessary. The cloud sequence and the V'ger flyover scenes are still there (although shortened very slighty). Both these sequences should have been cut in half at least. The rest of the edits include scenes deleted from the 1979 theatrical release and some scenes added from the 1983 televsion release. As well as various other very small cut and pastes. The visual effect enhancements are quite good, somewhat like the enhancements in the special addition of Star Wars. I've seen all 3 versions of this film over the years and I'd have to say this DVD cut is the best. But if you hate this movie, seeing a different version isn't going to change your mind.  "},{"Title":"Not exactly Shakespeare, but it get the point across.","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  It has been called everything from The Emotionless Picture to The Motion-Sickness Picture, still the inaugural Star Trek film was a galla premiere on December 6, 1979 in Washington DC.Originally the pilot episode for the proposed series Star Trek Phase II, the movie was written by creator Gene Roddenberry and directed by Robert Wise at one Star Trek's peak of popularity. The story finds a seperated crew of the newly refitted U.S.S. Enterprise embarking into the final frontier to halt the approach of a devestating enemy on its way towards Earth. Our hero, Admiral James T. Kirk uses yet another loophole to find his way back to the command chair of the Enterprise, much to the chagrin of new captain Williard Decker.Upon the midpoint, the navigator Lieutenant Ilia is captured and killed by the alien (named V'Ger) and then is used to communicate with the crew. The finale is Decker and Ilia merging with V'Ger to save Earth and the Enterprise.Two years after the priemiere of Star Wars Episode IV, Star Trek The Motion Picture would become the first in a chain of bad Trek films. (The odd-numbered curse) It seems that most of the movie is stunning visual and special effects (made by George Lucas's Industrial Light & Magic) of the Enterprise, and V'Ger. This complicated the story which was pretty vague to begin with. Also due to time constraints, many parts of the movie and pre-empted in the theatres, however they are just more shots of the Enterprise.Yet, despite the terrible story and bad critic reviews, it made lots of money which led the wonderful Star Trek The Wrath of Khan. (later re-named Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan) Later re-released on DVD with new matte shots of Vulcan, visual shots of the Enterprise and the innards of V'Ger as Star Trek The Motion Picture - The Director's Edition "},{"Title":"In 1979, it was great just to have Star Trek back!","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Twenty-two years later, Star Trek The Motion Picture seems pretty slow-going (it has been called Star Trek The Motionless Picture), and doesn't rank in the top half of all Trek films.  Still, at the time it came out, it was great just to have Star Trek back on the big screen. The costumes are ridiculous, and Shatner's performance is awful. He seems constantly constipated, as if the responsibility of carrying a MAJOR MOTION PICTURE was too stressful for him.  Although his performance gets better towards the end of the picture (perhaps it's not a coincidence that Shatner's performance becomes better as Spock begins to thaw emotionally, and their relationship begins to resemble what it was in the series). Still, the Enterprise fly-by, as Kirk sees the re-fitted ship for the first time, is still worth the price of admission for any Trek fan, and the story, though well-worn, is, nonetheless, inspiring.   "},{"Title":"Agonizingly slow and duller than a stale pretzel!","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was such a bore!! The movie does not move at warp speed but at Heinz ketchup speed coming out of a new bottle! What a boring plot-way too infantile and profoundly philosophical! Hideous uniforms! Kirk's make-up was ghastly! And grotesquely sub-par special effects made this Trek less exciting than watching an ant carry food back to its hole. This movie has got to be one of the worst Trek films along with Star Trek V!!!! The chemistry between the characters is virtually defunct! Spock really looks and acts more as a Spook! Whoever wrote this garbage forgot the meaning of the word ACTION!It is truly amazing more Star Trek films were made after this rubbish!1 out of 10 stars! "}{"Title":"More air, less ice cream","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film maximizes what I believe to be the fundamental flaw of the Star Trek series. That is, its excessive focus on embroidery and limited attention to story. About 30% of the entire series of tv shows and films revolves solely around organizational behavior and images (such as the starship enterprise in spacedock before its voyage and the crew in their armani-like uniforms). The rest is silly bickering and drawn out dialogue. In the case of Star Trek The Motion Picture, a major weakness is the storyline. I won't give any of it away, but most viewers agree that the ending, in which all questions are answered was disappointing at best, and, at worst, an insult to cinemagoers. Even more ridiculous was the fact that this movie was released two years after the blockbuster Star Wars, which many of star trek's pseudointellectual fans regard as inferior because of its stunning action sequences (despite the brilliant writing and dialogue), but clearly prompted Paramount to rush out this expensive flic. And it looks like a $35 million (in much more valuable 1978 dollars) tv show. Captain Kirk has a large staff of officers on a spacious bridge, and it literally takes 10 minutes to carry out each decision Mr. Sulu, one quarter impulse power... Aye sir, one quarter impulse power or Uhura, get me starfleet command. One wonders if its really progress that the 23rd century became so bureaucratic. This stands in sharp contrast to Star Wars and The Empire Strikes Back, which definitely cuts through the red tape--Han Solo can get the millenium falcon at light speed and shoot half a dozen tie fighters before the enterprise even gets out of the garage. I can't give anyone a reason not to see this film, and its been played quite a bit on the TNN cable network, along with its slightly faster paced sequels, so give it a try if you're into sci fi movies. "},{"Title":"not my favorite","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  the reason why this isn't my favorite is because they made Kirk a real jerk in this movie. because of him taking over the command of the Enterprise from Decker. it was nice to see all the original characters but it is not one of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"mostly for star trek fans","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is mostly for fans of the classic tv show, but non-fans might find it enjoyable. Good special effects highlight a pretty good movie as Kirk reassembles his crew to ward off a menacing figure from space (VGER) which could destroy earth. Not bad.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Motionless Picture","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has to be the second worst Star Trek movie (behind V).  It was slow, ponderous, and just barely watchable.  If you want real Star Trek, watch either Star Trek II, or Star Trek First Contact.  Another thing, the uniforms in this movie REALLY sucked.  They changed them for II, which was a good thing. "},{"Title":"The Best Trek Film","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Initially, I agreed with many sentiments that STTMP was overly long, ponderous, and dull. However, the more I see of Star Trek (the five series, the nine films), as well as the more sci-fi I read, I've come to feel that this film is by far the best of all of them. It truly captures the Trek mantra to seek out new life forms. It is majestic and gives a good sense of our place in the universe. Not the center, but a small part. Anyone who thinks that TMP is too slow really expects that all science-fiction is Star Wars with lasers blasting and WWII-style dogfights. Although that type of science-fiction has its place and can be very enjoyable, if well done, an important part of science-fiction is to instill a sense of wonder about the universe. Yes, character development is important, but without the sci-fi setting, it might as well be a plain-vanilla story.  "},{"Title":"For Trekkies Only","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robert Wise is an undisputed genius. He directed the greatest musical of all time, West Side Story, has two Oscars, edited Citizen Kane (which alone would give him a hallowed place in movie history) and he has a remarkable resume. But, every genius has some dark spots in his career, and Wise's are The Hindenburg and Star Trek The Motion Picture.This film proves one thing that the movie going public has an unsatiable thirst for Star Trek. It spawned a hugely successful franchise, and although it has its ups and downs, I see every film without fail. I am not a trekkie, I have never watched DS9 or any of the new series, but I enjoy sci-fi.This movie is significant only due to the fact that it is the first in the series. It is a little silly and little shy on plot, especially considering its length. It is not a bad film, but I would have expected more from Wise as a director. A great score and some  good special effects for the day. For Star Trek junkies only - there are much better instalments in the series. **1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"FOR FANS ONLY","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture is for fans only. Only fans will tolerate the unbelievably slow pace and forgive the excesses this film has an abundance of. Even several of the key filmmakers dislike this film.William Shatner describes the film as molasses slow and yawn inducing in his book Star Trek Movie Memories (which I highly recommend) Robert Wise, the director, has always felt that the film was ruined by rushed editing and poor special effects. Judging by the fact that Wise is preparing director's cut for theatrical release and DVD only confirms that viewpoint. Leonard Nimoy did not think much of the picture until the expanded version was released a year later on tape.(which is mentioned in the Shatner book and Nimoy's autobiography I Am Spock which I also highly recommend) Hell, even the president of Gulf and Western (which owned Paramount in these days)hated it. As for myself, I look at it this way it looks fabulous and for about 25 minutes in the beginning, it feels as if it's going to be great. Then it all falls apart in the middle before (finally) getting better in the final 45 minutes. This movie had me bored beyond belief in that whole middle section. In the longer version, some footage of Kirk, Spock and McCoy (improvised by Shatner, Nimoy and the late DeForest Kelley) was added back. In a way, it helps because it remembers what makes Star Trek so good the human relationships take top priority on the effects. In another way, it only makes an already slow film even slower.The technical credits are tops. Wise is an extremely competent director who has made many great films (The Day The Earth Stood Still is a sci-fi masterpiece)and he does the best he can with the weak, cerebral script. Richard H. Kline's Panavision photography is great to look at as are the effects (the bulk of which is handled by Douglas Trumbull, who did 2001 and Blade Runner)are often stunning, although they are weak by the standards set by later entries. The acting is variable. Shatner, Nimoy, Kelley and the regulars are all fine as usual. But Stephen Collins' Decker doesn't give him much to do and Persis Khambatta sets new standards for awful in all of her scenes (20 takes for just saying NO)The script by Harold Livingston and Gene Roddenberry is too cerebral and slow for its own good.Despite being a disappointment, Star Trek is worth seeing. But you have to be a Trekkie/Trekker (like I am) to forgive its excesses and look at the good things in it. Ordinary viewers will hate this.*** out of 4 stars (with reservations) "},{"Title":"Not terrible, but too self-absorbed.","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek, the Motion Picture suffers from one large flaw it's too absorbed in itself, it has too much of an inflated sense of importance. It takes what might be a great movie (it explores some wonderful philosophical ideas but does it too slowly) and streeeeetches the plot out. Some scenes simply take FAR too long... Spock on Vulcan, the failed warp drive test with the asteroid in the wormhole, the list goes on. In trying to become the next 2001, everything gets blown up out of proportion, the relationships lose all the camradery we'd expected from the TV series, and the movie ends up feeling -lifeless-. The direction was beautiful in some places (leaving spacedock, for example).The effects are lauded, and in some areas they are certainly impressive, but they are far too overstated again. What was with the flashy glitz and sound effects of the Enterprise going into warp? Were they trying to outdo the lightspeed effects of Star Wars?Possibly the only part of the movie which was overstated and worked was the soundtrack. My God, the soundtrack is incredible (and because of that has been reused in later movies and TV series), certainly one of Goldsmith's finest. He even invented a bizarre sounding musical instrument which would play when VGER did things.I'm glad Wise is given the freedom to re-edit the movie when it is re-released. Perhaps that will inject some life back into it. "},{"Title":"Very Good!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw this film I was 18, I thought it was interesting but too long and a little boring. Now 9 years later, I watched it for the second time and have second thoughts. Who cares about action and laser battles? This film is intelligent and makes you think a for a while. And who dares to say that the FX are bad is terribly wrong, (ST5 The Final Frontier, those are BAD FX!) they are almost excellent. This film is superior, it matches with The Wrath of Kahn, of course not in action scenes but in movie quality. I recommend it to everyone that do not think that action is the only thing worth in a movie! "},{"Title":"It's better than you think","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am sick and tired of seeing people bash this film left and right for too many special effects, or dragging scenes, or bad acting.Grow up! They had only so much time to finish this film when it first came out! I am a Trekker myself, and think that the so called true fans are only finding ways to whine and nitpick about what could be better about this film. But they're not really looking at what IS good about this film it makes you think.It makes you think of just how intelligent that intelligent can get, in the form of V'Ger/Voyager 6 and it's journey throughout the galaxy. To quote Kirk, ...and on it's journey back, it amassed so much knowldedge, it achieved consciousness... it became a living thing.I can see why Gene Roddenberry wanted this first film to be like this, because it was what made Star Trek work, showing the true exploration and attempt at a peaceful solution, rather than the phaser-fire laiden shoot-em-up style of the later movies. (I like them too, but not as much).Again, to all fans who bash this film, go back and think again at what REALLY makes a film work. A strong story, and NOT the special effects (which are only there to accentuate a story, NOT do the storytelling). "}{"Title":"A great film with some flaws","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was a fan of the TV show, and I saw this film in the theatre when it came out and I thought it was the greatest film ever made.  It was wonderful to have that little TV show fully developed into everything the cinema arts could make out it.   No rubber-suit aliens or simplistic alien ships, but a tremendous mysterious entity of unimaginable size and beauty, worthy of the incomprehensible expansiveness of space.  There are effects that I still don't know how they produced, so much better than the video-game images you see today.   I loved it and saw it many times.   The TV screen cannot do it justice.   It suffers after the first viewing because V'ger is no longer a mystery, and the performances seem stilted and a for some reason a lot of interior scenes are not fully in-focus.   Scotty didn't look like himself;  Dr. McCoy didn't have his old voice, it seemed.  But the wonder of those scenes, floating through this mysterious environment to magnificent music by Jerry Goldsmith, has not been equalled since.   I was sad to see the later films abandon the level of production values established by this film. "},{"Title":"Slow-moving and heavy-handed original entry in Star Trek movies...","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  1st watched 6/3/2001- 4 out of 10 (Dir-Robert Wise) Slow-moving and heavy-handed original entry in Star Trek movies tries to become too much and therefore doesn't work in very many levels.  Plenty of special effects that are taken to an extreme similar to 2001 A Space Odyssey by slowly moving the camera around objects like the Enterprise and the enemy cloud (vger).  All of this does not add to what could have been a suspenseful movie, but Wise seems to have forgotten what the appeal of the Star Trek TV show was and it was not the special effects. The sets were simple, but the relationships were well constructed which helped overcome the campiness that was present in a lot of the episodes.  Despite the huge amount of money used to create this movie, there was enough interest from the fans to have many sequels(this actually was a good thing because everyone of them have been better than this one.) "},{"Title":"So-so.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have found that this movie baffles a great number of people. They dive-in, expecting to be entertained but by the end they are just puzzled. Don't get me wrong, I love Star Trek (in all its various forms) but sadly, this film just did not do it for me. Some people say that this film was not meant to be about action but rather an adventure into logic - I'm afraid that this may be why this movie is just a tad on the boring side. Out of all nine Star Trek movies this would be a hot contender for worst of the pick - at least the other 8 were better. Its O.K but not something you would want to see more than once in one year. I think it deserves about 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Voyages Continue","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The design is great, and the budget (for its time) is wonderful. Jerry Goldsmith's score is eerie and beautiful, as well as the interior of V'Ger. It's nice seeing the cast - who at this point is still aging gracefully - reunited. But the movie drags, unnecessarily, at a few points. In fact the movie itself seems to be a remake of sorts to one of the original episodes, The Changeling with a bit of The Doomsday Machine thrown in as well.It's still worth watching, though. "},{"Title":"Vastly under-rated","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a vastly under-rated film that fell victim to production problems,coming out just after Star Wars, and in some ways, going against the impossibly high expectations of the Trekkers, who were perhaps expecting something impossible -  as Spock says in the film 'It only knows that it needs, but like so many of us, it does not know what'. In my view this was a very classy, thought provoking and intelligent science fiction film. While suffering from some cuts of key scenes, some choppy editing (due to the rushed nature of the production), and some problematic optical compositing in places (again rushed circumstances), its overall content more than makes up for this. A clever plot, superb special effects ( Star Wars never tried to light the miniatures like the Enterprise), a truly stunning score by Jerry Goldsmith. The measured performances were not as bad as made out. After all, I got the feeling that the three main characters had not parted on the best of terms, and the frostiness they show towards each other at the beginning of the movie is understandable, and the way their relationship comes together by the end of the film is well judged  by Robert Wise. In all, an intelligent movie that does not blow anything up and tries to get an audience thinking about what it means to be human "},{"Title":"Can't Wait For the Director's Cut","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture in 1979 was rushed into the cinema complexes to its disadvantage.  Although the film made lots of money at the box office, Star Trek The Motion Picture did not fare too well among fans of the show nor with some non fans of the show.  One complaint about the film was that it was too long.  Another complaint was that the special effects for the film were badly done and incomplete.  For years the director, Robert Wise would not mention this film in any interview he did and for good reason.  This can be considered a disappointment for a director that did Born to Kill(1947), The Day the Earth Stood Still(1951), West Side Story(1961), The Haunting(1963), and The Andromeda Strain(1971).  In 2001, Star Trek The Motion Picture(1979) will be released on DVD in a director's cut version with better special effects and tighter editing.  Some parts of the film are in the tone of The Day the Earth Stood Still(1951).  Robert Wise's intentions for making the film was to do something in the manner of films like 2001 A Space Odyssey(1968) and other Intellectual Science Fiction films.  The acting in the film is average at best. "},{"Title":"Intelligent","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I personally never liked the Star Trek TV series, yet because the clips of Star Trek- The Motion Picture looked interesting I went to see this movie. Since then, I am a Star Trek fan. I believe this is a very interesting and intelligent movie. Despite some might think of it as boring or too-long movie, this movie had the ability to keep me awaiting to know who/what was Vjur ! Still today, I dont like star-trek tv series, yet I love the movies. I owe this to Star Trek- The Motion Picture.  Just look at my user name and you'll see how much I really liked it.-)  "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Motionless Picture","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  People call this movie the Motionless Picture for a reason.  It's because it really doesn't GO anywhere.  It's long an laborious to watch, and introduces new characters we care NOTHING about.  I didn't even think the special effects were all that great.  As for the acting, it was just awful.  It was just one expensive sci-fi piece of trash. "},{"Title":"A film that boldly goes where no man has gone before....thank god!","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I will start by saying i am a massive star trek fan , not so much of the original series but a fan never the less. Star Trek the motion picture will test the patience of the any harden trekker. This film really is awful and i hate to say that. I remember seeing this film at the cinema when it came out in 1980 and thinking that it wasn't that good, 21 years later and after a second veiwing i wonder how this film never put me off Star Trek for life. Considering Star Wars was made three years earlier it is amazing how that film still looks great and this looks so dated. The so called special affects in this film are so poor it is amazing how they ever got the permission to make any more Star Trek movies (and i'm glad they did). It looked like the director got a new kalidascope lens for christmas for his camera and decided to use it fot most of the shots ,thinking it looked good! it does not , all it does is iritate the viewer. I wont go into the storyline , all i will say is that it as poor a story as you will ever have seen in any Star Trek film or episode and the acting is as just as bad.i will put that down to being rusty as i know they have done a lot better in the latter films. All in all this a section of Star Treks history everyone would rather forget. 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"sci-fi nonsense","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film started the terrible star trek motion picture series. It is a joke. William Shatner is one of the worst thespians in the galaxy, alongside david hasselhoff and keanu reeves. The look on his face when he is reunited with the enterprise is so sickeningly sentimental it would make you ill. The film is ultra boring, we wait ages for anything to happen. Gorgeous looking android is the only saving grace. Robert Wise directed this pap. He should know better, he did some awesome films in his time. Not this clunker though. 2/10 "}{"Title":"IT REALLY IS A GOOD MOVIE","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek the motion picture is a really good movie, if you look beyond the guns and fighting. Its a good movie in its own sense, seeing that that was the only movie of the series that was a exploration movie. V'ger was a good alien, but was overshadowed by the new refitted enterprise. That movie was the most expensive movie of 1979 and it proved it with the special effects. Did you know that the earth orbiting station was re-used as regula 1 in the wrath of khan? One major downfall of that movie was the new series that was supposed to launch a new station on tv as well. We all create god in our own image. Those were Deckers words, which is the linking to the abandoned tv pilot. The T.V pilot was the only thing that really damaged that movie. I mean it still made 100 million................ "},{"Title":"Still puts a lump in my throat","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I, like millions of star trek fans, faithfully watched the reruns of the original TV series, watched the cartoon knock offs, went to the conventions, and most disheartenly of all--heard the rumors that there was to be a Star Trek movie.  It was like hearing that a long lost relative was missing, but still alive. And finally it happened--after several false starts and mishaps, we were to get a Star Trek movie!After the rumors, I couldn't believe it until I saw it.  Event when I was standing in line, I somehow knew that something would prevent me from seeing the movie.As I was sitting in my seat, Ilya's theme played!  Where was the original theme music from the show?  Had I been had, was this really Star Trek?  And then Pow! there was Star Trek on he credits.  My, and millions of others, dreams had come true!.Then the Klingon vessels appeared and I was expecting Star Wars, but no, the Klingons were attacking an Energy field of immense proportions.  Where were my favorite characters?  Had I been had?  Then they all began to appear one by one--trickling, teasing their way into the screen and then all was whole--Star Trek was back with only a slightly changed Enterprise.Star Trek was revived and that sustained me through the entire movie.This is the feeling I have that I have not received from any other Star Trek Movie or TV series.  I need no other. "},{"Title":"My favorite STAR TREK film.","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has been my favorite of the STAR TREK films, despite its length and gritty special effects. But viewers have to understand that this film was rushed during production. That's why the space scenes look the way they do. But that problem is soon to be solved when the DVD edition is released in 2001. The space scenes will be cleaned up. I hope that when this underrated masterpiece is re-released that people will see it for its intended beauty. As for those who know its beauty all ready, I hope they will appreciate the film more. "},{"Title":"Pure Star Trek but very cerebral.","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has been underrated.  It is not a bad movie you just have to understand a few things about it.  This movie updated Star Trek into the late 70's.  With a refitted Enterprise and new sights such as San Francisco in the 23rd century not to mention the special effects.  We had a chance to see our friends again after too long an absence and we had to catch up. I had nothing but pride and astonishment when we got to flyby the refitted Enterprise something we could never do before. She is a beautiful jewel, our ship and she deserved to be shown off. From beginning to end this film was Star Trek.  But if you wanted a shootem up this wasnt it.  This was much like the tale of Pinochio but on a cosmic scale.  We humans are the creator that V'ger was searching for.  I think Spock and Vger both grow here in their brief contact with each other. A few things to nitpick over.  Some of the SFX were problematic but a lot of this will be fixed in the DVD edition coming out next year.  The other thing is that the bridge is way too quiet. There is little background chatter. Again this may be fixed in the DVD either way that is minor.  Take these simple things into account and you will enjoy this movie.  If you want action in a star trek film check out Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan.  You wont be disappointed either way. "},{"Title":"OK, so maybe it's not the best, but...","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a fan of Star Trek, it is hard to dislike this film. But also as a fan of Star Trek, it is hard to give this film a 10 rating. First of all, there is way too much special effects footage, most of which is drawn out and boring. Secondly, unlike the following three films, there isn't much emphasis placed on character interaction and development, which, for my money, is the reason Classic Star Trek has endured for so long. I mean, the series has many now dated elements, along with terrible, dated special effects. But it is the characters that we love, and they are the reason that we watch them over and over again. The creators of this film, on the other hand, seem to have neglected this aspect of Star Trek, for the most part. So, ultimately, Star Trek-The Motion Picture isn't a bad film (and it's a masterpiece compared to Star Trek 5), but it's not the best of the series. Check out 2 and 3 instead, and see how good Star Trek can be. "},{"Title":"It's like an epic adventure.","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I feel that Star Trek The Motion Picture, is a great movie, in the sense that it stands out from all the other Trek films. The movie comes across to you as an epic adventure, like DUNE, and stills hold to the way Star Trek was on the television back in the 60's.To me, Star Trek TMP, was more fantasy than sci-fi. The musical score is by far the best of all the Trek movies. The visual effects still hold up to today's standards, and even better in some areas of the film.I think fans of Star Trek, are too hard on the film and don't sit back and really see the film for what it is. An epic adventure. "},{"Title":"A relentlessly boring bomb of a film.","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  There's not much else to say about this film, the first time I watched it didn't hold my attention well enough for me to keep up with the plot, upon a second viewing where I watched the movie carefully, I found that while the plot might be interesting, it should be signifigantly cut down.  There are many, and I mean a huge amount, of redundant and profoundly useless scenes, such as when Scotty and Kirk circle the Enterprise for what seems like ten minutes, while apparently looking for a parking space.Although the climax is fairly good, it is not nearly good enough to make up for the rest of the movie.Overall, I rate this movie 3 of 10. "},{"Title":"So-so movie debut of Kirk, Spock, and company","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture is the so-so first film in the long running movie series that was preceeded by the classic TV show of the same name. William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, James Doohan, George Takei, Walter Koenig, and Nichelle Nichols all reprised their roles from the TV series to present their first adventure on the big screen, only to mixed results. The story has the Enterprise crew combating a menacing force in space. The special effects here are kind of shoddy by comparison to most of the sequels that followed. The thing I can't understand is that this film got an Oscar nomination for visual effects and the sequels didn't. All the other Star Trek movies (with the exception of Part 5) I thought were more deserving of a Oscar nomination for visual effects that this film. That doesn't make sense. Also, the movie is too long, and I was bored at times. However, their are some good things about it. First off is the very effective music score by Jerry Goldsmith. And their were some exciting moments. But overall, kind of a disappointment.**1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Yes, it is boring and pedantic yet visually stunning.","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"     If you're used to the TV show, then you will find this movie frightfully boring. The pace is much much slower than the television series, the director (known for The Day the Earth Stood Still and West Side Story) really wanted to push for something deeply insightful, but clearly misses the mark.  The logic vs. emotion card has been played out so many times in the TV series that at this point its simply a tired cliche in desperate need of retirement. There's a lot more potential in the Star Trek universe than the Spock vs. Bones dynamic.    Boring doesn't necessarily mean bad, the story is salvagable and the visuals are brilliant, regardless if the best parts are a shameless rip-off of 2001 A Space Odyssey.  The effects are very good, even by today's standards and the sets, especially the ship, don't have that 60's TV cheesiness nor the corporate look of ST The Next Generation.   Die-hard Star Trek fans tend to eat this up as they consider it to be the intellectual treatment of the Star Trek universe, but its no smarter than Kirk's silly alien love affairs or the even sillier blatant Star Trek ethnic stereotypes.  If you're the type that thinks that an insightful view of existence and consciousness has to do with the simple emotion vs. logic dichotomy then you'll love it, if you find this simple minded and pedantic then you'll shut it off half-way through or turn the sound down and just enjoy the visuals. "},{"Title":"The most under-rated of the series","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture is the most under-rated of all the Star Trek films.  Visually its the most stunning (of the Star Trek series any many others).  Many people are put off by the long visual scenes such as the long shots of the Enterprise as Kirk goes to board.  This is the new revamped Enterprise for the movies!  Scotty is showing not only Kirk in his fly-by but also the fans who have waited 10 years to see it return in its glory. Yes, it is supposed to be eye candy.  The long shots of VGER are also great eye candy.  It creates a menacing mood that cannot be obtained by simply getting glimpses of it.  The shots remain long because the Enterprise is tip-toeing ever deeper into the unknown monster that is the biggest threat that would ever be to the Earth.The character development is beautiful.  Spock is perfectly paralleled to VGER in their search for completion of personal spirit.  Spock begins troubled and doesn't know why he is pulled towards VGER until he finds his answers deep within it.  Kirk struggles to regain his place on the Enterprise and recreate how things were when he was in charge..  He goes to the extent of drafting his friend McCoy (who really didn't need to be there since Nurse Chapel was the ship's doctor) and pursuing only a Vulcan to be science officer.  McCoy was reluctant until Kirk made it clear that he was there because Kirk was incomplete in his mission without his old friend at his side.Decker (a captain whose father sacrificed himself to save the Earth in the old series) is introduced as a strong willed character who knows the re-fitted Enterprise well enough even to show Scotty where a transporter was broken.  This character fit into the chemistry of McCoy, Spock, and Kirk without seeming out of place.  It is solely through his interaction with the other character's that by the end the viewer really feels they've known Decker for longer.  That is great character development!The plot is pure philosophical and takes on the most challenging question ever posed... What is my purpose?  The story is paced extremely well and is an example of Sci-Fi at it's best.  If you're looking for fast-edited action, go rent ALIENS (a masterpiece in its own right) but if you want a film that'll tickle your intellect and overwhelm your senses, then try (or retry) The Motion Picture. "}{"Title":"Better than generally perceived","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Firstly, how STGenerations can garner a higher vote average than this is mind-boggling! I'm a big Trek fan, and I find Generations to be an insult to all Trekkers. This movie, however, is the only movie featuring the original TV cast where they at least LOOK of a believable age...from ST II on, they are all too old to realistically be still stuck in the same positions they were 20 years ago.Anyway, regarding this movie, there are a number of definite plusses. Firstly, the score is a Jerry Goldsmith masterpiece - small wonder the main theme has lived on into TNG. Secondly the visual effects are marvelous; even now they stand up well to today's offerings; for 1979 they are beyond belief! You really get a sense of the size and power of the Enterprise more than in any other Trek incarnation to date....in fact, my brother and I still like to jokingly claim they actually built the Enterprise in orbit to film the effects. Thirdly; although the movie has been criticised for a lack of pace (Star Trek  The Slow Motion Picture) it is also the only one that I believe really LOOKS and feels like a big budget movie instead of a TV movie on the big screen.In a world where the effects budget is bigger for a movie like Galaxy Quest (which I also enjoyed, btw) than for the new Trek movies (seems incredible, but it's true) STTMP is a gloriously visual and emotional extravaganza. "},{"Title":"The only film that was truly like the series.....yet had some flaws.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've talked before about the edit job on this movie so I won't rehash that. This film needed more action and the straight to video expanded version is far superior to the theatrical release. Due to the edit job on the theatrical version, much of the explanation of what V'GER was and where it came from was left on the cutting room floor. I remember coming out of this movie with my dad back in 1979, confused and slightly disappointed.....I was expecting more. Then, I saw the straight to video version and this was much, much, better. I wonder if Paramount has ever considered re-editing this film and re-releasing it on home video with all of the still unseen footage restored...something to consider. (or at the very least restore the lost footage to a DVD release) This film (out of all of them) was the most like the tv series. I like the fact that it wasn't politically correct like THE NEXT GENERATION (something that took me two years to get used to back when int started in 1987). Another thing that helped this film was that it was a event movie. It had been ten years since the tv series ended, so there was a large audience out there to see this movie. However, not everyone who saw it was happy with the finished product. Many fans were disappointed with the difference with what they were expecting and what they got....once again refer back to that edit job! This film (in it's video incarnation) is not that bad. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've always been a big fan of the Next Generation-series but never saw the original series. So one day I thought of renting the first movie.Okay, so the special-effects aren't that spectacular compared to todays standards, but I guess they were pretty good for that time.The story itself is a bit boring. Don't get me wrong it's good enough, I just think that not enough happens in those 2 and a half hours the movie lasts. There's too much talking, and there's not enough action to keep you interested all the time.I really liked the idea about VGER. Maybe a bit farfetched, but hey, it's Star Trek after all.All in all a pretty good movie, but I think I prefer the newer movies over this one.I would rate this 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Too much Point-A-to-Point-B","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, so the costumes are ludicrously dated.  But the most unforgivable sin of the first of the Star Trek movies is the soul-deadening padding.  Why show 30 seconds of the ship going into warpdrive, or Kirk taking a shuttle to the Enterprise, or Spock free-falling in a space suit, when you can drag any of these sequences to three minutes or longer?It's like the New Wave never happened!Pass this one and go directly to The Wrath of Khan. "},{"Title":"Stunning but strained","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a Star Trek fan, having watched the series, and being off the air for 10 years, (except reruns), I greatly anticipated the return as a motion picture.  The special effects were indeed stunning and I enjoyed Jerry Goldsmith's Music along with the updated technology it was indeed a site to behold.However, the relationship between the actors were strained, they're personal touch was lost over the years, this was however, corrected in subsequent films. I enjoyed this film, but I must say the subsequent films were better. "},{"Title":"Great! Great! Great!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great is the only thing I can say. This first Star Trek put some standards that the other ST films never could reach,neither in decades nor in centuries.The Trekkies who appreciated the Original series might find it dull and boring but I think by doing that,they tell something about themselves,they tell that they in fact do not understand real SF.It must have this,this special space magic that, for example, 2001 has and which makes it so special.STTMP is really, out of a star trek universe, pretty close to it.After that, five simple stricked sequels follow whose only plot was action,universal politics,wars, etc. After the horrible sixth part, comes Generations and brings a small part of this, already forgotten Space magic.It was great too and I always wondered why David Carson was chosen to direct. Anyway, he made a great job. This bottle beginning scene with a marvellous score better than the previous four parts.This reminds me again to STTMP and the Klingon ships and the V'ger cloud.Marvellous! Lets say simplyStar Trek is a fashion. It lasts already for 30 years but one day it will be over(Pretty soon i think, especially when I see what crap DSN went into).And as Trekkers cant see the old series any more cause its simply too old fashioned, the same will happen to the new series. The effects in the early 80's are not worth looking, and although i find TNG the best ST series ever it's first episodes are pretty stupid. The time, the time.The time obviously lets The motion picture be as good as when it appeared first 21 years ago. I think the magic, the magic does it. It IS really the best movie in 1979.And it was,is, and always will be the remarkable Star Trek movie. "},{"Title":"The human adventure stumbled on it's first step.","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Trekkers had been on the edge of their seats for 10 years, waiting for some new adventure of Star Trek, and THIS is what we get?!  This is the dullest of all the Trek movies, and driest, there is no humor, drama or even emotion in this movie, and it plays like it feels, slow and painful. For a science fiction movie it had so much going for it, where does one draw the line between logic and faith, human sacrifice and dazzling special effects.  But for God sake, why didn't they include a script that sounded like it had been done BEFORE production began, or wasn't improvised as they filmed. Even though this movies has several short comings, dullness and boredom are the main ones.  It is nice to see everyone back on the bridge of the Enterprise.  Even the truest of Trekkers will sit through this one, with white knuckles though.   "},{"Title":"Great Trek film!","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I agree, this is a very underatted film. True it has a few slow spots, but if you can get passed that then you will find a fun and pretty cool sci-fi adventure. The Enterprise runs into a destructive alien that has already destroyed some Klingon ships. Good story, acting, effects, and music score. **** out of *****. Many will dissagree with me, but I think this is a little better than part 2. "},{"Title":"Great Star Trek Adventure, Often Grossly Underrated!","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  While Star Trek The Motion Picture does seem to drag at points, the film as a whole is a very solid Star Trek story. In fact, of all of the Star Trek films which included the cast of the original series (TOS), this film is perhaps the most true to that series, due in no small part to the fact that this is the one and only film which Gene Roddenberry, Star Trek's creator, produced himself. The story is solid, the visual effects are stunning, the score is incredible, and all the elements that made Star Trek a hit are there. One note Be sure to view the Special Longer Version. It contains some important moments not included in the original theatrical or widescreen VHS releases! "},{"Title":"The very best of the series","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was truly admired with the amount of criticism this movie got, which is extremely unfair.This movie is true SCIENCE FICTION, not just a pack of special effects with spaceships, lasers and explosions.  What makes a great sci-fi movie is the STORY, and this movie has one of the best plots I saw.  Contrarily to its sequels, the heart of the story is sci-fi.  And that's the point.  It goes into deep subjects and the final is truly amazing.  And, added to this, it has the mystics of characters like Kirk and Spock.The sequels have nice stories and all that, but they're not good Science Fiction.  For example, the story behind The Wrath Of Khan has lots in common with Mobby Dick (!), which is hardly science fiction.  They have some interesting science fiction elements (like the Genesis experiment) but those elements are not in the heart of the story.This movie appeals more to fans of movies like Blade Runner and 2001, not movies like Star Wars, which are completely different.  I'm sure most people who criticized this movie also consider Blade Runner and 2001 boring.  "}{"Title":"Who Wrote this c**p?","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  No offence intended to anyone who actually did write this but it is.  They could have at least had a few good scenes in it.  This has to be the worst ST movie.i give it 2/5By the way if anyone knows why the klingons evolved the mars bar on their head so quickly after the series please notify me. "},{"Title":"It's not as bad if you can get past the slow parts","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture was the first of nine films in the series and was released in 1979, ten years after the original series went bust. It reunites Captain/Admiral Kirk (William Shatner), Mr. Spock (Leonard Nimoy), Dr. McCoy (DeForest Kelley) and the rest of the crew to fight a huge machine named V'Ger. The newly refitted USS Enterprise (which is my favorite of all six ships to appear in the series) is sent out to investigate this machine cloud V'Ger after three Klingon ships are destroyed by it. Mostly the movie consists of shot after shot of the Enterprise crew wide-eyed as they are pulled into the cloud trying to figure out a way to stop it. It's all special effects and little story, with the climax having Kirk and company find out V'Ger is the space probe Voyager 6, which drifted into this cloud and immersed itself with great energy. The movie does have good points though. For one, the shots of the new Enterprise are fantastic, it gives the viewer a chance to see this sleek ship from what it looked like in the original series. The wormhole sequence was a good special effects shot as well as the ending, which V'Ger explodes. Compared with it's sequels, the acting in this one seems stiff. No emotions from anyone, they gawk at that cloud for at least 45 minutes worth of film and Kirk just seems like a jerk in this, very egotistical. Also, those pajama uniforms and pastel colors are awful, and I am glad they made the switch to those other ones in the later films. The music, I think, is the best of the series. It really relates to the events in the film and the main title was used in The Next Generation series. To sum, ST TMP has it's up and down points, more the latter, and if you can tolerate slowness and some bad acting, then this the film for you.  "},{"Title":"As exciting as watching snow melt at the North Pole.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek is one of my favorite series--right up there with Star Wars and Alien--and I am a huge fan. Unfortunately, and I hate to say this, but the first entry in the series, The Motion Picture, is disappointing. In fact, it was just downright AWFUL. Yes, it did have amazing effects, at least for its time, but the plot needed serious help.Star Trek The Motion Picture was basically all dazzle and no substance. It lacked character development and human warmth, which was what made the series so good. The acting left a lot to be desired; everyone, and I mean EVERYONE, was way too stiff and predictable. The series didn't take itself seriously, but in this movie, all the characters are suddenly arrogant and overly military-ish. I don't even know WHY that bald chick was in this movie; give me Saavik or Valeris anyday.Not only that, but this entire movie moves as such a snail pace it's almost laughable. The long, drawn-out scenes inside V-Ger were interminable. I actually lost interest ten minutes into the movie--after a surprisingly stunning opening sequence involving a group of Klingon warships. I finally sat down later on and watched it, knowing it was going to suck. And it did. I was lucky enough to have not fallen asleep. I was so glad that Star Trek lost the Best Visual Effects award to the far superior Alien.Still, this movie has its redeeming qualities, and while it is nowhere near as good as its superior sequel, The Wrath of Khan, it's still better than Star Trek V and Generations. One good thing about this movie is the fantastic musical score by Jerry Goldsmith (who also graced us with the score for Alien in the same year this movie was made). And yes, the special effects are cool, if somewhat outdated, but still outshine the visuals in Final Frontier. It is both visually stunning and technically fascinating, and without this movie, we wouldn't have had Wrath of Khan.All in all, a watchable, below-average sci-fi flick. I like it simply because it's Star Trek, and overall it wasn't so bad--I just like most of the others a whole lot better.Final Grade 5/10 "},{"Title":"not bad as everyone says!","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie may not be as good as Star Trek II and Star Trek Insurrection, it still is a great movie.  The acting was decent, the music score was AWESOME (way to go Jerry Goldsmith!), and the story made sense. Yes, it tends to drag so you might want to fast forward those parts.  (Oh yeah, the special effects are AWESOME too, even today.)Rating?  on a scale of 1 to 10 (10 being the best), I would give a 7. Heck, I'd watch it over First Contact anyday.  (Not that First Contact was bad, it's just that I prefer the original series cast.) "},{"Title":"Motion Picture","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star TrekThe Motion Picture is a boring movie.There was no adventure at all to it,and Harold Livingston,Alan Dean Foster,and Gene Rodenberry wrote a bad story and script.The acting was terrible.But the funny thing is Robert Wise,the director,had won a OSCAR! Just a baddddddddddddddddddd movie. "},{"Title":"Not a good start","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie when it opened in theaters. Having been a fan of the show even at that young age, I was really looking forward to seeing it. It was really disappointing. Nowhere near as good as the show. Very slow and boring. Fortunately, things improved a lot with Wrath of Kahn. "},{"Title":"Lots of special effects,and not enough story","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This first Star Trek film drags on longer than it should. Too many shots of the refitted Enterprise,and while they look nice and pretty,too many special effects are shown. The crew seems lifeless,and unfortunately,so does this film. The sets are unattractive;the bridge looks dull and boring. It really doesn't contain the 'magic' that the Original Series brought to television. Followed,fortunately,by the brilliant Wrath of Khan.** out of **** "},{"Title":"Stay with me on this...","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, so the Voyager probe crashes into another probe from this planet of sentient technology, which builds this incredible, colossal, gigantic machine around it in order to help it fulfill its mission. Got that. But would you please explain for me why this planet of ultimate technology could not invent some bit of mechanical wizardry to scrape the crud off of the Voyager name plate? "},{"Title":"Slow moving, but not a bad film","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  An intriguing but flawed film that launched Star Trek onto the silver screen.  An interesting concept is bogged down by ponderous pacing resulting from production troubles that prevented director Robert Wise from having time to edit the feature.  Essentially, what you see is the director's first assemblage with the raw special effects footage.  Some spectacular visuals, an Oscar nominated score, and a dramatic (though underplayed) character turn for Mr. Spock are highlights of this film.  The film is widely regarded as bad whereas it is not bad, merely slow moving. Interestingly, when its box-office is adjusted for inflation, it had the biggest domestic gross of the series, surpassing even The Voyage Home. Best seen widescreen. Avoid The Special Longer Version on video, which some claim improves the film, but actually makes it even slower and features embarrassing footage better left where it was--on the cutting room floor. "},{"Title":"Drags a bit-but...","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Overall I agree-it is too long, kinda klunky in some of the FX and performances-but it has its good parts too. Always enjoyed Spock's trip into V'Ger, for example, and some of the themes they came up with involving said V'Ger looking for its Maker, etc. Ray Wise said that the good FX were done late and that he barely had time enough to do more than stick'em in and if that meant the film was too long, then so be it.It is a decent opening in the series, nothing great-**1/2 outta ****, done with skill and pretty considering. "}{"Title":"What Happened?","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is 1979.  There have been no new Star Trek adventures for 10 years.  Sitting in the darkened theater in intense anticipation, the opening credits accompanied by a stirring main theme composed by Jerry Goldsmith, come to a close.  After a shot of a huge (and I mean huge) blue cloud in space, our eyes feast on an exterior shot of three Klingon Battle Cruisers in line formation rapidly approaching the camera.  As they come closer the camera moves up and over the bridge of the middle Cruiser.  We are now looking directly down at the exterior of the bridge.  The camera rotates and then lowers as the Cruiser passes.  We are now seeing the aft of the Cruisers as they are traveling away from the camera toward the cloud.  This establishing shot, which probably takes about 45 seconds, is done in one fluid camera movement and is awe inspiring.  We just know Star Trek-The Motion Picture is going to be great.  Between this shot and our first look at the feature film Klingons on the bridge of the Cruiser shortly after, we can easily see where the reported $40 million dollar budget went.  Not a penny was wasted.  Or so we thought.As Star Trek-The Motion Picture continues and the main story unfolds, the already established characters of Kirk, Spock, McCoy and the rest of the crew are introduced after a ten year absence and we find out that the $40 million spent by Director Robert Wise (The Day the Earth Stood Still, Andromeda Strain, The Sound of Music) was sunk into special effects.The screenplay, written by sci-fi author Alan Dean Foster and Harold Livingston, is eerily reminiscent of the Star Trek episode The Changling.  Most of the dialogue sounds cumbersome and unnatural (I have a meeting with Admiral Nogura which should not last more than three minutes.).  The characters don't talk with each other, they talk to each other.  The very talented Robert Wise is unable to coax a good performance out of almost the entire cast.  They seem to perform their roles how they feel the roles should be performed.  William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, James Doohan, George Takei, Walter Koenig, Nichelle Nichols and Majel Barrett, so familiar with their respective roles, here seem wooden and uncomfortable.  Stephen Collins as Captain Decker, (son of Commodore Decker, The Doomsday Machine) and Persis Khambatta as Lt. Ilia, a Deltan who oozes a chemical known to drive human males crazy with excitement, have interesting characters they seem to have a bit of fun with.  And Deforest Kelly gives a good, animated performance (Starfleet invoked a little known, seldom used reactivation clause.  In effect Admiral, I was drafted).          What happened?  With a director as talented as Robert Wise at the helm, a cast already familiar with the roles, a large budget and unquestioning support from Paramount Pictures, how could such a sure thing turn into an adventureless, special effects heavy celluloid Valium?  Quite possibly, the production simply lost it's way.  Whole pages of the script were being rewritten on the day the pages were to be filmed.  This in itself does not bode well for confidence in the story.There are some good moments.  Spock on Vulcan, ending a ritual of purging the last of his emotions.  The first view of the refitted USS Enterprise.  The first look at a part of Starfleet Headquarters in San Francisco.  The stirring soundtrack by Jerry Goldsmith.However, the rest of the film drags.  And what was with those uniforms?  I'm surprised Starfleet didn't have a mutiny on their hands when they issued those pajamas!At worst, Star Trek-The Motion Picture is an inconsistent film which, at times, moves quickly forward and at other times, almost comes to a complete stop.  Especially in the third act when the Enterprise is journeying through the cloud to reach the center.  A few years ago they added footage in a directors cut, much of the edited film being added to this sequence.  Did we really need this?  The sequence already did nothing to progress the story and the added special effects footage didn't help.At best Star Trek-The Motion Picture served to bring the crew back together and led to the outstanding Star Trek II-The Wrath of Khan, a film which freely admitted it's television roots.  I applaud Paramount Pictures for taking one more chance with the Star Trek after The Motion Picture.  All it needed was a director and screenwriters who could capture the spirit of the legend.                                                                                               "},{"Title":"Why do people bag this film???","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  St-tmp is NOT the worst sci fi film made in the last 20 years, nor is the best but it at least had HEART! The answer to saving humanity from V'Ger was the answer inside all of us at one point in our lives Is this all that I am?.Some so-called fans think they're so clever, saying the special effects are cheesy or dated but I say if effects are all you're after go play a video game!  Movies are about characters and plot and the characters in this film take you on a journey, not to the outer reaches of space but within to your own spirit..that's what The adventure is Just Beginning really means...PS re the effects being dated...I watch it on 51 rear projection TV with surround sound and believe me the cinema feel is still there after 20 years.Long live the Trek franchise!!!  "},{"Title":" Star Trek The Motion Picture (1979)","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Human Adventure Is Just Beginning The tagline for The Motion Picture which is the message of the film. Vger is looking to become on with its creator so it can transmit data to the creator and ask the questions we sometimes ask God. The film is visual wonder; the Vger spaceship is worth seeing on it's own. Nominated for visual effects. This Star Trek is worst Trek film like many people claim nor is it the best. The best Star Trek film is The Wrath Of Khan; the worst is The Search For Spock. The beginning is weak but the ending is great and in between is interesting plus stunning especially when Spock enters into the heart of the ship. A machine planet is a pretty interesting idea. Vger has explored the universe on his way home. The knowledge it gained allowed it become a living machine. Since this movie came out in the year 1979 that would mean that sometime this year this film will be celebrating its twentieth anniversary. They should release this film to DVD with a bunch of extras that tribute the first film. They have released the score with a bunch of extras.             "},{"Title":"A fine film","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture is not bad. Sure they over did it with the special effects but it was still good. After all, there had been nothing new as far as live action stuff in Star Trek for ten years. And, I don't see how people consider this a failure and see Star Trek 2 as bigger success considering Star Trek The Motion Picture made $83 million and Star Trek 2 made $79 million. "},{"Title":"Like a true Humpty Dumpty...","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  All the king's men, including Syd Meade, Alan Dean Foster, John Dykstra, Phil Jounau, Douglas Trumball and Isaac Asimov (!), couldn't put this cracked egg together.But they almost did.I hadn't seen this since it was first running on cable around 1981, but lately I watched the 130 minute widescreen version, and it was not nearly as dreadful as I had recalled.  Maybe the 142 minute pan-and-scan would've eventually sent me hurling my tv into the bathtub (the way I remembered the picture), but, AHEM, this time it was pretty good.Highlights include the late (bless him) DeForest Kelly showing up with a Grizzly Adams beard, infuriated about being recalled into service; Shatner's eternal and indestructible ego served by the plot (he's actually supposed to be more full of himself than usual); the revelation in the cloud, and Spock's simple refusal even to be mildly polite with anyone.Downsides include the outright clumsiness of the romantic sub-plot and the heavy-handedness of nearly everything.  Blame Robert Wise for the above. You'd think that with the talent array behind the cameras and the moolah thrown at this puppy, they'd have gotten someone with a little more zip to helm it (and yes, I think The Andromeda Strain is over-rated).  Also on the con-side of things is the needless wormhole sequence, which only manages to make it seem as if the crew dropped acid before taking off.A near miss at being a good film and definitely worth a second look.(Don't miss the moment where Chekhov gets zapped at his station - his reaction is Star Trek at its cheesy best). "},{"Title":"Somewhat underrated.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture is somewhat underrated. Sure, the characters are dull, the humor is almost gone and the pacing is a bit sluggish. But, the special effects were excellent, the music was absorbing and the story was very good. There are moments in the film When Spock arrives, when the secret of V'Ger is discovered, and seeing the new Enterprise for the first time. If you are a new Star Trek Fan, skip this one for now. But fans of the series will enjoy this film most of all.I give this film a B-. "},{"Title":"A good Film","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Of all the Star trek films this is the one that actually sticks to the legendary series.  I thought the story line was excellent and it was a complete joy to see the old crew back in action.  Everyone thinks the cloud scene was long and boring but in fact it was made that way to show you the looong journey veger had and the knowledge it learned of our outer solar systems (i do agree it could have been toned down a bit) But  I loved the film as of all the st films it is too bad we all have to grow old I will dearly miss the old crew as we had forward to the new crew "},{"Title":"The best of them all","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen every one of the STAR TREK films, and none of them compares to the first and very best of them all.  It helps introduce the characters to newcomers, the ultimate twist at the end and a great message to the general public.  May Star Trek Live long and prosper. "},{"Title":"One of the worst...","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was one of the worst of all the Trek films.  Ok ok I know what you're going to say... This was the first one, this was the first time anyone saw the 1701 for the first time, yadda yadda yadda...  But it's true.  The special effects sequences were way too long and confusing.  Examples are The Wormhole/Asteroid situation, and then there's the part where Spock went into the machine...  If you're a Trekker like me, you would understand. But how is this movie supposed to appeal to the average Joe?  If he sits down and watches this, and really tries to get it, will he succeed? Nope. "},{"Title":"What this movie needs...","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Is a special edition.  No, not a longer edition.  It needs to be taken back to the cutting room and made into the 50-minute Star Trek episode it pretends it isn't.The last few times I've tried to watch it, I could never finish it.  To say that it plods is an understatement.  There are precious few scenes that wouldn't benefit from judicious pruning.  I left during the Enterprise inspection flyby to get some food.  When I got back minutes later, the scene STILL hadn't finished.  The wormhole scene was supposed to take 22 seconds, according to the dialogue, but it lasted more than a minute.  Worse yet are the scenes inside V'Ger.  One can watch characters gaping at the passing scenery for only so long, especially when the scenery is not all that spectacular.The dialogue is some of the most hackneyed in sci-fi movie history.  Even such groaners as Galaxy of Terror or Nightflyers had better dialogue.  On the day it premiered, most of the theater chuckled when Kirk said, I need you, Bones...badly!  Every attempt to bring the jargon up to date rang hollow to the ear, abandoned by Star Trek II.Acting and direction were two of the weakest points.  Many of the actors seemed to be sleepwalking through their roles, as if being there was enough. With apologies to the late Persis Khambatta, she was a pretty lady, but couldn't deliver a single convincing line of dialogue.  Robert Wise had the actors exchanging looks so often that it becomes almost a running joke.Despite what some think, the effects were widely derided even in its day. Matte lines around the Klingon battlecruisers were so thick, they were renamed matte fissures.  Star Wars did it better two years before, and even Battlestar Galactica often looked better.For the legions of fans who subsisted on reruns for ten years, it was both invigorating and disappointing.  They had to wait three more years before they got the Star Trek movie they deserved. "}{"Title":"Just... a bit... boring... especially where the Space Cloud is concerned.","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh my, a lot has been said about this movie, and there may be people who actually like it, and it may be better watching it on the big screen, agreed.But watching this one on a TV screen is always a big challenge. When doing a Star Trek movie session, living through the first one is always a fight with the Sandman.I especially want to point out the long, long, oh so long journey through this giant Space Cloud. It drags on forever. Sorry, but that's a fact.So all that remains in mind from this movie is an endless flight through a Space Cloud. Hey, is it right that there is a director's cut with ten minutes of additional Cloud shooting? Cool!At least, there was an interesting plot twist in the end... "},{"Title":"Strong Film Containing Boring Sequences","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really like the Star Trek genre, but I'm no Trekkie. Star Trek I, involves a fairly complex tale.  I don't have a problem with the overall storyline.  I do take exception with some of the over the top eye candy sequences which put the viewer into a sleep like stupor.I surmise that the director was attempting a 2001-esque look to this film. Well, you can't do better than 2001.  Attempting the trick only sets you up for failure.Enough negative stuff.  The fact remains that this is a good film.  I enjoyed the storyline, character development, music, and even dialogue. Sure, Shatner sounds stilted.  But that's just James T. Kirk.  We don't want or expect Shakespeare out of Shatner.The late Persis Khambatta is beautiful and Decker is believable as the combative Captain torn from his command.  In addition, Nimoy delivers a powerful portrayal as the Vulcan, Spock, recently washed out from the Kholinar.The rest of the T.V. cast deliver adequate performances.  Sulu's strange facial expressions during the approach to VGER are a little annoying. However, the blame should properly be laid at the feet of the editors.Despite some minor and a couple of major flaws, this film is still strong. Don't expect The Grapes of Wrath, but Barbarella, this film isn't.  "},{"Title":"A mixed bag","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a mess; the acting is uniformly stiff, the effects work is shoddy, the lighting is flat, the photography is poor, the costuming is dated...BUT...there are many things that work well.  This film has one of the best scores ever written (Jerry Goldsmith really should have won the Oscar that year) and there were some great concepts thrown around.  What is the nature of life itself?  What defines intelligence?  What is a soul?  In other words, this movie was classic Star Trek but with a much larger budget. Like the original series, it had some great moments but it also had some clunkers.  To the credit of the film makers, there are some memorable sequences.  It was brave to spend five minutes giving Kirk (and us) a fly-around of the Enterprise in space dock.  Also unusual were the voyage through the V'ger cloud and the fly-over of V'ger itself.  Again, these are long sequences where nothing really happens in terms of story.  Audiences are so conditioned to see plot mechanics in motion that their butts twitch when nothing happens, but this movie asks you sit back and see the wonder of things. Also, the scenes involving the Enterprise being caught in a wormhole and the probe from V'ger terrorizing the bridge are intense assaults of light and sound that, when over, cause sighs of relief.  When they end, it's akin to waking up from a dream. The biggest problem may have been with the plot itself.  The Enterprise crew are not pro-active; they are reactive throughout this film.  They simply sit around and have things done to them.  They figure out how to solve one problem and the next arises.  This is not good storytelling.  While the feeling of being overwhelmed by something that cannot be understood is well executed, the crew seem to be passengers in this movie.  Frankly, who wants to see a bunch of people sit around and hope things turn out for the best? A bit of judicious editing, less rushed opticals, longer rehearsals, and a re-written script would have produced a far better film, but the production was plagued with problems and it shows onscreen.  All in all, it may not be a great film but it had its moments and paved the way for far more Trek to come. "},{"Title":"Not a Very Good Script","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the lines from this movie is It fell into what used to be called a 'black hole.'What kind of scriptwriting is that? I came to work in what used to be called a 'horseless carriage.'I know what the writer was thinking. Um let's see. It's the future. We'll know so much about black holes in the future that we'll call them something else. But if I call it something else then the audience won't know what it was that it fell into. So I'll say that it used to be called a black hole.This logic fails miserably in terms of credible dialog. This problem permeates the whole film. It is also incredibly slow-paced. A really poor first effort in translating a TV show into a movie. Wrath of Khan was a tremendous improvement. "},{"Title":"My take on this movie...","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I admit, this movie was too slow and too long, however, Star Trek The Motion Picture is the first time ever that you get to see Star Trek with spectacular special effects, and then a more modern, sleeker USS Enterprise. Despite what many people think about this movie; it wasn't that bad. However, it wasn't all that exciting either. I'll admit that you can get a little drowsy when watching it, probably because they sort of made the Enterprise interior a little too bland, and I have to admit the uniforms are like pajamas, and were rather pale looking compared to TOS uniforms. I believe the reason why it was long because they were trying to get the audience back into the movie. Some eye-openers are Spock's EVA sequence. Now I won't really trash the film for this, for it's only in the extended version You can see part of the set of the Enterprise's airlock when Kirk is drifting out, one of the worst bloopers seen in a Star Trek movie. But this was also the first time Trekkers got to see the Klingons as they were meant to be, with the head ridges. However, the Kirk we see in this movie is not the same Kirk we saw in the original episodes, he had more of a generic feel to him than usual. Chekov seems to have lost his Russian pride, although I admit he hasn't broken his tradition of being the noisiest character when he gets zapped by plasma energy and screams. And the intruder-probe scene on the bridge could have had a more energetic feel to it, with music to increase suspense, although Goldsmith did do a good job on the score.Rating C+ "},{"Title":"Not a bad film.","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of all the Star Trek movies, I saw this one last in January of this year.  I thought it was very impressive for the time period it was made in. It left me hanging wondering what this thing heading towards earth was.  It had a good reason as to why Spock and the Doc came back to Star Fleet and how Kirk became the captain again. I felt that Lt. Ileah and Captain Decker were shown too much in the movie though. I mean they were in it more than Sulu, Checkov and Mr. Scott, yet both of them fail to make it to the next movie. I thought it was fascinating that Kirk was there for the deaths of both Matt Decker in The Domesday Machine and Will Decker in this movie. Not the best, but still better than Generations, TNG's first movie. JRGTrek. "},{"Title":"Nothin left but the batt'ries, Capt'n!","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robert Wise directed this epic-scale, Disney-esque update of the sixties television series, coaxing all the familiars out of retirement for a well-thought and well acted film.  But the beat of the film is plodding; unlike the slick lightning bolt action of Star Wars two years earlier, Star Trek  The Motion Picture flows like forty-weight motor oil.  While Star Trek was always intended to be more of a dramatic take on the sci-fi genre than a strict shoot-em-up, STTMP starts with a sense of ethereal wonder that never quite transcends itself into a coherent film.  From the awesome first sighting of the energy cloud, to the beauty shot of the new Enterprise in drydock, we are hit by the spectacle of the dazzling effects and Jerry Goldsmith's classic, often inspiring score. But, too many long shots of the viewscreen followed by close-ups of each crewmember's reaction begin to grow repetitive, and there seems to be a certain lack of motivation in the film. Instead of driving forward from one deductive point to another, STTMP seems to be floating on inertia.  The resolution of the various problems that we encounter have less to do with how the crew reasted, what decisions they made, than with what merely happened next.  This Trek is too gentile, as well, garnering a G rating from the MPAA.  While Star Trek films simply aren't cut out to be R-rated mature entertainment, they don't stand well as gentle, G-rated fodder, either.On a side note, the film is further hampered by the choice of costume designers to put the crewmembers in pajamas.  The hokiest aspect of Trek to its critics has always been the outrageous and impractical space-uniforms.  This did not help.** (below average) "},{"Title":"Soundtrack is the best thing about it next to the Enterprise","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was pleased to hear about the expanded re-release from sony.This has got to be the best film score for a Star Trek film EVER.Slow paced film it may be, but this gave Jerry Goldsmith the chance to excel. "},{"Title":"Mixed Reviews","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This first film in the blockbuster series cost $40 million dollars and was years in the making.  The result is of mixed reviews.  The excellent special effects and the mesmerizing score are as good as these things get.  However, the characters are static, gray, and cardboard, which doesn't mix well when the sets are the same way.  Shatner delivers his usual over-acting performance as Kirk.  Worth a look, but this is one franchise where sequels work better than the original. "},{"Title":"Astonishing - Incredible - Brilliant - Really Really Boring","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  All of those people who say that Star Trek  The Motion picture is boring are right. IT IS BORING. It's one of the most slowly paced movies I've ever seen. The fact is that doesn't stop it from being one of my top 20 movies of all time. The Special effects are incredible (especially for 1980), the music haunting and majestic (I own the soundtrack), the acting flawless, especially Stephen Collins (Decker), the plot extremely cerebral, intelligent, and well thought out, and a ending that blows one away. There were scenes in this movie that brought tears to my eyes (Kirks first head-on view of the enterprise, when you hear the revamped Star Trek theme in full concert) and made me cry the cry of the unbearably happy (the movie geek cry). In my opinion it is best watched in widescreen, as that shows you exactly how incredible this movie really is. And yet, it's almost painfully slow paced. It drags on and on and on. I think that's why some people disliked this movie. I admit it is really slow paced, but it is still, in my eyes, a great achievement in filmaking and a really good movie. "}{"Title":"Kirk and crew have to stop an alien vessel from destroying Earth.","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  People claim that this movie just drags on... that it is boring... that it  has no good plot twists... Well, they're wrong! They have to realize, Star  Trek had been out of the public eye for *ten* years, and nobody had seen  the Enterprise and crew for that long!  The reason the movie was a little  slow was to re-familiarize the audience with the ship and crew - and to  effectively introduce them to a new generation of viewers who were getting  their first view of this magnificent show.  The plot and story still made  sense, the effects were astounding, the score was amazing, and the  characters were well thought out and well acted by everyone.  Giving Spock  a reason to rejoin Starfleet and forcing the Doctor back into service was  nicely done, and no mater what people say, I think that it was a very nice  piece of work for the United Federation of Planets. "},{"Title":"Really, really boring.","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Who knew that the film to kick off the Star Trek movie franchise was so bad? I certainly didn't and it was quite surprising. This film is boring, joyless, bland, tiresome, tedious, passionless, and amazingly unengaging. Every performance is incredibly bland and uninteresting. It felt like nobody wanted to be there and they all just wanted to go home. The plot is as mind numbingly boring as everything else. So boring in fact I honestly cannot remember the majority of what actually happened. If you want to watch these movies, skip this one. The events that take place here don't affect anything in the sequels, so you won't be missing anything. "},{"Title":"The not so bold start...","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" ***Warning!Spoiler Information Inside and Included***After caving to the overwhelming demand of fans , Paramount at last released the Motion Picture. While no expense was spared, (one of Paramount's reasons given for the price increase on tickets) ,we all learn that what is overdone can be a spoiler in its self.The Plot is simplistic , however very imaginative, or at least is very inspiring to the viewer. After that and the sensible idea to recruit director Robert Wise ( The Day the Earth Stood Still), it is all down hill , the writing is less than passable , only marginally recovered by a few excellent period (1970's) effect pieces. The score also reissued and used later for Television's Star Trek The Next Generation is good.The actors to their best to keep the writer's vision is focus , but once compiled and edited seem hammy at best , the tension between Admiral Kirk ( William Shatner) and Capt. Decker is particularly campy.In all the Actors and Director are weighted down by a hammy script , poor editing and over complicated effects screen management.Two Stars.(of 5) "},{"Title":"Right story, wrong tone","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Always my least favorite (and naturally least watched) of the six original 'Trek' films, I was surprised to find that I was really into the first half of 'STTMP'. Things like the often mocked 4 minute shuttle ride were suddenly pulling me in rather than putting me to sleep. Listening to Goldsmith's heroic score blasting away as Kirk looks at the re-fitted Enterprise like a man returning to his long lost love really moved me. And as our heroes gather together to go off into the unknown I was on the edge of my seat despite having seen this at least half a dozen times before. But then in the second half it screeches to a halt as they engage in a tedious, drawn out mystery that's meant to be profound, but ends up coming across like the kind of paperback self help hokum that was filling shelves and nightstands in the late 70s.But my biggest problem with the movie remains the characters. Not only do they all suddenly dress like intergalactic dentists, they don't act like themselves, save for McCoy. Spock is explained to have been undergoing a purge to expel all emotion, but that doesn't soften the blow for us when he shows up half way through acting like a jerk. And Kirk is just... off. Again, I think his sudden vulnerability is supposed to be a plot point, but it's not Kirk. Kirk doesn't doubt. Kirk doesn't lose. Kirk doesn't admit that he's wrong, because he's never wrong. Kirk swaggers down the halls of the Enterprise, has adult relations with green women and beats up lizard men. He does not play second fiddle to the creepy dad from 7th Heaven, and he damn sure doesn't let him get the leggy bald chick.Truth be told, the story here is probably closer to that of the original series than any of the films that follow, but it just never quite feels like 'Star Trek' to me. "},{"Title":"Bones, there's a thing out there...","Date":"3 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Former Captain (now Admiral) James T. Kirk assumes command of the newly-refurbished USS Enterprise just as a giant space cloud is heading towards Earth, destroying everything in its path. Kirk reunites his old crew and travels to intercept the cloud, which turns out to be a spacecraft of massive size and mysterious origin.The regular cast from the TV show are all enjoyable here, though most are in the background with little to do. William Shatner gives the performance you expect from him (Damn it, Bones, I need you! Badly!). Leonard Nimoy seems bored. DeForest Kelley steals every scene he's in and has all the best lines. The new cast members, Stephen Collins and Persis Khambatta, are bland and unimpressive. Collins is especially weak and his 'one raised eyebrow' stares are enough to give anybody giggle fits. I actually liked the plot, particularly the ultimate reveal behind the space cloud thing. It's very old-school sci-fi. Unfortunately the movie is talky and overlong without much action. The special effects are nice but never so impressive to make up for the ponderous pace. The frequent shots of the Enterprise slowly moving along to Jerry Goldsmith's rousing score is just poor filmmaking not up to director Robert Wise's usual standard. Not a big fan of the colorless uniforms, either. Overall it's definitely one of the weaker Star Trek movies but not without merit and not as awful as its reputation would suggest. The start to a good film series with much better sequels to come. "},{"Title":"Slow paced, but not without merit","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Many of the comments made of this film are similar and quite fair. They can be summed up in the old pun Star Trek The Slow Motion Picture. And slow this motion picture indeed is for large chunks. A lot of people will have seen the parody videos of Kirk looking lovingly at his old ship as the camera pans around the Enterprise for a good five minutes, or later when the crew approaches V-ger and we are given an interminably long look at a blue screen special effect that is decidedly unremarkable.The story is slight. A probe in deep space destroys some Klingon ships, the Enterprise is called, Kirk, now an Admiral, takes command of his old ship, the USS Enterprise, much to the chagrin of the current Captain, Decker. Kirk gets the old band together and they head off into deep space to investigate the probe.It's something of a shame the pacing is so bad in places, because this movie does have things to say that are actually of some value regarding, in the words of Douglas Adams life, the universe and everything. The main story asks considerably deep questions about man's place in the universe, the responsibilities of sentience, and the emptiness of knowledge not applied. In Star Trek terms, the film increases the strength of the Klingon Empire, a thinly veiled reference to the then still on going Cold War between NATO and Russia.It is also the first look we have at a more mature and developed dynamic between Kirk and Spock, as well as development of Scotty, Bones, Chekov, Uhura and Sulu's character arcs they will take in the film series. All of this is aided by a stellar turn from Stephen Collins as the ambiguously fated Decker, who superbly conveys his character's animosity towards Kirk (who's actions on more than one occasion border on reckless endangerment) taking over his ship and also his frustrated love story with the ostensibly beautiful (but here completely bald) Persis Khambatta as Ilia, who was taken from us far too early at the age of 49 in 1997.To do this film justice, one must try and understand the context. The show had been off TV for over a decade. The rise of Lucas and Spielberg had seen special effects take a quantum leap. For fans of the original, this was their chance to be reunited with the characters they loved, and also see their story told with the improved effects that they deserved. The long scene with Kirk gazing at the Enterprise was there as much for fan service as to boost the running time. Here was a convincing big budget model shot of the USS Enterprise, in all of its glory. The interactions between the characters work and the film shows enough coherence and skill to prove that there was a big screen life for the Star Trek franchise. While the Star Trek films grew out of the original TV Series, they quickly developed a universe of their own that viewers, like myself, who were not overly familiar with the TV series could enjoy and understand within their own continuity.Star Trek the Motion Picture is slow, with dated effects now, but is still a worthwhile film, which asks questions of the viewer and one can see what a thrill it would have been for fans of the show at the time. Well worth watching and unquestionably a significant film. "},{"Title":"Lavish and cinematic, but needs a shot of levity","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Of all the Star Trek movies, The Motion Picture is as mixed-bag as they come. On the plus side, this is the biggest Star Trek has ever been. The filmmakers embraced the jump to the big screen like no other. All those lingering shots of the newly refitted Enterprise are glorious - even on the small screen, even 35 years later. And it's the movie that most effectively uses the width of the medium. Some really nice set design on that ship (drab palette notwithstanding), and even her captain is sportin' a new set of guns. On top of that, The Motion Picture boasts an honest-to-god science fiction story, instilling a sense of awe and wonder. And they really dug deep on the effects budget; I mean, it's all right there on the screen.But I really have to be in the right mindset to enjoy this movie, as it doesn't feel like Star Trek. There's something really cold and distant about The Motion Picture. It lacks the Kirk/Spock/McCoy relationship, the humanity, and the humor of its proceeding sequels. Without that winning formula, it's a bit off. Kirk is way too rigid, and even Spock is stilted. But it's also really, really slow, constantly bringing the story to a halt for another effects sequence. It takes an hour for Kirk and Co. to meet the antagonist, and you just want them to get a move on, already.Bottom line, it's the epitome of silver screen spectacle, but the least accessible Star Trek flick. Not bad by a long shot, but too disjointed to be great.6/10 "},{"Title":"Quality visuals pad out an otherwise dull Trek outing - 66%","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" You almost feel sorry for Star Trek after the phenomenal success of Star Wars. Gene Roddenberry's cultural colossus was feeding the imaginations of people back in the Sixties but the second George Lucas comes along with light-sabres and the Millennium Falcon, all their hard work was forgotten. And given the film's lack of action and excitement, the initial critical response wasn't that hot either. But Star Trek was always about more than phasers and space battles - it had a philosophical tangent, examining not just the unknown space oddity of the week but also more human issues like logic, emotion and the need of man to explore and discover. Such issues are the order of the day here but the film also has a surprising amount of quality visuals and a decent mystery at its heart.After three Klingon vessels are destroyed by a mysterious energy cloud, Admiral Kirk (William Shatner) is summoned to accompany the Enterprise on her mission to intercept the cloud on its journey to Earth. Alongside the presiding Captain Decker (Stephen Collins) and new navigator Ilia (Persis Khambatta), Kirk and the usual Enterprise crew (Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, Nichelle Nichols, George Takei, etc) struggle with both the seemingly limitless power of the cloud, known as V'Ger as well as the new, upgraded Enterprise. But what hope can there possibly be when their enemy is completely alien to them and threatening all life in Earth? Star Trek The Motion Picture (not the catchiest title ever) feels very much like an extended episode of the original series, albeit with much better effects. Ignoring the opening shots of Starfleet which feel quite old-school, the sweeping shots of the Enterprise and the alien vessel are both detailed and believable - much more so than the rudimentary computer graphics at the time shown on various consoles and monitors. If anything, the Enterprise is more animated than its captain as Shatner reminds us that he is a TV actor that got lucky ten years earlier. In fact, the cast all display a curious detachment to the material and Kelley in particular appear during a scene, stare in wonderment at some fancy visuals on the viewer and then disappear without saying a word or contributing anything to the scene. Honestly, only Collins seems to invest the film with any real emotion as his power struggle with Kirk disappointing goes from an interesting spark of subplot to a forgotten damp squib. Quite a bit of the movie seems to be composed of the cast staring at something in space without saying anything which doesn't help with the film's slow pacing.The film's pacing also provides an obstacle to overcome as not much happens for the longest time and the plot doesn't give much away until the final half-hour or so. Speaking of the plot, the ending felt contrived and frankly a bit of a con and personally, I felt it undermined the film as much as Shatner's uber-cool Kirk who is unfazed by anything (if you'll forgive the pun!). It's frustrating because at a basic, visual level then Star Trek The Motion Picture does a good job of matching the level seen in stuff like 2001 and 1979's other sci-fi classic Alien. It can certainly talk the talk - Star Trek always could - but as far as walking the walk goes, it's more like an arthritic shuffle compared to Star Wars. I reckon the strongest Trek film with the original crew was Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country which got the balance of action, intrigue and plotting absolutely right as well as quality effects and visuals - the zero gravity sequences alone are far more plausible and arresting than anything seen here. But it's interesting to someone who grew up with the Trek movies instead of the original series to see which ideas stuck to the wall and which fell to the floor and were discarded. Just don't do what I did and wonder why they used the theme music to Star Trek The Next Generation instead of the classic Star Trek theme... "},{"Title":"Vyger.....","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" When a space entity threatens to destroy Earth, Admiral Jame T. Kirk must return to the bridge of the U.S.S. Enterprise in order to intercept and destroy this entity before its too late.The film that brought back the original crew and its actors for the motion picture that would eventually bring about the Star Trek film franchise. Some purists of Star Trek find this to be a rather dull entry into the series, but I find it to be a wonderful film and a great homage to Star Trek and its original crew. The story though fitting perfectly within the mythos of the original series, some have criticized as being slow and with very little action. The pacing though a bit slow builds in its registered characters brilliantly. I happen to be a fan of this film and while I understand its detraction's, overall find it to be an enjoyable film. The score by Jerry Goldsmith is fantastic and bring the film to another level. The effects for its age were top notch but may be considered aged during this high effects laden film age. Some nay argue that Shatner once again over acts but i find it to be a joy to see not only the old crew back together again, and its principal players playing off the chemistry which made the original series such a pleasure and joy. Star Trek The Motion Picture is a a pure cinematic joy and a must see for any fan of the sci-fi genre as well as Trek enthusiasts. "},{"Title":"As a serious Trekkie/Trekker I appreciate the effort, but the shortcomings cannot be denied","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" If you watch Star Trek The Motion Picture without much previous knowledge of the Star Trek franchise, there's a good chance you'll be disappointed. It was the first leap onto the big screen for the Enterprise crew, a first reunion for the cast after the legendary TV show's cancellation exactly ten years earlier. Many of the franchise's later films, which of necessity became broader and less technically and conceptually ambitious, stand alone much better as light sci-fi entertainment. But if you're the kind of Trekkie who follows the TV shows and believes that science fiction is, at its best, a platform for the consideration of philosophy and ethics, there's a chance that The Motion Picture will win a special place in your heart in spite of its shortcomings as a movie. I'm that kind of Trekkie, and I can argue on The Motion Picture's behalf, but I can't in good conscience recommend it to anyone less enamored of the franchise&#x97;or less forgiving of it&#x97; than myself. The loving shots of the Enterprise at the beginning of the movie, set to a beautiful orchestration of the tune that would later become the theme song of The Next Generation, are derided by some as too long. And that they are, unless you happen to have developed over the course of the TV show the same feelings as Captain Kirk about what the ship represents progress, exploration, optimism. The main characters are all cleverly reintroduced here in ways that play on and expand upon what was established during the show's run Spock's planet of Vulcan is shown in greater detail than ever before, and his experience there puts his compelling fish-out-of-water nature front and center. Significantly, more time is spent at Starfleet Headquarters and among non-Enterprise personnel than at any time during the original series; this paved the way for the much-needed filling out of the Trek universe to be achieved in later series. These positive elements, though, are the kind that only a true fan can recognize and appreciate. In the final calculation, it must be admitted that The Motion Picture's script is too weak to justify the more than two-hour runtime. The tone and some of the visuals, and even the theme of birth, are distantly reminiscent of Kubrick's 2001, but that movie had much better special effects and was much more eloquent in its ruminations on humanity and technology. The only real idea considered in The Motion Picture is that imagination is a hard thing to program into a machine, and it expresses that thought with as much rote simplicity as I did just now. There are at least a dozen episodes of the Star Trek TV shows that consider the topic with infinitely more insight, so it is perhaps no great loss that after this the film series basically stopped going for profound. Still, for fans like me, it's nice to remember that an effort was made to bring the contemplative, idealistic spirit of the show into theaters, at least once. "}{"Title":"Star Trek and Gene Roddenberry","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Recently I browsed in my archive for good documentary on sci-fi cinema. Of course opinions vary but Star Trek The Movie (1979) offers a good example for the Director's Cut and its bonuses. The movie is landmark in space cinema and although it came two years later than Star Wars (1977) it still counted first because of the longest pre-production period. It also involved controversies with director Robert Wise (1914&#x96;2005) and producer Gene Roddenberry (1921&#x96;1991) who are idiosyncratic names for cinema and sci-fi literature, respectfully.The bonus material on DVD is interesting as to the fact that we see something of Robert Wise on rare footage. The latter is quite worn out from age but have mind as a razor. He reminds very much of his friend and colleague Ray Harryhausen (1920&#x96;2013) - acknowledged guru of special effects cinema - in the latest years of his life when he divulges secrets of his craftsmanship and communicates with his followers students (i.e. George Lucas of Star Wars is one of them). Add here George Pal (1908&#x96;1980) and Stanley Kubrick (1928&#x96;1999) and you could have a full staff for sci-fi cinema history, ditto.As for Gene Roddenberry the story stays a bit different. I have in my archive more books about him than video footage. Apparently he didn't appear very much in front of the camera or maybe I am mistaken. On the bonus disk his widow Majel Barrett narrates very extensively how they bargain very hard to rip-off the Movie from TV. Gene was as much manager as a scripter and a producer. He was also a former policeman and founding member of World Sci-fi Association. Ray Bradbury, Isaac Asimov and many other celebrity writers were his personal friends. Whoopi Goldberg made her film debut on his recommendation. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Endless","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The first cinema outing for the franchise has none of the strong characterisation or sense of adventure present in the TV series; it's as if the makers thought that the move to the big screen meant they'd better play it all po-faced, and in the process the atmosphere has been lost. Returning regulars William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley et al have little to besides react to what's going on around them, the writers instead preferring to concentrate on new characters who make no impression, such as Stephen Collins's flavourless captain. The movie was developed from the ashes of a proposed revival of the TV series, but after three episodes of these guys you'd have turned over to 'Space 1999'. Developments late in the plot are thoughtful but entirely without impact and are never interesting enough to warrant the interminable build up. Virtually nothing happens through the middle and the pace is sometimes agonisingly slow (the Enterprise docking sequence, for example), director Robert Wise making almost every shot twice as long as it needs to be. The production design, too, is slick and fresh but completely without character. This is a disappointing and lifeless film. It wants to be '2001' but, well, see above. "},{"Title":"Boring? Don't think so.","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This gets 7/10 from me, even if I don't rewatch it all that often (ST4 is the one I've watched most times I think). I would watch it more often but I know few people who like it that much.Apart from finally seeing NGC-1701 on the big screen, there's a lot to like here. Thought-provoking SF (rare on film), not exciting but interesting, and conflicts solved in an intelligent manner by thinking characters. The slow approach to the Enterprise will probably bore general audiences to tears nowadays; I find it not a second too long. The SFX inside V'ger have a dreamlike quality not unlike those at the end of 2001, and the V'ger set itself has an otherworldly, yet simple, look that's sorely missing from many of today's SF which always tries to go for gritty/realistic. "},{"Title":"V'ge beyond the stars","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" They really don't make them like this any more. Couldn't. Imagine if Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman had walked into the Paramount offices and slammed THIS script on the table A slow, solemn, philosophically dense adventure into a cloud of gas, with barely an action scene in sight and no conventional enemy.Almost a decade previously, Robert Wise directed The Andromeda Strain, the quintessential hard sci-fi of the 1970s, where the emphasis was on the science, and the action took place on computer readouts. And two decades before that he made The Day the Earth Stood Still, a 1950s monster movie without a monster, standing out at the time for its seriousness.Star Trek The Motion Picture could be seen as Wise's homage to 2001 A Space Odyssey. There are lengthy sequences (I'm talking 10 minutes at a time) basically constituted of extended fly-bys of Douglas Trumbull's still-extraordinary special effects. Throughout, there's an admirable dedication to awe, something often missing from modern sci-fi, where a black hole is no more than a flying mouth and spacetime is traversed in a shrug.If only there'd been equivalent care shown to the characters. Unfortunately, they are reduced to mere tour guides on this fantastic adventure, showing us when to gaze agape in wonderment, and verbalising what is frankly apparent from the images. The ending is like the birth of the Starchild with a director's commentary rambling over the top.Kirk (William Shatner, subtle in portraying the humility of his out-of-practice captain) and Spock (the monolithic Leonard Nimoy) are present, and the friendship is as tender and fraught as ever - but they have only one really good scene together. Instead, the focus is on the star-cross'd relationship between the Deltan Ilia (a chilling Persis Khambatta) and acting-captain Decker (Stephen Collins), which is sadly rather drab and unconvincing.The Motion Picture may not be the finest film in the original Star Trek series, but it's certainly the most distinctive and the strangest - a far, far cry from Star Trek IV's terrestrial comedy. What it lacks in humour and emotional resonance, The Motion Picture makes up for with its grand scope and vision, sometimes sparking the senses and stirring the imagination. "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"26 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" In year 1979, there was no better tech to film this movie, but the story is very unique and interesting one. i wish they can remake this movie because it is worth money. A living machine is always humanity's dream. it is hard to imagine that, but this film made me completely believe that can happened.imagine you can live for 300 years and you have ability to collect every single information about everything you see, there is a possibility to be a god.i am now watching star trek part II, i hope it is good as the first one.Go and watch this one and your time will be worth spending!!! "},{"Title":"'To boldly go where no Man has gone before'","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Even though a lot of the Star Trek fans prefer 'Wrath of Khan', the second feature film with the original crew, my favorite's gotta be 'Star Trek The Motion Picture'. And I prefer even more the director's cut that unbelievably never got a bluray transfer since, so it seems, the effects never got rendered in HD (how in the hell...). Star Trek I is a slower movie that privileges the journey/discovery and the intellectual aspect of space exploration rather than immediate action. This makes it an all time favorite scifi film to me and a great movie full of spirit! Other points that make this an outstanding Star Trek film 1st - 'To boldly go where no Man has gone before'. How many Star Trek films explore the Unknown and stick with this motto? Well, basically 2 perhaps. The 1st and the 5th, the rest mostly deal with Kirk's enemies, or Spock or going back to Earth. This is important to me, to see a starship, discovering something new, and the first Star Trek deals with it. 2nd - The special effects. No Star Trek movie has ever had the incredible effects of the 1st movie. The aura and clouds surrounding V'ger, the huge V'ger complex, the machine World, etc... and even more if we're talking about the Director's edition. 3rd - The music score, faithful to the original series thus truly Epic, spacey and atmospheric when it comes to V'ger's World. Plus, the director's cut features several minutes of great introductory music with space in the background. 4th- The characters. Bit more 'mysterious' than in the original series, slightly colder let's say. 5th- The relationship between Kirk and The Enterprise. This is superbly written and directed. He's outdated, the ship is new. Still he needs to possess her no matter what. This defines Kirk as the ultimate captain, a man that doesn't give up, ever. ' I don't like to lose' as he said on Wrath. "},{"Title":"Watching this in the year 2012...","Date":"10 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This review will not recant the plot, or mention anything about the concept of Star Trek, or it's characters. That has been done many times over by many others. Instead, I am going to review what it's like watching this film in the year 2012. Over 30 years after it's initial release. I'm doing so because my memory of originally watching was greatly altered with time, and yours may be too.At the time of it's release I thought it was pretty good, if slow. I thought the new Enterprise looked fantastic, and the effects with the Cloud the team is investigating were beautiful and stunning. The story was average, devoid of much suspense or conflict. In this aspect it was blown away by Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan. But it was an okay movie.Watching TMP again, in the year 2012, on a nice HD television, reveals many flaws. First, the effects are nothing special, at times the cloud is interesting, but much of the time only because the design of it is somewhat innovative. Instead the effects look somewhat soft, even bland. The scenes of it, and the Enterprise go on forever. I'm sure when they made the film, and I first saw it, this was hypnotic to watch, to see something so new and special. But it's shine has long ago worn off with time. Some of the effects shots are almost laughable. They look very old. I tried my best to keep in context when the film was made, but even with that in mind it was at times hard to watch. There are other flaws as well, such as the tactical display of the cloud looks nothing like what they show you in space. It creates confusion. There are also other scenes that seem like interludes to show you effects and they drag. All of these things made the film difficult to watch.However, if you are a ST fan, and can accept that and somehow get past it, how is the film? I still believe quite average. A lot of ST fans dislike this film and Star Trek V, but others think people missed the point. Having recently seen ST5 I now get that one, and think it's message is reflective of many episodes from the original series. It too is flawed, but I like it's idea, and it has a classic ST antagonist. But TMP doesn't have this. It's mostly just about re-discovering the characters, which was too subtle and took too long, and investigating the cloud. And in that regard I think even a lot of ST fans are going to find it difficult to sit through, and simply too long and uneventful. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the dullest of the Star Trek films","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm planning to rewatch all eleven Star Trek films over the next few weeks and, at the moment, Star Trek V The Final Frontier, stands as my least favourite but I feel that may change when I get to it. For all its myriad faults, The Final Frontier was at least bad in interesting ways and had a few quotable lines, the best and best known being What does God need with a starship? which almost makes the entire film worthwhile. The Motion Picture, however, is frankly just dull in the extreme. The visual effects are impressive for the time but after a few minutes of the seemingly endless sequences in which the Enterprise is entering the cloud / energy field emanating from V'Ger, I began to feel as if I were looking at a screensaver. While I liked the exterior design of the refitted Enterprise, the interiors were bland as were the thankfully one-off uniform designs and, unfortunately, most of the dialogue and a fair bit of the acting on display.The entire film feels a little lifeless with only DeForest Kelley and, to a lesser extent, James Doohan giving what could be described as energetic performances. Kelley gets the lion's share of the relatively few decent lines in the screenplay. For once, not even Leonard Nimoy gives a good performance. As regards the supporting cast, Stephen Collins was quite wooden as Decker and it's difficult to say whether Ilia (as played by the late Persis Khambatta) or the V'Ger probe which takes her image got the most characterisation. Dr. McCoy is the only character who seemed to come alive. The Motion Picture is a rewritten version of the pilot script for Star Trek Phase II, the proposed but ultimately unmade second live-action Star Trek series. Decker and Ilia were to have been major characters on the series and much of their backstories, including their relationship, were recycled for Will Riker and Deanna Troi when Star Trek The Next Generation entered production. Even though they were the prototypes for these better known and more popular characters, they come across as the poor man's answer to them and made little impact on me. Though I did love the fact that one of the first things that Ilia says to Kirk is My oath of celibacy is on record, Captain. She had clearly been warned about him.The pacing of the film is incredibly slow, especially during the aforementioned visual effects laden scenes. For this reason, it has often been called The Motion Sickness, The Motionless Picture and The Slow Motion Picture. This becomes all the more noticeable given its running time of 132 minutes, the longest of all the Star Trek films. I would say that more than half an hour could have been cut out with little to no difference being made to the plot. It is a full 82 minutes into the film before V'Ger, the de facto main villain, is mentioned by name. Things do pick up after that happens but only to a certain extent and, in any event, this happens far too late to save the film. The plot regarding V'Ger is a very good one and I would even say that it's a fascinating one but the same subject matter was dealt with not only better but much more succinctly in the TOS episode The Changeling in 1967. This lead to another of the film's nicknames Where Nomad Has Gone Before.The only scenes of its more than two hour running time that I found in any way compelling were the scene where the V'Ger probe first boards the Enterprise and absorbs / kills Ilia, the scene where Kirk, Spock, Dr. McCoy and Decker learn the true nature of V'Ger and where Decker merges with it and the final scene where we finally get a sense of the camaraderie between the Big Three (namely Captain Kirk, Spock and Dr. McCoy) which could be found in abundance in TOS.One of the dullest entries in the Star Trek canon and that is coming from someone who has been a dyed in the wool Star Trek fan since 1995 and has seen every Star Trek production from the first TOS pilot The Cage to the most recent film. At the end of the day, the film seemed to lack an emotional core, in stark contrast to its first sequel Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan (1982). "},{"Title":"We Waited For Years ... For This ...","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" To offer a fair evaluation of this movie, I have to transport myself (at first) back in time to 1979, when it was released. I was 16 years old when it came out. Like most teens, I grew up watching almost daily repeats of the old Star Trek television series - to the point at which I could probably have recited extended periods of dialogue from almost every episode, so I would have been waiting excitedly for this to appear. What would my reaction have been to it? That's what I'm trying to figure out.As a teenager, to be honest, I would have been first excited to see the crew back together - and somewhat disappointed that Grace Lee Whitney (who was every teenage boys' space fantasy!) looked so much older and more worn than she did as Yeoman Rand from the TV series. (Yes, I know now that she had a pretty tough life for a few years after being kicked off the series basically for drug abuse, and didn't really do very much other than Star Trek from then on.) After that I probably would have noted my disappointment with the uniforms. In the TV series the uniforms were simple, but still had a kind of cool-ness about them. In this movie, they're kind of a mish-mash. Everybody seems to have different kinds of uniforms in different scenes, and none look like the TV series uniforms - and even more disappointing, they all looked kind of geeky - especially the ones that looked like baby sleepers, complete with feet - you really didn't see shoes or boots. Those would have been my first reactions as a teenager. Then, as a teenager who would have known every single TV episode off by heart, I probably would have noticed that this movie is basically a re-hash (in extended form) of the plot of the episode The Changeling - with a probe launched from earth centuries before having somehow melded with an alien civilization and amassed great destructive power returning to Earth to seek out The Creator. (Yes, they also used a TV episode as the basis for Star Trek II, but that one was a follow-up to a TV episode and worked really well as a way of tying up loose ends left over from the episode, whereas this one just basically re-did the episode as a movie.) This one struck more of a connection than the TV episode it re-created. That was made in the very early days of space flight, and the probe Nomad was entirely fictional - in this one, V'Ger turns out to be Voyager VI. (There were only 2 Voyagers, both launched in 1977, but the connection was there.) Still, there was very little original in this. Those were probably my reactions as a 16 year old in 1979. Now - what about me in 2012, having just watched this for the first time in many, many years?The nostalgia value is lost. The original crew did 5 more movies (6, if you count Generations, which included William Shatner, James Doohan and Walter Koenig.) All of them (except for the atrocious Star Trek V) were better than this. I thought the cast did a great job reprising their roles mind you. William Shatner especially did well in portraying the ambitious and yet uncertain Kirk, taking command of the Enterprise again after years out of space, but not really being that familiar with the newly designed ship and its capabilities, but growing in comfort as the story progresses. As with the series, Leonard Nimoy and DeForest Kelley (as Spock and McCoy) were the main co-stars from the original cast; both stepped easily into their roles; and, as with the series, the rest of the original cast were little more than glorified extras, with few lines and little of substance to do. Stephen Collins did well as Decker, the captain of the newly designed Enterprise who's demoted to Executive Officer when Kirk takes command, and whose resentment at being replaced by someone who may be a legend but isn't quite up to speed shows through clearly. Persis Khambatta and the character of Ilia seemed extraneous - I don't think she or her character added much and with a few tweaks to the story the character could probably have been filled by giving one of the original cast more to do!As I understand it, this was originally intended to be a TV movie - maybe the first in a series of movies of the week, or even the pilot for a relaunch of the TV series. The success of Star Wars apparently caused Paramount to re-tool it for the big screen. Maybe extending its length for the theatre is the reason this movie seems to include so much unnecessary filler - how many extended exterior shots of the Enterprise did we really need to see as Kirk arrived on board? A few seconds maybe, but come on - we all knew what it looked like! I also thought it strange (and probably noticed this in 1979) that the original theme was missing. The theme that was used for this is now familiar - it became the theme for Star Trek The Next Generation - but you would have thought that the theme written by Alexander Courage for the original series would have been used in this - somewhere. But it wasn't. (Or, at least, if it was I missed it.) The theme used (as familiar as it now is to Star Trek fans - who probably remember it as the Next Generation theme and not as The Motion Picture theme) would have had no resonance for those who waited anxiously for this re- launch.In 1979, this would have been a bit disappointing, but a nice nostalgia trip for people who had been waiting for the return of Star Trek. In 2012, it lacks the nostalgia power, so it's even more disappointing. (4/10) "},{"Title":"Essential, but not quite there","Date":"29 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek (as the original TV series was known at the time) was a case of hitting the big time for us sci-fi fans in the 60s. At last, a TV series with a big (for the time) budget which looked like what I'd been reading, which treated its science fiction seriously, and which was populated with a cast of characters who I cared to spend time with.The TV audience wasn't enough to save it on TV though, but it was vociferous enough to generate sufficient confidence for a big screen movie to be greenlit (the spin-off TV series' and other movies are a story for another time).So in came wide screen, a big-time director, bigger special effects, new uniforms. And in, also, came what we wanted to see.We wanted to see the cast of the TV series - and they were all there.We wanted to see Kirk and his relationship with the Enterprise - and that was there, too,epitomised by Kirk's clear discomfort at Decker being the Captain of the Enterprise.We wanted to see Spock's Vulcan lack of emotion - there, with his opening appearance on Vulcan making the emotional dichotomy we had come to know and love clear from the start.We wanted to see Spock and McCoy bickering. Check.We wanted to see the relationship between Kirk and Spock - that was there, too, although we had to wait to the end of The Wrath Of Khan for the best of it.And we all welled up at Kirk's first sight of the Enterprise in space dock, for it was our first sight, too.The story wasn't bad - high on philosophical musings, low on action, but very much in the mold of stories were were used to.The music was fine, the effects have dated a bit but they were fine at the time.But it was good to have them back. "}{"Title":"The Enterprise Hits the Big Screen at Impulse Speed","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1979, the STAR TREK franchise boldly went where it had not yet gone before the big screen. The cast of the popular canceled series is reunited William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, Walter Koenig, George Takei, James Doohan, Nichelle Nichols, and even Majel Barrett and Grace Lee Whitney. The film begins a few years after the original Enterprise's mission ended. James Kirk is an admiral and has been acting as Chief of Starfleet Operations. The Enterprise has been refitted and is about to to embark with it's new captain, Willard Decker. When a mysterious gas cloud appears and begins swallowing everything in it's path, Kirk re assumes command of the modified Enterprise to investigate and intercept the object before it reaches it's final destination Earth.This film did it's best to be epic. The production brought on talented director Robert Wise (THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL, THE SOUND OF MUSIC, etc.) and visual effects guru Douglas Trumbull (2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY, CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND, etc.), but it wasn't enough to save it from mediocrity. I'll give the film credit, the special effects were great for their time and the director's edition has been improved nicely. You can tell they were proud of their $35 million budget. When we're first given our introduction to the new Enterprise, it occurs in a lengthy flyby sequence in which Scotty pilots a transporter pod far enough around the ship to give Kirk, and the audience, a nice long look. Later, when the Enterprise arrives at the cloud and begins making it's entrance into it's depths, it's a full five minutes of nothing but the filmmakers showing off their visual effects with the cloud interior. On the flip-side, all of these long visual effect sequences add up to a pretty hefty run-time of more than two hours. And it's feels longer.The entire film is very slow paced as compared to the original series. Gone is the campy action-adventure vibe of the show, making way to a somber atmospheric attempt at serious science fiction. Though it did retain some of the show's original sci-fi camp (e.g. the Ilia abduction scene). I'm not saying the story is poor, just very drawn out and lacking in any real action sequences to jolt the pace every once in a while. One final complaint, though it is a minor one I was not a fan of the new uniforms here and I was glad they changed them again in STAR TREK II.I don't want anyone to think this movie isn't worth a viewing. It's still an interesting treat for fans of STAR TREK searching for a more serious take on the series. And for those familiar with the later series and the species of the Borg, the climactic ending almost takes on a whole new meaning. "},{"Title":"Just too long","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The story in this film is not too bad. It's not brilliant, it's not even particularly clever, but it's really not too bad.The visuals in this film are really good. The special effects wizards of the day must have spent weeks building the model for the refitted Enterprise, it is really quite magnificent looking.Where the film falls down is that there are just too many long, boring special effects sequences. My theory is that they were pretentious attempts to emulate Kubrick's 2001.Ultimately, there's only about 1 hour 20 mins worth of story in the film. The rest is basically just padding. My advice is to use those bits to wash your dishes, or go to the toilet. "},{"Title":"The crew of the starship Enterprise try to stop an unknown threat on its way to Earth.","Date":"26 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" What started as a late-seventies television show revival being developed by the original Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry turned into a full motion picture under the control of a seasoned director and studio.This meant that effects models, props and sets had to be re-prepared for the detail of a cinema screen and the production entered new territory as Roddenberry was eased out.The premise was to reunite the original crew of (an updated) starship Enterprise and bring them to face an ultimate threat to planet Earth. The plan was to also give us brilliant effects on par with the recent Star Wars explosion and give Paramount a return on its previously mishandled Star Trek property.What resulted was an over-long, over-dramatic but interesting film that entertains the fans nonetheless and presents a high concept in its story. Many have commented on its ridiculously long effects shots and the lack of personalities in our beloved bridge characters. But underneath these is the core of a good science fiction film, just maybe not a brilliant Star Trek film.After a trio of Klingon battlecruisers are destroyed by a mysterious cloud of energy, Kirk takes command of a new, untested Enterprise starship to intercept and investigate the object which is heading directly to Earth.As they find a way to communicate with it, the object stops trying to destroy them and instead welcomes them deep inside itself where further information is revealed after a number of events.For the first time in Star Trek history, we return to 23rd century Earth as the object threatens to destroy all life on it unless Kirk and crew comply with its demands, which leads to a startling discovery.The original budget blew out to almost four times its original allocation, partly due to the project carrying the burden of an aborted television series and hefty sums paid to numerous writers and Leonard Nimoy to get him to reprise his role as Spock.Whatever you say about the effects, you can't say they are not impressive. They are beautifully created by 2001 A Space Odyssey effects specialist Douglas Trumball and legendary composer Jerry Goldsmith delivers a brilliantly-matching musical score to give the film a grand feeling.The screenplay for this film went through many, many rewrites from an original story by Alan Dean Foster, but unfortunately they didn't capture the soul of the original series that came before it. Perhaps the story was too serious or a victim of its difficult development but it is considered by many to be a poor start to an on again / off again run of 11 variable films that followed it.The film has been released in its original theatrical version, special video versions and a DVD-era re-edited Director's Edition that addressed some pacing issues and shortcomings of the original special effects that were rushed due to budget and time constraints. Some of these improvements work well, some don't.Overall, a great science fiction adventure and a giant leap for the ongoing Star Trek franchise. "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Motion Picture dose not measure up to the TV series","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star trek the motion picture dose not measure up to the TV series in any aspect. This movie was roughly based off of The Changeling, a star trek television episode in season 2. This film tried to duplicate the awe that 2001 a space odyssey did but did not succeed. It had some long unnecessary drawn out space seens going back and forth for 15 min showing space ships in space from different angles and reaction shots. The characters personalitys feel altered from there usually lovable relatable personalitys from the television series. This made any viewer that had seen the original series uncomfortable. Sadly this movie was created for startrek fans because anyone else may become lost in whats happening. For example there was one seen were Spock mind-melds. Any other viewer wouldn't know whats happening or what the point of it was because it wasn't explained in the film.This film isn't all frowns though. Its soundtrack helps define startrek themes in future films to come.Theirs one more thing that is most confusing. Robert Wise an excellent well respected director, directed; Gene Roddenberry, the creator of startreck, produced; Alan Dean Foster, A very experienced sifi writer who's written countless novelizations of legendary films such as Alien and Star wars wrote the story. How could this movie not be awesome? I urge people to watch the movie and see this for your self. If you have become sour from what I've said watch Startrek II. Its is the best of the old Star trek films and will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Motion Picture","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The film series got off to a decidedly rocky start with this very slow-moving, ponderous affair that feels like a first act drawn out over 136 minutes.The big revelation of V'Ger's nature at the end is quite good and a genuine surprise but it's no reward for enduring the build-up. The pornographic establishing shots of the Enterprise seem to last forever, particularly when it's first shown. Any sense of awe is soon replaced by total boredom as it slowly floats by, shot from a dozen different angles. Once we're inside V'Ger it gets even worse and the film grinds to a halt. All this repetition of scenery is meant to suggest immense size but that's already established early on and this hammering the point home is completely unnecessary.It plays almost like a mystery thriller and is very light on action, but while the creators should be applauded for trying something different, unfortunately there isn't enough suspense inherent in the story to make it work.When something's actually happening it's quite good, it's nice to see the cast doing their thing in roles that fit like gloves, and it isn't exactly a chore to sit through - but The Motion Picture still feels like a very long car journey to nowhere special. "},{"Title":"Star Trek The No-Motion Picture","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" In preparation for the upcoming 'Star Trek' reboot/prequel, I decided to watch all the previous Trek Adventures. Having already seen all 10 films, I know which are going to be like pulling teeth to get through. And speaking of which, watching 'Star Trek The Motion Picture' is like visiting the dentist without any Novocain. A (literally) star trek in the opening (still not sure what the screen saver was all about prior to the credits rolling) followed by 45 minutes until the Enterprise actually leaves space dock, the movie is so incredibly slow. However, I can see why. Fans of the original TV series never got to see their favorite characters/Enterprise on the big screen, so why not take half the movie showing off the icons on the big screen. And that was the impression I got this movie was made specifically to see the 60s show on the large screen. The film involves an extremely thin plot (newly) Admiral James T Kirk has been vacant from the Enterprise's bridge and desperately wants back on (I guess shadowing the same desires of the real-life William Shatner and the spotlight, instead of the Enterprise.) With an enemy heading to destroy Earth, mankind's only hope results in the familiar crew who must solve the mystery along the way. Extremely little depth (aside from Kirk) is given to all the characters, so if you're not familiar with the original series, you're given nothing to go on, pending this was your first experience. And that's one of the film's biggest flaws; when you're trying to introduce a new audience to a potential franchise of films, you absolutely need to reintroduce the main characters. Sad, with over two-hours (when it should've been less than the normal 1-hour episode) they failed on that very simple rule. "},{"Title":"just a remake of 'where no man' -","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a ridiculous Trek fan - I stood in line in the snow for hours at our local theater for the 2nd showing (first was sold out!); my first concern was seeing the faces of the first audience as they exited - flat, dull, vaguely sad. Not good. As I saddled into my seat, expecting the best, I began to realize why even hardcore Trek fans dropped like flies.The film is a remake of Where No Man Has Gone Before - with no dramatic tension. Our favorite characters, Kirk, Spock, McCoy et al, are all secondary, with the entire plot given to a pair of complete unknowns; we're also expected to faint like Obamatrons by the mere presence of a big-scale wide model Enterprise - so much ooohing and aaahing, wow it's really really big after all! - even that wears thin after awhile. Boring beyond belief.Not the place to get any new Trek fans WRATH OF KHAN is far, far better, but you still have to know SPACE SEED to really get it.I have a 9 year old who has NO CLUE about Trek - so I'm showing him three of the originals- City on the Edge of Forever - Trouble With Tribbles - What are Little Girls Made Of?Not a bad start, hopefully... "},{"Title":"Crayola Scrawls","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I scorn to mention particulars about Star Trek The Motion Picture. You may assume--and correctly--that my general observations are supported thoroughly by the evidence of specific details in the film--if you care to watch it.This film's script must have been written up--nay, scribbled down--with crayola scrawls. The story and dialogue are childish; this is science fiction for seven-year-olds. The characterizations are embarrassing. The film's pace is labored--there is no excitement in extended sequences of wondering faces and meaningless spectral visuals. The magnificent grandeur of the score is shackled, thoughtlessly, to the rank stupidity on the screen. The special effects are cool--but that's merely admitting that the film has visual style. Without story substance, this supposed work of art is a house of cards the slightest puff of objective criticism can blow down. Critical viewer do it. Blowing it down is easy, and it's the very gesture of contempt a film like this deserves. "},{"Title":"A grand effort with an apoplectic ending","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Imagine you're going to your high school's 20th reunion, and you find out an old flame is going to be there. You remember the idealized image, then find yourself awkwardly confused to find the latter-day reality not matching your lofty expectations.That's the impossible task of Star Trek The Motion Picture, Paramount's hit-and-miss epic effort to leverage 70's Star Wars mania into a resurrection of the popular 60's era science fiction show about the Starship Enterprise and her crew.The unrealistic expectations given STTMP almost derail the film before the first frame is photographed, yet Paramount's confused production direction and assumption that Trek's TV genetics will naturally migrate to the big screen make the effort a nearly impossible task. Yet, even given the obstacles and production hassles, STTMP still carves out its own brand of success. Jerry Goldsmith's legendary score stands out as one of the most memorable in film history, narrowly losing an Oscar for Best Original Score. Doug Trumbull stitched together a last-minute effects package after director Robert Wise realized late in production that most of the completed effects produced by Robert Abel's Apogee were unusable.The film's lethargic style is somewhat improved in the much-acclaimed Director's Cut, wherein Robert Wise was allowed to give the film a final edit not afforded due to the film's shortened production schedule arising from its guaranteed release date back in December 1979. The cut's new visual effects work to transition previously awkward story arcs, but can't entirely solve the at times ponderously over-told story of an alien probe in pursuit of earth.Claustrophobic performances by William Shatner et al seem all too conscious of and intimidated by the movie's grand scale, with each character working too hard to create dramatic ennui with each line. The results, at times, seem like heavy-handed direction. ONly as the film nears its end do we begin to see the regular Trek personalities emerge - but by then, the movie's almost over. Wise's Director Cut cleans up many of these dialogue transitions and weaknesses, and does help the film's narrative momentum about as much as could reasonably be expected, without the benefit of pickup shots or voiceovers as might be part of a final edit.TMP's lethargic style, whether in original release or Director's Cut revision, is not helped by a somnambulent design for the Enterprise's refit interiors, which seem to wander between varying shades of grays and blues. Unfortunately, the same colors were chosen for many of the crew uniforms, which turn the bland into the downright boring. Its worth noting that crew uniforms were completely redesigned prior to the 1982 sequel, The Wrath of Khan.TMP aspires to tell a story of human introspection, but tries to force an epic ambiance into a story that cannot support it. The end, one in which the villain alien simply disappears in an array of light and Trek doublespeak, leaves the viewer wondering Is that all? Rather than trusting Trek's principals to execute the kind of story that made the notion of a Trek rebirth worthwhile, the effects-heavy realization that did, at times, achieve fleeting moments of wow, cannot be termed in the broader view as anything other than disappointing - not so much for its own failings, but for what might have been. Yet, despite critical shortcomings, TMP was successful enough to justify a string of sequels and, later, a suite of new TV series. That, alone, might be just enough to call it a success after all... "},{"Title":"Not the best, but certainly not the worst","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Even though this movie, is not considered one of the better Trek films, it is not that bad. There are many things that are right with the movie. You have of course the entire cast of the original Star Trek TV show from the 60's, ten years after the show was canceled. So it is a treat to see the original cast back on the big screen. A wonderful musical score, written by Jerry Goldsmith, then state of the art special effects, an award winning director Robert Wise, probably the most distinguished director to direct a Star Trek film. However, having all those good elements that would seem to make anything a classic, its a classic case of too many cooks, can spoil the broth. The state of the art effects, while truly spectacular, even by today's standards, seemed to over run the film. Sometimes it felt like they were just put in to see how cool it would all look. With all of the special effects overpowering the movie, it was less about the people on the Enterprise. Many of the actors never got to really do much, Sulu, Chekov, Scotty, Uhuara, even McCoy were all overshadowed and didn't have much to do. While the newer members of the crew, Commander Decker and Lt Ilia got a lot of the screen time. Another problem would be writing and directing. The story of The plot, while a probably a good TV episode,(in fact, the story was to have been a pilot episode for an aborted 70's Star Trek TV show which was dropped in favor of the movie) was dragged out for SO long that it made the movie really dull to watch. And while Robert Wise is a great director, he probably wasn't the best choice to be a Star Trek director.Overral, I wouldn't say it was a bad movie. In places, the movie was awesome and had some truly great Star Trek moments. Like when Kirk sees the beautiful re-fitted Enterprise. But unfortunately the problems that I just stated, really hurt the movie as a whole. But it would get better for the Star Trek movie franchise..... "}{"Title":"Star Trek The Motion Picture","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture is a great film, it has some really nice special effects especially in The Directors Edition where the effects are digitally remastered, the music score is great and I really enjoy the main theme. The film can be a little slow paced but the plot keeps you intrigued into knowing what Vger is. The plot sees a mysterious cloud of energy moving through space destroying anything in it's path and after encountering some Klingons a Enterprise satellite picks up the cloud and discover that it's heading towards Earth, they then send a message warning them what's going on. Kirk now Admiral is sent to see what the problem is, he's told what's going on and that he must intercept the cloud and destroy it before it reaches Earth because if it does then Earth will be destroyed by it. Kirk is shown the new Enterprise and soon he meets his old friends from the original ship and soon they take off to find the cloud, soon Spock leaves his planet to go onto the Enterprise. After encountering a worm hole they soon find the energy cloud and suddenly a energy form goes inside the ship and takes one of the crew, she soon returns to the ship but not has the same. She's now got a probe in her so the cloud can scan the lifeforms. They discover that inside the cloud is a highly intelligent machine called Vger that wants to find it's creator and will stop at nothing until it's search is complete. Kirk and his crew must try and stop Vger before it reaches Earth and scans for the creator.Star Trek The Motion Picture is a great movie with amazing effects and an interesting storyline. Check it out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"visually a pure delight; as the first feature-length ST movie, could've been better, could've been worse","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching the director's cut of Star Trek The Motion Picture, first off, is probably the only way to go. I'm not sure if the original theatrical cut fared better, but I can't imagine it getting any better than this. Which is to say that I think the other cut would probably not be much of an improvement over what is essentially a good piece of pop science fiction, more operatic than the usual Trekkie fare but worth the price to check out once. Right away we're reunited with all of the old gang (Spock!, as Kirk exclaims upon seeing him again, gave me a bit of a grin, knowing what would come of him in the sequels), and even given a new character (Stephen Collins) as part of the Enterprise crew. The story this time chronicles something even more abstract than would be expected for a ST flick a mysterious entity, as in a kind of astronomical force that may be a little too technical for some fans just looking for a Klingon or two (though there are actually one or two at one point), heading for Earth.The same drama and drive for solid, if cheesy, emotional catharsis is all there, and the only drawbacks come with maybe too much fanfare, with Robert Wise edging on going the route of 2001 when it isn't always necessary. The scope, however, is proportional for the subject matter, and when it comes down to it the main drama is not all just about deep philosophical questions edging their way into the central conceit (in this case it's the basic one why are we here?). It's also in seeing a vessel like a sea captain on a big ship take charge, as with Kirk (Shatner, in good if typical form as usual), dealing with taking charge of the Enterprise for the first time in years. There's also another character, played by Khambatta, who is another kind of alien presence to the ship, and this helps add just that little extra tension needed among the crew. Although all of the revelations involving the big space cloud comes in a drawn-out manner- and it is more drawn-out than I would usually tolerate if not for it being the guilty pleasure that is Star Trek- it does lead to some truly amazing visuals, and some high-level emotions from the crew that make it worthwhile.Not quite the best introduction to the films for non-Trekkies (go for Khan or The Voyage Home for that), but it is in general a fairly well-spun elongated sci-fi serial, loaded with pomp and circumstance, and the best to be expected from the Enterprise crew. "},{"Title":"Star Trek brought to the big screen by a master","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The problem with the criticism of so many viewers to STTMP is that they were fans of the original series and had trouble with seeing their pet universe altered and expanded from the familiar. What makes this film so great is that for the first time, the starship Enterprise and her crew, all having moved on from the first five year mission, have evolved. You knew when you heard the overture with the haunting Ilea's Theme that something special was about to happen, and then suddenly, the Jerry Goldsmith Fanfare and Theme breaks onto the Screen. I remember sitting and watching this film by myself the night before it opened to the public (I was a movie projectionist at the time) and just broke into tears, the emotion of having these beloved characters back in action. Added to that the film was helmed by one of the great directors of all time Robert Wise, who had given the world such great films as The Day the Earth Stood Still and The Haunting among so many others. A lot of people ran this film down because we were not killing off the bad aliens or some such, but that had never been the intention of Gene Roddenberry, who's hopes was that Star Trek would help people to see that we could have a better world. WHile some people claim that the film was too slow, or too boring, I look at it like this. Without this film, we might never have had four more Star Trek Series and the other movies. It was one of Paramount Studio's greatest assets (Thanks to of all people Lucille Ball) and yet had to struggle to escape the constant muddling of incompetent studio executives and fight for life. That is the true triumph of Star Trek the Motion Picture. "},{"Title":"Directors Cut = No direction, all cut","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie? Great. 9/10. But I'm not going to get into that. This review is to inform you of which version to see.There are 3 versions the 1979 theatrical release (132 min), the 1983 VHS edition (143 min) and the 2001 director's cut (136 min). If at all possible, find yourself a copy of the 1983 VHS (143 min). It features 11 scenes missing from both the theatrical release AND the director's cut. At least 6 of these 11 scenes are very important to the movie. I have no idea why they were chopped.In a movie where dialogue is already sparse, they decided to chop out a lot of key script. Sulu's humorous flirtations with Ilia are gone. McCoy's irate criticism of Kirk is gone. Decker's philosophical commentary on god is gone. Ilia's slow transformation to human is gone. Why couldn't they leave it the way had it in '83?But the worst travesty is the added CGI special effects. WHY OH GOD WHY do directors think these classic scifi movies need CGI facelifts? Just like plastic surgery, CGI is fake, artificial, dead. It kills all character and leaves us with a lifeless lump (are you listening, Michael Jackson?) I'll say this much The Star Trek CGI crap is no where as bad as George Lucas's laughably incongruous mess he did with Star Wars. But it's still distracting. In particular, a fantastic scene (walking on the saucer) was chopped out of this movie and replaced with a very video-gamey shot from a distance. We no longer see the 5 crewmembers emerging with their shadows stretched before them. Instead we see what looks like 5 little specks in the middle of a cartoon with stupid lightning flashes that I could've drawn better with my left foot.Yeah, I admit this review is very harsh. Like I said, most people will hardly notice the points I'm talking about. But if you're a total Trek nerd, I'm sure you catch my drift (btw, don't even get me started on Star Trek 2.0 where they're mercilessly redoing the old TV series with flashy new computer effects. Hailing frequencies are CLOSED).Now get on Ebay and find yourself a copy of the 1983 VHS. Unfortunately I don't think it's available in widescreen, which pisses me off. Maybe in the years to come, they'll reissue yet another version which gets it all. Good luck. "},{"Title":"The First Of Ten Great Movies","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Shatner's acting as he glares with love at the new super-cool looking Enterprise, Shatner's uncomfortable movements as he struggles to find his way around the totally new Enterprise, Shatner taking command from Decker, Shatner's shock as he views someone being killed in the transporter room, Shatner giving a speech to the Enterprise crew about the deadly cloud on a collision with earth, Shatner welcoming McCoy and Spock on board, Shatner's shock as the Enterprise almost explodes, Shatner, Shatner, Shatner! And this is only in the first half of the film!I am a sucker for a film with energy charged acting covered with outstanding music...William Shatner's performance scored with Jerry Goldsmith's finest score of all time makes this film a knockout! And the rushed sometimes not thought about actions of James Kirk mirror the rushed sometimes not thought about actions of the film crew when the film was being made (they were told to hurry up). Reality and fiction come together in an odd way but pleasing way. Granted, the second half of The Motion Picture is less pleasing and at times even unwatchable due to the slowness of it all but the simple fact that half the film can survive 200 viewings makes it the ultimate Trek...and almost as good as Star Wars (1977).I should point out that when I talk about this film, I am talking about the new two disc DVD set that includes warming up space music before the opening credits and added little bits all over the place - Our chances of getting back alive just doubled - and also the deleted scenes on the second special features disc. Who could forget that deleted moment on the bridge when Sulu glares with lust at his female co-worker, only to have Decker watching from behind and smiling! Why the hell was this not included in the final cut? Well, to me, it is apart of the movie!You have to laugh at some of the CGI stuff added to the new 2000 cut of the film. We get to hear this effects guy get all excited about adding a tiny bit of blue sky to the San Francisco bit at the start...who cares if a tiny bit of blue sky is added? Oh well, some do get a bit too carried away with Trek.I hope this Motion Picture review proves that I do think Star Trek was magic, and this is just the start of the long running movie series. "},{"Title":"Not Now, Voyager","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" What if Roddenberry told a joke and nobody laughed?That's precisely what happened...the critics back in '79 didn't get it, and apparently it has since gone over most everyone's head...at warp speed.The creative process simply references itself Voyager(the original TV series) is created, sent out into the void to seek contact, but vanishes from the solar system (the series is canceled) and disappears for many years, until an advanced civilization (the Trekkies) retools it and sends it back to earth in massive unrecognizable form (as a movie) to reestablish contact with the creator (the movie audience). More plain self-reference there are problems with the transporter and warp drive (translating TV special effects to the movies)...Wise did create a visual spectacle, and the scale of the foreground objects against the backdrops is cinematically competent. However, as with the 'Sound of Music', the interaction between the characters is two dimensional. The visuals should have been enough, but I suppose the flat, grayscale TV/staginess is what sunk it. "},{"Title":"original and good yet somewhat slow","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" whilst the story line can withstand a battering and the special effects are now quite funny the movie tends to have those long sequences that appeared frequently in the early star trek pictures that didn't seem to have anything to do with the story what so ever - in this case the enterprise as usual but also a weirdly long and annoying scene of Mr Spock floating through space which looks much better after you've hit the fast forward button. the tension between kirk and the other captain is shockingly well done and helped by the performance of bones - who is as trouble making as you could wish, especially when it comes to transporters (ouch by the way), and what a beard he has! the return of Spock is a great moment but slightly underdone i feel. Spock seems overly vulcan in this film till the end and i much prefer the logically funny Spock then the silent Spock. this film is well worth being watched by all trekkies though i advise non trekkies to give it a miss - you wont see the point. "},{"Title":"Much Awaited, Highly anticipated, Lowly rated","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" A great film for the overall trekkie I must've seen it 10 times in the theater back in '79, although not liking it as much as the series episodes. Great overall presentation, effects, good use of the well developed characters, presents good possibilities for movies to come. Too slow, boring. bit of a snorer. Music , colors, outstanding. The scenes are punctuated by musical and special effects interludes designed for overanxious fans, to keep them seated at the first viewing; lots of opportunities for bathroom breaks, for those who have seen it more than once. The crew blasts off in a refitted Enterprise taking them in to the heart of an intelligent malevolent alien cloud like phenomenon organizes about a lost Earth probe, Voyager 6, in search of  joining the creator, to become one. In a hopeless attempt to arrest V'ger as it is called, the crew stumbles through dry jokes and drawn out scenes, finally confronting and convincing the damaged probe that it has rejoined its creator once and for all. Giving it a six out of ten is generous but nonetheless, not a five. Say, precisely 5.6275. "},{"Title":"Boring, but not without its merits","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The makers of this film must have watched 2001 a few too many times while they storyboarded.Nah, let's throw in some primitive computer graphics stuff, and some quiet footage of docking and undocking. It's all the rage, you know. And I think if there's one thing sci-fi needs more of, it's transcending. You can't have too much transcending these days. Still, through it all there is something there. Even if it's just getting to watch out favorite crewmembers outside the Enterprise in spacesuits. And it helps to establish the theme through the original cast films that the Enterprise is a character in itself, always growing and changing. "},{"Title":"The 2nd best Trek Film","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" OK I know everyone loves WOK but really when you talk about original cast Trek movies there are just 3 that really make it - The Motion Picture, Wrath of Kahn, and Generations. I think that often this movie is overlooked but I think it captures the essence of the Trek saga in a very powerful way - too many of the other movies broke down into a us against them plot structure; us vs. the Borg or us vs. Klingons. This film hits the original series theme of an unknown to explore not a known to battle. I know the costumes and set dressing are cheesy today but if you can get past that this is a GREAT film. I believe that the attraction of the original series was its willingness to confront social issues in inovative ways - be it social justice, inclusion, etc. The Motion Picture fulfills that role by asking us just what are the risks we take when we reach out, explore, and seek to understand. "}{"Title":"It only knows that it wants but like so many of us, does not know what.","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" A self-important and curiously cold adaptation of the T.V series that succeeds in promoting big-screen spectacle and a touch of the epic but misses the chance of recreate the warmth between the main cast that made them popular and secured the shows longevity post-cancellation.The problem with The Motion Picture is that Robert Wise, he who inflicted The Sound of Music and West Side Story on a generation, isn't sure what kind of movie it's supposed to be. It owes its existence to Star Wars but Wise would rather fashion something that looks more like 2001, so its all beauty shots and existential pontification rather than old fashioned intergalactic fun and games. That said, the pluses are the visual effects, which are occasionally tremendous and the score, Jerry Goldsmith at the top of his game - in either respect it can't be faulted but its an unforgivably boring two hours - humourless, slow and characterless so that Shatner, Nimoy and co. look and sound awkward, like a bunch of workers trying to stay civil following a massive argument. The production design makes the new Enterprise look sterile and pallid while the script is too self-consciously straight faced for its own good - these look like the cast we know but they're lifeless shadows of their former selves. It must have been hard for the fans who waited 10 years but Star Trek 1 is a bit of a $40M clunker - money thrown at the screen with scant regard for that all important screenplay. The sequel cost less than half of this but its about 8 times as good, a meaty character driven adventure laced with wit and good humour - The fine wine that follows the overpriced, microscopic main course that didn't taste of anything but had a beautifully dressed side salad. "},{"Title":"Movie is better than Star Wars","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a Star Trek fan and is critical of how people view this film I found Star Trek to be superior than to their rival, Star Wars in special effects and realism of the film track itself. The incredible, clean score of Jerry Goldsmith outscores JohnWilliams in its glory and I would heartly recommend this and any other Star Trek film to fans who want to see the best science fiction movie of its class. It sounds like Gene Roddenberry has finally found success with his legendary creation.Overall the actors themselves were true to their previous experience in their last star trek TV hit series so its hard to not to like them at all. Only I sure wish that Star Trek would only win its Oscar and with Gene Roddenberry who only could saywith pride how strong is his determination to entertain many of us as his devoted Star Trek fans.  "},{"Title":"Bold, under-rated and misunderstood","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture often gets a lot of flack from Trekkies and non-trekkies alike for being slow-moving, awkward, and unlike the television show it was expected to follow.  Fans remember Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan and Star Trek III The Search For Spock as being much closer to the feel of the show they grew up with, and non-fans remember that a lot more things blew up in those films, which always makes for superior entertainment.What these people fail to see in The Motion Picture is ambition.  The creative team (staff writers, the director, and even the actors) took a beloved and well-anticipated follow-up to the Star Trek legacy and tried to do something more with it (gasp!).  TMP gives us ample time to revel in reintroductions.  Kirk's five minute glimpse at the exterior of the Enterprise is one such moment which scored major points with the fan base of the day who'd waited ten years to see the Enterprise again (and a much more realistic looking one too!), but which is hard to understand 25 years later, when you can't channel surf for twenty minutes without seeing a variation on The Enterprise in one of the myriad of Star Trek shows that have since been produced.Indeed, much of the beauty of TMP can only be glimpsed if you're willing to approach it as if the year were 1979, and you'd been waiting ten years to see more Trek.  While it's true that a two hour film of William Shattner's butt would similarly seem more pleasing in such a light, I can say with relative assurity that TMP has more to offer (no offense to Mr. Shattner intended).The special effects are a particularly stunning element of TMP which is now all to easy to gloss over.  The new model of the Enterprise, which actually looked real enough to make the overall shape look sort of corny, the warp speed effect (which paved the way for the warp effect we see in Next Generation and later shows), the interior of the energy cloud, and many of the ship sets are highly elaborate, and bring a new sort of credibility to the formerly silly looking world of Trek.  Assorted visual effects are disproportionate (sometimes mind-boggling considering the time period, and sometimes looking like they were done with sheets and flashlights), but the new director's cut does a good job of replacing and improving upon the latter.But most importantly, at the heart of TMP is a sincere desire to evolve Trek.  An easy crowd-pleasing film would have found the original crew on their third five year mission, caught up in a war with the Klingons.  Yey battles, special effects, and familiar territory!  Instead, we're given estranged characters who have grown apart, as well as some (namely Kirk and Spock) who are battling with internal demons that they've never had to face before.  These characters are darker and less prone to smiling than they had been before.  This complexity is more likely to be appreciated by a fan who is familiar with these characters and would notice the change. Unfortunately, stubborn fans still miss the point, lamenting that this is not the same old Kirk and Spock doing the same old song and dance.Perhaps most risky is the plot, itself.  Rather than a clear-cut storyline, in which the characters are faced with a problem that involves conflict, struggle, and ultimately a master plan, TMP centers around a vague and undefined threat that slowly and barely maliciously unveils itself, appealing more to reactions of the mind than of the gut.  The two final realizations (what V'ger is, and what V'ger wants) are similarly brilliant, standing out amongst some of science-fiction's best twist endings.Star Trek The Motion Picture is not a perfect film.  The look of the film is a bit odd, with atrocious colors, contrasts, and uniforms, clearly reminiscent of Alien (1979) and 2001 A Space Odyssey (1968), two of the three major sci-fi pictures that proceeded TMP.  Both were also horror films, and their uses of visual styles were intended to create discomfort and a sense of foreboding.  These visuals and their corresponding emotions are grossly inappropriate on the starship Enterprise, cherished home to our protagonists.Similarly odd is the introduction and presence of Commander Decker and Lieutenant Eileya, two left-overs from the unproduced second Star Trek television series, who seem to have no place in this film.  An inappropriate amount of time is given to introducing these utterly flat characters, as well as their relationship to one another, when neither contributes much to the film, aside from one being used as a pawn by V'ger.  V'ger might as well have used a random ensign.  Decker finally manages to get a crucial moment at the end of the film.  However, based upon the clues and character momentum building since the start of the film, Spock would have been a more logical choice for this role.  It certainly would have given more impact to the ending.Of course, then we wouldn't have a Spock left to kill off in Wrath of Khan.Finally, some of the music cues in this film are disasterous.  While TMP features some sensational scoring, including the new Star Trek theme (which will eventually become the Next Generation theme), and a stunning love theme, both themes are reused ad nauseum, especially when the love theme pops up while Kirk leaves the enterprise in a space suit, looking for Spock. Perhaps the fan fics about those two were on to something?Worse yet, instead of a theme, V'ger gets a simple haunting sound that could be best described as an electronic boom.  While terrifying and alien at first, the boom is quickly over-used, becoming comical as it's played on a beat every single time something new about V'ger is discovered.  Captian, I believe there's a craft within that cloud (boom!).  V'Ger seeks the Creator (boom!).  This gets quite funny after a while.All in all, however, the director's cut does an excellent job compensating for these flaws in judgement whenever possible.  Rambling scenes are trimmed, odd and unnecessary scenes about the new lieutenant's chastity are (mostly) omitted, and minor details are subtly improved.  Unfortunately, the new cut continues to leave out several short but key moments omitted in the original film version but later included in the made-for-TV edit. Decker's comment about creating God in one's own image is most clearly missing in this version.To rap up a rather lengthly review, this is not the film to see if you're just in the mood to catch up with Kirk and the gang.  Any of the other films could be considered far more trivial and light-hearted; far more fitting for the original series tone.  This is neither a film for Trekkies nor for new-comers looking for easy entertainment.  This is a complex thinking film, and it requires an understanding of the time, place, and audience for which the film was made.  Clocking in at 136 minutes, it also requires a healthy attention-span.  But if you can bring all that to a viewing of this film, you will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Quick, Bones!  The dramamine!","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  After months of anticipation, leaks, and fan magazines gushing every time another roll of film was put in the can, Star Trek The Motion Picture finally hit the big screen - with a thud.  To begin with, the plot is treadworn Another Big Bad Probe Coming To Menace The Earth. Oh yeah; that's new.  STTMP is one of those rare breed of action/adventure films that starts off at a dead run, and within 20 minutes is down to a dead crawl, and then stays that way for the duration.  As one reviewer once put it, unlike Star Wars, where the spaceships zip across the screen, in this film the spaceships take forever to get somewhere, and when they get there, nothing happens.  We concur wholly.  This film is a crashing bore, exacerbated by a tedious, plodding fly-around of the new Enterprise in spacedock, endless shots of crewmembers staring, goggle-eyed, at the bridge viewscreen, including Sulu (really, George, we KNOW you are better than this), and pompous, hammy, stilted acting.  One of the worst examples is Yeoman Rand, now a CPO, reacting to a massive transporter malfunction.  Quote Oh, no. . .they're for-ming.  Oh, no. ..she's act-ing.  While we have only admiration for Grace Lee Whitney's strength of character, this performance was embarrassingly bad.  The original cast are all here, reprising, more or less, their original roles, plus some Fresh New Faces.  There's Steven Collins as Decker, the new captain whose authority is usurped by now-Admiral Kirk, and who goes through the whole film looking like he's on belladonna; check those eyes! And there's Persis Kambatta, as the bald Deltan Ilia who, we are informed, has taken an Oath of Celibacy, probably as a counterpoint to Decker's Oath of Stupidity.  We feel bad for Persis; she probably felt that this would be her breakout film.  Instead, it skyrocketed her from the depths of the unknown to the heights of obscurity. And, finally, we have to mention the blonde, female crewmember standing at the safety rail behind the captain's chair, whose sole function seems to be to toss her hair from side to side. What was THAT all about?  Robert Wise is a capable, experienced director, but this film looks like he directed it by phone.  In short, if you like action/adventure films that actually have some action or adventure, and enjoy watching characters that have more than one dimension, avoid this tremendously disappointing dog.  This is a movie for hard-core Trekkies ONLY! "},{"Title":"Psychedelic boredom","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, you have to be a hardcore Trekkie to enjoy this one (which I'm not, just the ordinary Star trek fan). I mean, the story line is sort of ok, but why on earth was it necessary to show the Enterprise for about 5 Minutes? And was it really necessary to move a tiny little space ship (the Enterprise) above a huge surreal painting (meaning the alien space ship) which could be anything, even a painting by H.R. Giger? Really boring film... "},{"Title":"The Motion Sickness","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  In late fall of 1979, I saw this long awaited epic with the intense anxiety of a kindergartner waiting for Christmas. I was so hyped about the possibility of seeing a film that was going to do for the television show, Star Trek, what Star Wars did for the entire genre two years previous. I even got to see it on opening weekend, thrilled to pieces.The opening credit sequence seemed long. I mean, it seemed REALLY long. I sat there wondering if I needed to go back to the theatre concessionary for more soda or something because the music had been playing since before I sat and the lights dimmed. Oh, the music was magnificent, no mistake, but I hadn't been so perplexed by pretentiously long opening titles since Superman the year before.The sequence with the Klingons was remarkable, and the opening sequence was really exciting. But it rapidly became a film of Roddenberry's greatest hits. Spock on Vulcan wrestling with his human identity, Kirk back on Earth longing for command, Bones ranting about being a doctor and not something else, and so on and so on. And if that was not distracting enough, the cameos were somewhat artificial and interrupting. (Look! Over there! Isn't that Grace Lee Whitney? Isn't that Koenig?) I can almost hear Robert Wise saying, Let's let the camera linger on Majel a few seconds longer for the fans.But who cares about cheese when you're getting to watch the Enterprise on the big screen? Well, after watching scenes that had the sole purpose in life of wasting time and slowing the pacing of the movie, *I* did. Even as a 14 year old, I could tell this film was really missing something. I learned later that it was more what the film was *not* missing that was wrong with it.When I was older, a fellow geek referred to this film grimly as Star Drek The Motion Sickness and he nailed the film's problems in that epitaph. The five minute trip around the Enterprise (timed to this swelling and poignant score by Goldsmith) and the interminable journey through the Cloud gave me nausea precisely opposite to the way that *fast* rides do. It was so *slow* a ride that I felt really sick by the time Spock was trying to mind-meld with V'Ger. By the end of the film, I was really feeling my popcorn start to rise.Watch George Takei as he steers the ship through the Cloud. Sulu looks like he's watching a porn film, complete with Orion slave girls and Andorians, up there on the viewing screen. It's really both funny and surreal to realize you, the audience, are watching someone who is watching something and he looks like it's amazing when, after the first five minutes, the suspension of disbelief vanishes and it's just another wait for the It's a Small World ride to end.I did watch the film twice as a teenager (because after all, my girlfriend moved away to Grand Cayman and what else could I do?) and I watched the director's cut recently. It *is* a better film now, in its new incarnation, but not by very much. You cannot make stale food taste better just by reheating it and spicing it up a bit. Without a doubt, this is the least auspicious of the Star Trek films. "},{"Title":"What a waste of time and money","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Who was smoking what drugs  when they made this slop?!  Granted, it touched off the other  movies and reanimated a dead  series, but why!? Why the pastels?  Why the new uniforms? What was  the deal with this movie. If Star Trek  5 hadn't been made ,this film would  have been one of the worst  representations of a long running  sci-fi series ever. And to add insult  to injury, they made a special edition  DVD! What's so great about this movie?  I didn't like it without the remade  soundtrack and color, and I certainly  won't like it the second time around. "},{"Title":"Ho-hum rehash","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched the original series, and enjoyed reruns of it for about 10 years. I never found that TNG or subsequent spin-offs were worth going out of my way to watch, so I can't say I'm a particular fan.  I did like The Wrath of Kahn, and saw the one about the whales (ok, but not great).Today, I found STTMP on a cable channel, and started watching it about 1/2 hour into it (Spock just got there).  So I missed the reunion part.But it took very little time to see this as a rehash of The Changeling, and I was really surprised when I saw that not one of the 113 user comments in this database mentioned that episode from the 1966 series.Alas, the rehash stretched the hour-long episode into a 2-hour+ long movie, not by introducing any interesting sub-plots or emotional conflict or even a little touch of humor, but only by stretching fuzzy exterior effects scenes beyond where no yawn has gone before.At least the re-write didn't reuse the over-worked ending that befell Nomad - logicked to death.I am glad that it was enjoyed by enough people to revive interest in Star Trek and introduce it to new generations (of the 20th century kind). "},{"Title":"Don't dismiss this movie too quickly","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having been a fan of the Star Trek Series when it first premiered in 1966, I, too, was disappointed by its first venture onto the big screen.  However, after recently purchasing the new DVD with the extra features including the commentary of Robert Wise, I have concluded Star Trek The Motion Picture was sort of a tribute to the stupidity of the executives at NBC and Paramount.Ever since the original pilot was shot in 1964 until 1979, the executives were never able to grasp the full potential of Star Trek.  My proof1.  When the executives viewed the first pilot, an executive who has forever remained unnamed wanted the character of Spock eliminated.  They did somewhat redeem themselves by ordering a new pilot with William Shatner as Captain and retaining the role of Spock.2.  After the first season, the executives wanted to cancel the series.3.  After the second season, the executives wanted to cancel the series.4.  Stanley Kubrick releases his movie, 2001 A Space Odyssey which is instantly hailed as a classic and for the first time demonstrates what good special effects can do.  4.  After the third season, the executives successfully canceled the series.5.  When the series succeeded in syndication, the executives approved a half-hearted effort for an animated series which ran for only 22 half-hour episodes.6.  Meanwhile, a young director named George Lucas pitches his idea for a space movie to 20th Century Fox, gets an okay and a 10 million dollar budget.7.  The executives are now just beginning to realize in 1975 what most Star Trek fans have always known.  As a result, Star Trek Phase II is approved for production as a TV series, then changes to a low budget movie, and then back to a TV series, etc.  The executives are spending money but not producing anything to be shown.  This expenditure will show up on the final talley for making Star Trek The Motion Picture.  This little fact is revealed by Robert Wise on the DVD.8.  In the summer of 1977, Star Wars becomes a huge smash.  Using special effects not seen since 2001 A Space Odyssey, the movie rakes in money like mad.  9.  The executives at Paramount begin to wonder what they can use to compete with Star Wars.  Its still amazing at this point the name Star Trek doesn't jump into their minds immediately.  One person has to tell them they have been sitting on a multi-billion dollar franchise for over a decade and doing nothing with it.  Result  Star Trek is destined for the big screen using state-of-the-art special effects.  Problem  They use a script written before Star Wars that better competes with 2001 and not Star Wars.  Several scenes in Star Trek The Motion Picture look like 2001 including the fly-by of Jupiter, the voyage through the cloud reminiscent of Astronaut Bowman's journey through Stargate, and V'Ger looking like the Monolith dug up on the moon.10.  The good news  Despite everything the executives did, Star Trek The Motion Picture gives the jump start to the franchise and made it an overwhelming success putting money into the pockets of the the executives.Without this movie, there would be no Star Trek today or richer executives at Paramount. "},{"Title":"This is the V-GER Movie!","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is V-ger? V-ger wants to meet its creator.  But, like the whales Star Trek movie later to come, this first film uses the same plot to threaten the Earth. In this movie, the Creator does not answer because no one still uses AM-Modulated Radio Waves 300 years in the future!For an Original Star Trek movie all the characters from the TV series should have significant roles and dialog.  Not the case here.The story focuses on Stephen Collins as Capt. Willard Decker who has command of the Enterprise but gets temporarily demoted to Commander and Executive Officer after a desk bound Admiral Kirk must take command away and pursue a mysterious cloud that is threatening to destroy the Earth.  Former Miss India, the late Persis Khambatta (she died in India at age 48 of a massive heart attack) plays Lt. Ilia, the former love interest of Capt. Decker when they were together on some past planet.  She, robot like, informs Admiral Kirk upon coming aboard the Enterprise that My affidavit of celibacy is on file.  That's all we ever find out about their past relationship.  Of course, you know the writers will do something in the end to get Decker and Ilia together.Commander Decker is upset that the Enterprise has just spent 18 months being retrofitted and that Kirk, himself, recommended Decker for Command. The systems are not the same as when Admiral Kirk was its Captain.  It's a whole new Enterprise.  Of course, you know that Decker has to save Kirk from almost destroying the ship due to Kirk's lack of knowledge.  This technique is repeated in Wrath of Khan when Kirtie Alley as Lt. Savvak has to quote regulations to a mental-lapsed Admiral Kirk.  Admiral Kirk causes Dr. Bones McCoy to be recalled, beard and all, out of retirement back to the ship.  Why didn't he shave and change into uniform before reporting back on board?  An angry McCoy is calmed by Kirk's exhortation that Bones, I need you!  So, Bones falls into his stereotypical role of watching over the mental health of Admiral Kirk and taking potshots at Mr. Spock's lack of human understanding.A reluctant Mr. Spock was on Vulcan undergoing the Kolinhar ritual to purge the last of his emotions but, because he senses the presence of V-ger, he fails the test and departs to come to the Enterprise to make contact with that which disturbs him.  Mr. Spock acts the coldest he has ever acted towards all the crew, to everyone's bewilderment.Scottie keeps on giving Kirk, Warp Power, Aux (Auxiliary) Power in emergencies and getting Kirk out of jams when he needs action 2 minutes before they all die.  Lt. Uhura, Lt. Cmdr. Sulu and Lt. Cmdr. Chekov's speaking roles were minimal in this movie.  Any other crewmen could have been substituted.  Their characters were less important in this film then the fine stories they shared in the TV series.Gene Roddenberry's real wife, Majel Barrett, plays Dr. Christine Chapel.  She was originally Nurse Chapel in the TV series working with Dr. McCoy.  She must have gone to medical school during Dr. McCoy's retirement because he didn't know that she had become a doctor until he arrived on the bridge of the Enterprise once again.  Majel is also the voice of the computer!  Working!Captain Decker and Admiral Kirk spend most of the movie challenging each other's authority.  In the end, Capt. Decker and Lt. Illa are officially listed as missing in action when they merge to become a new life form.The first 40 minutes or so of this movie runs very slow, mostly, development of the mysterious cloud as a threat.  This movie must be 80% visual. This movie has limited dialog development.  Most of the speaking parts are utterances of two or three sentences.  The picture becomes more interesting when the Enterprise reaches the cloud and the special effects of the time (1979) are integrated within the film.  Lots of space ship model work and docking is shown.  But, lets take out the noise of a space ship moving through dead space.  Space is essentially a vacuum and sound is a mechanical wave that cannot travel through a vacuum.  There is no Doppler Frequency Shifting as human hears cannot hear any audible whoosh noise of a space ship going past a camera reference point in space.Who and What is V-GER? Think NASA of the 20th Century!Because of poor dialog and limited character utilization, this movie only gets a 7.  For as much as fans love anything Star Trek, you would think that the writers, producers, and director would make every Star Trek movie a perfect 10.    "}{"Title":"The Best Star Trek Movie Shamelessly Bashed","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, no Star Trek Movie is great science fiction, when compared to the likes of Things to Come, Forbidden Planet or 2001 a Space Odyssey.  However, it sure is fun stuff to watch.  Read my review of Forbidden Planet, and you will see how I judge sci-fi.  The best science fiction is pure science fiction, and Star Trek, the Motion Picture is the purest of all the ST sci-fi stories.  The rest, be they Wrath of Khan or The Voyage Home (aka Save the Whales), are just Space Cowboys.STTMP, as is proper to science fiction, projects how human beings of the future cope with physical paradigms which are completely unknown to us.  In this case, it's a knowledge acquisition machine which is doing its job so well that it is acquiring anything and everything in its path, including whole galaxies.  This is mind blowing stuff!  There are both  physical and metaphysical questions here, as well as the obvious question of how the hell to stop the thing.  Even the inevitable love interest is resolved in a sci-fi way.I don't know what audiences and critics were expecting with STTMP - obviously not story - but the low ratings and review pans are, in my book, totally undeserved.  Maybe with time there will be a re-appraisal. "},{"Title":"Special Effects make plot take a back seat -- sadly","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was so bad I was amazed that another Star Trek movie would ever be made.  Easily, this is the worst of the series because it is a muddled collection of assorted thoughts and ideas with no cohesion.  The results are remarkably unsatisfying.  Any attempts at acting and character development are stifled by the overwhelming pageantry.  Skip this one, and start with II. "},{"Title":"Would have been a good television episode","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie had the feel of a pretty good episode of the original Star Trek. On top of that, it had pretty cool special effects. There were a fair number of well-done scenes. Even the somewhat over-long inspection of the new ship had a nice feel to it. It had a lot going for it.Unfortunately, it wasn't a television episode, it was a feature-length movie, and there just wasn't enough material for an entire movie. In place of material that added something, it was stretched out by filler. Some of the filler was competent special effects, but it was still filler. Worse, a lot of the filler didn't even have the special effects thrill to it. Some of the acting was wooden, some of the directing was shaky (particularly for a talent like Wise), and a lot of the script was dull or even stupid.Stretching the campiness of the original television show (the world is going to end, and only the Enterprise can save it) to feature length just didn't work this way. What could have made this one better? Shorten it to the point where it's fast-paced. Find another of the over-long movies and trim it until it moves too. Then show the pair as a pair.It's not really bad science fiction, or even bad Star Trek. But compared to the expectations it was produced to fulfill, it was a real failure. "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek movie","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie could have been a hit and a classic without being a Star Trek movie, it is that good.  It has a great script that keeps you wondering, right up to the end.  Probably one of the most surprising endings since The Planet of the Apes. This film focused on a couple of the characters, and had plenty of beautiful imagery.  The current Star Trek producers could learn a lot from this one. "},{"Title":"You must watch it with the lens of a decade of TOS reruns","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The only way to watch and enjoy this movie is to first watch the episodes of the entire Original Series immediately before watching this movie, along with the production backstory featurettes. You must understand the era that the franchise was born out of, and what people had grown accustomed to, which was a decade, literally, of The Original Series re-runs as the only Star Trek franchise available to be seen anywhere, not including the Animated Series. You must fall in love with the Enterprise, which is the star of the show, and with the characters of Kirk, Spock, and McCoy. And most importantly you must appreciate that ten years is a very long time in fandom time to wait for anything to be made of the franchise. What you see here in this movie is love, absolute unadulterated love, of the Enterprise, now having been revamped and updated. You must picture yourself being there as Spock walks onto the bridge and everyone in the theater is so tickled to see that old friend waltz right in amongst his friends. And you must genuinely empathize with Spock's backstory to understand and feel his anguish has he fights the emotions of love he feels for his friends. You must also watch this movie appreciating that the majority of the Star Trek episodes consisted of ridiculous god-like superpowers imposing themselves upon the Enterprise or else upon entire planets and solar systems, and the studios just didn't have the technology nor the money to properly demonstrate it, but now, finally, they do. You must imagine how it must have felt to be in the production executive staff, now having technology and money to be unleashed to pour out over the love and attention to every little thing they really wanted to portray that they couldn't with their tiny budget series. The whole sequence (or two) of just ogling over the Enterprise with the wonderful symphonic orchestra is intended to be a delightful ceremony of infatuation. If you can't build yourself up to love and appreciate what this family of producers were creating, you'll hate this movie. Otherwise, you'll cherish this movie as one of your favorites. "},{"Title":"Will Disappoint Long-Time Star Trek Fans.Feels More Like A Long,Mediocre Episode,","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture is a good movie with a storyline that gets a bit carried away with itself,but a strong cast and brilliant characters still make this movie watchable.I am not a huge fan of Star Trek,but every time I watch it I enjoy it,and I do understand why this movie would disappoint a lot of the die hard Star Trek fans,probably the most loyal fans on the planet.I found the story and some of the dialogue stupid at times,but I still enjoyed this movie because William Shatner and Leonard Nimoy still manage to deliver great performances as Captain Kirk and Spock.Trekkies will definitely be disappointed with their first big screen adventure and should probably just watch three episodes in a row instead,but I do feel people who enjoy sci-fi that aren't die hard fans could enjoy Star Trek The Motion Picture a lot more.Captain Kirk leads the Starship Enterprise to put a stop to an entity on its way to Earth to find its creator. "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Motionless Picture","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" One thing that's nice about the original Star Trek television series is that it was almost never really dull. There were some awful episodes, there were some that are just annoying, in spite of good ideas and decent writing (Miri, which I recently rewatched, comes to mind), but it was almost always entertaining at least, something which I can't say about The Next Generation, unfortunately.However, in spite of the brilliant effects, music, and design work, Star Trek The Motionless Picture lives up to its title, remaining a lifeless, embalmed, almost unbelievably dull story for its entirety. Also, it's really not as intelligent or sophisticated as some of its fans like to claim. Directed by Robert Wise, who made several of my favorite films, this film fails on every level in terms of storytelling, and in its attempts to be a genuine science fiction epic falls flat throughout.The acting is really not good at all, and what is most disappointing about The Motionless Picture is that it fails to capitalize on the most charming aspect of the original Star Trek (and the later series as well, other than Voyager in which it wasn't present) the dynamic between the characters. Star Trek may have explored concepts, but it's only rarely that it achieved true greatness in that field. Its success was based on well-written stories and great, rich characters and a successful dynamic between them. The Motionless Picture has none of that. How sad it is that I'd rather watch The Way to Eden than suffer through this again. "},{"Title":"It Has Great Potential, but Gets Too Involved in Showing Off.","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Boring Uninteresting and tiresome; dull. Inducing discontent and mental weariness. Implies dullness that causes listlessness and lack of interest. &#150;paraphrased from The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, circa 1969.Protracted drawn out or lengthened in time; prolonged. -paraphrased from the same dictionary.Star Trek The Motion(less) Picture is directed by four time Oscar winner and directing legend Robert Wise. Wise's credits include The Sound of Music, The West Side Story, The Day the Earth Stood Still, and Citizen Kane, where he served as editor. I cannot fully appreciate The Sound of Music and The West Side Story since musicals about gangs or governesses (women employed to train or educate the children of a private household) are not my cup of tea, but Star Trek is a different matter. It is pretty surprising that a director of his caliber dropped the ball.The Plot An enormous energy cloud literally wipes away three Klingon Battle Cruisers and a nearby Starfleet Space Station detects the cloud on a direct course towards Earth. The USS Enterprise is the only Federation vessel available to intercept the cloud. Admiral Kirk (William Shatner), now with a desk job, persuades Starfleet to give him command of the Enterprise, an action that troubles her commander, Captain Decker (Stephen Collins). Uhura (Nichelle Nichols), Checkov (Walter Koenig), Scotty (James Doohan), Dr. McCoy (DeForest Kelley) and the rest of the Enterprise crew depart in the newly refit craft to meet the cloud and discern its purpose. Joining them is Lt. Ilia (Persis Khambatta, one of the most beautiful women who ever lived), a Deltan whom once dated Decker. That is all good, but it should not take 39 minutes to set up that much of the story.I often wish directors would give me a few more seconds to gaze at their beautiful sets, aerial shots, and visual effects; but even I know that there is a point when it goes too far. Consider for example the special effects scene where a shuttle approaches the Enterprise. After a brief conversation, there is no speaking for nearly five minutes of special effects shots. Later, the Enterprise penetrates the cloud and enters the massive ship inside it. Although there is some dialogue, the sequence lasts nearly 17 minutes, including a part where a probe of energy enters the bridge. Yes, I timed it.The being inside the cloud is V'Ger, a purely logical mind. Spock can sense V'Ger from his home on the planet Vulcan, and believes that it holds the answers he desires. As it turns out, Spock's connection with V'Ger's thoughts will actually provide V'Ger with what it is longing for.Star Trek The Motion Picture is not Star Wars. It is not about action or good vs. evil, but rather the questions V'Ger is asking Is this all that I am? Is there nothing more? While those questions are explored in a meaningful way, it takes far, far too long. I typically enjoy exploration of intelligent issues. I would have been more receptive to the philosophical drama if the dead space leading up to it had been trimmed. Without action, the story needs to advance efficiently, and while the best parts are at the end, I am impatient and uncomfortable by the time it finally gets to the point.On the positive end, Spock's sensory abilities work on a level I have only otherwise seen in the TV series episode The Devil in the Dark. Indeed, without them the story would not be possible. V'Ger is full of questions, but simple feeling is beyond its comprehension. The best scene comes when Spock acknowledges his human half and weeps for V'Ger, admitting, Logic and knowledge are not enough. James Berardinelli mentions in his review of the Director's Edition that Paramount planned to release it into theaters in the event of a 2002 Actor's Strike. If the potential strike happens this year, I hope they do. Despite the movie's failure to earn my recommendation, I would go see it. The special effects are far superior to any of the original Star Wars films. I have only seen the Director's Edition, where the visuals are completed. Note that the word used is completed, not updated. Too much time is spent showing them, but they are definitely inventive and spectacular. The dancing colors of the warp engine, the detail of the models, and the beaming graphic, a blue tube containing sparkles and white energy flowers in the shape of a body, are far superior to any of the other movies featuring the original crew. I would never miss an opportunity to see them on the large screen.It is sad that such a good story is buried in protracted and boring narration. While it may not be acceptable to mainstream viewers, there is enough meat to satisfy me were it not drowned in the pomp and circumstance. Its delivery botched, and that is a pity. "},{"Title":"A mundane film bereft of the anticipated energy and verve","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Hot on the heels of the success of Star Wars,the people behind Star Trek saw an opportunity to revive a cancelled TV series and acted quickly.This shows as we are presented with a plodding film that lacks the fizz of its inspiration but is well produced and at least visually interesting.The plot is a non starter so i wont bore you with a breakdown here, needless to say its a side dish to the main feast which are the visual effects.The set designs are incredible but the cast seem muted and never come to life.The fun tone of the series is completely scrapped in favour of an earnest and serious feel.The film has a good sense of scale but doesn't engage on a dramatic level and lacks the humour that one would expect of the seasoned cast.The film actually has a lot more in common with Kubricks 2001 than Lucas' Star Wars.Its a bad way to start a franchise and was an underwhelming experience for hardcore fans and passives alike. Its just as well that the next film was a cracker. "},{"Title":"The Motion Sickness Picture","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The absolute best part of this movie was the sequence in the first five minutes when three Klingon Battle Cruisers are attacking the cloud entity.Nice intro- sets up the threat nicely.Film quickly bogs down into a slow journey to the climax, stretching out 10 minutes of plot into a two hour movie.The first problem was the writer. Alan Dean Foster is a well-known Science Fiction writer who has done some good work. However, he is one of these writers who is so in love with his own prose that he fails to do things like move the plot along. That is evident with this screen play, where we spend most of the movie marveling at the FX (still fairly impressive after 27 years, compared to others that don't hold up as well.) The other problem is with the characters. I don't think the writers truly understood the chemistry that made the original series work, the trio of Kirk, Spock and McCoy. How these three interacted and complimented each other is what made the series work. This script was more interested in the new characters of Ilia and Decker, who we really don't care about all that much.It should be pointed out that TMP was an offshoot of Roddenberry's first attempt to reboot Trek, called TrekPhase II. His goal was to dump Spock (since he and Leonard Nimoy were on very bad terms at that point) and introduce Decker as the lead, eventually writing Kirk out of the series.The movie's climax is that the V'Ger joins with Alia and Decker and goes off into a new incarnation. Boring.Trekkers deserved better than this. The only virtue is that it showed that Trek was still a profitable franchise, and led to 10 more movies and four more TV series...It succeeded in spite of itself. "}{"Title":"For trekkies only","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me start off by saying that I am certainly not a trekkie, and after watching this I think trekkies may be just a bit odd in the head. As a child I was a rabid fan of Next Generation, however this is my first contact with Star Trek in at least 7-8 years. Though this film certainly had some very good moments, I think you'd have to be a fan to truly enjoy it. The plot plods along at a snails pace, repeating itself and making me think the director wanted to cut as little as possible. Every scene went on much, much too long in my opinion, Id say the film could have been 45 minutes shorter and still just as good. With a few exceptions, the actors were awful. Every stereotype about Shatner is completely true, and I found myself in hysterics after some of his totally monotone delivery. His acting aside, his character just plain wasn't likable. From the first few minutes it convinces you not to like him as he acts like a total jerk, for lack of a better term. There was one good character though whom I wish would have been used more Dr Bones McCoy. His dry and sarcastic attitude was hilarious and a breath of fresh air amongst a cast that takes themselves far to seriously. One thing that it did have going for it were the effects. As much as I disliked this film, I cant think of a single bad thing to say about the effects; they were phenomenal! Too bad it didn't have much else going for it...Overall, if you're not a big trekkie, Id avoid this like the plague. If you are a trekkie...I suppose you must not like this review much, eh?4/10 "},{"Title":"The Trinity in Star Trek I","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek I, the Motion Picture, is very useful in explaining Christian concepts, like the Trinity. God the Father is very powerful and creative, so He is represented by Voyager (V'Ger). God the Father sent Himself to us in the form of a human (Jesus), and Voyager sent himself in the form of a human (the Lt Ilia probe), so the Lt Ilia probe is like Jesus. The Lt Ilia probe could only say the words of Voyager. She and Voyager had two different brains, but their brains had much intercommunication with only one decision authority, so these two persons were also one person. The inquisitive fiery sparkly entity that vanished spaceships is like the Holy Spirit. The Bible says the Holy Spirit has appeared as tongues of fire, is an all consuming fire, and will flow as a river of fire from Jesus to quarantine non-Christians. Star Trek I gives the EXPLANATION of the Trinity; not just an analogy.There are many other commonalities between Star Trek I and the Bible. Star Trek I had a massive galactic invasion, just like Jesus will have. As people see Jesus coming across space, they will have great fear. The planets will be shaken and driven from their natural courses. The nations will be frightened by the roaring tides. The sun will be darkened and the moon will not shine (presumably because of interstellar clouds). Then, Jesus will be seen coming across space, in great clouds with many powerful extraterrestrials (angels). Voyager had a very large structure, similar to New Jerusalem, which will come from space and be 1400 - 1500 miles long, wide, and high. Star Trek I had teleportation, and so does the Bible, as in Matthew 2440-41, John 621, Luke 1734-36, and 1 Thessalonians 417. In Star Trek I, Spock decided that he wanted love and emotion along with logic, and this is a major reason why God created us with free will. The climax of Star Trek I was a total spiritual union between the Lt Ilia probe and Commander Decker (and Voyager), just like the future marriage between the Bride (Christians) and the Lamb (Jesus). Anyone who wants a vivid illustration of Christian concepts and a Trinity explanation should watch Star Trek I. "},{"Title":"A Science Fiction Triumph! *might contain spoilers...not sure*","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek The Motion picture was the first of Nine ST movies. Based on the T.V. Show Star Trek, it starred the original cast including William Shatner as Jim Kirk and Leonard Nimoy as Spock. This movie is not for everyone. There is no action at all, relying completely on it's story. The story is wonderful and the acting is great. In this movie, a cloud completely vaporizes three Klingon ships. It is discovered to be on a course straight for earth. Jim and his crew are called in to stop the cloud. As the crew moves into the cloud, strange things start to happen. If you are a Trekkie, you appreciate a good story, or just love Sci-Fi, I strongly recommend Star Trek The Motion Picture. "},{"Title":"Fascinating....","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hard as it is to believe, it took fifteen years for Star Trek The Motion Picture to reach theaters.  And while it is not a perfect film, it's more than enough to satisfy the Trekkies...oh, TREKKERS, I'm sorry...that had been waiting for it.In its maiden film voyage, the USS Enterprise must make contact with a powerful entity that has destroyed all in its path (space stations, Klingons, etc.) and is now on a direct course for (gasp!) our universe! Though co-written by Foster and Roddenberry (the Great Bird of the Galaxy himself) the story is no more nor less complicated than your average TV episode - just stretched out to feature film length PLUS.But, you may ask, is it good 'Star Trek'?  Depends on who you ask - the main characters are in the fore; Kirk (Shatner), McCoy (Kelley), Spock (Nimoy) and company bring back the characters they are so well-identified with and do all the things associated with their alter egos (act stalwart, worrisome and logical, respectfully) and save the universe...as if there were a doubt.  There is even room for new characters like Decker (Collins) and Ilya (Khambatta) to carry out minor duties herein.There is no doubt that director Wise and the writers have done all they can to make this film epic (starting with the subtitle Motion Picture instead of just Movie) and fill every frame with as much large-scale science fiction gadgetry and wonder as possible.  This is, after all, Star Trek!However, the story is so paper-thin and the motives and modus operandi of the actors still rooted in their TV origins that there is no opportunity for them to expand and grow as they should in the film universe.  While hard-core ST fans may disagree, I feel that for something that is supposed to be so epic, the turgid pace of STTMP acts far against the urgency that the plot requires.And yet it's still good to see Kirk, Spock and McCoy on the big screen saving humanity and seeking out new lives and new civilizations and so forth.  For nostalgia's sake, STTMP is a good trip, and while not exactly going where no man has gone before, it gets where its going to boldly.Seven stars for STTMP.  Yes, Star Trek fans the adventure continues.... "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cursed with one of the least interesting villains in the history of science fiction, Star Trek The Motion Picture was an auspicious debut for Captain Kirk and company on the big screen.  With a much bigger budget than the TV show, it was disappointing that some of that money wasn't invested in hiring competent screenwriters.  This was one of those painfully dull movies that you just want to end. "},{"Title":"A good introduction to the Star Trek franchise","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me start off by saying that I never watched any episode of Star Trek before I saw this. Up until recently, the Star Trek franchise in general was like a foreign language to me, and I knew just about nothing about it. When Star Trek Into Darkness was coming out, I decided to give this movie a watch, since the time felt right for me to do so. And 2 hours and 20 minutes later, I was a Star Trek fan.Now granted, this is not a perfect movie by any means. A lot of the effects shots can drag out for quite a while, and some things can even get confusing as a result of that. But I was able to get past that, and I was rewarded with a satisfying Star Trek experience as a result. The plot was compelling and interesting, and it felt right for something with the Star Trek name on it. The characters took a while to get used to for me, but by the end I knew who they all were. The special effects, though very slow moving and primitive by today's standards, still look good for their time. I know it was trying to be like 2001 A Space Odyssey, but even so, some of the effects shots that tried to mimic that still look good now. (And no, I didn't see the enhanced director's cut, I saw the original version).I think that my favorite aspect of Star Trek The Motion Picture though, is the philosophies that is was conveying. I think Spock said it best when he said, Logic is never alone, implying that there is a God, and he plays a part in everything that involves the unexplained. I never expected to find such elements to a Star Trek film, and there are others around the movie as well. One other one involves the never ending search for knowledge, and plenty of others that I can't remember at the moment. So as a whole, Star Trek The Motion Picture, while being a slow paced and sometimes dragging film, is still a good work of art. It was an interesting introduction to the Star Trek franchise, and as of now I still like it. I recommend it to anyone who likes Star Trek, or to anyone who want to get into Stat Trek. On the other hand, I still love Star Wars better.8/10. "},{"Title":"An experience you will either love or hate","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I say you will either love this or hate it because I personally loved it, but I could see why a lot of people say what they do about this film. I grew up with this movie. I was 5 when it came out and it's in my earliest memories of watching it on the Sunday Night Movie. I've watched the quality of it progress as media technology has progressed. People say it's too long and I might agree with that. The scenes entering the cloud could have been cut down, but I think the director tried his best at creating an epic storyline and almost pulled it off. The movie isn't action packed but it's intelligent. They managed to take Star Trek in directions they hadn't or couldn't in the TV show. Panning over the ship for a full instrumental sequence was long winded but it was the first time anyone had seen the ship up close for the first time and in that context it has to be appreciated. The story took the time to answer simple questions a lot of people had pondered like what would it be like if the transporter malfunctioned and what if the warp drive malfunctioned mid-warp. The twist at the end was brilliant, in my opinion. It was a slower movie, but I still feel it kept a steady pace. People say it was too serious, but there's quite a few little jokes along the way.The music in it is top notch. The movie was made during a time when musical scores where just as much of a character in a movie as the rest of the cast. This movie is no exception. The federation theme music was good enough for The Next Generation to use it for the show's theme music. It does a great job of creating mood as well as greatly enhancing the atmosphere of all the important scenes.I guess to sum it up, I wouldn't use this movie to introduce someone to Star Trek. I would however try and put myself in the place of someone who had jumped on the series bandwagon way back when and was finally experiencing the long awaited movie for the first time in the theater on opening day! That excitement and nostalgia blended together must have been amazing and trying to capture that while watching the movie would greatly enhance the experience of someone who successfully accomplishes it. I gave it a 9 and not a 10 because it does have some sketchy editing in a couple places where there could have been better continuity. Other than that I think it's a solid film and anyone who's a Star Trek fan should try and appreciate what the intentions of the movie were and not pit it against other blockbuster movies, especially one's from today's star date! "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Motion Picture","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The first film in the Star Trek movie franchise is definitely not considered the best one, but I think it's amazing. The visual effects are great, it is a beautiful movie to watch. The V-Ger cloud is just amazing. As is the new and improved USS Enterprise.PLOT A mysterious space cloud which destroys everything in its path is on its way to earth, and the closest starship to try to stop it is, of course, the USS Enterprise.Overall, this is great film. I would recommend it to anybody, not just Star Trek fans. The acting is exceptional. The effects are beautiful. The plot is intriguing. And if you love it, there are probably going to be sequels until the end of time! "},{"Title":"Best of Series","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Unjustly derided, this film is perhaps the only time a Star Trek film looked like it belonged on the big screen. This includes the reboot. Featuring perhaps the absolute best old school visual effects ever put to film (old school VFX never got substantially better than these...until the era of CGI ten years later), a cerebral storyline and more character depth than the television series or subsequent films ever managed to muster, this film is best experienced rather than watched. The bigger the screen and the better the sound, the more you will appreciate this film. If it is playing in a bona fide theater make sure to see it there. "},{"Title":"true to the original","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an outstanding film. The plot is intelligent and the acting is perfect and it maintains continuity with the original show. I think the visuals in this film are so intricate in terms of a certain interstellar object, the mind does not register its full complexity the first time around. I was impressed by the representations of a world a few years beyond the original show as well. To me it was easily as good as the film Alien, which came out in the same general time area, even though the two films are very different in terms of what they are as science fiction. Some people, like myself, were fans of the original Star Trek show, but not particularly enthusiastic about the television show, The Next Generation, feeling that a Shakespearian actor for the Captain of a starship was bombastic and opposed to the show having a sense of free wheeling adventure, something that existed in the original show. As such I think that only the Star Trek films that include the original cast are worth watching more than once. I met few people who liked the first Star Trek motion picture, I put that down to people just not comprehending it. Who knows what the future may bring? "}{"Title":"So help me, I'm actually pleased to see you!","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture...that says it all really, its Star Trek on the big screen. This film is the only one of the Star Trek films which truly shows what the original TV series was all about.It stars how you would expect with some stuff happening in space, but its abit more than that the opening is of the klingon warships which get wiped out by a strange cloud (I know gripping stuff but stay with it because it does get better). Starfleet then monitor where the cloud is heading...its destination Earth (didn't see that coming did you). And of course its up to our heroes of the U.S.S. Enterprise to save the day. Only trouble is the TV series stopped 10 years before this film.Still all the original cast rejoin the action and they all have some great introductions to get back into character. However the film itself doesn't take itself too seriously all the time, yes there's a lot of serious moments and some of the lines could be better delivered by Stephen Hawking (oh and William Shatner's hair does change length almost ever scene) but this is Star Trek!Anyway as our heroes get back together, no not in a sexual way, they start to explore the cloud. During the scenes inside the cloud their is some excellent effects and also a really good backing track which just makes you get stuck into the film and actually leaves you wondering what's going to happen. I do admit however that these scenes go on way too long in places. Though there is no action in the film its still a good piece of artwork and also has some great lines (most of them coming from Spock when trying to explain most of what is going on).There is however one major thing wrong with this film in that the script is a little boring with nothing going on, it takes almost 45 minutes for anything major to happen, and even then it doesn't really pick up. But regardless its still a solid true Sci-Fi film which you can sit down and watch regardless of what mood your in. I do think however it would have been better as another TV series rather than a movie but then if that was the case then Star Trek may have died years back.From this film though you can see how much it changed from being a Sci-Fi film of doing what it said to explore strange new worlds, to seek out new life and new civilisations, to boldly go where no man has gone before. to being more an action film with the sequels, which isn't a bad thing its just not what Star Trek was about the producers at Paramount Pictures gave up on Star Trek in the 60's and then saw it as an opportunity after the release of Star Wars, then took away what it was about.I do think that this film is a success and that it is under rated as a movie, as said before nothing happens but thats the point, its not meant to have action scenes its meant to be a science fiction movie, and thats what it is. Star Trek The Motion Picture is the first Star Trek movie but also the last in my opinion. "},{"Title":"It Can Be Safely Missed","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" First off, I am a Star Trek fan, so I have no axe to grind with the show or characters. But I still think this was a bad movie. First off, the props and costumes were all wrong. It almost had the goofy retro future look that dates a sci fi movie really quickly that Roddenberry tried to avoid. His designer, Jeffreys, worked on a limited budget in the original series but had enough sense to keep the props and sets simple and smooth, okay, too many canvas rocks in caves. The designer here forgot that one. They had those goofy uniforms which looked like some doctors' summer hospital outfits, or those utterly ridiculous helmet and harness rigs they stuck the security men in, instead of the classic red shirts. Then there was that warp drive handle, which looked like a cheesy automatic transmission floor shifter, on Sulu's console, and in close up no less. Their instrument screens had the shape of a fifty's style television screen, how silly too. In the series the those screens looked more modern and up to date. The Buck Rogers chemically powered rocket belt Spock used was not only dated by standards of the 1970s, but in Star Trek technology they would have had some sort of advanced ionic drive. Maybe the flames looked cool or something.Then there was the directing which seemed to be made up of too many repetitive shots of the crew looking agape at the satellite, Veeger thing as they stared into the bridge viewer. Or way too many pans of the incomprehensible 2001 inspired Veeger whatever it was nebula, solar system, spaceship? Though to give some credit to the original movie, the DVD version I saw probably was doctored up with modern computer effects.The directing and screenplay flopped all over the place while the core of the story itself wasn't a bad rewrite of an episode, but it only needed to be 48 minutes long not two hours. I agree with some of the paid posters here that a good sci fi movie shouldn't degenerate into endless war and fight scenes, and may actually be better without them. Tell that to the producers of the last franchise, Enterprise who turned every episode into some war movie it seemed. "},{"Title":"so bad its good....umm no. just bad","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I normally don't like labeling things as boring as its seems for the most part a rather pedestrian kind of way to describe any film that ultimately says more about the viewer than the actual film being viewed. That being said STTMP suffers from a complete lack of proper narrative pace...its for lack of a better phrase (you guessed it) boring. The plot itself (what plot there is) isn't anything close to compelling enough to keep you watching. The only real motivation to see the film through is for the pleasure of laughing at the films numerous hilarious lines. The only genuinely good thing about this film is Jerry Goldsmith's wonderful score. The main title theme is one of the best in genre film history. I also rather enjoyed the enterprise music video/Trekkie fetish orgasm educing Kirk approaching the star ship bit. In all fairness I will conclude that it is impossible for me to see this film in its original context ( the relaunching on the big screen of a canceled cult T.V. series) All I see is the predecessor of what would inevitably turn out to be not only one of the best sequels of all time but arguably one of the greatest genre films ever. "},{"Title":"If I Hear That Twang Sound One More Time . . .","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film falters under it's own idiocy.  The obvious pretension of the film maker is made apparent with the 5 minute long voyage into V'Ger and the initial boarding sequence of the Enterprise.  Go get a sandwich.  This director was proud of his Tyco grade special effects and his Christmas morning delight for his film is hilarious to watch.  He really believed he was involved in something great.  Saddle that with his decision to have the dialog continuously explain what the audience is supposed to be seeing and feeling (case in point &#150; the `I learned something today' epilogue), you could easily watch the movie with your eyes closed and miss nothing but the over used macro photography.  The director clearly believed his film was much too complex for the average person to comprehend.All in all a good two hours of watching the film makers and actors trying to take themselves seriously.  "},{"Title":"Rehashed episode","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I paid out money for this movie, I at least expected a new story, not a bad rehash of one of the dumber series episodes (The Changeling).The only good thing about this stupid movie is it showed Paramount that Star Trek had a future.  Other than that, it was a complete waste.  I came out feeling like someone had stolen an evening from my life. "},{"Title":"An exceptional SF film","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would certainly not by any means label myself a Star Trek fan (the spin off series are dire, 5th rate soap operas). Yet this particular film (unlike the insipid sequels) is inspiring. It represents what cinematic SF should be like. A classic. "},{"Title":"Listen to the music!","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" If you are under 30, you probably should not watch this movie. It takes 20 minutes for the movie to begin, which for those raised on IM, Twitter and MTV will seem like an eternity in hell. Star Trek isn't Star Wars, it is the heir to 2001, A Space Odyssey, which was also super slow-mo. When this movie came out, before DVDs or home VCRs, sitting in a movie theater, having waited close to 15 years for Star Trek to return, it delivered. Now, viewed on a TV or computer monitor, by those who may have already seen the sequel TV shows, with special effects far superior to this movie, it does not deliver.But there is still a reason to watch this the music by Jerry Goldsmith. Sure the movie is slow, especially the opening, but it provides a magnificent canvas for Goldsmith, who takes the visuals, the plot, the emotions, and magically transforms this into music. I doubt Beethoven or Mozart could have done any better. He uses mostly acoustic instruments, except to represent the alien vessel. Goldsmith does a brilliant job of bringing the music to the forefront with strong melodies when the action is slow, and going more abstract to avoid distracting from the action. That, if you are a music lover, is the time to listen to the music! Goldsmith could easily have been one of the great classical composers of the 20th century, but he chose this medium. The amazing thing about Goldsmith is he never repeats himself from one movie to the next. There are no borrowed motifs or styles; each movie is unique. The exception would be the Star Trek series, of course, where the theme is carried over. Goldsmith was simply the greatest film composer of all times, and one of the finest composers, period.Robert Wise is no slouch as director, either. Take a look at his credits, which include the original The Day the Earth Stood Still sci-fi masterpiece, not to mention The Sound of Music. This could have been a disaster; look at what happened to Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy when they tried turning it into a movie. But it wasn't; Wise fully understood the concept behind the original TV series sci-fi as spiritual speculation and morality tale. He improved on it, gave the chintzy TV series majesty and class that kept the franchise going. The joy of watching old movies is that it transports you to another era, even an era before you were born. You need to use your imagination and your historical understanding of that period to appreciate the film. Strangely, this movie, even though about the future, is old by many viewers' standards. Its real roots are in the 60s TV series, which I watched on air. As a little boy I read tons of sci-fi books about space travel written before we ever sent a man into orbit. I still remember the illustrations of finned rocket ships sitting upright on the Moon or an alien world. I was naturally disappointed by the ugly duckling Lunar Module that did actually land on the Moon and take off again. Those books were the historical context of Star Trek TOS. Star Trek TOS aired when the Gemini two-astronaut capsules were cutting edge, when network television via satellite relay was still a rarity. It was about the future, a better, more idealistic future of world cooperation. The Motion Picture, while continuing that idealism, was also a futuristic retro look at the good old days of space exploration, hence V Ger. Yes, the story line is a bit thin, especially if you know the ending. But when audiences watched it in the theater for the first time, it didn't seem thin, or slow, at all, and the ending was a kick in the butt! And part of the shock was the realization that maybe we shouldn't be trying to contact alien civilizations on distant galaxies -- maybe we weren't ready for the consequences, which could come back to haunt us!Sci-Fi movies about space travel were scarce back then, except for the kiddie Star War adventures, designed to market toys to kids. People watched and dreamed. I think part of the problem is that our dream of a better future, of mastering space travel, has died. This movie is from a different era. "},{"Title":"Star Trek at its best!","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" To me this is old school matine at its best. Although I also believe you have to be a Star Trek fan (or at least familiar with it) to enjoy it fully. The movie in large parts is based on the old team reuniting and the minutes-long scene where Kirk arrives at the Enterprise in orbit, would only be fully appreciated by those who can share Kirk's loving eyes.The story is what surprised me the most. It's a rather clever one with a nifty ending. You are fed new information at the exact right pace to keep you learning but still wondering. And for a movie that is almost totally action-free and has no larger focus on the love story on board, it must be said that it keeps you captured intellectually (and maybe somewhat visually).I think it is Star Trek at its best. You really get join the crew in their exploration of the unknown. To be entertained without violence, love or comedy, is today a rare commodity. "},{"Title":"Horribly Underrated Film","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The direction of this movie is excellent and the story superb, albeit the original TV actors had their work cut out for them in attempting to realize a story of this scope. This is the only Star Trek movie that is epic on a 2001 scale, and its major flaw is the way the special effects and melodramatic direction distracted production from more solid scripting and acting.Compared to the newest Star Wars movies, however, the love subplot is tangible, and the wooden-dialog factor pails in comparison with the Darth Vader and his wife cheese fest.Compared with Star Trek II, it, of course, comes off as slow for an action movie, which it is not. What grants this movie its greatness is in the end the idea that a machine would become alive; as yet I am to figure out the reason the bald love interest and Decker merge with the machine save the possibility that this fulfills the machine's union with its creator. "},{"Title":"not that bad.","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" People,Star trek fans as well,don't think much of this film.Remember it had been a number of years since the end of the series and the actors had to find their feet after a long absence. The film may not have been full of violence,sex and bad language but it proved you don't have to have these things to make a decent movie. The gist of the story is that something is heading towards earth destroying everything in it's path and seems to be looking for it's creator. This film tackles the question mankind has been asking since he first looked up at the stars.What is the reason for being,is there something more than what I am , is there a creator and will i ever be able to find him/her? the film is filled with beauty and makes you keep watching to see if the creature fulfilles its mission. The final sequence of the film is one of the most beautiful things in science fiction and helps wrap the film up in a cozy fashion. Don't pre judge this movie but watch it with an open heart and you may find beauty in the film that you never realised was there.7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Awesome, Spellbinding, Amazing!","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture came out at a time when Sci-Fi had entered a new age, the world was still reeling from the two biggest Sci-Fi movies of all time, namely Star Wars and Close Encounters of the Third Kind. As such when The Motion Picture was released it was billed as something bigger than Star Wars. Naturally people were annoyed when they discovered it was anything but.The plot involved Captain James T. Kirk (William Shatner) regaining command of the Starship Enterprise to explore a mysterious cloud that destroyed three Klingon Cruisers and a Federation Space Station. When they reach the cloud they discover a giant ship hiding inside it. After various events, including a probe being beamed aboard the ship and Spock's fantastic journey through V'Ger's innards, the crew are taken to the Central Brain Area and they discover the NASA space probe Voyager 6 which had been lost in a Black Hole three hundred years earlier, they find out Voyager had crash landed on a machine inhabited world and its simple programming was dicephered by the machines and they built the massive vessel to allow Voyager to complete its mission Learn all that is learnable and return the information to its creator.To complete its programming V'Ger must merge with its creator so Commander Decker (Stephen Collins) rewires the probe and V'Ger downloads its information and knowledge into Decker and then the massive vessel departs leaving the Enterprise hanging over Earth.The Motion Picture has a mixed reputation among fans, personally it is one of my favourite movies of all time, it has fantastic special effects, intriguing, if slow, story and plot, the main and ensemble cast are all perfect. I would recommend you buy the new Director's Cut were director Robert Wise added new footage and special effects, not to the extent of the Star Wars special editions but all changes have been made to make the film bigger and better than it was originally.10/10 - One of the best movies of all time. "},{"Title":"GREAT GREAT GREAT!","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  People have to realize, Star Trek had been out of the public eye for *ten years*, and nobody had seen the Enterprise and crew for that long!  The reason the movie was a little slow was to re-familiarize the audience with the ship and crew -- and to effectively introduce them to a new generation of viewers who were getting their first view of this magnificent show.  The plot and story still made sense, the effects were astounding, and the characters were well thought out and well played by everyone.  Giving Spock a reason to rejoin Starfleet and forcing the Doctor back into service was nicely done, and no matter what people say, I think that it was a very nice piece of work for the United Federation of Planets. "},{"Title":"Cerebral","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  An intelligent, cerebral film that does justice to the term science fiction. Fantastic special effects. "},{"Title":"Just when you think Star Wars has a massive competition to face, Star Trek The Motion Picture craps all over it within it's first shot of the Enterprise spaceship.","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" There's one scene in Star Trek The Motion Picture that is hard to watch. It involves Captain Kirk and the Enterprise Ship. What the two are doing is hard to explain but they seem to be romantically attached. It may sound incredible yet discomforting but believe it or not, it's what we see.Two years after the Star Wars franchise kicked off with A New Hope in 1977, Star Trek decided, You know what? It's time for a motion picture. And like that, Star Trek The Motion Picture was brought to screen and immediately discarded. Why? Because it was an insult to the series - yet it grossed a good amount at the box office.And so the motion picture begins with an astonishing discovery of an alien energy and the enterprise are called to seek it and do whatever to save its targets. The story, yes, is very simplistic and could have easily been a rejected idea for the canceled series. It never takes off, only somehow is replaced by cheesy lines and bad acting. William Shatner would later put on a better performance in Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan, but for now he'd best not to act too much like a tree. Still if you're not upset by that, it's possible you're a trekkie the film's dedicated audience. How come? I think you'll know once the Enterprise spaceship is introduced for a few dead minutes. Trekkies will cheer, non-trekkies won't. When Captain Kirk's introduced, trekkies will cheer, non-trekkies won't. What saves the film is Jerry Goldsmith's beautiful soundtrack. Now that is the only thing that could rival Star Wars and appear proudly on your Ipod.Trekkie or not, Star TrekThe Motion Picture will most likely dishearten viewers. It doesn't take charge of itself at any moment, only acts as a pre-school student. Although the film's success would spawn a fascinating number of sequels, it's poorness would be the thing you'd like to not keep in mind. "},{"Title":"A wonderful first Star Trek Movie","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture is a very entertaining movie for Science Fiction and or Star Trek fans. It is a throwback to the old Science Fiction movies of the past, such as The Day The Earth Stood Still directed by this films director Robert Wise. There is not much action such as in Star Trek II, but the movie is very cerebral and is really entertaining. Any fan of thinking people's science fiction will love this movie. If you are looking for gratuitous action go watch Independence Day but for a real quality sci-fi movie, give this a chance and check it out. Also, one of the best movie scores ever by Jerry Goldsmith. 9/10 stars. "},{"Title":"director's edition finally does it right","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The story is thin, long & slow(the introduction takes 45 minutes), but that's never stopped me from liking a movie.  If you can watch deliberately paced movies, like 2001, Alien and Blade Runner, then Star Trek  The Motion Picture shouldn't be a problem.  The music helps.What I find annoying, at least in the theatrical and TV versions, is the odd way it was edited, which is the usual complaint about this movie.  You get a great '70s special effects show that interferes too much with the story. Or you could say that the story interferes too much with the special effects. Either way, the Director's Edition solves the problem by re-editing the movie specifically to balance the plot with the special effects, which the creators didn't have time to do in 1979(the dvd goes into detail about the rushed post-production).  Now, the movie is finally a classic of science fiction.Incidentally, the director's edition also replaces some visual and audio effects that the creators didn't have time to do properly in 1979.  I HATE the special editions of the Star Wars movies, but here, every change works. Some of the new special effects actually look cheesy, because the effects team went so far as to make the new effects look like they were made in 1979!Star Trek fans might not like that Star Trek  The Motion Picture doesn't look or feel like other Star Trek.  Everything from the acting to the pacing to the colors in the design is more subdued and is almost inconsistent with the rest of Star Trek.  This used to bother me, but it doesn't anymore;  I guess after enough viewings you forget that it's different. "},{"Title":"Dated but brilliant","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Brilliantly intelligent kickstart to the (possibly) most successful run of serial movies in history!!This movie was not about action. It was about the beginning of a long and successful series of movies which were an extension of a long-running and successful television series.V'GER is coming! Complete with the entire original cast of the hugely triumphant cult classic TV series, Star Trek, it was an absolute joy to see them on the big screen, after having grown up with them on the small screen. I remember the awe this movie inspired being much like that of Star Wars Episode IV. Compared to the technology we have today, ie CGI, digital sound, digital video enhancement, etc; this movie is now a little dated, and thereby loses a tiny bit of its edge, but not one drop of its lovability or creativity does it lack. Directed by Robert Wise, the director of The Andromeda Strain and the original The Haunting, 1969, this wonderful sci-fi legacy is a must-have in any library. I highly suggest the collector's edition DVD with 40 minutes or so of re-added, remastered footage. They don't just give you those deleted scenes, they have re-edited them back into the movie, where they belonged! (Such fate should be in store for Superman IV. Maybe it wouldn't be the turkey it is, if they would put back the almost 50 minutes of story line left on the cutting room floor.)V'GER is a destructive space entity heading towards Earth, and it's up to our beloved captain and crew to head it off at the pass. While the premise is typical, there is nothing whatsoever typical about the direction, performances, or effects of this movie. They are state-of-the-art, top of the line and are still effective today; some nearly twenty-five years later. To stand the test of time, in a sci-fi venue is truly to have created a masterpiece. Now, this has been dubbed, Star Trek The Motion-less Picture, and Where Nomad has Gone Before. While I can see the point of that (this movie is rather slow and has very little action), it really isn't (and wasn't) fair to the movie, as a whole.This movie came after the cancellation of the series, and most of us were starving for anything Star Trek. I waited in line for three DAYS, in the freezing cold and rain to buy tickets to see this on opening day, the first showing, in the theater, and I was not the least bit disappointed. It was a rather odd day for the movie to be released. I was in Arizona...and it was December 7th. If you can fit that together, you will readily see why I remember the day so clearly. The drubbing this film received was just wrong. Star Trek was always about ideals and principles, with action as a subtext, rather than the main theme. And yes, while Kirk was a devil-may-care captain who frequently broke the rules on the side of what was right, rather than what was proper; in this movie, he did not. He stuck to the rules which disappointed a few people, true enough. But I was not disappointed that in this first movie, Kirk's attitude and resentment of authority was toned down in place of better acting and a stronger appreciation for the wonders of deep space. This story is rich and full of detail. The characters, which were already so well developed no one needed further character building; and yet, the character development was very well established, for those who were not fans of the series, and were possibly viewing this much-loved crew for the first time. It added extra lovability to the characters we already knew and loved, and lent a richness to the whole production which it otherwise would have lacked. The vastly creative ideas surrounding the origins of V'GER are brilliantly conceived and executed. I won't spoil it for those of you who have not seen it, except to say that, as often is the case with Star Trek, there is a message there. I love this movie, and every single individual movie which follows it in this series, but this one was the one to start it all and therefore deserves the respect of anyone daring to claim the honor of being a Trekkie. It rates a 9.0/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Lacks action and conflict, but better than no Trek at all","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" If you've seen one long, long, long tracking shot of the Enterprise moving out of space dock, you've seen them all. (But wait, let's show you the same shot but coming from the west....) This movie lacks almost everything that makes Star Trek fun. The always-dynamic triangle of Kirk, Spock and McCoy is broken up and, even though all three are in the film, too much of the film's focus is on the Stephen Collins/Deltan woman failed romance instead. The script lacks humor. The characters lack camaraderie. The plot lacks action and conflict. Instead of showing us the updated interior of the ship, we get many, many slow-moving exterior shots of the ship. It's a rather boring film. Thank goodness The Wrath of Khan and The Search for Spock are coming. "},{"Title":"An underrated masterpiece of Star Trek lore","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie gets too many hard knocks, but it is the film that launched everything. Had this been a box office failure, think where the Star Trek generations would be today. Star Trek TMP set a standard, a film that truly soars with mighty ambitions and creative thought. It has its rough bits and drags in parts, but the amazing special effects and race to encounter an unknown enity are exciting. Watch the Special Edition DVD with the commentary on it and you will see the movie in a whole new light, and feel the excitement of seeing Captain Kirk and the crew returning.. they're back! After all this time away from TV, it tingles one's soul to see them back on the bridge. The amazing overture at the begining only entices you to the historic drama of Star Trek. There are many questions in the movie, such as Spock's devotion to starfleet or to his own interests, that the film deals with, and the competition between Kirk and Deckard (and it sets up the wonderful relationship for Picard and Riker in TNG). Watch this again, it's a good, good start to a wonderful movie series and ten times better than Star Trek 5.  "},{"Title":"This is a superb film filled with elegant, impressive, and powerful details.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most science fiction films emphasize action over thought.  Of the few that offer intellectual as well as visual or visceral stimulation, Star Trek The Motion Picture is certainly among the best, especially now that legendary director Robert Wise has released a 'Director's Edition' which much more fully represents his original intentions (no review based on any previous version, none of which were approved by Wise, should be considered valid any longer).The plot is almost excessively simple a gigantic energy cloud of alien origin is headed toward Earth, and the starship Enterprise must find a way to communicate with it and to take whatever action is necessary.  But the point of STTMP is not the plot as such; rather, it is an examination of the balance between rationality and emotion which is vital to maintain and succor a genuinely human life (make no mistake; STTMP is, at its deepest level, about humanity, not spaceships and alien clouds).  We see here a classic tension-- between the coldly rational mind of Spock (and, beyond that, of the entity inside the cloud) and the brash emotionalism of Captain Kirk and, particularly, Dr. McCoy.  Underlining this is the one-time love affair between Commander Decker and Navigator Ilia, an affair cut off through fear of what each might have become, of the deep personal changes necessary in true mutual love.  The elements come together in the magnificent finale, in which each of the main characters confronts their own greatest need and discovers that their quests can succeed only through the transcendence of the very desires which provoked the quests in the first place.However thoughtful, the film does not lack for superb production details. Wise has edited the film much more tautly than before, so that each sequence stands in elegant balance with every other.  The trip through the cloud and over what lies at its center is among the most beautiful such things in science fiction (easily surpassing the similar moments in 2001 A Space Odyssey).  The first views of the Enterprise, shot largely from Kirk's perspective, are filmed almost as one might gaze at a long-absent lover finally seen again, slowly and sensuously and with great care not to miss anything.  The set designs are superb, and the overall cinematography polished to a high degree.  And of course Jerry Goldsmith's score, nominated for an Academy Award, remains among the finest of film scores; time and again it undergirds and enhances the action or the visuals absolutely stunningly.Star Trek The Motion Picture, like 2001 and Tarkovsky's Solaris, is not a fast-paced film, and those seeking action-packed adventure would do best to look elsewhere.  But understood as what it truly is-- a moving and powerful meditation on a fundamental dichotomy of human consciousness-- it stands as a major achievement and an almost overwhelming cinematic experience. "}{"Title":"Like and dislike--On the fence again!","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"20 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" (Talking about the expanded version on VHS) Like 1) The first 10 minutes (V'Ger v. Klingons) still drops my jaw.2) The scene where the Enterprise is in dry-dock (I watch that scene again, and again and the trek-joy lump still rises in my throat)3) Spock crying (Hey Vulcans are in Control of their emotions, they do have some); so poignantly low-key 4) All the scenes of Lt. Ilia before she died. She was too cool!!! (and the scene deleted in the theatrical release of her and Sulu is hysterical) 5) Spock's exploring V'Ger Awesome 6) THE MUSIC--The score is the best ever for the Star Trek Movie, the only one better is First Contact! Dislike 1) Kirk--They script him with this sort of behavior? This is a way to welcome back the fans who have missed him for years? The Decker v. Kirk conflict got under my skin far more than the pacing. I abort his actions in this film; it was some Probe. He really comes back in TWOK! 2) THE PACING!3) Ilia the mechanism--Come on, that--what she was wearing--Cheesecake pure in simple.4) The thinly veiled Changling Rehash--If you're a Trekker you know the one.5 & 6) The STUPID WAY THE PROBLEM WAS SOLVED--Oh let V'Ger have his metaphysical sex in the road and we can all leave now! GGRRRRR! I'm done! "},{"Title":"I understand what they were going for, but they didn't pull it off.","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek the Motion Picture is definitely not what you'd be expecting from Star Trek. Especially not from it's first release.Star Trek The Motion Picture takes a lot of inspiration from 2001 A Space Odyssey which is weird considering it came out two years after Star Wars and every sci-fi movie (Still kinda to this day) took inspiration from that. I appreciate this movie was trying to be different and intelligent, like 2001 A Space Odyssey but what they missed was 2001 wasn't genius because it was slow and had lots or artsy pictures, it was because it was Symbolic and it was one of the first movies to show that cinema could be art. But when you just have long shots and boring dialogue, it doesn't make it artsy. It makes it boring. Of course it has the memorable Star Trek characters we love and they're all great actors, but they're held back by the rest of the movie, which feels like a mess. It's not a terrible movie, but it's still bad. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Boring, emotionless, and with only a few bright spots","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Usually when I write a review, I like to introduce the cast, give my thoughts, but c'mon, this is Star Trek, anyone who is interested in this movie, already knows the characters, so let's just get right into the movie. Now there are a lot of common kind of jokes I could make, like the 'motionless picture', but let's just forget about all that, and let me say that this movie is an utter drag. It really is, this is the kind of movie that just has no emotion in it, whatsoever. It really doesn't feel like a Star Trek movie, because one of the best parts about Star Trek is the rich characters and their interactions. Here, it's a bunch, of faceless characters that are just walking around, doing nothing but discussing a threat that really isn't that interesting. And don't get me started on the endless shots of space. There are a couple of points where the movie picks up, which is when Spock shows up on the ship, and we finally see some emotion out of Kirk. I also quite like the ideas explored through V'ger's search for something more to life. That works, that is a good plot point, but there just isn't enough else. The whole movie is just the Enterprise trying to stop V'ger from destroying earth, and this movie is so long, or at least it feels that way. Now, as a trekkie, I can get some enjoyment out of this movie, but I really wouldn't recommend watching this to anyone. If you want to start watching the Star Trek movies, start with Wrath of Khan or Star Trek(2009). "},{"Title":"Get your watch out, because you'll be checking it","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" As a lover of TOS, I was very excited to watch this movie. But my excitement soon faded after the movie started. Watching this film was perhaps the most excruciatingly boring experience in my life. I kept watching it, expecting for something exciting to come, but nothing of that sort happened.There were constant long, drawn out shots of the same thing. For example, when Captain Kirk first goes on the Enterprise, there were long shots of the ship, with the only other thing that we saw was Kirk admiring the ship. The visuals were absolutely stunning, but I got so sick of viewing them.The plot was also dull, and very pretentious. I can't even bring myself to call the ending a climax because nothing happened in it. This was the first time in the history of watching Star Trek that I didn't care about what happened to the characters.If you're having a Star Trek Marathon, skip this one. It doesn't relate to the other movies so it won't matter. Plus, you get to kick off your marathon with the excellent Wrath of Khan, instead of this snooze fest. I honestly tried to find one good thing about this movie, other than the cast, and I couldn't think of anything. "},{"Title":"Wise and Abrams","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 1970s, I had in hand obscure fan magazines reporting on Roddenberry's attempts to restart the original Star Trek series. Signed by the cast at Star Trek conventions. Eventually the rumors warped into a movie, and voila, there was Star Trek the Motion Picture.Never mind that Leonard Nimoy showed up only halfway through the plot because he was still in his I Am Not Spock phase. Bedazzled by Lucas' Star Wars just two years earlier, I faithfully trekked to the movie theater in Mlaga, where the film could be seen in English with Spanish subtitles.I was disappointed. I did not admit it to myself at the time. But I was disappointed. The film had its moments, like the amazing new Klingons and beautiful to behold spaceships, especially when you were used to the ramshackle TOS special effects.As good as Wise had been for a story like The Andromeda Strain, which laboriously and meticulously followed scientists trying to find a cure to ebola from outer space, so he was bad for the Star Trek franchise. He had good intentions Star Trek is a universe of cerebral optimism, a fairly rare breed between cynics and the wide-eyed. Wise is a cerebral director. But Star Trek also is crazy action, Kirk going after every female in sight, the think-emote-act love triangle of Spock-McCoy-Kirk, and many other things that this film messed up and stretched out into a long story thin on action, character development, or really any thing else very interesting. In a way, Wise messed up Roddenberry's vision almost as badly as Abrams did 30 years later, just at the opposite end of the spectrum.The problem was probably that the story was rewritten too many times, actors said no then yes, egos had to be satisfied among the cast, new cast members that had been added lost their usefulness when old ones returned. (Who needs Persis when Spock is back?)The film has sequences worthy of 2001, with tiny spaceships slowly meandering across the screen, spaceships slowly moving into gigantic nebulae, people slowly drifting through space. But it didn't go all the way. After all, Star Trek is not known for visual symbolism, but for having decent dramatic plots and plenty of Shakespeare story lines and quotes. The film simply did not know where to go and was tugged in too many direction at once. The result was a schlamassel that Wise delivered, and that fans dutifully absorbed. So the film still made its budget back several times over, even though no one was really happy with it. My friend Harry (a big ST fan) and I commiserated over the phone about it (call from Mlaga, Spain to Vienna, Austria).The good news is that it did well enough at the box office to launch a series of uneven but sometimes really good Star Trek films, with highlights like The Wrath of Khan or The Voyage Home, and even The Undiscovered Country, which was a great film with just too old a cast. The mere fact that the studio filmed it with these ancients is a tribute to the power of Star Trek. Fittingly, The Undiscovered Country had a budget similar to The Motion Picture, and also made several times its investment back for the studio despited its wizened stars.It's a must-see for the loyal Star Trek Fan, but for any youngsters out here who watch pre-2000 films at all, I'd recommend starting with 1982's The Wrath of Khan, the real reboot of the original series. "},{"Title":"Great Ideas But Sluggish Ride","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I always enjoy watching The Motion Picture but there's a reason some have dubbed it, the Slow Motion Picture. This movie has some interesting aspects but moves at less than a snails pace.Star Trek in general has always been great at giving us both a great sci-fi adventure and outlandish characters but with a moralistic theme woven throughout. In this movie we get one out of three, but that one is still strong. The story and where it takes us is will have your brain engaged and the FX (coupled with a brilliant musical score) are simply spectacular - some of the best of any Trek movie.However it's unfortunate that that is where the positives end. We just don't get the great character moments we need to really get invested. The only thing keeping the cast afloat is the content from the original series. If this was someone's first Star Trek movie it's unlikely they'd want to continue. New characters simply aren't interesting and don't go anywhere.But the main thing bogging the movie down is the pace - it is incredibly slow. It's been speculated that the film makers wanted to emulate 2001 A Space Odyssey. This is a noble goal but it doesn't work as well in the context of Star Trek. It takes way too long to get all the characters together and even longer to actually get the main plot together. Once that plot gets there it really does pick up but the sluggish right to that point will test the patience of many watchers.If you're a die hard Trekkie give it a go, but honestly the series works if you just skip to the next one. "},{"Title":"Good in a Psychological Sci-Fi Way","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture was heralded as the big resurrection of the franchise. The original series lasted three seasons. They managed a two season animated series that wasn't much remembered at the time. But it became a huge phenomenon in syndication. After the enormous success of Star Wars, studios looked to any science fiction franchise and Paramount had Star Trek. The genius Gene Roddenberry was at the time making a second live series and essentially reformatted some ideas into a feature and thus TMP was born.The movie follows James T. Kirk after being promoted to admiral as he retakes control of the revamped Enterprise. His mission is to stop an unknown force that destroys everything in its path from reaching Earth. He butts heads with the Enterprise's new captain, William Decker, and reunites with Spock, who has been away on his own mission.V'Ger is the kind of story that the series did quite often. Unfortunately, the story as it is comes off as a single episode stretched to two hours. There's a lot of filler and sequences stretched out to overly long lengths. The warp sequence is one that is largely unnecessary except to show that Kirk doesn't know all about the new design, which they did in other ways. The shuttle trip around the Enterprise is nice to see the new ship, but goes on too long. And there's far too many long shots of going through V'Ger where nothing happens except the ship moving. They could have fleshed the story out, but instead they padded it. The ending is nice and thoughtful in the way the show was. However, it ultimately lacks that personal touch. Voyage Home would do the overpowering object attacking Earth story much better.The entire main cast returns. That in itself was special considering that some had disliked their time on the show and they all had moved on to other things. The characters are a mixed bag. They don't have much of a story besides Kirk and Spock. Kirk is dealing with his desk job. Spock is searching for peace between his human and Vulcan sides. McCoy provides the same great humor but he, Uhura, Scotty, Chekov, and Sulu are just there. Decker seems to have the beginnings of a story, but he is only really interesting because his relationship with Ilia is the prototype for Riker and Troi in The Next Generation.The special effects were considerably good for its time. The redesigned Enterprise is absolutely gorgeous, probably the best looking ship in the franchise. While going on too long, the scene of Scotty and Kirk flying around the ship is a beautiful scene to see. The look of V'Ger and the dissolving effects are top notch. It is still great to look at. Honestly, I would love to see this rereleased in theaters in 3D.Promoting Kirk to admiral was a great storytelling device that served the franchise well. Sure, the following movies would deal with it better. Stuff that paid off in Wrath of Khan, Voyage Home, and Generations started here. The fact that he's jealous of his subordinate Decker for commanding his ship really speaks to his character. The scene where the two argue following the comet incident was well written.The music made for this movie became the iconic music of the franchise. The main theme here became the recurring theme of every following film through Nemesis and the main score for The Next Generation. Goldsmith's score is fantastic, and easily as iconic as Williams' Star Wars music. The soundtrack is worth buying, especially for the bonus disc with all the insightful interviews.This was the movie that introduced the redesigned Klingon make-up that would be featured in the franchise to come. In the series, they came off as just recolored Oriental-looking humans. This made them look truly alien.In retrospect, it's really only notable as the movie that brought the franchise back into public attention. I will say that the movie works in a slow, methodical 2001 A Space Odyssey way. There isn't any big action sequence, besides the Klingons and space station getting attacked. It's more contemplative, allowing you time to think. If you don't mind the slowness, it is enjoyable. It may not rank among the best of Star Trek, but it's a fine movie on its own. The movie helped revive Star Trek. Though it was Wrath of Khan that saved its life. "},{"Title":"The most underrated of the Star Trek franchise","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture was Paramount Studio's attempt at cashing in on the Star Wars craze that was sweeping through the late seventies. However, instead of getting a fast-paced action romp, they got something more in tune with 2001 A Space Odyssey. Therefore, the first big screen Star Trek outing was always left in Star Wars' shadow. This, of course, was slightly rectified by the sequel (and darker and more action-orientated) The Wrath of Khan, but that's another story.It's easy to see why Star Trek The Motion Picture never set the box office alight, it's slow, very talky-talky, with lingering shots of things that you don't really know what they are and absolutely no action. However, that said, it's actually quite good (but only if you're in the mood).If you're looking for something fast-paced then you should probably ignore most of the Star Trek saga and skip straight to the 2009 reboot. Whereas if you are a fan of slow-burning (and dare I say it?) 'intellectual' science fiction then you might get something out of this.Avatar it is not. Interesting it is. Although, it should probably have an 'Eighteen Certificate' slapped on it - not because the content is particularly 'adult' in nature, but simply because there's no way anyone under eighteen would ever appreciate it and have the patience to sit through it.May the old crew live long and prosper. "},{"Title":"Slow but Competent Start to the Star Trek Movie Franchise","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture**1/2 (out of 4)132 mins/ UCast William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, James DoohanDirector Robert WisePlot When a mysterious object is found to be approaching Earth at rapid speeds, Captain Kirk and his crew set out to prevent it doing so.JJ's Verdict Featuring the entire original Star Trek cast from the television series, 'The Motion Picture' was only made after the success of 70's sci-fi films like Star Wars and Close Encounters of the Third Kind. The plot is very simple and was made that way so new fans could become interested in the series. The film focuses on the crew trying to intercept V-GER, a mysterious object fast approaching Earth. Tensions rise as the crew argue about what to do and how to stop the object from destroying mankind. Despite this, the dialogue continually makes references to out of space objects and rituals, which, to someone completely foreign to the Star Trek Universe, left me bewildered. The film has other problems as well. The visual effects, while alright, aren't good enough to seem realistic and for you to take the film seriously. The acting is good enough with William Shatner leading the way in terms of any sign of emotion and while the ending is actually very exciting and surprisingly interesting, 'Star Trek The Motion Picture' is nothing more than a decent sci-fi film. "},{"Title":"A slow, but OK start to a successful sci-fi film franchise","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Before I begin this review, I'm not exactly a fan of Star Trek nor have heard of it. I was apparently a Star Wars fan and Harry Potter fan at the time. One day, when I was fifteen years old four years ago, I rented this on a DVD copy from a library and despite not having seen the show yet, I watched it. Apparently, I seemed to have fallen asleep during the movie and I later woke up before it ended. Then, I think that this is an OK start to a successful franchise that spawned the sequels that preceded by this film. It does have some problems which is why I'm giving this a decent rating of 6/10.The story did had a lot of promise in the first half until it started to get slower in the second and third acts of the film. It lacked some action, some drama, some humor, and character development. The pacing is so slow it would put you to sleep and the script is muddled. The dialog is also pretty silly.There are some good things that saved the movie. The music score from Jerry Goldsmith is great with a memorable theme song, the direction from Robert Wise (the director of The Sound of Music) is adequate, the characters, while undeveloped, are decent and the acting is fine with solid performances from William Shatner and Leonard Lemoy.Overall, I may not be a fan of Star Trek, but aside from the flaws that I've already stated in this review, this film is a decent start and is only worth one viewing. Others, however, might be pretty disappointed in this. "}{"Title":"The Original Movie...... Still magic, still looks great after all of these years","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" They will never make one like this ever again. This is not my favorite Star Trek movie, in fact not even in my top 5, but there is something majestic about this movie. When I was younger I hated this movie, and claimed that the movie series started with the second movie as far as I am concerned. This movie moved at such a slow pace that I always would get bored with it and quit watching it. But, being that I love Star Trek more so than any other movie franchise, I would force myself to go back and still attempt to watch Star Trek The Motion Picture again and again. Then finally one night at around 2am I finished it for the first time. And once I was finally able to finish it, I absolutely loved it. And I have watched it from start to finish several times since then.The starship Enterprise has been rebuilt (refitted) and is a completely new starship from the ground up. There is long scene of nothing but footage of the Enterprise sitting in Space dock while Jerry Goldsmith's masterful Star Trek Theme song plays. I know that sound silly, but it isn't, for some reason you n ever get bored at that scene. The Enterprise is such a beautiful starship, that it looks so amazing that you never get bored of watch it sit in space dock while that majestic music is playing. SPOILER ALERTS;;;;;;;;; The movie about a monster cloud moving through space and destroying everything in it's path, and it's headed strait for Earth. Admiral Kirk is assigned to take over the Enterprise from Captain Decker and intercept whatever it is that's inside the cloud, a very simple and strait forward plot. (Written by Sci-Fi novelist Alan Dean Foster &#x96; the only screen play he ever wrote). But things get a little more complicated when they arrive at the cloud and discover that it is far more powerful than anything they ever encountered before. It probes them and eventually abducts one of the crew. Only to send a mechanism back to the Enterprise in the image of that abducted crew member. Spock figures out that the vessel at the hart of the cloud is a giant living machine named Veeger. They eventually discover Veeger is really an old NASA Voyager 6 satellite that has traveled the entire galaxy and amassed so much knowledge that it achieved artificial intelligence and became alive.Yes this movie moves at a very slow pace, it's not an action packed thrill ride. But its still a great movie. But I'd take this any day over J.J. Abrams' 2009 Star Trek movie.I'm lucky enough to own a VHS Copy of the 1983 Special Longer Version that has everyone one of the deleted scenes re-edited back into the movie, something that the newer Blu-Ray Director's Cut doesn't have. "},{"Title":"Captain's Log","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I am reviewing this from the point of view of Star Trek The Motion Picture - The Directors Edition which was released on DVD in 2001. As many Trek fans may know the original film ran way over time and wasn't finished to the point that Director Robert Wise wanted it. In fact the film wasn't completely in the can on the day of the premier! Wise got to show his version of how he wanted the film to be. Though this edition really won't have to much difference to what a review of the theatrical version would be like.In the late 1970's Star Wars had been such a success and at the same time a new TV series called Star Trek Phase Two went into preproduction and was way down the line when at the last hour a decision was made to turn the pilot for 'Phase Two', and episode called, 'In Thy Image' into a cinematic film. The Motion Picture was the result. I can imagine for any Trek fan, to have seen their favourite TV show from the 60's on the big screen must have been epic.The film starts, unusually with an overture. I must admit that Jerry Goldsmith's score all the way through is beautiful. Especially during the big reveal of the USS Enterprise. There are incidental touches of Alexander Courage's original theme if you listen out for them a few times during the film.Looking back in hindsight this film is so narrative heavy and completely action-less if you compare it to the likes of 'The Wrath of Khan'. Of course that is an unfair comparison as without the profits of this film there would never have been, albeit much less budget, Wrath and others.I love the fact that the main players were all given their moment, that is all well and good. However, the story really doesn't get started from the V'Ger point of view until about 30 minutes into the film. I read another review on here stating that the film could have been 90 minutes and still told the same story. What we have here is a film over two hours which has no pace whatsoever.Don't get me wrong the premise of the film is excellent. In fact William Shatner has since written a novel stating that this could have been the origins of the Borg and that the machine planet Voyager 6 ended at could have been the Borg home planet. Of course this is not Canon but worth a mention for the Trek viewer to make his own judgement.Star Trek on the big screen is epic. In fact i will go as far as to say that no other Star Trek film has come close to the special effects and grandeur of this film. It is just shame that it loses something in the plodding storyline. There are some wonderful moments to point out, though. Persis Khambatta's Ilea is beautiful in this and it must have made her cry having all her hair cut off for the part. Decker is a good Commander to Captain Kirk. As stated before, The Enterprise is simply stunning. The 2001 version of V'Ger also really makes a difference as you see it as a proper vessel and how it looks, which was a bit lost to the viewer in the original version. Goldsmith's score makes the film to be honest. The main title theme would later be used for 'Star Trek The Next Generation of course.A couple of scenes miss the mark though. I find the wormhole scene, where the audio is slowed down, a bit out of place. Though the 2001 special effects at least make the asteroid exploding look like a proper explosion and not as poor as the 1979 version. Equally i find the first 30 minutes in general a bit slow. Not that the film picks up in pace really. Though, i guess the final ten minutes are exceptional. The uniforms are also bland, colourless and horrible looking. Thank the lord they reverted to some colour in them from Wrath.Kirk, isn't the Kirk of the original series. He won't find that until Wrath. Spock is Spock and has a number of emotional moments. Bones has his comedic elements just like in the original series. Scotty, Chekov, Uhura and Sulu are just along for the ride and underused which is surprising considering how long the film is. It was great, however, to see brief cameos from Nurse Chapel and Yeoman Rand.The Motion Picture is a hard one to review. I am a major Trek fan and love almost every aspect of Trek. Sadly, this just about misses the boat, but also makes you want to get on the boat in the first place! It is like an old friend that you haven't seen for years and you are unsure if you want to invite them in or join them for the drink. You will be glad you did though as at some point the film becomes like a comfortable best friend! When viewing Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan and especially Star Trek III The Search for Spock, you will be friends, forever. After Star Trek IV The Voyage Home, you will be married. Having said that, by Star Trek V The Final Frontier, you will be divorcing. Hey, they are reviews for another day.All in all it is a good film, if you really have the time to invest in in and ponder the bigger question within it. If you are not a Trek fan, start with II The Wrath Of Khan. That begins a wonderful trilogy played out in III & IV, where the film franchise of Trek really finds its feet. "},{"Title":"Why am I here? What was I meant to be?","Date":"9 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" It took a good ten years to adapt Star Trek, one of the best and most famous sci-fi TV shows of all time, for the big screen. When they finally did, Star Trek The Motion Picture premiered to showcase a big, bold, extravagant spectacle, and a story that promised to be the end-all be-all Trek adventure.The problem is, watching this film has always been a weird experience. Despite the gorgeous model work and special effects, there really isn't much action to this, and the pacing overall is rather slow. Even at its smartest, the Star Trek series and all its future incarnations always had an adventurous spirit embedded with its stories; this movie strips away the adventure in favor of a strict and somewhat cold piece of hard sci-fi. There's little warmth, and certainly no real bang, to this picture.That being said, it still has its merits. The interstellar odyssey through the V'Ger cloud could be seen as something wondrous and awe-inspiring. The biggest draw to this film will be its story, which showcases a very clever high-concept premise with strong overarching philosophical themes of existence, purpose, and the human spirit.The plot holding these concepts up is a pretty standard affair, but is stretched rather thinly due to a number of lengthy scenes that could have easily been cut from the film. A lot of screen time is devoted to endless beauty shots of the Enterprise, there's a weird and silly scene where everybody's trapped in a wormhole for some odd reason, and there's a seemingly-pointless scene involving a transporter accident. What really throws me off, however, are the characters. The original cast is all here - Captain Kirk, Commander Spock, Dr. McCoy, Uhura, Checkov, Sulu, Scotty - but Spock is the only one of the lot who actually feels like a main character. In this movie, it's Decker and Ilia who take the center stage, and they go through a romantic spiel that borders on being sappy.Photography and editing are generally good in this film. Acting is disappointingly dry from the classic Trek crew, possibly because they're not given much to do as they are in the sequels. Leonard Nimoy is easily the biggest standout here; William Shatner does the best he can to make Captain Kirk cool again, and DeForest Kelley throws out some occasionally crass and witty lines. As the true main character, Stephen Collins comes off as rather dull. Persis Khambatta might be the best and most interesting performance here. Writing is not bad, especially regarding the high-brow aspects of the film, but it lacks a certain personality overall. This production has some rather gaudy costumes, but most sets, props, and special effects are great. Music is great too.In the same fashion as 2001 A Space Odyssey, I have to really be in the right mood to watch this film. Both 2001 and Star Trek The Motion Picture are space operas with very big special effects and very big ideas, but aren't that big on character building. As a Trek film, this first feature can be a rather dry and bewildering experience, especially if you're looking to see the original Enterprise crew in action. As a piece of intelligent sci-fi, with a pair of entirely strange new characters in the lead, it can be an interesting and rewarding experience. Especially for the Director's Cut of this film, which is a little more evenly-paced, and features some smashing new special effects.It's worth a look for interested sci-fi fans and most Star Trek fans.3.5/5 (Entertainment Average | Story Pretty Good | Film Good) "},{"Title":"The Human adventure is just beginning.","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek the Motion picture,is a thing of beauty. The photography and the music create a haunting effect. The Acting is top notch considering that it had been a decade since the Crew of the Enterprise. The opening scene of the Klingons attacking and losing to V-GER. is a scene of cinematic beauty. from the first scene to the last Star Trek is a thing of beauty. The story is a typical sci-fi story. A thing of immense god like power is on it's way to Earth. only one ship is ready to stand in the way the newly designed USS ENTERPRISE. Five years has past,since Captain James T. Kirk brought the Enterprise safely home. The crew has been promoted and scattered Spock has left starfleet and McCoy has retired. Kirk is now a admiral. when V-ger destroys three klingons warships and a starfleet space station. Starfleet orders Captain Willard Decker and the Enterprise to intercept V-ger. however Admiral Kirk has other ideas he assumes command of the Enterprise. Spock and McCoy rejoin the ship and proceed to a stunning confrontation with V-ger. The ending is weak. but it's the journey here that counts not the destination. overshadowed by Star Trek II the Wrath of Khan,and rightfully so. However this should not be overlooked. "},{"Title":"First outing for the original crew","Date":"28 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm no big Trekkie, but I've watched the occasional episode of the original '60s television series (the only one I've any interest in, really) and I have a fondness for all things William Shatner, so I decided to catch up with a few of the big screen outings.STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE is a bit of a disappointment, truth be told. It's way overlong and nothing much happens for much of that running time; the pacing is off, and there are way too many scenes of the actors just sitting around and watching computer effects taking place on a screen in front of them. It doesn't make for very dramatic cinema.I understand that the makers of this deliberately avoided making it an action-orientated movie in the wake of STAR WARS, but the storyline just isn't interesting enough to generate much suspense. Plenty of mystery is built up, but the denouement is a bit lacklustre and you end the film thinking 'is that it?'.Still, there is some entertainment value to be gained along the way, mainly from the performances of the returning cast members and seeing how they've changed since the original days of the show. There's Bill Shatner, wearing heavy make up and lording it over everyone in his usual arrogant way; there's Leonard Nimoy, incredibly aged in the decade or so since the small screen. Walter Koenig and George Takei haven't changed much, but DeForest Kelley must surely be ready for his zimmer frame soon, and portly James Doohan looks to have been enjoying life a little too much.It's a pity none of them have much to work with, and much of the drama is given over to younger actors who fail to register very much. The dated special effects are fun and by rights it's hard to fault a piece of entertainment so deliberately thought-provoking and old-fashioned, but STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE is hardly what you'd call a classic. "},{"Title":"Interesting but flawed film","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This is perhaps the second best Star Trek film out of the first six films with the old cast and ship. The best is obviously, The Wrath of Khan, one of my top 100 favorite films. This is not top 100 material, instead, while better than 90% of the films in the cinemas today, is not a masterpiece by far and neither does it reaches what I would call excellence, instead it is merely very good science fiction. Not as remotely as good as 2001A Space Odyssey, the ultimate hard science fiction film. This is a well constructed and executed film, but it is not deeply affecting.Overall, I would recommend this to Star Trek fans and science fiction fans, but not to ordinary film goers. "},{"Title":"The Motion picture has a charm to it...","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't really explain why I like this movie,I just can't.People say , that Star TrekThe motion picture tries to cash in on the success of Star Wars and 2001A Space Odyssey and I can see why.The movie has some elements from both of those films.People claim,that the result is a very boring and slow moving film.To be completely honest,I never felt bored watching this.I though the story and characters were interesting and I especially liked the VGER plot twist in the end of the movie.Let me point out,this was the very first thing related to Star Trek,that I ever saw and it left me with a very good impression for the whole series in general.I guess Star TrekThe motion picture has a charm to it,or maybe it's just me.I recommend giving this movie a watch,for curiosity's sake,who knows,you may like it too. "},{"Title":"Renegade Star Trek","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" After Star Wars (1977) was a hit at theaters all over, it was like Star Trek was suddenly pulled out of mothballs and the changes that were made was just to rival Star Wars as if to say 'You have nothing over us cause we been light years ahead of you'. I doubt very much it was the ongoing fan mail that revived it, but more like lots of dollar signs for Paramount. I read somewhere that by the time the Motion Picture came along, Roddenberry (the creator) no longer had control over his creation, which is so wrong; this is total disrespect of the one who contrived the whole thing. Star Trek TMP was nothing like the TV series. The familiar characters came off like stiff cardboards and their uniforms seem like futuristic scientists. I didn't appreciate the bump-on-the-head bald Klingon look at all. I did like the opening sequence of the really neat looking Klingon ships and the very catchy great music when approaching the enormous V'ger alien. I liked Capt. Decker and wish they hadn't gotten rid of him nor the incredible beautiful Illya; only the good die young it seemed. I didn't like the Vulcan science officer Sonak get killed in the transporter, as it would of been great to see him work with Capt. Decker. I didn't even like Kirk cleverly finding a way to steal the command seat from Decker. It's interesting to note that Decker cared more for Illya than the Enterprise that Kirk wanted to possess again. I also didn't like because Spock seem so arrogant in finally accepting his human emotions to the point of being oblivious to familiar crew members who were happy just to see him again. It was as though he was too good for them. Right then I had wished a donkey was right there to just give him a good kick so he'd scream some kind of emotion. Spock and McCoy's friendship seem more dangerous than usually was; it was like they reached of point of total distrust & despised each other. The most boring part of the movie was when the Enterprise started touring inside of V'ger as if doing window shopping. You'd think it would never end. V'ger had to be Star Trek's version to out do Star Wars Death Star. It's kinda like saying 'You think the Death Star is so bad well take a look at our god-like ship.' I think the original subtitle of this Star Trek movie was gonna be 'Is there a God'; something like that anyway. When it came to the redesign of the Enterprise, I never fully understood how the more sleek looking warp nacelles was better than before. Or what was the practical science improvement behind it's change to that. "},{"Title":"Has some interesting elements but it's mostly being a bit of a bore.","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh my! This is just not a very good movie. But I'm still a bit torn, since the movie in fact does has its moments and there are still plenty of good and interesting ideas in this movie.It's still remained a bit of a disappointment, watching this movie. Not that I expected anything great from it but it at least has a somewhat decent reputation and got directed by Robert Wise, who I consider to be one of the best directors that ever lived. The movie however was suffering from a bit too many problems to consider this a truly great one. I still give it somewhat the benefit of the doubt, so to speak, since it still did had its interesting moments.One of the things that the movie is suffering from is that it's being stuck somewhere between a sci-fi adventure and a more 2001 A Space Odyssey type of science-fiction movie. It's just not a combination of sci-fi story aspects that works out too well and also constantly provides the movie with a lot of slower moments, which lets this movie sort of feel like a very stretched out Star Trek television episode.And the story is also being pretty standard and simple. Basically they spend the first hour of the movie trying to figure out what's the dangerous object that is on a course to Earth and they spend the second half of the movie trying to figure out what it wants and not necessarily how it can be stopped, though the one thing still leads to the other of course. And this story there are some pretty good and interesting ideas, which does give the movie some more depth but overall they didn't do quite a good enough job with it and left some missed opportunities here and there.Also please don't watch this movie expecting to see a lot of sci-fi action or spectacle. There is absolutely none of that present in this movie! No, not even a simple space fight or some hand to hand combat. Not that this is being necessarily a bad thing but it would had spiced things up a little more at times, which was something this movie truly could had used.The special effects are pretty good. It's no Star Wars material but it's definitely acceptable looking, for 1979 standards. And some of the visuals are definitely impressive and great looking actually and help to give the movie a certain look and atmosphere, which makes it definitely a notch above the average sci-fi entry of its time.Star Trek always had plenty of characters in it but yet this movie still feels the need to introduce new once as well. Not really anything necessary and it prevents some of the Enterprise crew members from shining in this movie. Doubt the fans would have complained too much about it though, since they were probably just more than happy to see their favorites characters return to the screen, 10 years after the first series had already ended.I still did wished that the movie would had given some of the other characters some more room to shine. The movie gives you the feeling it could had done a lot more with the Spock and Dr. McCoy character for instance. But it's really mostly being the Captain Kirk show instead and my oh my, does William Shatner's acting stink! It's completely over-the-top but it does has its charm, I'll admit to that.All in all, far from a great movie but still one that deserves to get the benefit of the doubt, since it has some good moments and there is also still plenty for the fans of the franchise to see and enjoy in this movie and it has a beautiful Jerry Goldsmith musical score as well of course!7/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not for everybody","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Having not seem the director's cit of this movie, I'm basing my review on seeing the original theatrical release. Star Trek TMP was one of the many movies of the time trying to cash in on the sci-fi craze that began after Star Wars, but unlike those other films, it also had to live up to the TV series' cult favorite status. In some ways, it does a good job. However, in others, you wonder if the people behind the movie knew what made the series so popular.The basic plot is that (big shock) an alien object is destroying everything in its path towards Earth, and the Enterprise is the only ship that can stop it (isn't it always funny that every other ship is gone when real danger looms?). Kirk maneuvers his way back into command over an outraged Captain Decker, and after some early jitters, they reach the object. It's actually a lost old-Earth satellite, and it wants to meet its creator. Eventually, Decker sacrifices himself for his love of Ilia, who is taken control of by the probe, and saves Earth and the Ship.Let's start with some positives. First, the set design was great; some of the scenes were so good, they were reused in the first sequel. Star Trek always seemed to look and feel low budget, but they certainly didn't hold back here. I liked the tension between the Kirk and Decker characters; you can tell Decker resents Kirk for taking what he thinks should be his, and moments like the wormhole scene display this perfectly. And seeing the entire cast from the show feels like putting on a pair of old shoes; it's very comfortable and satisfying.Now, for the negatives. First, the costume design. It's hard to think that the TV show had better looks, but those uniforms were dreadful (thank goodness that changed starting in #2). The dialogue also could've been better; I know it was about ten years after the series ended, but you'd think the chemistry would be better. Not to mention the Ilia/Decker romance seems about as warm as being at the top of Mount Everest (though the Ilia character was written poorly in my opinion).However, the biggest problem is in its pacing...or SEVERE lack thereof. Some scenes drag on with nothing but shots into the abyss and blank stares from the cast. In this way, the director Robert Wise was mimicking 2001 A Space Odyssey than Star Wars, but for a show as character-driven as Star Trek, lengthy periods of awkward silence is mind-numbing and will test your patience. No amount of spectacular visuals can sustain interest for long periods of time (I heard it's better in the director's cut, but again, I haven't seen it).Overall, ST TMP is a decent first attempt at putting the series on the screen, and die-hard Trek fans will probably enjoy it. If you're a casual viewer, however, watch #2 or #4 for a more action-packed, faster paced fare. "}{"Title":"Stands Alone in the Feature Film Series","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" On the surface, the plot to 1979's Star Trek The Motion Picture isn't very interesting -- A colossal, mysterious space cloud called V'ger travels across the galaxy and threatens Earth; the origins of V'ger are revealed at the end. In truth, The Motion Picture addresses many of the deepest questions of life -- Is this all there is? Why are we here? Does love exist since it cannot be proved via pure logic? Who is the Creator? The core message is the intrinsic need to seek one's Creator and reconcile in order to attain a (necessary) higher level of consciousness. Those that hate the film and found it boring simply failed to penetrate beyond the surface.Like the Star Trek episodes The Corbomite Maneuver (#3) and Metamorphosis (#31), Star Trek The Motion Picture is a mature, cerebral sci-fi story with very little action. Most kids and young adults won't like it or grasp it. It's depth is evidenced by the emotional wallop experienced when Spock grasps Kirk's hand in Sickbay, truly revealing emotion despite his conflicting desire to attain a consciousness of pure logic, or later when Spock weeps for V'ger and comments on its personal dilemma, which perfectly coincides with Spock's own search for fulfillment As I was when I came aboard, so is V'ger now -- empty, incomplete and searching. Logic and knowledge are not enough... Each of us at sometime in our lives turns to someone -- a father, a brother, a God -- and asks, 'Why am I here?' 'What was I meant to be?' V'ger hopes to touch its creator to find its answers.Another powerful sequence is a crewman's self-sacrificial fusion with V'ger so that it may evolve to the next level of awareness (seemingly self-sacrificial, that is).The fact that the film inspires such profound contemplation and emotion proves that it's not just a bad film that apologists try to make excuses for as critics claim, e.g. It's deep and awe-inspiring; you just don't understand it. I'm not making excuses; it's simply the truth. If you are unable to accept this perhaps it's because YOU CAN'T HANDLE THE TRUTH. (lol).My conclusion on the film runs parallel to Roger Ebert's comments My inclination, as I slid down in my seat and the stereo sound surrounded me, was to relax and let the movie give me a good time. I did and it did. In other words, just accept the film as is, and you WILL be entertained -- but put on a pot of coffee (you're gonna need it, HA, HA!), kick back and relish the movie magic.Let me add that The Motion Picture was one of the most expensive films of its time, but it did well at the box office and thus made a decent profit -- a testimony to how hungry the public was for Star Trek after ten long years (since the cancellation of the original TV series in '69). In fact, aside from Star Trek IV The Voyage Home, STTMP is still the most profitable of all the Star Trek feature films with the whole original cast (Making FOUR TIMES its expense worldwide); it therefore can't very well be the cinematic turd that many critics claim. Also, consider the fact that STTMP made more at the box office than the acclaimed films Alien and Apocalypse Now, both released the same year (1979).I should add that, although this film is an Grade A picture as far as epic, awe-inspiring pieces of cinematic art go, I understand why some would grade it lower. In such cases I suggest making the necessary psychological adjustments and watching it again as it is more along the lines of The Cage (#1) than The Doomsday Machine (#35). If this doesn't work, stick with more lightweight fare like Zathura or even Star Wars (giggle). Just joking. The viewer will note that The Motion Picture is truly the sole Star Trek film that aspires to and attains a level of cinematic awe along the lines of 2001 A Space Odyssey. Actually, The Motion Picture is LEAGUES better IMHO. 2001 lacks characters whom the viewer truly cares about; it's also cold and overly artsy, with way too many unnecessarily boring sequences (but, don't get me wrong, if 2001 trips your trigger, that's great). The Motion Picture, by contrast, has heart. Not to mention an interesting story that delves into the deepest of all universal questions.Say what you will, but The Motion Picture towers alone, utterly unique in the feature film series -- a profoundly spiritual TRIUMPH. "},{"Title":"Take us to your VGER","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" uh well, the premise is a bit far-fetched, and poorly explicated.in fact, it's absurd and stupid.this is the weakest of the bunch, even more so, IMHO, than ST5 FF.and of course, we can't ignore the acting, or lack thereof.and then there's the self-congratulatory junk scenes going oo and ahhh about the new Enterprise.yeah it looked purty, and was a huge advance over the TV series. Heck, I could have done better than NBC using a shoebox and a flashlight.at least the other ST films faired better.VGER must evolve as did ST. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As It Should Have Been","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those movies you sit down to watch, and expect it to be really good. But the truth is, it isn't. It's drawn out, and I felt that a lot of the scenes could have been cut down to about half their length, and they still would have gotten their points across.And all the characters are so serious in this movie! They never act as seriously in the series as they do here in this movie--in fact, in some cases, I think they were acting quite out of character. Surely, one of them would have had the script changed or simply refuse to portray their character like that? I think that unless you like to watch the camera linger on the Starship Enterprise for a long time at the start of the movie, or you quite like seeing characters acting in a way that's completely out of character for what's already established as normal behavior for them, you'll find this movie to be a bit boring. "},{"Title":"The human adventure is just beginning.","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture (1979); Directed by Robert Wise; Starring William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, Persis Khambatta et al.This film marked the transition from television to the silver screen for Star Trek and is part of the reason why Star Trek is still such phenomenon today. Sadly though, this film is regarded as one of the lesser entries in the series today and in my opinion this is unrightfully so, because I regard this as the best Star Trek film and a great film in general.Let me start with a short plot outline. We first witness the approach of a giant cloud, which will be the main character. From there on, we move to the crew of the refitted Enterprise. We see how Admiral Kirk takes command of the Enterprise from Captain Decker (Stephen Collins) and how Spock joins the crew later on, after having rejected pure logic as the way of life. There's also a new bridge officer onboard Lt. Ilia (Khambatta). The ship's crew is now complete and together they're about to intercept the mysterious cloud which they must stop before it reaches Earth. A journey of understanding begins, because for the crew to stop the entity, it's necessary to uncover its motivations. They learn parts from Ilia, who has been taken by the invader and has returned in the form of a probe to observe the crew and she tells them that V'Ger (the invader) wishes to speak with The Creator. Spock also plays a role in uncovering more of the mystery, as he takes a space suit and journeys to the inner chambers of V'Ger, where he mindmelds with it and learns a great deal about how it thinks. In the end, the crew finds out who The Creator is and an explanation to V'Ger's behavior.The film is very slow moving, but that's part of what makes this film as great as it is. The film takes a philosophical approach to Star Trek, making a slow furthering of the plot appropriate, since it gives you time to reflect on the information you're given. Besides the philosophical aspect, the film dares to take time for showing us how beautiful and elegant space travel actually is. Call it an epic approach, which already becomes apparent by means of an overture. Furthermore, it features a six minute scene in which Admiral Kirk and Scotty take a tour around the refitted Enterprise. The model is truly breathtaking, as is the set design. The bridge looks like it could really be used in a space ship and Engineering never looked better. The film features more extensive modeling work, which is all extremely well-crafted. Once we have reached the outskirts of the cloud, we journey to its center, to where the actual entity is located and this costs us about fifteen minutes. Once again we see great special effects, as we first move through the cloud, followed by the fly-over of an enormous space ship. We then move inside, to reveal an even more astounding interior. These scenes could have been done in two minutes, but luckily the film takes the epic approach and shows us all. Through this approach we really feel the mystery of space and the threat the invader poses. This approach calls for a good musical score and Jerry Goldsmith more than delivers that, he actually delivers an almost divine score. It matches the film exactly and it enhances the film greatly, taking it to another level. The score embodies the romance in Ilia's Theme, the excitement in the Main Title, the elegance in the Starfleet music (especially in The Enterprise) and the mystery and danger in the V'Ger cues, which sound really otherworldly thanks to the use of the 'Blaster Beam'. Never before have I heard a score which melts as perfectly with what's on screen as this one.I already mentioned the philosophical approach which is at the heart of the film. To me, this film embodies what Star Trek is about. It's about humanity in the broadest way; it's about what humans have to offer, about what makes us a good species. In the end, it's perhaps hopelessly optimistic about humanity, but the concept is brought in such a believable manner that you believe in it and it's a concept I want to believe in. That it's so believable has to do with the fact that it's science fiction, which gives the opportunity to put down an evolved human race, without the context of the present. Besides the human theme, the film also poses big questions, like why are we here, where do we come from? Such questions are seldom in a major motion picture, but they are worthy of exploration in a film.One last aspect acting. This is not one of the film's better aspects, but it's by no means bad acting. Opinions on William Shatner's acting talents differ, but I don't mind him. The other original crewmembers deliver good performances and Leonard Nimoy excels as Spock, in search for answers to life. Persis Khambatta looks gorgeous as the bald Ilia and delivers a nice performance. My only quibble is the subplot about the tension between Kirk and Decker, which feels somewhat out of place in the overall film, but that's not the actors' fault, but that lies with the script.What makes this film so great is that it doesn't shy away from being a real science fiction film, in the Gene Roddenberry style. There are universal human values to be learned in the context of the future and space, without shying away from real science fiction and the exploration aspect. This film balances these aspects really well and thus becomes really involving and challenging. Combine this with great modeling and special effects work, a score which is divine and a lovely slow pacing and you've got a philosophical, exciting, adventurous and above all, a true Star Trek film.9/10. "},{"Title":"If you're a fan of 2009's 'Star Trek', please check out it's amazing roots!","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Ahhh, a true science fiction tale told through a fantastic film. Again, I had to convince myself it was 1979, and ignore the special effects that have been achieved since then. But I really don't need to ignore those cgi advancements to enjoy a film such as this one. It was told during what I like to consider the golden age of sci fi. Where thanks to 'star wars' stories/scripts once deemed unfilmable were now possible. You don't see today's sci fi films having such a fascinating story like this. Foster and Livingston did a fine job. It was great to see the original cast together again. By 79's standards this film is top notch, and still should be considered in that way today. I'd like to also add that I thought Persis Khambatta was amazing in her role. It's too bad I didn't see her in anything else too relevant. And I was sorry to hear about her passing in the late nineties.Oh and the blu ray edition of this film is fantastic!! The picture/audio quality were so superb that I could not believe my eyes and ears. If you're a fan of the 2009's 'Star Trek' prequel/reboot/remake(?) I think you should definitely check out where it all began. "},{"Title":"Great Science Fiction Film, GREAT Star Trek Film","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of people may complain about this film, saying it is too bland and too boring, but in my opinion, it's a great science fiction film, it just needs a little work done on it. I also believe it is a good way to start up the Star Trek movie series, ending with the dry Star Trek Nemesis in 2002 and being rebooted in Star Trek in 2009.William Shatner is Captain Kirk, obviously, and Leonard Nimoy is Spock. Along with the rest of the crew of the Enterprise, they must examine a large space cloud that can destroy ships. The effects on the cloud are pretty neat, but are a bit callous when it comes to the effects in Star Wars, released two years prior. Other characters include Bones Mccoy, played by DeForest Kelley, Scotty played by James Doohan, Stephen Collins as Willard Decker, and many more.This is going to be the last Star Trek film I review on IMDb because I feel that I should move onto other sci-fi films, but this film is great, odd, but great. It may be corny and odd and have it's acid trip moments, but it's a great sci-fi film that deserves to be treated better. If you are a die-hard Trekkie (I'm not, but I have a little in my blood)I say check it out. May the force be with you! Oops! Sorry! I mean live long and prosper! "},{"Title":"Definitely Star Trek for the Dedicated","Date":"20 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie tends to polarize the Star Trek fandom; We either adore it or we think it's fecal matter.Trust me to be the weird one and say I'm pretty undecided.It seems to me that this one will appeal to those among us who (a)think that Jim and Spock belong together (clearly, I'm one of those people), (b)are right up there with Scotty when it comes to staring at our dear Enterprise for ridiculous amounts of time, and/or (c)love philosophy. I'm a member of groups A and C, so I have quite a few reasons to love the movie.Believe me, I am the first person who'll admit that the flyover of the Enterprise in the spacedock drags on for far too long, and Jim seems out of character (until Spock shows up, and then it's all better) in the beginning.But scenes like the sickbay scene are made of win! I still go Awwww... when Spock says, holding Jim's hand and shaking it a little for emphasis, This...simple feeling...is beyond V'ger's comprehension, as Jim looks at him with this almost indescribable tenderness.I could go on for ages about Spock and Jim's relationship in TMP, but I'll leave that to spookyfbi on fanfiction.net, who devoted an essay to the subject, complete with parallels to Decker and Ilia.Speaking of Decker and Ilia, I hope to God that that unresolved sexual tension was intentional, but, given Star Trek's track record, I wouldn't be surprised if it was accidental.V'ger was intriguing, and I'm sure it and Nomad would've gotten along had the ever had the chance to meet... "},{"Title":"A Great beginning for the Star Trek movie franchise!","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I enjoyed this film in both the original form and in the director's cut. I saw absolutely nothing wrong with it. I don't understand why some Trekkies & Trekkers were so disappointed. Robert Wise did a terrific job of keeping the film on track (or Trek). It had terrific special effects, a terrific cast including newcomers to Trek, Persis Khambatta and Stephen Collins, great sets, new costumes, (replacing the cheesy velour shirts and tights with sharp looking uniforms was a great move), excellent props and a magnificent new music score by Jerry Goldsmith which is still in use on the franchise today as well as Alexander Courage's original theme. I thought the storyline was most involving with its surprise ending and the scope of the film on a large screen deftly illustrated the immensity of the Trek universe. The story begins with a couple of Klingon 'Bird of Prey' ships encountering an enormous, cloud-like anomaly moving through space. When it ignores their attempt at communication, they fire upon it and are annihilated. Meanwhile Spock, who is retired from Starfleet, senses its existence while on his home planet of Vulcan. The UFC (United Federation of Planets) also tracks it and learns it's heading straight on a path to Earth. The UFC decides to send its best crew to investigate. Naturally that would be the USS Enterprise crew, some of whom have retired, others who still tend to the ship. Eventually the whole cast is reunited and sets out on this desperate mission to save the Earth. The Genesis-like story has an interesting premise and some neat surprises. I am not a Trekkie or Trekker; I'm just a guy who likes Star Trek. I found this the perfect way to initiate the new Star Trek Movie franchise. I think many people had expectations that could not be fulfilled without disappointment. The film is a fine entry into a hopefully unending series. "},{"Title":"Great for Insomniacs...","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Childhood Memory Star Trek The Motion Picture fades out at my local cinema; the end credits come up, as do the house lights. I look around, and see approximately half of the audience of several hundred people, fast asleep.And that was in 1979! The recent DVD editions have improved this movie a great deal, the first big screen outing for Capt. Kirk and crew of the Starship Enterprise. Many deletions to the almost endless special effects shots, and inclusions of more character moments have made some difference. Yet it's still an occasionally soporific film, with its basic plot-germ borrowed from a second season t.v. episode, The Changeling.The main thrust of the film is simple - does Capt Kirk, in spite of being stuck in a desk job following his promotion to Admiral two years previously, still have the command ability that made the voyages of the Starship Enterprise a legend in Starfleet? This plot device gives some much needed drama to the proceedings - particularly when Kirk practically forces himself into the role of Captain for the mission, usurping a bright but inexperienced Matt Decker (Stephen Collins) - but it's largely sidestepped in favour of endless shots of a solar system-sized threat . A gigantic cloud of unbelievable destructive power is heading towards Earth. And Enterprise, still in pieces following a refit, is the only Federation ship capable of intercepting the intruder in time...Decent premise, but everything that made the original series so memorable is squeezed out of this movie - the bantering between Spock and McCoy is totally absent apart from a brief moment or two - So help me I'm actually pleased to see you; the bright primary colours of the TV show have here become a battleship grey that only adds to the tedium; the interactions between the famous characters seem strained and forced; and the damn thing lacks the sparky energy and philosophical edge that made Star Trek so much fun in the first place.There's a fair number of good moments, though, noticeably the ship being pulled into a wormhole of its own making and Spock arriving in the nick of time to get the ship into Warp, but this is not a great Star Trek Movie. The makers tried for a 2001 approach, but Trek was never meant to be so ponderous.The effects are fantastic, however, and hold up very well, and the wonderful Jerry Goldsmith score captures the themes of Star Trek brilliantly, so much so that the opening march became the theme for The Next Generation TV series. The original cast, who all return, are good, but they are dwarfed by the effects, and never allowed to express themselves properly.Happily, there was better to come. "},{"Title":"Very good start of a very cool Sci-fi movie franchise!","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Captain James T. Kirk (William Shatner) with crew (Leonard Nimoy, Deforest Kelly, Majel Barret, Walter Koenig, George Takei, James Doohan, and Nichelle Nichols) joined with two new members Decker (Stephen Collins) and bald female alien Illea (Persis Khambatta) as they take a new mission on their newly reinvented U.S.S. Enterprise. Their mission to find a mysterious alien spaceship that has wiped out a few Klingon ships before it heads towards Earth to destroy it.A very good but somewhat slow start to a uber-cool Star Trek film series which is based on the classic sci-fi TV show. The original cast is reunited 10 years later in this film event of 1979 that made audiences believe that Star Trek could live again but on film. Director Robert Wise and creator/producer Gene Roddenberry did a nice job bringing the show to the big screen and Jerry Goldsmith's main score for this movie became the theme score to Star Trek The Generation. The special effects were good for it's time even the production design even though it doesn't have any action like this movie's sequels. The brand new cut that came out in 2001 really improved the movie with scenes that make sense, better pacing and enhanced special effects.It's a good beginning but the sequel is better. "}{"Title":"The longest episode","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, so the first time isn't always the best, but is usually memorable.TMP was better left as the pilot to Star Trek II; the series... but translated to a great reunion film anyhow. Yes, the plot was long, drawn out and a bit messy, but in the end, everyone was back together and only the likable characters who no one actually liked were killed. Besides, without this muddled premise, Roddenberry may never have thought of the Borg, who he often eluded may have been an after effect of the 'union' of Decker and Ilya.What it lacks in epic, it makes up for in place setting... 5 years after the show but 5 years before 'Wrath of Khan'. "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Cerebral Picture.","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture feels a lot like a two hour episode of the original series, although one of the more thoughtful episodes. It's not the best way to start off a series from a show that was considered to be a failure. The story, music, and direction, by Robert Wise, the man who directed The Day the Earth Stood Still, are the strong points. Wise brings a good deal of suspense and maturity to the proceedings. The music by Jerry Goldsmith (Planet of the Apes) has that epic feel. There are really only two things that hold this back. The designs, especially the costumes, and the morose William Shatner. The crew is at it's best when they are joking around, having fun with each other. The only one that is really doing that is the cantankerous Dr. McCoy, played by the late DeForest Kelley. Fans of the show won't be disappointed, but this is only the beginning. Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan is a distinct step up and the foundation for all future treks. "},{"Title":"the motionless picture","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The nickname 'the motionless picture' is certainly well deserved by this film. 132 min of aimless special effects accompanied by awestruck faces on the part of the crew. This is punctuated only by incessant changes of uniform. The cast, are all present as is their ship what they lack is a worthy mission. To be fair the engagement with Klingons means something actually does happen, all be it briefly, early in the film. With that aside all that follows are images of what can only be described as fake natural beauty spots in outer space. (Well maybe Im exaggerating)The interplay between Kirk, Spock and Bones makes a welcome return and there may be something for die-hard trekkies in this film. After 2 hours of viewing however my feeling was just let the damn thing hit earth and have done with it. "},{"Title":"Not great but not without it's charms","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I find it hard to be harsh on this movie. It's got some truly awful moments in it, but at the same time it's endearing as well.The story is certainly bad, only the uniforms can match it in that respect. But the special effects are good for the time, certainly when compared to other contemporary films such as the Terminator in 1984. The fact it's the first film means it must be given leniency as well, and for a first effort it's not a total disaster by any means. This movie hasn't aged well, but it's still worth a view every now and then if you can take a lot of rough to find the occasional smooth. To enjoy this you need to take it with a pinch of salt, objective viewing will only result in disappointment.In comparison to numbers Two, Three and Four it suffers, but it's still better than Shatner's Final Frontier. "},{"Title":"A Really Long Star Trek Episode","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" In the final analysis, STTMP is a lot like STGenerations it's just a really long Star Trek episode. The only difference was which series they were emulating.TMP plays out exactly like a original series episode. Except it's over 2 hours long, so they threw in a bunch of half-baked filler material. Decker and Ilia's relationship. Kirk's obsession with command (thankfully retconned out of existence in the Wrath of Khan) and his relationship with Decker. The whole nonsense of them having to fix their Warp Drive. And so forth.The other part of this is that, it's still an original series episode. And, quite frankly, most of those haven't exactly aged well (and that's putting it charitably). Neither has TMP.The plot is this an unknown, and apparently unstoppable, object surrounded by an impenetrable cloud is heading for Earth. For reasons I can't possibly fathom, the only ship available to confront it is the Enterprise, because it happens to be in space dock undergoing refits and repairs.Now, I'm not enough of a Trekkie to know how fast the various warp speeds are, so I am willing to buy (on the surface of it) that the object is coming in so fast that no ships can catch it. However, if that's the case, then how can the Enterprise actually intercept it, which would require meeting it and keeping pace with it as it approaches Earth? And I'm not willing to buy that the only ship of note around EARTH (the capital of the Federation) is the Enterprise. Even if you ignore evidence from later Trek, what kind of strange universe does this movie live in where Earth is protected by a single ship that's only there because it's being refitted. Even if the Federation weren't in a full-scale war, there'd be a couple of ships hanging around Earth.So the premise fails upon inspection. However, other movies have failed upon inspection, but been interesting nonetheless. This isn't one of them.Accepting the flaws in its premise, it's just a bad movie. The pacing is terrible (thanks to being an extended ST episode); there's too much movie for the plot. The writing is bland. Way too much time is spent looking at stuff (layers of clouds and ships) rather than on the plot.The other problem is the ending; TMP's ending is pretty crappy. It's totally Duex Ex Machina (the phrase God in a Box is actually quite literal in this case). Decker uses some heretofore unmentioned mechanism to merge with V'Ger. What is this mechanism? Oh, that's never explained. Nor is it explained how he plugs himself into it.But after Decker merges with V'Ger, it disappears entirely, thus eliminating the threat.I prefer outsmarting enemies by playing on their weaknesses. Like Wrath of Khan. Or First Contact. Or The Undiscovered Country. My 3 favorite Trek movies, incidentally.It's not Star Trek V; that was a true atrocity of film making. But it was the second worse Trek movie. "},{"Title":"first not the best","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I was about 7 years old when I first saw this movie, and I was bored out of my mind. I'm more bored now when I try to sit trough this mess. Thankfully, the producers and directors learned from the mistakes and would next give us the best of the Star trek film series, Wrath of Kahn. Pretentous, overwrought, and simply way too long considering the story, this was not the way to start off, and even many trekkies lament that this was without a doubt the worst of the Star Trek movies, an as time goes on, the movie has almost become unwatchable. Granted, they did well with what had to be a small budget, and tried to invoke some imagination into the rather implausible story. however, the rather dry, bland uniforms, slow pace, and even some of the cast seemed embarrassed to be there. By the time the story is over, you're left with several questions, and one of which is what the hell did i Just see? The only was that this film should be in anyone collection is if the one a trekkie, and simply want to have the whole series of films. Other then that, this is the weakest of the Star Trek films, and overall should be avoided. For those new to Trek, watch 2-6 before you watch the first one. SInce the first story has no bearing on future films, like all other stories would, you won't be missing anything. "},{"Title":"Episode 0","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Strange film... Star Trek the Motion picture is like an experiment around the Star Trek Mythology.I mean, this film is a sort of remake of an episode from TOS titled korrigan in French, about a mysterious robot called Nomad which thought Kirk was his creator.The movie is really strange cause the feeling that it inspires you is  exaggeration ! The Characters are really exaggerated  Kirk is selfish,authoritarian and almost nervous like a mix of his worst sides, Spock is OVER cold and scientific minded without any consideration for Kirk for example, McCoy is like an old Grand pa without any constructing critics...Even the uniforms look like pajamas, more than in the TV show!!! (an exploit!) The scene where the crew sees the Enterprise is really beautiful but...very long and hyperbolic too! despite these critics, the optical based special effects are really good, a big tribute to Kubrick's 2001 odyssey, not a copy of Star Wars, that could happened according to the success of this film and finally,the story brings the audience in a world really imaginative that the trademark of Star Trek! I tell to my friends that Star Trek The motion Picture is like an Episode 0 or a bonus in the Star Trek Saga.For Many reasons, Star Trek 2, The Wrath of Kahn could be consider as Star Trek 1 in a sense. See Ya! P.S  Sorry for my poor English!!! "},{"Title":"The Motion Picture with not an awful lot of motion&#133;..","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now don't get me wrong, I am a Star Trek fan through and through (although I still prefer Babylon 5) but unfortunately in the rush to get the original TV series back on the screen, this time the big one, they went all out on special effects and somewhere along the line failed to put nearly as much development into the script.Basically what we have here is a setter-upper for the films that followed, explaining the rebuilt Enterprise, where everyone has been and Kirk's promotion was all really that this film did.The concept of the expendable crew member really got hammered home this time with the arrival of the irritating Commander/Captain Decker and Lt Ilea on board.  It was plainly obvious from the first moment these two love birds turned up that they where destined for some blinding end and some of the stand alone scenes between them are nauseating in the extreme.Thankfully the film is saved somewhat by some wondrous special effects (improved even more with the errors sorted out in the recent Special Edition DVD release) some (but I stress only some) intelligent dialogue and the late Jerry Goldsmith's haunting score.Having said all that, you can just skip this one and go straight on to the much better Star Trek II without too much worry. "},{"Title":"clever idea which just doesn't work","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERSThe entire genre of Star Trek began back in the 1960's with the original series of the show. Staring William Shatner and Leonard Nimoy, that original crew would end up featuring in six films as a whole (with Shatner and a few others featuring in the seventh film, 1994's Star Trek Generations) before being replaced by younger crews. By late 2004, this entire fictional reality has become almost a religion to people and full artificial languages are learnt by men and women all over the world. Arguably though, without this original movie, 1979's Star Trek The Motion Picture, this huge following might never have developed. Therefore, for all the criticism it might receive, this film is perhaps one of the most important science fiction events of the last forty years. It's just a shame that the story itself is tired, slow and relatively dull.Returning to his role as Captain James Tiberius Kirk, William Shatner stars alongside his former crew. Ten years after the final episode of the original series, the crew have gone their separate ways. Kirk has been promoted to Admiral and works at Starfleet Headquarters, Spock (Leonard Nimoy) has retreated to Vulcan and Doctor McCoy (the late, great DeForrest Kelley) has retired. With a mysterious, apparently unstoppable machine, approaching the Earth though, all of the crew are put aboard the refitted Uss Enterprise and sent to stop the machine.The ultimate problem with Star Trek The Motion Picture is perhaps that it has not aged well. Whilst the second film, The Wrath Of Kahn (1982), is still regarded by some as one of the best films of the series, this original outing can be viewed nowadays as typical seventies junk. With Michelle Nichols' Uhura having a seventies style haircut and with uniforms which were obviously meant to look futuristic but just looked hideous, the film smacks of seventies cool. This in itself, whilst a minor annoyance, is not an enormous problem. The problem begins when you gather all the costume designs of this film, and add a weak plot and an excessive use of special effects. What has always been the beauty of the Star Trek genre is that whilst there was often a lot of graphics and design used, this never interfered with the more important characterisation. In the first film though, the impression always seems to be that, yes the characters have problems, but who cares when we can make such pretty pictures. Star Trek The Motion Picture is a purely style based film. Attempting to create a plot which makes people philosophical, it fails due to a lack of any major effort placed into the script. There's no denying that Dr McCoy is still as brilliant as ever, but far too often are ideas thrown around without real consideration. Kirk's obsession with regaining control of the Enterprise is placed upon, but the conclusion of the film appears to resolve itself so that this obsession is never actually dealt with. The relationship between Captain Decker (Stephen Collins) and Ilia (Persis Khambatta) is also mentioned, but doesn't fully resolve itself.Ultimately, Star Trek The Motion Picture collapses for one main reason. By touching on certain notions, the creators had some brilliant opportunities to create a true classic. The film never actually achieves this promise however, mainly because all the amazing plot potential is eventually scrapped in favour of special effects. It is no real surprise that this original movie was an enormous success at the Box Office. At the time, anyone who was a fan of the series was bound to go to the film, irrelevant of whether they thought it looked bad or not. Ultimately though, like a lot of more recent series starters (2002's Spiderman being a disappointment, rectified by the sequel two years later), this original outing into space by Kirk and crew is worth avoiding. Avoid this film and move straight onto the vastly superior Star Trek II The Wrath Of Kahn. "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Motionless Picture","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like many sci-fi fans of the day, I was excited when I heard that Star Trek was going to return as a movie.  Now, I wasn't a rabid Trekkie; I didn't own any memorabilia and didn't go to conventions, or write fan fiction.  I just enjoyed the show and the ideas and concepts it presented.  Thus I didn't have much in the way of expectations for this movie.  I hoped it would be as exciting as Star Wars and looked forward to the possibility of special effects that were better than the original.  Well, the effects were better, but the movie was a big disappointment.  Sure, there were some great scenes and good character moments, but the thing was so slow and serious!  One of the great things about the original series was that it didn't take itself so seriously.  This movie was the opposite.  It seemed like they were too afraid to have a single laugh in the whole thing.  Also, it gets downright boring for long stretches.Now, don't get me wrong.  I enjoy a good cerebral story as much as the next person, but I like a little action to sir things up once in a while.  Even the action scenes tended to be bland.  The wormhole effect just gets weird and the trip through V'ger is just dull.  The opening sequences were good and lull you into a false sense of security that this is going to be an exciting ride.  To bad the ending doesn't hold up that bargain.Robert Wise is a fine director and I enjoy his cerebral films; but, it just wasn't happening here.  Most of the blame falls on the script.  It's fine for an episode of the tv show, but lacks the punch you expect for a movie.The costumes were also disappointing.  I had hoped that they would lose the pajamas in space motif, but no dice.  The Klingons looked interesting, but that was about it.  Also, that gray color scheme just lays there on the big screen.There were elements that I liked.  The characters had aged and grown beyond where they had been.  The interaction was still there and the actors were in good form.  Deckard and Ilia were good additions to the new cast.  The brief glimpses of Earth in the future were good.  I didn't understand why they changed the Klingons' appearance, but it was an interesting look.Ultimately, I consider the film a failure.  Sure, it was successful, but it just didn't provide the impact that was needed.  It looked like a tv episode put on screen with more money.  If you are going to do a movie, you need something that is beyond what you would do on tv, something epic.  This wasn't it.  However, they would learn from their mistakes.  "}{"Title":"Kirk the Jerk","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  When this film came out all the Star Trek fans rushed to see it and even though they may have hated it and found the story boring and lifeless they forced themselves not to admit it.  Now many years later it has not improved with age and as the entire Captain Kirk and the rest of his crew have become almost cartoonish figures it seems even worse. Why the character of Decker was even written I still can't figure out. Why not just have Kirk still be the Captain? The writers of all the films with Kirk in them were always figuring a way to get him back in the Captains chair somehow. The films all added these excess baggage characters and then did not seem to know what to do with them so they just killed them off. In this one Kirk however plays the ultimate Jerk who just goes and tells the new Captain he's taking over. Then he's lost on this new ship and the viewer gets it's first glimpse of this new I'm getting older so I deserve respect because I am getting older Jerk Kirk that would carry on to the next films. Then the entire Decker character bit with VGER is well......Who knows what that's all about maybe he just had had enough of that Jerk Kirk and figured that anything is better than riding back to Earth with Kirk and his special chums.     "},{"Title":"Clash of Interests","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie, hopefully, marks the last of Robert Wise's influence in the science fiction genre.  Here he tries to go the way of Kubrick in '2001' by elevating a cheap TV show to A-grade work.  While this is an improvement over his two previous excursions into the genre (Andromeda Strain, Day the Earth Stood Still), it isn't helped by the flawed material.This is your only spoiler warning...--Despite the enormous budget, it still looks like it was made-for-TV.  Wise could've broken the mold and made a visually-interesting effort, but he stuck to the cheap prototype set up by TV.--Even the attempted detail in creating V'ger's ship gets lost because we're never allowed to see it in its entirety.  Nothing explored, nothing gained.Only Goldsmith apparently knew how dull this movie was to begin with, that and he was scoring 'Alien' at the same time.  Perhaps he saw the better film of the two (I wont' say which) and poured his effort into it.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"worst star trek","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the worst Star Trek film.  It is even worse than Star Trek 5 The final Frontier.  And that says a lot.  The main problem is that it is so boring.  Nothing is happening here.  If you want to see a good ST film, watch The undiscovered Country or The voyage home. They are both exelent.  "},{"Title":"First STAR TREK an Overblown Waste of Talent...","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Paramount's STAR TREKTHE MOTION PICTURE nearly finished off the 'Star Trek' franchise at it's birth, almost succeeding at what NBC had tried to accomplish through three successive television seasons...to convince the public that Gene Roddenberry's optimistic vision of the future wasn't worth renewing. Fortunately, Roddenberry, a group of studio and SF visionaries, and the faithful core of fans (who had made the film a financial success, despite abysmal reviews), were able to get a sequel made, that truly captured the essence of the series, thus insuring a future for 'Star Trek'...but it had been close!The blame for STTMP's failure is often laid on legendary director Robert Wise, who, it was claimed, did not understand the internal dynamics of the television series. This is both unfair and untrue. Wise was certainly a director who could handle both Science Fiction (THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL) and warm, interpersonal films (THE SOUND OF MUSIC), and had he been given a decent script and shooting schedule, the film would have been far better. But the film's script was actually an expanded version of the 'pilot' for a new 'Star Trek' TV series that would 'introduce' a Paramount television network in the mid-seventies, and, when the project was green-lighted to be made as a feature film, instead, what would have made a good one-hour episode was stretched into a 136-minute snoozefest. Unfortunately, the recent success of STAR WARS (which had captured the SF audience that had waited, impatiently, for STAR TREK to reappear) had pushed Paramount into rushing STTMP into production, providing no time for an original script to be written, and little for rehearsals. Wise was forced to do the best he could with what he had, and to depend on the cast's familiarity with their characters to 'fill in the holes'.Noted SF author and 'Star Trek' script writer Harlan Ellison has written that his 'solution' to 'fix' STTMP would have been to 'kill' James Kirk in the first five minutes, and to let Spock and McCoy run things! While this is a wee bit extreme, his point, that William Shatner's performance 'hurt' the film, is justified. Despite starving himself to look as lean and young as he had, ten years earlier, Shatner's performance is overly theatric, even 'hammy', and his oft-imitated voice mannerisms (Ours...is a mission...of peace...) and forced posturing seem amateurish. On the other hand, Leonard Nimoy, as the alien, philosophical Spock, is magnetic, on-screen, and DeForest Kelley, as the crotchety Dr. McCoy, provides the few moments of humor the film desperately needs (On how he was recruited to return to the Starship Enterprise I was drafted!) The rest of the original cast is given little to do but stare at the endless parade of FX that overwhelms the film.The additions to the cast offer little; Stephen Collins, as ousted Enterprise commander Will Decker, spends most of the film simply glaring at Kirk; former 'Miss India' Persis Khambatta, with a shaved head, as an alien whose species arouses sexual desires in other life forms, is, mercifully, given little dialog, and, as the film is 'G'-rated, little else to do, besides serving human satellite/alien entity Vger as a monotoned spokesperson.The only truly memorable aspect of STTMP is the musical score; Jerry Goldsmith, given a film with long stretches of imagery without dialog, wrote a virtual symphony for the production, a spectacular, uplifting soundtrack that introduced a majestic new main theme, which would serve the same function for television's 'Star Trek The Next Generation', as well.If you want to see why 'Star Trek' has such a treasured place in the hearts of SF fans, watch STAR TREK II THE WRATH OF KHAN, and avoid this turkey! "},{"Title":"Warning - may induce narcolepsy!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  First let me say I'm a big Trek fan, so I'm certainly not slamming Star Trek.  But this film...should be prescribed for insomniacs.  I've tried about 10 times to watch it in one sitting -- including buying the souped up DVD -- but WOW not a chance.  I've either fallen asleep or simply could not focus on the film.  The plot has all the vibrancy of watching paint dry.  The characters could have been substituted with cardboard cut-outs with no noticable change in dramatic effect.  The special effects are simply silly.  This film manages to overlook everything that was special and magical about the original Star Trek series.  This is a Star Travesty, giving space exploration all the excitement of a long dull bus ride.  A film challenging only in its unwatchability. "},{"Title":"Spockalypse Now (Some spoilers)","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motionless Picture.  Or, Where Nomad Has Gone Before. OK, we've all heard about how this movie sucked.  In retrospect (and in comparison to later Trek movies), it did.  But now with the magic of DVD, we can see a vastly improved Director's Cut.  Someone at Paramount should send a big Thank You tribble to George Lucas, whose revamped and enhanced Star Wars was certainly the impetus behind the revised STTMP.There are plenty of scenes that weren't included in the theatrical release, most famously the scene of Spock's tears and the self-destruct order. But unlike Star Wars, Trek 1 gets a trim as well.  The scenes that needed tightening, were.  Just a nip and a tuck, here and there, but it helps out the pace of the movie tremendously.Oh yeah, the special effects.  Well, there are a few digital tweaks here and there.  Vulcan looks better.  SanFran looks better.  And the Enterprise has grown a warp nacelle, visible outside the Officers' Lounge window. (There are others, but I won't spoil them for you.) Unlike the infamous Greedo shooting first, all the tweaks work.  But the effects are now, as ever, the film's weakest point.  It was released two years after the original Star Wars and it fell into the trap of overdosing on special effects.  This made an already boring movie nearly unbearable.  (In a delicious twist of irony, the latest installments of Star Wars have fallen into the same trap. But at least we get to ogle Natalie Portman's abs.)My advice is to fast-forward thru the more interminable FX scenes. Epsilon 9, the other space station, the endless cloud formations of V'ger, etc. This kind of home-editing makes the Directors' Cut highly watchable.  The original theatrical release rated about 5 out of 10.  The new DVD version is a solid 7, bordering on 8. "},{"Title":"Too, too full of itself","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Much too much time was spent on shots that were supposed to be awe-inspiring, but were just tiring.Not a bad film, but could have been so much better - especially since it had so much riding on it. "},{"Title":"Overlong, slow and worthy but interesting and engaging","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" In deep space a large electrical cloud of some form has just destroyed three Klingon ships. A nearby space station has monitored this and has reported the cloud's course back to Starfleet &#150; straight for Earth. The nearest ship with warp capability is the USS Enterprise, with many of its original crew still onboard. Captain Kirk rejoins and replaces Commander Decker at the helm as they set out on a mission to intercept the cloud before it can reach (and perhaps destroy) Earth.Difficult to review this one because on one level it is a sci-fi film but on another level it is a Star Trek film. Yes of course the two overlap but they are both different things &#150; more what is a Star Trek film than what is a sci-fi. On one level this is a good film but I can see why on another level that Khan is far higher regarded than this first film. However it is in fairness a Star Trek film in the way that it explores and deals (on some level) with themes of life and space. However the problems with it do lie with the idea of it as a Star Trek film as well as a genre film. It is very slow &#150; at times painfully slow and unfortunately this does mean that many viewers will have seen and understood the twist long before the film actually gets there. It isn't that it is all talk and no action (it isn't) but just that what there is in regards interesting and engaging material seems stretched and force to fit &#150; the film could have been a lot tighter and pacier and would have been the better for it.However having said that it is still interesting and held my attention. The special effects are pretty clunky (even giving it some leeway for age) but they do show imagination I suppose. The tone of the film is all a bit too serious and worthy. Now and again there are touches of humour but they are few and far between and mostly the film wears a heavy sombre air to it for too much of the running time. The cast do seem a bit restrained by this although some of them still work well within this. Shatner gets the best of the material and embraces the worthy air while also bringing out an element of that ol' Kirk swagger. Nimoy has less to do but does deliver a solid, logical Spock while Kelley gives good Bones. Takei, Nichols, Doohan et al are all in place but don't have a huge amount to do. Collins is a bit stiff and seems a little out of his depth but does OK considering how weak his main subplot is in terms of overall delivery &#150; ditto for Khambatta.Overall though it is worth a look. Star Trek fans who like films 2 and 4 (for example) may find this unbearably slow (and indeed it is) but it is interesting despite all its flaws. "},{"Title":"StarTrek the Motionless picture","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I had such high hopes for this movie being an ardent trekkie. It started superbly with the various crew members assembling to take the new Enterprise (away from Cpt Decker) to investigate the mysterious cloud that was approaching Earth. Terrific stuff. They leave Earth with an ill prepared crew, Spock dramatically joins the ship in deep space and the journey recommences. By now I was on the edge of my seat. The Star Trek movie of my dreams. Then they entered the cloud . . . . .and the action , and the script, and the dialogue ended! To be replaced by endless boring pans through scenery so dark and meaningless as to make the green end-of-reel-umpteen interesting! That cloud penetration sequence seemed to go on FOR EVER! What was the editor thinking about. Eventually the Enterprise reaches the centre to be confronted by V-ger and the action,script and dialogue picks up again to conclude the film in a satisfactory way. Never before have I seen a film that so sorely needed severe editing. Even now when I watch the DVD (Yes it was good enough for me to buy) I usually fast forward through the cloud entry eternity. And I am still amazed at how long it is even on 20X speed. . . Watch it but you can have a long break in the middle without having to stop the film! "},{"Title":"You'll love it!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the first and one of the best in the STAR TREK movie series. The first time I saw it, I was absolutely amazed by the great performances and special effects. It seems each time I see this movie, it gets better and better. it is truly an incredible science fiction movie. "}{"Title":"From a Non-trekkie's retrospective...","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, let me fill you in, I saw this a little after this came out in the movie theater. Star Wars mania had not yet resided in my head, and even though I wasn't a big fan of the series, decided to give this one a try. I was rather bored and confused at the goings-on, I'm afraid, and I really didn't care for it.Flash-forward about 25 years later (eek!) and I saw the title at my library (that rocks!) and I decided to give it the old college try again.After watching it again, I can clearly see why I didn't like it the first time. Star Trek is a movie you need to have patience with. I mean, it STARTS with an Overture, not the most wisest thing you can have in a sci-fi film. Well, OK, 2001 had one, and it doesn't take a rocket scientist (Sorry Scotty!) to compare a lot of the goings on in this movie to 2001, problem is, Robert Wise, the director of this, is almost 10 years too late. Story and loopy psychedelic imagery aside, it was almost a guilty pleasure to see William Shatner play Kirk again after a long absence. He clearly, CLEARLY relishes the role (or maybe the camera), and chews it with a LOT of intensity. For the opposite of that, Is there any better example of awesome underplaying as Leonard Nimoy as Spock? What a champ "},{"Title":"This has got to be the worst Star Trek movie of all time","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I love Star Trek, but this is an all time low for the cast and crew of the Enterprise.  The plot is horrible, the acting is NOT the best work the crew has done, and the movie is comprised of a lot of bad special effects.  It's so disappointing that the first thing the original series did after years of reruns was a terrible movie.  However, the Wrath of Khan was excellent, so that at least somewhat makes up for the poor quality of this movie. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the lowest point in the Star Trek series and I wish I had never gazed upon this film and it's crap essence. There is seriously a five minute scene with just music where Kirk and Scotty go to the new Enterprise and it is the longest thing you could ever sit through. Who really wants to see that. I thought about gouging my eyes out of my sockets as this scene was so stupid. I don't think I have ever seen a more obscene waste of film than this. If you can get through this you are only rewarded with some of the most long winded dialog that has ever been put to tape. The ending to this is even more crazy and inane. What the heck is with Viger. I hopefully will never have to watch this again. Save us lord from this and destroy every copy of this film. "},{"Title":"Not Good.","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was bad. The only high points for me was the musical score. After 1987, the score is used in STTNG, so to me it seemed like they took the 2nd best score and put in the new series. I really hated this movie the first time I saw it. I mean we get to sit there and watch everyone stare at this thing that they're going in to. Then we have the really long boring footage of the ships. Yeah, nice toy ships, great. The dialog is bad, as others have put it, Spock talking flower child and crying and laughing. I thought Spock was supposed to be logical and without emotions. They really screwed up. Good thing Paramount realized that and took it out of Gene's hands before he made a movie that was worse than this. And what was with Decker and Ilia, they got more screen time than Sulu, Checkov, Uhura and Scotty combined, and their sub-plot felt tacked on and pointless. This is not a good movie. This movie makes ST2TWOK look like it belongs in the high ranks of Casablanca, The Godfather and The Shawshank Redemption. "},{"Title":"A truly wasted opportunity","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  As the only Star Trek film with a decent budget, the Motion Picture represented the franchise's only real opportunity to compete with the grandness of Star Wars by creating lush alien worlds and a variety of fascinating creatures a la Jabba's palace or the canteena.  Instead, all the money was sunk into an adventure confined completely on the board the Enterprise, making one wonder where all the money went.Since the setting never changes and the acting of the original crew is uncharacteristically wooden, the film seems stagnant and goes nowhere. Decker and the bald chick, unlike the female Vulcans in future films, are terrible additions to the cast.  They are little more than boring intruders stealing screen time from the people we really want to see in action.  "},{"Title":"Weak return for a classic crew","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" When a strange phenomenon approaches Earth destroying everything in its way there is only one Star Fleet vessel in the area the USS Enterprise. Given the importance of the mission Admiral James T. Kirk persuades Star Fleet Command that it needs an experienced officer in charge&#x85; himself! After taking command he takes the ship and heads towards the phenomenon. On the way they meet a shuttle containing an old friend; Mr Spock; once he boards all the old crew are back. When they get to the phenomenon it probes the enterprise and takes new crewmember Lt. Ilia and a little while later returns a probe that looks just like her. She announces that the phenomenon contains something called V'Ger and it has come to Earth seeking its creator. If they are to save Earth they will have to discover the exact nature of V'Ger and its unknown creator.After the success of 'Star Wars' science fiction was suddenly popular again so it was time to dust off the 'Star Trek' franchise and bring the Enterprise and her crew back once more; this time to the big screen. The problem is the story they chose for the first film feels like a fifty minute episode that has been stretched to over two hours without adding much extra material&#x85; this means people speak slowly and look meaningfully into the distance a lot and shots of the effects of V'Ger seem to drag on for ages rather than just being a few seconds as they would be in a TV episode. It's not even as if the effects are all fantastic; they look better than the '60s TV show but look pretty ropey compared to films like 'Star Wars'. When we learn what V'Ger is there is a nice surprise; one that is good enough that most viewers won't forget it. While it is a bit of a surprise the first time you watch it is also a bit of a disappointment as it means there isn't a real antagonist behind the danger. The old TV cast do a good enough job; they might not be A-list movie stars but I for one would have been disappointed if the original actors had been ditched for people better known for film work. I'd only really recommend this to fans of the series; other people thinking of checking out a 'Star Trek' film would be better off skipping this one and going straight to 'The Wrath of Khan' it is much better! "},{"Title":"Attack of The Motionless Picture.","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Maybe Harlan Ellison was first to coin the phrase, maybe it was just synergy, but STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE was roundly hailed as The Motionless Picture. For good reason.It doesn't move. At all. In space no one can hear the grass grow.Witness the stagnant immobility as Captain Kirk and Scotty silently circumnavigate the Enterprise in a docking craft, in loving reunion, as a Captain visually undresses his ship after a long separation, and you will heartily, if not sleepily, agree.Which is ironic, considering the firestorm of indecisive action that birthed the movie Phoenix-like from its cheap, unsuccessful 1966 series that somehow spawned a cult in reruns. When fan outcry for a TREK movie reached a tipping point, Paramount execs dillydallied over whether to target the silver screen or the boob tube with a bastardized concept called STAR TREK PHASE II, a revolving door of writers and directors came and went, innumerable rewrites, pulling plugs, and TREK'S creator, Gene Roddenberry, whining about every aspect of the production from the crawlspace he was promoted to - until - 20th Century Fox released a tiny little thing called STAR WARS...Suddenly, in true, characteristically gutless, tunnel-visioned fashion, the heads at Paramount decide to greenlight a space adventure of their own - STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE.Eventually directed by Robert Wise, written by Alan Dean Foster, Harold Livingston and a host of poor, uncredited bastards who got the pointy end of Paramount's stick, STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE hits the 23rd century like a space version of THE WHO'S TOMMY - the sublime and ridiculous in an arranged marriage that serves cheap champagne at the reception with the best man getting drunk and falling into the cheese brioche.Excellent concept, terrible execution. STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE is a plodding masterpiece; brains but no balls; a whole lotta nothing, to say a small lotta something. Remember this was way back in the 23rd century, long before supporting cast were actually required to act, and just after they updated their onboard computers to 1984 standards.When three Klingon ships are destroyed by hokey special effects, by an entity traveling towards Earth to wreak more hokey special effects, Starfleet sends Admiral James Kirk (William Shatner) to stop it; in a reconditioned Enterprise, now captained by Decker (Stephen Collins, wearing his bestest teddy bear pajamas), whose Federation Starship crew is made up of a bunch of humans and one guy in the back wearing a funny mask.They pick up DeForest Kelley (Bones, as irascible as ever), Leonard Nimoy (Spock, dressed as Batman), James Doohan (ever-complaining Scotty) and the three Ringos - George Takei (Sulu, who can't act), Walter Koenig (Chekov, who can't act in English) and Nichelle Nichols (Uhura, who can't act but sports a decisively street Mod Squad 'do).Added to the crew purely for prurient masturbation fantasies is Persis Khambatta as Ilia, whom the producers tried to make a better actor by shaving her head and not allowing her to wear panties. They failed. Ilia enters the ship with the line, My Oath of Celibacy is on record. Huh? Where'd that come from? Well, it's a well-known fact the producers used Trekkie geeks as extras, so she was probably using that voodoo all day to ward off guys in homemade Starfleet uniforms who considered touching her as breaking their virginity.Rounding out the cast ineffectually is Gene Roddenberry's nepotistic wife, Majel Barrett, as Nurse Whatever, whose key scene involves spraying something on Chekov's injured arm, like she's acting as if she's spraying something on Chekov's injured arm. This is just after Chekov injures his arm by having it near some sparklers that suffice for malfunctioning electronics and crying Aagh! like some community theater actress.The Enterprise encounters a wormhole due to Kirk not reading the instructions - a wormhole that looks suspiciously like the delay effects in old Jimi Hendrix videos - and eventually run into the alien entity that destroyed the Klingon ships, called V'Ger, a magical artificial intelligence that adheres to no scientific or technological reality; you know, like all space films made in Hollywood.V'Ger takes over Ilia's mind and bequeaths her a miniskirt bathrobe so short we can see her v'ger. Then the Enterprise flies into quaint dye-in-water effects supposed to be the innards of V'Ger, and the crew stand around the bridge and look at the wavy colors changing on the monitor. For about three hours.There are two questions In the first hour, Where the hell is Spock?; in the second hour, What the hell is going on? Well, Spock eventually appears in his Batman outfit, making Kirk spurt in his pants, but the answer to the second question seems to be More Special Effects.The concept turns out to be excellent V'Ger is the Voyager space probe that Carl Sagan and NASA launched to the cosmos in the 1970s as a message of amity from Earth to the universe. After traveling to a distant civilization of robots, Voyager gained cognizance and was now returning to Earth seeking its creator.STAR TREK tries to flex its effects muscles - and strains them. Even with effects legends, John Dykstra and Douglas Trumbull, the technology just wasn't good enough back in '78; even with George Lucas's ILM on the job - but we can be pretty sure Lucas held his A-Team close to his chest, for his own little space dalliances.After feeling like a fifth wheel for the body of the movie - except when cultivating the emotionless Ilia - Decker sacrifices himself by stepping into Voyager and becoming a human-machine symbiote (or something that glows a lot) while everyone else runs and anti-climactically escapes.Thus the human adventure begins. Be still my v'ger. "},{"Title":"If you want to watch a Star Trek film, this one is not the one to watch","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" It was a decade after the original television series Star Trek had been canceled when Star Trek The Motion Picture was released onto the anticipating world. I'm not exactly sure how the film was received in 1979, but 31 years later, after multiple new Star Trek TV series and movies, plus the 2009 reboot which hearkened back to the characters of the original series, Star Trek The Motion Picture pales in comparison. I was not impressed at all by this film and was very bored by its lack of true Trek spirit and style. I love Star Trek but this film was lame. It takes place probably about ten years after Kirk, Spock, and McCoy traveled through space together, but now they are reuniting on the USS Enterprise to intercept a strange biosignal heading towards Earth. All of the original characters are back together to once again boldly go where no man has gone before. There are even some new characters specifically there for the film's plot. Sadly, at the end of the day this film's plot is about 45 minutes worth stretched out to a little over two hours making it very dull and boring. If the original Star Trek series had been like this it would have never made the impression that it did on the sci-fi world.What is so unfortunate about Star Trek The Motion Picture is that it removes everything that was so great about the original series and we are left with only the issues the original series had. This movie is very cheesy and ridiculously melodramatic. In the original series we were treated to some hilariously cheesy special effects and we got our fair share of William Shatner's overacting. Yet it was all covered up by the incredible stories that were so far ahead of their time, and yet so relevant to the time period. Each episode treated the viewer to a fascinating science fiction adventure story that had a very relevant undertone of social commentary.The plot of Star Trek The Motion Picture could have possibly worked very well as one episode of the series, but when it is elongated to a feature film it loses so much in the process. The film took forever to get anywhere. The first half hour is the reintroduction of Kirk and then the slow sweeping shots of the Enterprise that last forever and pan over every single nook and cranny of that ship. Now, this I can understand because for people of the time period Star Trek The Motion Picture was a nostalgic trip down memory lane. It was the first new image of the Enterprise anyone had seen for ten years, so I can't blame the filmmakers for quenching any and all thirsts for new images of the glamorous ship. But after we are reintroduced to all our beloved characters and the movie really gets going, it loses all its momentum and only shuffles along.Star Trek The Motion Picture is what it is. I can respect it in relation to its time period as the grand return of the beloved Star Trek, but when so many other Star Trek films and TV series exist today that are wildly superior to this one, Star Trek The Motion Picture is not really worth the watch. "},{"Title":"My least favourite of the Star Trek films franchise","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" With this film, I am on the fence. On the one hand, it was good to have the cast back but on the other, I found it hard to watch as I couldn't understand what V'ger was, plus it was too much science and not enough character based so for that reason, it was my least favourite of all the Star Trek films.For me, this is a hard film to watch all the way through without losing interest in the story and zooming out, the film goes in the wrong direction and doesn't have the right blend of character development and science that features in the later films and in the original series, it focuses too much on the science and for me, there isn't enough action in it either. "},{"Title":"Star Drek","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Think cardboard. Think beige, boring cardboard and you pretty much have Star Trek The Motion Picture. This is what all us die hard fans waited for? Not me. I tried to like it, and I just don't. Boring, bland, with no special moments that come to mind. It's amazing that Paramount didn't pull the plug after this movie. It was kinda cool to see Spock on Vulcan again, doing some kind of strange Ponfar type thing to purge his emotions, but scenes like this are in the first five minutes of the film. After that it's about 1/2 hour of dazzling, dizzying special effects which leads up to a ho hum finale. It didn't work then, it doesn't work now. Not having seen the DVD release (and don't plan to) I can't imagine it could improve upon this clunker unless they send it into warp speed and fire their photon torpedoes on it, thus destroying this scourge of the universe!  "}{"Title":"There's a thing out there.","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" There's something big out there. It consumes anything that comes across its path. It's ultimate destination is Earth, and the only starship in range is the Enterprise. Captain Decker (Stephen Collins) is in charge until Admiral Kirk takes over command. Spock rejoins the crew for the personal goal of meeting the massive entity.What this movie lacks is a concentration on the crew's relationship in favor for big production and big special effects. It suffers mostly in comparison to Star Wars that came 2 years earlier. The story misses the sure hand of a well written script. Considering the winding road the production took, it came together better than can be expected. "},{"Title":"Supposed To Be A Classic....But It's NOT","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the very first Star Trek film, with all of the original cast members from the TV show reuniting after 10 years. It's really cool to watch everyone get back together aboard the Enterprise, but that's about it. After that, the movie gets incredibly slow and boring.I have tried to watch this movie several times, and I always fall asleep. I can't help it.... I really wanted to like this movie, but it's just not very good. The only reason this film was successful- is because it was the very first Star Trek film. If it had been made 2nd...or 3rd.... it would have been remembered as a flop! The storyline moves way too slow- BORING STUFF! "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but as dull as watching paint dry","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Kirk, Spock and the rest of the crew get back together in order to take on a giant cloud heading towards earth.The visuals of this film, and the V'ger sequences in particular are still stunning some 30 years after they first appeared on the big screen. The problem is that the film is wildly too long and is a chore to get through. Trust me I know I have been watching Trek since I was in diapers during the original run (and I've seen every film opening day first show) and this is possibly the dullest two hours in the entire 40 plus year history of Star Trek.First off little happens in this film. It opens with everyone being reintroduced, then we get painfully long sequences where we look at the Enterprise, and this is followed by beautiful but dramatically stagnant sequences where we look at the alien cloud, which then leads in to a rapid summing up. This is at best a 50 minute TV episode stretched to almost three times that length. Its horrible. Other than the times I've seen this in the theater I have never turned the channel or hit the fast forward button.This film will put you to sleep.Worth a look for the visuals, but be ready to snooze "},{"Title":"The prime directive says, Don't cut so long!!","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" After screening this effort, you'll need to apply an entire box of Bland-aids.This film doesn't come anywhere near warp speed. In fact it should be studied by all editors and directors, since every other shot in the opening 45 minutes is a cutaway Show a wide shot of the ship, cut away to Kirk looking lustful. Back to the long shot of the ship, back to Scotty looking fatherly. Back to the wide shot...you get the idea. Now...tighten that puppy up a bit and you're cookin'. Problem is, the resulting movie would only be 45 minutes long, and the suits in the Gulf + Western tower would have started throwing the furniture about.This is doubly ironic, as director Robert Wise started as an editor. His most famous edit-room effort was a little art-house film you may have heard of called Citizen Kane!Saavy Star Trekkers will know that one should skip the odd-numbered films in this series; the even-numbered ones were the best of the litter -- it's logical. This prime-numbered edition features bland hunk Stephen Collins sporting a Dick Tracy two-way wrist radio, Phersis Khambatta as the bald chick (long before the grunge look was pop), and the rest of the lethargic crew mailing in their performances. They hadn't worked as a troupe for years and it shows. Some of the Rocky Jones serials from the 50s have more action. The biggest waste of genuine talent is Marc Lenard (Spock's father in later editions), hidden under 50 lbs of Klingon makeup, and with all of one good line REEESH! This movie suffers from $10 million worth of stunning special effects (produced at genuine warp speed to meet an insane deadline by Douglas Trumbull of 2001 and Bladerunner fame, after the original effects house was photon-torpedoed), mated to a $10 script, essentially a warmed-over version of one of the TV episodes.The movie also features the most screamingly funny unintentional gag in the entire series, Decker and Checkov yelling at each other in slow motion as they go through a worm hole -- Noooooooo......beeeeelllllaaaaayyy tttthhhhhhaaaaattt ppphhhaaassseeerrr oooorrrrddeeerrr! The only moment more painful has to be Kirk, Spock and McCoy singing Row your boat in ST5...but that was many films and light-years into the future. Worth seeing if only for background, but far inferior to the multiples of 2-numbered films that followed. "},{"Title":"Tolerable","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek fans are the world's most forgiving. They wait ten years for a movie, then get this mediocre mess. Harlan Ellison called it Star Trek The Motionless Picture, and he was right on target. (Bear in mind I am talking about the theatrical release--haven't seen any other versions). It starts off on the wrong foot with this somber music over the titles. Then the first scene, with a Big Space Thing attacking a space station. The actress in this scene, who mercifully does not appear again, gives one of the worst line readings ever. Later we see Kirk flying around the new Enterprise. He looks at every square inch of it for what seems like hours. (I am told the studio insisted on getting in as many shots as possible of their expensive new set.) Kirk replaces Stephen Collins as captain, which is a good move--Shatner is not exactly stretching himself in this role, but Collins is severely charisma-challenged. Tho he is a better actor than Persis Khambatta who is bald and beautiful and nothing else. The Big Space Thing finally arrives, and the camera flies over it at tricycle speed while the crew Stares In Awe. Somewhere along the line, the producers and writers lost touch with a simple truth. The TV show was so much fun because it had real villains--you know, nasty folks with attitudes and zap guns, who spoke lines of threatening dialogue instead of hovering menacingly. If this film has arrived in theatres without the legend of the show and the years of fan-mania, it wouldn't have lasted two weekends. We should all thank our lucky stars that Star Trek II had all the humor and action that made the TV show a classic. "},{"Title":"Crap, garbage, the toilet, awful, bad etc.","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great series, bad film, if it where not for the series this would be the one and only film.  When I was 10 my friend Dwight, and sister went to Garden city to see it.  I was excited, and thought of people melting, goo oozing around, and weird stuff.  What did we see a group of people flying around a cloud for 2 hours.  Boring, the only thing that keep me awake was this stupid kid who went to the bathroom 6 times and another 2 to the snack bar. It was like doing the wave everytime we had to get up.  The kid was the only highlight in this awful movie.  Please avoid this one 3/10 "},{"Title":"Awful.","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the first Star Trek film made, and like TOS, it was such a bad way to start it off. I'm sorry, but everyone had just as much campiness and bad-acting as Kirk. The effects were the best part of the whole movie. I enjoyed watching the Star Wars-like effects, but everything else was awful. The Villain was poorly done, both visually and story-wise. In short, if there is one Star Trek movie that you would want to miss would be this one. Only containing a brief glimpse of another species, the Klingons (who look very different from the show), we only really get to see humans. If I were you, keep away from this and go to Nemesis. You'll be so much happier.  "},{"Title":"You have heard from the trek fans now...","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here from some one who doesn't really care for the Trek sensation.  This movie is a complete waste of two hours...it starts promisingly enough with a mysterious cloud heading toward earth.  Klingons are attacking it, but it wipes them out.  The rest of the flick is a big snooze.  Prolonged scenes of people looking at ships, clouds, man it was quite non-entertaining.  And the ending was lame as was the identity of vger.  I will never understand the facsination some people have with sci-fi...I mean I like a good sci-fi flick, but star trek for me has always been kinda boring (not pt 2. which is the best star trek movie). "},{"Title":"Theatrical or Director's Cut, it's really really bad","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The bad is just overwhelming. For one, the theatrical version's special effects border between spiffy but unconvincing, and just atrocious. The worst offender is the Enterprise in drydock, where Scotty and Kirk spend a full 3-4 minutes in a transport moving alongside it, and showing us the front viewscreen with the two of them there. The juxtaposition is so jarring, it completely rips you out of immersion. It looks exactly like a special effects shot of everything, with an old-style television pasted onto the front of the transport! The Director's Cut doesn't really fix this so much as lower the quality of the surrounding scene while darkening the television so it doesn't look so out of place.The design choices for the Enterprise are atrocious. The old uniforms are done away with for what someone compared to pajamas. It not only looks entirely unprofessional, but it's a horror on the eyes that the uniforms are all shades of gray and beige, full-body, contrasted against a bridge that is the exact same color, and it looks less like Star Trek and more like an old post office.The visual effects is what this movie banks on. So much so that it's to the utter detriment of the plot. While it's spiffy to show off the Enterprise, it's entirely overwhelming to spend FOUR CONSECUTIVE, UNINTERRUPTED MINUTES spanning its entire surface. While it's neat to show V'ger's cloud and the Klingon ships, it utterly dominates the first 10 minutes and gives us virtually nothing except to say This cloud is strong leaving aside the sheer idiocy of firing weapons into a cloud 2 AU large, and hoping to hit something inside it.Then there's the entire entering the cloud sequence. And from here begins a few sequences that I feel are shameless ripoffs of 2001 A Space Odyssey, from Spock's spacewalk, complete with closeups of his face and screams of pain that are painfully obvious in their comparisons with Dave Bowman's spacewalk, which managed to pull this off with a length that nevertheless was taut, and the visuals were never boring.We have some five minutes of nothing but the exact same cloud effects, while cutting to shots of the Enterprise crew JUST STARING OUT THE WINDOW! DOING NOTHING! MORE THAN FIVE MINUTES OF WATCHING PEOPLE WATCH STUFF! MORE THAN FIVE MINUTES OF STARING AT CLOUDS THEN STARING AT PEOPLE STARING OUT A WINDOW AT THOSE CLOUDS! Even then, those are seemingly just bits of minutes and scenes that don't really dominate the film, but are among the most sluggish and pointless that bring the film's already slow pacing to a grinding halt for an entire period.Then there's pointless things like the wormhole sequence. In TVTropes terms, this is almost a Big Lipped Alligator Moment, as it is something that comes out of nowhere, takes up five or six minutes, then is totally gone with no damage or casualties, and the only plot element this introduces is Decker (rightly) undermining Kirk's orders.But the special effects failures aside, the reason this movie is utterly irredeemable to me lies with Admiral Kirk and his conflict of command.As the Admiral comes on board and gets chummy with his friends, right away, you feel completely left out. Yay, it's great seeing the old favorites get together again, but it feels completely like an Old Gentlemen's Party you're not invited to. You get to see your distant friends reuniting with one another while you stand awkwardly in the doorway waiting to be noticed.And this is exactly how Decker is portrayed---the outsider unwelcome in the Old Gentlemen's Club, but intruding because he's been ordered to.This raises an entire main plot point---Kirk and his company are getting old, and new people are coming on to add to their group. And Kirk cannot accept anyone getting in his way. He pushes Decker aside so he can captain the Enterprise, despite having absolutely no experience with the Refitted ship, and having not logged any star hours in two years.In Wrath of Khan, this is one of the earlier points of the movie Kirk finally seems resigned to accept that, as he says Galloping around the cosmos is a game for the young, and he's even reluctant to accept command of the Enterprise over Spock.This becomes a theme that is finally resolved in Star Trek Generations.Maybe it wouldn't have been better served here, but all it serves is to make Kirk into a jerkass and then have the movie's plot side with Kirk against Decker And in fact, this problem of Kirk's obsession, even addiction, to the Enterprise, is only exacerbated by this movie, and finally resolved in the most immature way imaginable. The movie could have made an amazing plot element by having Kirk exert a wicked control in FORCING Decker to relinquish command to him, which may be out of character for Kirk, but make for an interesting character development of Kirk as an ADDICT - ADDICTED to the Enterprise and space exploration, reaching higher levels until he's wielding power to eliminate all those who stand in his way.Instead, Kirk learns nothing, and the audience learns that Kirk should be captain of the Enterprise, now and forever, as Decker abandons command by choosing to merge with Ilia into V'ger. With Decker out of the way, Kirk can just sit back and enjoy unchallenged command.But this movie serves one essential purpose It killed Star Trek Phase II, and it kicked Gene Roddenberry out of the command chair for Star Trek, much in the way it would later do with Kirk.Gene Roddenberry was the heart and soul behind Star Trek, but quite frankly, even a series' creator can do harm to it. Look at George Lucas with the Star Wars prequel trilogy.For Star Trek we got the masterpiece Wrath of Khan "},{"Title":"Way Too Slow and Boring","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek The Motion Picture (1979)** (out of 4) The first film in a very long running series has a strange entity in space being spotted so the Starship Enterprise, led by Admiral Kirk (William Shatner) heads off to find out what it is. I guess I should admit right up front that I've never seen a single episode of the television show. With that said, I'm not sure how close this film was to it but this thing is deadly boring, which is a real shame because there are some good performances and there's no question that they got the look of the film right. Director Robert Wise uses the opening minutes to make the viewer feel as if they really are in space and I think he does a very good job at making you really feel the location that you're in. A lot of science fiction movies never really put you into space as you always feel like you're watching a special effect but that's not the case here. For about the first forty-five minutes or so I was really caught up in what was going on but it finally struck me that there really wasn't too much happening. For the life of me I couldn't understand why such a weak story was used here and even more shocking is that the filmmakers were able to drag it out to a whopping 131-minutes, which was simply way too long. There's simply not a story here strong enough to carry such a running time and especially when you consider that you could have cut out thirty-minutes worth of dialogue and not lost anything. It just seemed like this journey to the entity was taking forever and it didn't help that the majority of the running time had nothing but people talking to one another. Shatner and Leonard Nimoy are certainly very good in their roles and they help keep things moving. The supporting players for the most part are good as well. The real highlight of the picture were the wonderful sets, which just jump off the screen. I also thought the music score was effective as were the costumes and cinematography. Sadly there's just not enough here to keep it entertaining throughout its running time. "}{"Title":"Star Trek The Motion Picture","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I will first say that I have never watched any of Star Trek on television, or any of the spin-off shows, i.e. The Next Generation, Deep Space Nine, Voyager, Enterprise, but you'd have to be living in a cave to not know about it. Anyway, this was the long-awaited feature length film with the stars of the original cult science-fiction series, made ten years after it was taken off TV, from director Robert Wise (The Day the Earth Stood Still, The Sound of Music). Basically Admiral James T. Kirk (William Shatner) is called back to return to the Captain's helm of the newly-transformed USS Enterprise that can boldly go where no man has gone before. His crew members Dr. Leonard 'Bones' McCoy (DeForest Kelley), Lt. Cmdr. Hikaru Sulu (George Takei), Lt. Cmdr. Uhura (Nichelle Nichols), Cmdr. Montgomery 'Scotty' Scott (James Doohan) and Mr. Spock (Leonard Nimoy) back from his home planet also return. The mission is to stop an unidentified alien craft travelling towards Earth destroying everything in its path, while having little problems with warp speed and authority, but they manage it. Also starring Stephen Collins as Cmdr. Willard Decker, Persis Khambatta as Lt. Ilia, Walter Koenig as Lt. Pavel Chekov, Majel Barrett as Dr. Christine Chapel and Grace Lee Whitney as CPO Janice Rand. I can see that director Wise tried to make it like a 2001 A Space Odyssey style film, concentrating on spectacle more than story, I think he went a different direction and made it more chatty than special effects ladened, so while it wasn't all that exciting throughout, there are moments. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Visual Effects and Best Music for Jerry Goldsmith, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score. Star Trek was number 41 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and Mr. Spock was number 23 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters. Okay! "},{"Title":"A disappointing start for Kirk and co.","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" A friend of mine got me into Star Trek a few years ago and I watched all the series, TNG, Voyager and DS9 (though not Enterprise), all the TNG films and the new Star Trek until my friend introduced me to the original series.He warned this motion picture isn't that good and he was right.Acting is good enough from all the cast and the special effects though dated now looked good for there time, but the plot just drags on with nothing but endless talk about the meaning of life though an interesting philosophical issue was too explored.The length goes to a whopping 130 minutes and there is little action throughout. Nothing but a bore. "},{"Title":"Wrong attribution","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The following is claimed to appear in the movie Commander Spock It's life, Captain, but not life as we know it.This appears to be a bald lie! It's not there! How does one correct IMDb info?I checked thoroughly and it just isn't there. Is it here because of the Star Trekkin' song?I would appreciate it if someone could shed light on the real origin though!Please reply if you have more data on this interesting subject. I have been verifing ST quotations and it's often a bit of a mess, so any help is appreciated. "},{"Title":"Not that good ... unfortunately","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I was hopeful that the first ST movie would be a little more original than this. I liked the original television series, but this movie, even for something twenty five years old, was a disappointment. The Wrath of Khan was a slight improvement but that's not really saying much. Personally I'm getting sick of psychopathic aliens. Is the universe really a cesspool of mass murderers or is this just a cheap way for some Hollywood goof to bring in a crowd? If this demon cloud had achieved such an astronomical fund of knowledge why did it not also achieve moral consciousness? ... on it's own? Or at least appreciate the real difference between itself and other forms of life? Couldn't VGER figure out that it's core, a 20th century satellite, was a very crude device that wasn't worth much effort and certainly didn't justify laying waste to significant chunks of real estate? Anyway, the science of Star Trek was basically nonexistent but at the least the original from the sixties had a little bit of character and humour ... sometimes. This didn't really carry over to the first film. Too bad. "},{"Title":"I didn't find this one exciting like the others","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" it was just not what i expected from a Kirk movie, a bald headed woman and a long winded plot.As soon as the transporter accident happened after that i drifted from it and fell off to sleep. There uniforms were also really bad as well, least all the crew was in it which made it worth watching but this movie was like watching coronation street one of the bade episodes that is. Z. steer clear from the EXTENDED EDITION DVD...ZEvery other star trek movie is better than this one just skip this one also the rating for this movie should be 4.0 or even 3.5. Overrated.Just watch the wrath of Kern and you will be excited! "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Motion Picture!!!!","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The very first Star Trek film ever! This is the film that started a big series of Star Trek! Some fans of the original series or the future feature films may not like the storyline but the film has tremendous special effects and great acting by the original cast aswell as others. I think its a good film and has great music by Jerry Goldsmith! Its a great start for one of the biggest and truly most arguably the greatest film franchise ever!  "},{"Title":"Overall, I rate the screenplay, costumes, story line, and acting awful in this big screen debut.","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I have watched all the Star Trek movies and re-watched a couple of them. I didn't watch them in order and I found all the movies I watched intriguing, engaging, and over-all fantastic, until I watched this one. This movie was full of bad effects, an awful story line, and situations that made absolutely no sense. I love Star Trek because it generally explains how certain things are possible. When the ship 'somehow' makes a worm hole through space that looks like an acid trip, which contrasts the over-all grey tone of the rest of the film, I was tempted just to turn off the TV. This movie was a disappointment to Star Trek fans everywhere when it hit theatres and was the cause of the major flop of Wrath of Khan in theatres. I rate this movie awful. "},{"Title":"Snooze Trek The Motionless Picture","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I love Star Trek. Now, I'm a bigger fan of The Next Generation than I am of The Original Series. But you can't give birth to greatness without a parent to release you from their womb. But this film, oh I have no love for this film. Two reasons, reasons many others have picked up on but bear repeating.1. This film is long and boring. Many times there was no action or dialogue, just people staring at a screen with some poor graphics that would have fit better in a class on fractals with some hippie music playing. The pacing is poorly done. The entire first half of the film is worthless, since the plot is all in the second half. I'm willing to bet you could even edit this down into a 45-minute episode and avoid putting it in the theater altogether.2. It's a bad science fiction film, but an even worse Star Trek film. If this was some other crew, I'd say it's just some movie about people in space looking to stop a machine from reaching Earth. That's a pretty basic plot. A poorly done one in this case, but easy enough to do.It's a worse Star Trek movie because the characters served no purpose. Most of the other movies have some development of the characters, we see them age and learn more about them. Not here. We didn't need Spock, Kirk or Scotty. Yeah, there's some vague reference to a ritual Spock went through, but it's not really important to the plot and is never really explored. I care about the characters but left with nothing gained here. We learned Spcok is smart and Kirk loves the Enterprise. What shockers!! If you're a Trekkie, you've already seen this film. If you're not, don't let this be your introduction to the series or you maybe never give it a second chance. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?!","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I happen to be a total geek. It must be true, as when this movie debuted I stood in line for HOURS to get in to see it with my friends on opening night at the midnight showing!! Now THAT'S geeky! So, it's safe to assume I am a Star Trek fan. Anyways, we had been anticipating the movie like the rest of American for years. I remember all through the 70s there were many different rumors about either the show coming back to TV or else a Star Trek movie. And, if this first film hadn't been such a bitter disappointment, I really think the series would have made even more money in subsequent films.The movie, after all that anticipation, turned out to be incredibly slow and ponderous. While the movie was about three hours long, it seemed like nine! Mostly because they wanted to show off all the expensive special effects by showing the Enterprise SLOWLY flying through an enormous space cloud--again, and again, and again!!! Oh, the agony! It got so bad that the die-hard Trekkies (yes, I will not call myself a Trekker--Trekkies was first and suits me just fine) began yelling funny comments during the movie. After a while, it was like a live version of Mystery Science Theatre 2000! And while that was enjoyable fun, that WASN'T why we waited in line! So, what else did I find dull about the film? Well, first, instead of focusing on the Big Three (Spock, Kirk and McCoy), the film brought in new and amazingly dull characters to spice things up! Steven Collins was the commanding officer on the Enterprise when the movie started, though Kirk basically threw him aside to command this mission. If ONLY he'd left him back on Earth or on a star base instead of letting this mannequin come along,... And then there was the even less animated Persis Khambatta--an Indian beauty queen with all the magnetism of a can of Draino! These two nothings literally were given predominance over most all the other actors! Whose idiotic idea was this?! Then, there was the brilliant idea of the new and improved uniforms. Everyone on board now sported light gray or white polyester uniforms and this uniformity of blandness just made the movie worse! About the only one who looked good in this drab getup was Nichelle Nichols. I remember when she first appeared in the film, all the guys began making comments about how she had,...um,...matured well since the last film. And, as long as the Enterprise now sported bleached out characters, the Enterprise itself looked nothing like the TV one and was white and gray throughout. And, to further heighten the look, the film was given a completely dead and uninvolving script. It was a variation on a TV episode (THE CHANGELING--the one with James Roykirk and the sterilizing probe) and was about an old Earth probe being returned to after taking a long trip across the galaxy. The only memorable things about the writing at all where the transported mishap (it was yucky but cool) and McCoy's very colorful language. His repeated cursing seemed to mirror the way most of the die-hards there that night felt! As for Shatner, Nimoy and the others--they were about as bland and uninteresting as you'll ever see them. The only Star Trek movie that even comes close to this one in badness is STAR TREK V (where they go to have a pow-wow with God).One shining note about the movie is the music. The music was simply wonderful--too bad the rest of the film was such a letdown. "},{"Title":"Who Needs Star Wars?","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek The Motion Picture is one of the all time greatest Sci-Fi Adventure movies. I make no apologies, this is the film that introduced me Captain Kirk, Spock and Co. Whilst not a Trekie as such, I am more of a Casual Star Trek fan. Such is the impact of this film that even had I not been, I think I would have enjoyed this as a movie in its own right. Perhaps the only thing working against the movie is that it doesn't manage to generate the fun of the original series. Instead it lays the blueprints for Star Trek-The Next Generation, and the next 20 odd years or so of Trek Episodes. Robert Wise's Direction is Epic to say the least. Wise is not the most obvious name you would ascociate with a Star Trek movie, but he and Star Trek fit like a glove. He does for Star Trek what Richard Donner did for Superman the previous year. He has taken material that from the outset would only appeal to fans, yet he makes it acceptable for a general audience as well. And Star Tek The Motion Picture has many elements for the casual Viewer/Trek fan to feast their eyes on. There is the Solid Cast. William Shatner is for Star Trek what Christopher Reeve was for Superman, and Sean Connery was for Bond. He is the ultimate Captain of the Enterprise, and this shows. It took an excellent actor like Patrick Stewart to lay the ghost of Kirk to rest. Shatner carries the weight of the movie on his shoulders, and does so well. Leonard Nimoy as Spock evokes similar echoes of the kind of performances he gave on the T.V. Shows. Yet with age Nimoy looks more the alien and somehow his performance seems all the more real, like a good wine, with age. Once Spock comes aboard the Enterprise you know its going to be fun all the way. There are also the familiar faces of James Doohan,George Takai, Deforest Kelly and Walter Koening. Then there is the wonderfully designed Sets, of the Enterprise etc, which perfectly compliment the excellent special effects By John Dykstra. In truth Star Trek The Motion Picture was eye candy before the word was even invented. And also, there is Jerry Goldsmiths beautifull score wich blends the T.V series themes with a new energetic score for the 80's. In truth, for the casual viewer the plot may be alittle strained. Basiacally the Enterprise engages in a sluggish battle with a malignent force field headed earthwards. Who could be responsible. The Klingons? But even if the script doesn't appeal, with everything else on offer, you should be satisfied enough. "}{"Title":"The most faithful to the original series","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek the Motion Picture was different from all other Star Trek films. Before getting into the movie too much, a ground work based on the various Star Trek series and movies must be established so that this film can be discussed within that context.The original Star Trek series had a very 1960's look to it. The characters were 1960's characters and the feel of the show was very similar to other 1960's shows. Compare the original Star Trek series with the Next Generation and it is quite clear. Captain Kirk exhibits confidence, decisiveness and always maintains control of his ship and his crew. The captain on the Next Generation and other series is very understanding with everybody, non-confrontational and tries to portray a very complex character. Two different captains for two different era's.For the most part, the episodes in the original Star Trek series were self contained, and one didn't need to see the previous episodes to enjoy a particular one. Starting with Star Trek the Next Generation, the series seemed as if it was being made only for hard core Star Trek fans, who never miss an episode, by putting all kinds of stupid technical talk and a kind of soap opera theme to the show.Something similar can be said for Star Trek the Motion picture when compared to the movies that followed it. One cannot watch Star Trek 3 and fully know what is going on without having seen the Wrath of Khan. Or how confused were some of the non Star Trek fans, who never saw the second or third films when they went to the movie theater to see Star Trek 4. References to Spocks death and why the crew was not in the Enterprise must have been confusing. Star Trek 5 and 6 are self contained, but there are still a few references to events in the previous films in them. The other problem with the Star Trek movies was the continual, ongoing conflict with Klingons. Films 3, 4, 5 and 6 involved Klingons (4 to a lesser extent). And the Klingons got badder and meaner with each film that it eventually became kind of ridiculous. Star Trek kind of ceased to be science fiction and became just some other action movie taking place in outer space. The actors also seemed to overdue their characters as time went on. And by the time Star Trek 6 came along, a good amount of the dialog seemed as if it was all part of some inside joke.Star Trek the Motion picture avoided all of these problems because it was the first movie and because of when it was made. Star Trek the Motion picture is a true science fiction story, it's not another battle between Kirk and the Klingons. It is simply a story independent of any other Star Trek story. Indeed, it is placed within the framework of Star Trek (the characters, the Enterprise, the 24th century), but it is completely independent. The actors play their roles much more seriously and realistically than in later movies. There are a few jokes, but the seriousness of the mission is always looming over the movie. Nobody is cracking jokes or one liners as they are presented with the prospect of Earths destruction.Kirk seems almost as youthful as he did in the original series (in the Wrath of Khan he seemed to have aged a lot). William Shatners hair was not permed yet, it looked like it did in the 1960's.Perhaps the best part of the movie though is the art direction. The sets, the ships and the lighting are all very good. Too many science fiction movies today make the future look like it will be filthy, unsanitary, very gloomy, very depressing. Movie sets are usually overdone with all kinds of black stains everywhere, junk lying around, ooze running down walls. Very gritty and grimy. And the people are always sweaty. But, in the 1950's through the end of the 1970's, the vision of the future was always clean, shiny, comfortable. This futuristic vision kind of manifested itself in Disneylands Tommorowland. This version of the future was dominant in Star Trek the Motion Picture's art direction. There were not very many big budget science fiction films which were made that had this particular look to them. Star Trek the Motion Picture did it on a big budget, and it looks very good.As important as the sets and spaceship models themselves was the lighting. Star Trek the Motion picture complimented its clean, futuristic looking sets with a kind of dark lighting while still using some color (mostly blues). America's space program at the time when this film was made must have had some influence on this. Images of dark mission control and radar rooms as well as dark space capsules redefined the futuristic look. Because of this, the purple and green lights (which were partly used to give some excitement to the spartan sets) of the original Star Trek series were gone. However, just enough color was used so that the stale look of contemporary science fiction movies was fortunately missing. The outside of the enterprise seems to not be a bland gray, but rather it has a slight yellowish-brown hue to it, as does the inside of the enterprise. Other parts of the ship have a nice pale green or blue tint to them.All in all, this was a good movie, unfortunately slow at times, but still an interesting storyline to follow. From the sets, to the lighting and the special effects, this was probably the pinnacle of 1960's-1970's science fiction. And it was good to see this type of science fiction film finally produced with such a big budget and such professionalism. It was probably the last and greatest movie of its kind. "}]