[{"Title":"Spaz! Spaz! Spaz! Spaz!....","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"37 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can hardly call this a great film but it is entertaining.  In my case I, at the time this film was released, was the same age as some of the junior campers in the film.  For me watching this film brings back the memories of my camp years.  While some of the pranks that takes place in this movie, like carrying the camp director out in his bed and leaving him on the side of a road, strung up in the trees or out on a lake, are a bit over the top some of the other pranks are not.  When I went to camp the campers and counselors pulled similar stunts such as running underwear up the flag pole, canoe battles and boys raiding the girls cabin.  As I grew older I realized these night raids to the girls cabin that I participated in were carefully orchestrated by the counselors so that we wouldn't find the girls in embarrassing situations but at the time I thought it was real and it was fun.  That's what MEATBALLS (MB) is.  MB captures not only the scenic beauty of camp surroundings but the beauty of being young and carefree.  MB give a great example of pre-teens, teens and young adults living their summer with no concerns other than guys hooking up with girls and girls hooking up with guys and booth having as much fun as they can before they head back to junior high & high school and college.  The opening title song that goes Are you ready for the summer?...no more homework no more books, no more teachers dirty looks... describes exactly how summer is viewed by school kids. I personally enjoyed the two campers Spaz and Fink.  What boy, nerd or jock, didn't spend all camp trying to cozy up to some pretty girl camper? What guy didn't want to be accepted by the other campers and counselors?  While these two characters are somewhat over the top I bet everybody who watches the film can't help but to like these two guys.  These two characters are a mix of Charlie Brown from PEANUTS and Jack Tripper & Larry Dallas from THREE'S COMPANY.  I would bet that most viewers even cheer for Spaz in the egg carrying competition and for Fink as he attempts to beat the stomach in the hot dog eating contest. Lastly, this movie had normal looking kids and counselors.  No super models for counselors or campers that wore trendy clothing.  It is fun to just kick back and watch this film and remember when life was as fun as this movie. "},{"Title":"This is one of my all-time favorite films","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"26 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Meatballs' is a nice and surprisingly, bittersweet film. It remains every bit as fresh, funny and entertaining as the day it was first released. Forget the sleazy in-name only sequels. This is the one-and-only, the original. It is a very good-natured and uplifting film. It makes and leaves you feeling good, but a little bit sad when it is over. It perfectly captures the experiences of being a kid, summer camp, camping and growing-up. It also captures just as well the memories made by making friends and having a good time and the pain of having to say goodbye. There are many memorably funny moments and even some touching ones, as well. It is unthinkable how anyone could not like this film or give it bad reviews. Having grown-up in the late 1970's, it is a nice trip to the past and fond memories of summers gone-by. I highly recommend this warm, charming and upbeat film. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"You must watch this movie or Morty will be sent to the state penitentiary.","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meatballs is an ode to summer camp. Those of us who got to go to camp will see many of the scenes as we remember or wish they could have been.Bill Murray plays senior boys counselor Tripper Harrison, who really runs the camp. He reminds us of the funny cool staff member who everyone loves. Young campers gravitate toward him and if he speaks to you, you feel like you are family. This is one of Murray's best roles. He drives the film with his one liners and ad-libs.Chris Makepeace plays Rudy, the loner camper who is taken under Tripper's wing and breaks out of his shell.The rest of the campers and staff in the film were excellent as well.The overall theme of the movie is the underdog overcoming obstacles to finally win. From Rudy to Spaz to the Camp and even to Tripper himself, the underdogs of the film are the stars. The movie has heart.The film is fun and funny without being cruel or oversexed as some teen movies are today. The cast look and act like real people.The comedy and heart draw you in to the point that at the end, just like at camp, you are sad to leave.In my summer camp experience we had underwear run up flag poles, mystery meat, trying to sneak a peek into the girls cabin, the lunatic-with-the hook stories around the camp fire, and moving sleeping people out of their cabins and putting them elsewhere. But we also had a dedicated camp staff guiding us to be the best we could be.My favorite scene is the CIT overnight when they are canoeing across the lake singing a goofy song. The one line that cracks me up every time is when Tripper is announcing light outs the evening before Parent's Day and he ends Tomorrow is parents day, and you must look rested or Morty will be sent to the state penitentiary. "},{"Title":"A must see before entering the season of summer!","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meatballs has been a main staple in my family for over 26 years! We saw this movie when it first came out and have seen it dozens of times since. Bill Murray is at his best and is most touching in the scenes where he reaches out to a lonely pre-teen boy and befriends him, while leading his CIT's into once mischievous scheme after another! The cast of characters are fun and zany and you really come to care about them and the relationships they have with each other. This is not another sleazy, dumb, teen sex-fest. It is funny and sweet and just all-around fun. Anyone who sees this will enjoy themselves. It is a must-see. Watch out for Spaz - he is by far the best character! (Especially during the camp social - while Bill Murray hams it up for the camera - just watch Spaz behind him dancing with the poor girl he picks to dance with!) By far, one of my very favorite comedies of all time! "},{"Title":"Oh come on, lighten up!","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" No, it's not Citizen Kane. But would you expect it to be with a name like Meatballs? It's the best damn summer camp movie of all the summer camp movies. Does anyone quote Little Darlings line by line? Or Whitewater Summer?This is just one of those movies that got into my brain when I was in junior high, and stayed with me all these years. Every time I feel geeky, I mumble Spaz. Spaz. Spaz. Spaz. Or when we're hiking in the brush in the forest, I tell my husband, I'm Wudy da Wabbit. (He doesn't get it). It just doesn't matter. It just doesn't matter. I mean, this stuff is classic!Disappointed with the DVD, though. Wish there were special features, maybe a commentary or a making-of. But the movie itself is a perfect snapshot of life as an adolescent in the late '70s. Maybe not MY life... You can't help but want to run around out in the woods in shorty shorts and knee-high socks and feathered hair every time you see this movie. "},{"Title":"The first and best of the MEATBALLS movies!","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I caught this on television one day when I was young and loved it. In the 1970's, there were a bunch of lame comedies that tried too hard to be be funny so it this was a nice surprise. It's one of the best comedies of the 1970's and the definitive summer camp comedy thanks to Murrary's excellent comedic performance, which still stands as one of his greatest. This is the film that really got Ivan Reitman noticed as a director. Reitman proves with this movie that he is one of the most talented comedy directors of all time. While this film is hilarious and MEATBALLS 2 is so bad that it's fun, MEATBALLS 3 and MEATBALLS 4 are absolutely dreadful. Recommended for those who enjoyed STRIPES and GHOSTBUSTERS. "},{"Title":"A totally pleasant little feelgood movie.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Seeing this movie always reminds me of what I remember summer being like, God! such a long time ago. The entire scene involving the overnight, from the canoe procession to the end of the trip, is precious, and Tripper's story about the homicidal maniac is urban legend right out of my youth. A highly entertaining movie, made many times better by the awful sequels that followed. "},{"Title":"Summer Camp Shenanigans","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is easily the best of the summer camp movies. In fact, few of the others are even fair, let alone anywhere near as entertaining as this one is. The film is just simply out to have some good, clean, fun. Many people who went to summer camp as kids will see that it is presented here faithfully to the way it usually was, but with slapstick comedy mixed in. Bill Murray, as the chief counselor of the camp, Tripper, leads a fine ensemble cast, and is usually at the center of the riotous nonsense. Tripper has great one-liners throughout, usually broadcasting his jokes as pseudo-announcements over the camp's public-address system.Several great supporting actors played the campers and counselors to build a myriad of fun and interesting subplots, all the while sprinkled amongst the many incidents of camp hi-jinx. Spaz (Jack Blum) and Fink (Keith Knight) were two characters particularly well done. The adventures (and misadventures) of these two are hilarious. Each has classic lines, and they are characters you like and root for. Look for Spaz in the scene of disco dance pandemonium.The girls in the story are realistic characters, too. They're not dumb, naive, freakish, oversexed, nervy, or any of the other overused, abominable teen character stereotypes. Kristine DeBell, Kate Lynch, Cindy Girling, and others make these characters believable. The requisite pranks abound, usually at the expense of camp director Morty (Harvey Atkin). The nature of these pranks start at outrageous and progress from there. However, with all the silliness going on, Tripper and the others have their serious sides. For example, Tripper befriends a shy, lonely kid, Rudy(Chris Makepeace), and takes him under his wing.The story culminates with a sports competition against a rival camp. It's a great root for the underdogs finale. When the chips are down, Tripper's motivational It just doesn't matter spiel is inspired, and one of the best moments in the movie. And get ready to root Spaz. Spaz! Spaz!!! "},{"Title":"Meatballs","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Camp North Star and it's Camp counselor extraordinaire, Tripper Harrison(Bill Murray)sure would like to end a decades long losing streak to rival Camp Mohawk, an ivy league type place where only the wealthy kids can attend. Meanwhile, we watch as Tripper tries his hand at love when he flirts aimlessly with fellow female counselor Roxanne(Kate Lynch)as other teen counselors pair up and also fall head-over-heels. The film comes to head at the Camp Olympiad as the rivals square off in competitive athletic contests with Tripper almost realizing their doomed to fail yet another year. The film also shows the growing bond between Tripper and a quietly lonely, puppy-dog eyed Rudy(Chris Makepeace of Vamp fame), whose dad is often away all the time. Rudy doesn't seem to fit in with the other kids his age and he seems to spend most of his time either jogging in the mornings with Tripper or taking his peanuts at Blackjack. The film mostly contains hi-jinx of fellow teen camp counselors cutting up and goofing around.You have hottie counselors, total nerd Spaz(Jack Blum)with his taped glasses and bad acne, beak-nosed Hardware(Matt Craven)who likes to blow things up, fat kid Fink(Keith Knight) who is often stuffing his face, amongst others in the film. There's a basketball game where poor Spaz can barely bounce the ball against rival Camp Mohawk much less shoot an accurate shot with poor Fink tossing underhanded, between-his-knees fly-balls that sail over the back-board. There's camp fire coupling(with a spirited scary tale by Tripper about a hook-handed killer)and boys drooling over the lovely ladies.Yes, I know it's desperate at times trying to squeeze out every laugh it can and occasionally indulges in lapses of sentimentality(such as the scenes with a sad Makepeace and Murray), but just as much as this recent viewing, I found myself giggling away. I'm licked and just can't help loving this. It's a summer camp movie through and through which simply wants to entertain you. I can't explain, or reinforce enough, the overwhelming joy that floods forth when I see a sleepy Murray's hand reach from the covers for the alarm clock that's piercing loudly pronouncing a summer camp movie is about to begin. His intercom jokes are especially amusing. But, the flick is, let's be honest, a series of comic vignettes with Murray dead-panning endlessly..not that there's anything wrong with that. The film, though, couldn't quite survive without him, could it? Hard to even think of this movie without Murray in the lead. It's a happier time and I think nostalgia of that summer camp experience plays quite a hand in why we grown-ups still connect with Meatballs warmly. And, poor Morty(Harvey Atkin), the camp head who so badly wants things to run smooth, and to beat Camp Mohawk for a change, is the constant source of Tripper and gang's amusement as they often play gags on him..especially when he's sleeping on his bed! Great enthusiastic cast who seem to be having as much as us. "},{"Title":"One of The Best Summer Camp Movies Ever Made","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, it feels, and for the most part plays like an after school special, for a slightly more adult audience, alright maybe a teen audience.   But add in Bill Murray (already showing some dramatic as well as his usual comedic talent), a nice supporting cast, and an unexpected sweetness about growing up, and remembering those great, or not so great days at summer camp, and you get a heartwarming, funny, sleeper hit.It does get a little too smarmy for its own good, but that is also one of its charms.  When you hear the title Meatballs, and see the poster, you expect a teenage sex romp, but what you get is a sentamental, yet sometimes sexy look back at those formative years at summer camp.  The sentamentality, and the remberances of simpler times reminds me of A Christmas Story, which I also love.  The rememberances of summer camp were never so well stated.  The only movie I've seen that comes close, is Indian Summer, which I like almost as much as Meatballs, and also stars Matt Craven. Let's hope he completes the trilogy.  Maybe he could come back for Return of the Meatballs, and bring some dignity back to the franchise (Meatballs 2 through 4 bare no resemblence to the original classic).Meatballs is easily on my Top 10 Guilty Pleasures of all time (not really guilty either).  It's a wonderful little film, that always makes me smile. "}{"Title":"2 flicks in one","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just saw this for the first time in 10 or 15 years...maybe close to 20. In some ways, it was better than I remembered...in other, it was MUCH worse.First of all, there's the music. It's just plain awful. There are only 5 songs in the movie, most of them used more than once. The opening song is shrieked by a chorus of annoying children, and the disco-y title track is performed by Rick Dees. It doesn't get any worse than that. Even the background music is terrible, with much of it repeating the themes of the other nauseating tunes. We also get some truly lame slapstick, mostly in the opening credits.On the other hand, Bill Murray is spot on brilliant as usual...you have to wonder if he ad-libbed the whole thing, or if the writers just gave him all the funny lines. Or maybe he's just that great- turning a weak script into comic genius. The best part are his surreal PA announcements. (Lobsters...get out of here...you're a menace!)You also get a lot more character development than you have any right to expect in a movie like this. At least half the characters seem like real people...and mostly real people you would like to have around. Even Spaz gets to do a more than any other Eddie Deezen-type character ever did, and when he gets the girl, it's plausible. (She's not absurdly hot, but he doesn't automatically pair up with one of the nerd girls- see Revenge Of The Nerds for examples of both cinematic phenomenons.)And when the plot seems clichéd...well, ya gotta wonder if it wasn't a cliché yet when they made this. While it wasn't the first summer camp movie- ya gotta go back at least to The Parent Trap- it's certainly the movie that made it it's own genre. In fact, I was surprised that there was no Talent Show scene...Wet Hot American Summer spoofed the summer-camp genre so perfectly, I just assumed everything in it came straight out of Meatballs. (I also half-expected Jon Cryer to pull up in a convertible with a chimp, thanks to Mr. Show's epic camp-olympiad spoof Monk Academy) Anyway, this one seems to be vanishing a little as far as the late-70's/early 80's comedies- it's not a cable staple anymore, and certainly doesn't have the cult following of Caddyshack or Animal House. I was pleased to catch it on Showtime today- and in High Definition at that! Sure, it's pretty awful in spots, but you could do a lot worse in a 70's/80's teen comedy. And again, Murray is a genius. "},{"Title":"A delightfully sprightly and zany hoot","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Wildman head counselor Tripper Harrison (Bill Murray in peak nutty form in his first lead role) presides over the various wacky hi-jinks at North Star summercamp. Tripper befriends sad and lonely misfit kid Rudy (a nice and affecting performance by Chris Makepeace). Director Ivan Reitman relates the amusingly off the wall comic vignettes at a ceaseless snappy pace and maintains an engagingly good-natured tone throughout. This film astutely nails the breezy'n'breezy essence of summer making friends, first love, pulling pranks, competing in sports with a rival camp, campfire singalongs, and, of course, the inevitable scary urban legend about the escaped psycho killer with the hook hand. The sense of gleefully raucous fun this picture generates is positively infectious. Moreover, the humor is always goofy and occasionally gross, but never too nasty or mean-spirited. Best of all, there's a winning surplus of pure heart to go along with said humor (the warm relationship between Tripper and Rudy in particular is genuinely touching). The cast have an obvious ball playing their likable characters Murray's gloriously gonzo and galvanizing presence keeps things constantly humming (his crazy PA announcements are absolutely sidesplitting), plus there are sound contributions from Harvey Atkin as hapless camp owner Morty, Kate Lynch as Tripper's sassy old flame Roxanne, Russ Banham as the amiable Crockett, Kristine DeBell as the sweet, foxy A.L., Sarah Torgov as the feisty Candace, Jack Blum as klutzy bespectacled nerd Spaz, Keith Knight as tubby slob Larry Finkelstein, Cindy Girling as the fetching Wendy, and Matt Craven as the hip Hardware. Donald Wilder's cinematography gives the movie an attractive sunny look and makes nifty use of wipes. Elmer Bernstein's lively and melodic score likewise does the trick. A real riot. "},{"Title":"Not as good as remembered","Date":"9 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched Meatball several times in preteen years shortly after it was released, and remember loving it. Finally got the chance to see it again and became depressed. Found it cheesy and not funny. I know many of the movies from that time were cheesy, but they were genuinely funny, e.g., Stripes, Revenge of the Nerds, Strange Brew. I love Bill Murray but hated Tripper. The movie did do a good job in defining the summer camp movie. I hear about people recalling this fondly. It has developed a cult following. I thought about watching this with my kids (once they are 17 of course . . .), but after seeing it again I am glad that I didn't. Would of lost all my street cred. Lame jokes, lame characters, lame movie. "},{"Title":"It's a simple enough dish, but it tastes good...","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... The reason I like this movie so much is because of the spirit it has. It's a genial summer camp movie, so the jokes aren't mean minded in a lasting way that makes one character the permanent butt of ridicule. Pranks do take place, but you get the feeling that the respective fall-guys would be able to look back and laugh, having been dopey enough to fall for them - and without being too cheesy, it's actually kinda nice that everyone still remains friends in the end!It's an extra special bonus when the ringmaster of all these jolly japes is Bill Murray. For me, he's still looked upon as the comedy god without peer when he gets a chance to cut loose. No one's better at generating a sense of freewheeling wacky anarchy without really hurting anyone. The tone of the entire film has the same style as its leading man, established with a great opening scene showing the Murray way of getting ready for the day. Everything's silly, yes, but more important than behaving like an adult is to have a whole lot of good-natured fun. Meatballs promises such and ultimately delivers a nourishing watch. "},{"Title":"MEATBALLS!","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  They know it all but don't know where it's at.  Talk about winning games but they can't hold a bat!  Yes, the best summer camp movie ever is this here flick!  This is back when Bill Murray was the coolest and funniest guy on the planet.  Me and every other kid in America musta saw this film a dozen times at the theaters and another dozen times on TV back in the late 70's and early 80's.  I still can't figure why he went for the chick who played Roxanne.  She was the least attractive chick in the whole flick.  And Morty kinda reminds me of a 70's version of Baba Booey!  But not nearly as dumb, stupid, and ugly.  Morty is Robert Redford compare to Baba Booey. Horsetoothed creature from the jungle!  Yes, Meatballs, the ultimate summer camp movie if not the ultimate summer party movie.  Or Groovie Movie as Commander USA would say!   "},{"Title":"Summer camp has never been more fun!","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Imagine spending the summer without your family or friends from school, and meeting new people. Or yet, it's your first time where you're a nobody and the only person you can count on is somebody from camp. Meatballs packs lots of comedy in this film. In camp, there's a eccentric counselor(Bill Murray) who knows how the boys and girls can have a good time. Enter a kid named Rudy(Chris Makepeace) who has no one to look up to. He doesn't fit in with anyone, only Tripper can make him have fun. The rest of the can are just as crazy as Tripper. Camp Northstar is an average camp with an above average team. One the other hand Camp Mohawk is an elite camp that has them running for their money. In the basketball game, the Mohawks got pantsed! And in the Olympiad the Northstar teal got the revenge they needed when one of the members take out the saboteur. And Morty(Harvey Atkin), this poor soul can never get himself in gear if he tried. A very, VERY funny comedy, and it's a big keeper I'll say. This movie shows that camp can be fun, if you wanted to be! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"You must be the short, depressed kid we ordered.","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meatballs is a great, feel-good movie. The first time I saw this movie was 1981 on HBO. I was 13 and loving every moment. I just finished watching it again, thanks to the 50+ movie channels satellite offers these days.Anyways, not only is Meatballs the excellent feel-good movie every young boy and 30 something should watch, it reminds me of the times I had in summer camp when was 7-10 years old. Bill Murray really makes the movie, as does Rudy. The movie really shows how boys and girls did act at summer camp. Now, my summer camps were all church summer camps, but as young kids we all wanted the same things; to be accepted by others and fit in, and to have a shot at holding a girl's hand and maybe getting a kiss. those times were always great.Thanks to Ivan Reitman, we have a movie to ensure rekindling of great memories and laughs. "},{"Title":"Great innocent fun!","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As a young teen when this came out, I completely related to it. As an adult in the present sex- obsessed American culture, it doesn't have enough nudity to be called tame. If you are looking for American Pie-type lewdness, vulgarity or fart and feces jokes, Meatballs will disappoint with impunity and a guarantee. If you like Bill Murray, and you like good clean fun, you will probably like and enjoy this film very much. Similarly with Stripes, Ghostbusters, Caddy Shack, etc. Enough said, just go watch it, and stop intellectualizing it. It's Meatballs, for crying out loud! Why read a review? Just enjoy it and have fun. And ignore the trash talk by others. Films, like so many other things in life, are subjective. To each his own. Always beware the 'expert' who diminishes others' taste. "},{"Title":"This is funny stuff, come on.","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bill Murray is featured in this hilarious send up of a kid's camp.  It's wild and crazy and kind of smart, too.  The film making is not as polished as Reitman's later work - and neither is Murray's performance - but that's the beauty of it.  Watch this early collaboration of two very funny people. "},{"Title":"The beginning of funny man Murray","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Seeing that Bill Murray was in this movie, I decided to buy it. Besides from some lame jokes, Murray led the way through the movie keeping it funny and entertaining.  It is definitely watchable and worthy to be a remembered comedy; especially if you like camping. Compared to a lot of other late 70s and early 80s comedies this movie is golden; especially due to it being one of Murrays early hits.  I would compare it to Revenge of the Nerds and movies of that sort. A must-see for Murray fans. "}{"Title":"Best Camp Movie Ever!!!","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a true classic comedy. I can  watch it over & over again & enjoy it like I'm watching it for the first time. Bill  Murray was great in it. His line To be  in top physical condition, you gotta pay  the price  Is one of my all-time classic  lines. A great film that brings back a lot  of memories for me. Meatballs is a real winner.      "},{"Title":"so I'm the only one who saw the sexual assault scene?","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Man, I was watching Meatballs, its not even a half hour in there's this scene with Bill Murray and some lady councilor, he makes a move on her and she rebuffs his advances so Bill Murray laughs it off and keeps coming on to her, she keeps saying no and he keeps smiling and laughing it off, this lady just wants to leave and he won't let her leave, Bill Murray's character wants to have sex and she just wants to leave- thats as far as I have got in Meatballs, no further. Hey man, I know, its Meatballs its a raunchy teen-sex comedy set at camp, I get it, and I had seen all the other Meatballs movies previous to this one so I knew beforehand what I was getting, but none of the other Meatballs movies has a sexual assault played for laughs. I don't give a god damn if I ever see this movie again it will be too soon. "},{"Title":"Dated, plot less, and not very funny","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a simplistic comedy about a summer camp and the counselors that work there. This film is nothing more than that. Bill Murray tries his best to save this fitfully funny comedy, but the film still fails. It may have been funny back when it first came out, but now it just looks sad. Time has not been kind to this one. It even tries to be sentimental at times, which also fails. I realize that this comment will probably be placed near the bottom, because whenever I write a negative comment it always gets voted as not helpful which is understandable I guess. Anyway, back to the film. All in all this is a dated comedy which should only be viewed for nostalgic value. **/*****. "},{"Title":"No meat, just balls","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Stripes, an army training camp comedy starring Bill Murray and directed by Ivan Reitman, is a favourite of mine. Meatballs, a summer camp 'romp' starring Bill Murray and directed by Ivan Reitman, is a complete waste of time. It takes a considerable effort for four screenwriters to produce a movie (the word 'comedy' infers a work with mirth aforethought) as witless, anaemic and boring as this.Murray evidently reached the same conclusion during filming, but his usually reliable powers of improvisation escape him and his flailing attempts to inject life into proceedings just add to the embarrassment - the It really doesn't matter chanting scene is excruciating. It doesn't help that the supporting cast is bereft of talent - the funniest thing about them is their hair, but then Meatballs was made in 1979. (And introducing Chris Makepeace as Rudy announce the opening credits. No, not THE Chris Makepeace?!).Mercifully, Reitman rectified his mistake two years later for Stripes. Murray's shtick is so much funnier when he's larking around with the likes of John Candy, Warren Oates and John Larroquette. Ditch this and watch that. "},{"Title":"bringing Reitman and Murray together","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's a new summer at Camp North Star for kids from six to fourteen. Morty Mickey Melnick runs the camp and Tripper Harrison (Bill Murray) is the irreverent senior counselor. He keeps flirting with fellow lead counselor Roxanne. Spaz is one of the CITs (counselor in training). Rudy Gerner (Chris Makepeace) is a lonely kid who doesn't fit in. He and Tripper form a close connection. They have been beaten by neighboring Camp Mohawk for the last 12 years. In the annual competition, they are getting crashed by the cheating Camp Mohawk on the first day. They rally with Tripper's sarcastic chant It just doesn't matter.This movie suffers from a lack of solid secondary actors. Murray is doing his utmost. He and Makepeace provide the heart. Spaz and his chubby friend have a few moments. Most of the rest are simply amateurs unable to deliver the jokes. For example, Roxanne needs to be either hot or funny. The actress is neither. Matt Craven is probably the only one out of that group who would go on to do more stuff. Director Ivan Reitman does his best with who he had. It's a small Canadian production that is most important for bringing together Reitman and Murray early in their careers. It's cute innocent fun. "},{"Title":"A summer camp version of M*A*S*H (the movie, not the crappy TV show).","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Strangely enough, MB gets better with age. The fact that I had never seen it before might mean that I am not 100% qualified to make that statement. (Then again, when has THAT ever prevented me &#x96; or Obama &#x96; from saying anything unqualified?) That is to say, while MB would have (most probably) left me busy wiping tears of boredom 20-30 years ago, it now has the nostalgia bonus that so many 70s films have these days &#x96; at least for those viewers who can appreciate what made that decade so special. (I don't mean the undistilled joy of having Jimmy Carter infesting the White House.) It was almost impossible to make a movie in the 70s and not make it look good; the proof of that being that even Ivan Reitman had done it, and he is notorious for having zero aesthetics. He's always been the competent producer, always the money-maker, very rarely the artiste.There is a lot Bill Murray can do with a mediocre script, but even he isn't a magician. There was real potential here, though. The set-up is very good, actually; the characters are good enough, and the cast playing them even better; the kids look natural and act naturally. The hitch is the poor gag-writing. If only someone had been brought in to tweak the script a bit, fatten it up, improve upon it, this could have been a funny comedy and not just a visually-pleasing piece of 70s nostalgia. As it is, MB falls squarely into the mildly fun to watch, but very rarely funny category of comedies.If this movie gets you roaring with laughter, you're either 11 years old, or you're high on laughing gas.For those of you hoping for Porky's-like raunchiness, there is no toplessness. However, there are no bras either. "},{"Title":"I watch this movie every year to ring in summer!","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meatballs is a superior movie! This silly wonderful flick makes my summer. The counsellors in the film are familiar, the parallels to real camp staff are amazing. The Canadian Wilderness is also quaint and warm, and haunts me like a sensory memory. Bill Murray is, well, Bill Murray, in life and in the movie. Sweet, funny, considerate and embracing, Bill never disappoints. This is a slice of life/coming of age movie that represents so many aspects of youth that are difficult but survivable. The acting is real and believable, the watcher feels for their issues and celebrates their wins. Worth watching, over and over, this sweet movie is something to smile about. "},{"Title":"It Just Doesn't Matter!","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Nostalgic and funny comedy has Bill Murray playing Tripper, a wacky summer camp counselor who, when he isn't trying to romance all the female counselors, is trying to help a sad boy(Chris Makepeace) who doesn't want to be there, and who isn't popular. Also features other assorted characters like Spaz for instance. Then there is the rival summer camp where the rich kids go, and whom Tripper badly wants to show up.This could have been just another crass, predictable comedy, but this has a surprising amount of heart and empathy, and by the end, you may get just as misty eyed about it being over as the campers! Of course, all the viewer has to do is replay the DVD. "},{"Title":"Are you ready for the summmeeeeeeeeeer","Date":"12 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meatballs is the Citizen Kane of cheesy summer camp comedies, and you can interpret that any way you want to. Every cliché you know and love about this sub-genre originated right here. The good wholesome camp having to compete against a cheating camp it's in here. The rebel camp counselor who's constantly playing pranks and for some reason always looks at least 10 years too old for the part Meatballs did it first. The hapless geeks that get to do something heroic before the credits roll well that had probably been done before, but Meatballs does is very well too. Is Meatballs actually good? Probably not, but it does fill you with a sort of nostalgic feeling to whenever the hell people thought wearing those shorts was a good idea. And it's pretty funny too, particularly all the absurd stuff Bill Murray says over the intercom. Some characters are very bland and could have been written out altogether (I would call them by their names if I remembered them), but the whole Tripper/Rudy dynamic is actually done very well and really makes the movie stand out among its countless copies. One thing though anyone know how I get that goddamn soundtrack out of my head? "},{"Title":"not that bad","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's funny how your perspective changes after going several years between seeing the same movie, as I recently did with Meatballs. If anyone were to ask me if I recommend this film, I would say only see this for a pretty funny performance by Bill Murray, who portrays Tripper, the counselor more interested in cracking jokes than actual counseling. I wished for a few serious scenes between Tripper and Rudy, the very shy camper who feels left out from the cool crowd, but perhaps Murray didn't have the acting chops yet to pull that off. That being said, most of his scenes are very funny, as are the quips he spews to any who'll listen to him. There's a few more well known comedic moments revolving around Spaz, Fink, and Morty's sleeping habits and they all work for the most part, especially Tripper's speech the night before challenging Camp Mohawk and Spaz's game of stacking. Overall, Meatballs is about what I expected, and I had quite a few laughs along the way. "}{"Title":"Meatballs was a wonderful initial starring showcase for Bill Murray","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A year after John Belushi hit it big in the movies with Animal House, fellow SNLer Bill Murray would do the same with Meatballs with help from director Ivan Reitman-who was a producer on AH-and that film's co-writer Harold Ramis. Also from the Belushi picture was music composer Elmer Bernstein who would provide scores for other Reitman/Murray/Ramis movies like Stripes and Ghostbusters. Anyway, Murray provides great laughs with his charismatic wild-man persona as a camp counselor who helps a shy young boy (Chris Makepace) get out of his shell and a fellow female staff member (Kate Lynch) fall for him. Another staff member is Morty (Harvey Atkin) who falls victim to many of Bill's practical jokes. Then there's Spaz (Jack Blum, brother of the movie's co-writer Len Blum) and his buddy Fink (Keith Knight) who provide a touchingly humorous nerd-&-tubby vibe. There's also some sex appeal in the person of Wendy (Cindy Girling) and a girl-next-door one in A.L. (Kristine DeBell though she's probably best known for being Alice in the X-rated version of Alice in Wonderland). In other words, there's a nice mix of one-liners, slapstick, and sentimentality though it doesn't go overboard on the latter. Not everything works but Meatballs is still-all these years later-a good comedy worth watching especially for the first starring role of Bill Murray. Oh, how I loved hearing Spaz! Spaz! Spaz! and It just doesn't matter! once again... "},{"Title":"Would set the tone for most summer camp movies to follow.","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I liked this movie for the most part, but have to say had there been anyone else besides Bill Murray in the lead role it would not have been as good. He brings an energy to the role that steps this film up a notch than it would have been otherwise. I mainly enjoyed the pranks pulled on the one counselor and there are other humorous things in this movie too such as the hot dog eating contest. This movie would also set the stage for summer camp movies with the competition at the end. Nearly every camp movie has either this or the unruly or troubled kids plot, or a combination of both. This series also would take a rather strange shift in tone as this one and two are both family friendly movies while part three and four are more adult oriented, more like the old teen sex comedies of the time. It kind of did the opposite of the Police Academy movies that went from R to PG-13 to PG movies. This series goes from the opposite to R. Still this first one and only good one is worth some chuckles largely due to Bill Murray. "},{"Title":"The Original Summer Camp Comedy..........Classic Bill Murray!","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The plot is predictable. It has been done many times in other movies. You have competing summer camps in this one the rich kids vs. the underachievers competing for bragging rights in the typical camp contests, while the kids and consolers pursue pranks, sex, and a good time! Are You Ready For The Summer? Meatballs is the first (and best) summer camp movie for feel-good comedy. As others have posted, it's no Citizen Kane, but this type of movie isn't meant to be. The film works because of the wonderful comic timing and classic one-liners of Bill Murray. His scenes with a camper where he tries to raise the kid's self-esteem are very good. Bill's one-liners throughout the film are very funny.I also like that this movie isn't dirty or explicit like so many other teens at camp movies today. There is some mild sexual innuendo and maybe one or two cuss words in the entire film. But Meatballs is the type of teen movie that is actually appropriate for the younger crowd. It's rated PG.This is a movie that you have to see a few times to get all of the jokes! When Bill Murray is on the screen or making one of his classic PA Announcements you are drawn to the film. Bill seems to carry the movie all by himself. But he does it so well, that when you see Meatballs, you will realize that this is the film that made him a star! A side note to this review is to avoid ALL of the Meatball movie sequels. They are horribly bad. "},{"Title":"Murray makes it work.","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Luckily for Bill Murray this is such a light-weight project since he pretty much has to carry it. Meatballs is the story of low-rent Camp Northstar and how its counselors deal with the campers as well as one another. Then there is much made of their wealthy rivals from across the lake named Camp Mohawk which culminates in a two-day Olympiad competition. Above it all is Bill Murray clowning around and making a pretty memorable film debut.The film is sprinkled with medium-sized laughs, chuckles, and more than a few guffaws along the way. The biggest laughs come from the pranks played on the nerdy camp director. Three of them involve the counselors moving his bed outside in various locations while he's sleeping. Morty, or Micky as everyone calls him, wakes up along the side of a road, strung up in some trees several feet above the ground, and finally floating on a raft in the middle of the lake! There are also some funny moments involving the counselors hitting on one another, but this is a PG rated film with little in the way of raunchiness.The film takes a serious note involving a shy camper named Rudy who is played by Chris Makepeace. Of course it's up to Murray to teach the kid how to open up, and give him the confidence he needs to run a marathon during the Olympiad. The sentimentality of Rudy's situation seems tacked on to a great degree. Notice how when Murray first sees the kid sitting alone in the grass after getting off the bus he tells him, you must be the short depressed kid we ordered. Makes you wonder if that line was really in the script or Murray was just ad-libbing while the cameras were rolling. In other words, Murray might as well have said to Makepeace, you must be that actor we hired to play the stereotypical lonely kid you see in most summer camp films who doesn't fit in. But before it's all over, Murray's performance makes this plot device more than bearable. He really seems to have some good chemistry with Makepeace.The film culminates with the games between the two rival camps. Very little of the events we are shown are even slightly believable, but it just doesn't matter. This is a pretty good film on many levels. Don't let the absurd 5.6 rating this film is currently getting scare you off. Murray will keep you laughing throughout. Just be warned..... avoid the sequels!!!! Especially the one with Corey Feldman!! 8 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Bill is good, the movie...sort of.","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The talented & always funny BILL MURRY is really the only reason to see this slightly funny summer camp comedy, that shows the various hijinks pulled by camp counselors & the kids attending camp. The actors & direction are good & Murry shines as the lead counselor & is able to pull off some pretty funny jokes & is always a welcoming presence on screen, unfortunately the film really isn't that good in parts & a lot of the jokes just aren't funny. Still if your a Bill Murry fan you might like it, but like I said he's pretty much the only reason to see this movie, which led to three unrelated sequels that only attempted to lure fans of this movie into renting them & had nothing to do with this film or each other. However it's sequel is a bit better than this one (In my opinion that is) Sequel MEATBALLS II **1/2 stars "},{"Title":"A Goofy Bill Murray movie...what's not to like?","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I know that was a goofy movie, but I enjoyed it immensely. It's one of the experiences that make me smile when someone says Bill Murray. I almost always like movies involving the underdog, and this movie has more underdogs than you can count. It's overall a kind movie--some of the adults are not wrapped tightly, but the laughter is accepting rather than brutal like so many teen movies these days. The rich kids across the lake take a beating, but no one I know minded at all. I never went to camp, but I did some things that were somewhat parallel and most of the bits and tricks ran true. They were even understated at times, but I'm sure that was an accident.The cast performed well, with Bill Murray showing hints of what he would become. It's not Groundhog Day or Broken Flowers, but, hey, a good goofy laugh should be appreciated these days, but then...it just doesn't matter............................... "},{"Title":"Good Clean Fun","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you take the movie for what it is worth, you won't be disappointed. If you think Murray is supposed to win an Oscar for his performance and that is the type of movie you are expecting, don't bother. It was funny when I saw it in 1979 and hasn't lost its charm. Good clean fun for the kids and mindless entertainment for the older folks. The story line is simple and easy to follow. Murray has done better, but this is his first film. The movie reminds me of a time when we didn't need blood and guts to be entertained. Morty is the head dunce and plays the part perfect. The other counselors are typical revved up teens looking to have fun during the summer. One nice thing about this movie, it has a message. "},{"Title":"Funny, though not great","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bill Murray is Tripper, the creative and fun-loving activities director of Camp North Star, who leads his campers, staff and CITs through a summer of hijinks, fun, and competition with the rival Camp Mohawk.This is no masterpiece of cinematography, but IT JUST DOESNT MATTER! It is still a fun and amusing movie that is thoroughly enjoyable. The script is mediocre, the music on the DVD is different than I remember from the original theatrical release, and the humor is juvenile, but I still love this movie.Bill Murray carries this film as the energetic and libidinous head counselor of a co-ed camp, as only he can. Although not his best performance, Bill Murray is still incredibly funny. The rest of the cast pales in comparison.Having gone to summer camp a few times as an adolescent, this film brought back the spirit of the summer, when all I had to care about was having fun and meeting girls.This is no great work of art, but it is worth spending the evening to watch. "},{"Title":"Great Summer Camp Film","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw this movie in the mid 80's and thought it was a funny movie. As I have gotten older I watch this movie for different reasons. I like to view it when I'm feeling sad/nostalgic for my lost youth. I was a teenager (14) at the time of the release of this film so I can identify with many of the same problems/dilemmas that the campers/CIT's in this movie have. I enjoy seeing the clothes that were worn at this time and hearing the same old urban legends such as was told on the overnight canoe trip. The film is also full of funny one liners. I highly recommend this movie to anyone that was a teenager in the late 70's to early 80's. "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this any more","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I rarely even bother to watch comedic movies or television these days. They're insipid, vulgar, and, most importantly, not funny. This one could be seen as a refreshing blast from the past. It's worth watching, and I don't believe it would be dated in any significant way. Classic humor is classic humor, and good writing is good writing regardless of the era in which created.I would love to see this film again; it came to mind after having seen the somewhat similar Summer School on television recently. Like that slightly newer film, Meatballs is funny without being cruel, overly sexual or indulging in bathroom humor. The key, of course, is how the adult character makes such a difference in the life of the teen character -- maybe even a virtually life-saving change -- and how they both grow up in the space of a summer. "}{"Title":"Oh, no, it's still funny","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The quintessential let's get ready for summer movie. It's dumb, goofy, and maybe a  touch dated, but my kids just saw it and they laughed as hard as I did when I first saw it.   In the style of all little guys versus the establishment movies, so yes, the plot is very  predictable, but it's warm and funny. And no, it's not Bill Murray at his Bill Murrayest,  but he is starting to stretch out in what was his first starring role. Odd, though, to see  how few of the fresh young faces in this film went on to do much more. "},{"Title":"So many quotes, so little time","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meatballs works its way into conversations, like no other movie. Especially during Summer. Whether it's the song about the CITs (Counselors In Training) or the cut-downs or the inspirational Rudy the Rabbit or It Just Doesn't Matter speech...it pops up! Poor Mickey/Morty, who knows where he'd wake up next!?! Such a great snapshot of the seventies and a cultural icon for my generation of those who understand that non-PC is really funny, no matter who you are! Wheels and Spaz are favorites, as is the hot dog eating contest with the famous line what..? no mustard? Oh, how many times I've reiterated that line and been the only one laughing! Thank you to the writers, actors and directors! Applause, applause!  "},{"Title":"A comedy classic","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Rattlesnake! Look out! Is that a bra you're wearing or are you expecting an assassination attempt? Spaz, what are you a homo or what?! OK way to go you guys! feed Fink, he's our hot man Do you know they use the most sophisticated training methods from the Soviet Union, East & West Germany and the newest Olympic power, Trinidad-Tobago. Oh Spaz you old make-out master! What, no mustard?! Oh my God his nose is bleeding. it's gonna get even bigger now Our political roundtable...Henry Kissinger will appear. Yassir Arafat is gonna come out, spend a weekend with the kids just rap with them.These and many other great lines make Meatballs a hall-of-fame comedy. Only in Caddyshack is Bill Murray funnier. He probably ad-libbed half the lines. The high school actors seemed to have a blast being in the same movie with him.Hilarious movie to watch any time of year, not just the summer. "},{"Title":"It just doesn't matter","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I was younger, this movie always aired on Friday night in the summer on Channel 40 (this was the years before Fox was a network and took over the programming).  I always looked forward to it.  I'd go grocery shopping with my parents, then sit down with my Swanson's TV dinner and a Lady Lee Cola(the only time of the week I was allowed to drink cola, and enjoy.  Sure, the script is predictably late 70's (like Little Darlings), but it's a fun movie, and I loved Rudy and Tripper.  Bill Murray coasts with little effort in the movie, but he is charming.  Gotta love Spaz and those taped glasses (pre Revenge of the Nerds).  Chris Makepeace is pretty much the same character he played in My Bodyguard but he does it so well. "},{"Title":"Terrific film!!","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love Meatballs! Terrific characters and poignant situations make this one dearly loved. Bill Murray is hysterical and you gotta love that 4-mile trail race at the end! A total classic and one of my favorites now for about 20 years. It brings back fond memories of camp and deals nicely with the experience of being rejected by foolish peers and the empowerment brought one by being rescued by a sympathetic adult. Tons of great one-liners and quite an assortment of wacko counselors. This is the kind of movie where you repeat key phrases among friends for years afterward. Also nothing overtly crude and what a sweet late '70's soundtrack to bring on just the right amount of nostalgia. I can't say enough about Meatballs; it's a classic. Be forewarned! All the sequels are putrid stink bombs that simply bought the name rights for marketing. They have no connection to Ivan Reitman's masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"Even if we win, Even if we win, They'll still get all the girls because they have all the money.  It just doesn't matter.....","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  .... It just doesn't matter....I haven't seen this move in about 15 years, but I remember it well, and I remember loving it!!! The fact that I can still quote many, many lines in this film, says a lot. I loved the campfire story.... and there hanging in the door covered with blood.... and the way the poor camp director was always waking up in weird places. I still smile when I think about it. I have to rent it, to see if It still makes me laugh out loud (I was only 15-16 years old when I last saw it, my since of humor might have changed), But I really remember it being on of Bill Murray's best.  "},{"Title":"Even if we win, Even if we win, They'll still get all the girls because they have all the money.  It just doesn't matter.....","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  .... It just doesn't matter....I haven't seen this move in about 15 years, but I remember it well, and I remember loving it!!! The fact that I can still quote many, many lines in this film, says a lot. I loved the campfire story....and there hanging in the door covered with blood.... and the way the poor camp director was always waking up in weird places. I still smile when I think about it. I have to rent it, to see if It still makes me laugh out loud (I was only 15-16 years old when I last saw it, my since of humor might have changed), But I really remember it being on of Bill Murray's best.  "},{"Title":"A Campy Classic","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Certainly the movie has aged a bit but then again so have we all. This movie serves as a reminder of our own youthful hijinks during summers away from home. While the clothes have changed and the acceptable vulgarity in films has as well, this film is the predecessor of all those new camp movies which have followed. They only succeeded to be nothing more than a few site gags and pranks put to celluloid. This film has humor, a light fun story and even character development; the boy learning to be a man and Bill Murray's character learning how to grow up. Both mature, learning how they relate to others as well as gain perspective on their own personal image.This it the perfect family film, the adults can rekindle those summer camp memories while the kids can get even more humor out of the film Retro is in and this film is worth a look  "},{"Title":"A WONDERFUL COMING OF AGE BILL MURRAY MOVIE","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't care what anyone says -- I've seen this movie a dozen times, at various times in my life, and I just laugh every time I say it.  It's not sophisticated, but Bill Murray is too funny, and it's poignant at the same time.  I think you have to to be an adult to really appreciate this movie, and what it says about being an adolescent. "},{"Title":"Made for campers like me","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You should view this movie from the perspective of the consummate summer camper.  You can also view this movie in the context of a camp staffer.  If you want to see truly bad summer camp movies, why not consider Camp Nowhere or Sleepaway Camp. I've read a lot of the negative comments made about this movie and see that one has to have experienced the summer camp industry.  I have been a camp director for 10 years and have worked at the same camp for 27 years.  When this movie came out, I was just a nature instructor.  The camp director took us to town to see this movie.  We filled two rows of seats at the theatre. It seemed that each staffer had a specific time to laugh.  Our craft instructor, Bill, rolled in the floor when the announcement was made that crafts was canceled due to bad taste.  When my brother was assistant camp director, we found the exact same spaceman hat that Bill Murray wore as he made announcements. The mystery meat contest is now a scheduled event on my camp program.  A few years ago, just before I became camp director, we hung a guy's underwear on the flagpole.  I liked this movie so much as a 'camp' movie that we considered getting a theatrical print.  But the viewing license fee was too high. We also saw Friday the 13th at that theatre.  Many of us slept with loaded bb guns after that movie.  Later, our group saw Jaws II.  When it was over, one of the staffers yelled Jaws gets electrocuted to the 500 people waiting outside to get in.  We barely escaped the parking lot with our lives.  Other films viewed by our staff include, The Shining, Superman II, III, Star Trek (all versions), Star Wars V and Episode I, and The X-Files. "}{"Title":"One of Bill Murray's finest","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This being the first Bill Murray movie I viewed, it sets him apart as one of the finest comedic actors of all recorded history.  Granted, when I saw it I was about ten years old, so maybe the appeal is different for teens or adults, but I felt it was well made in all respects.  The dialogue is classic, ...So he offers me $200 to run the sailing program. $200 doesn't even buy me a pair of shoes; I mean, I'm the best!  As spoken by Lance Cashman, the total jerk-off!  I can watch this movie any time and still laugh out loud.  Maybe this is sad to some of you, but I really enjoy this film! Grer "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie.  It takes place at Camp White Pine, which just happens to be where I spent 4 weeks of my summer! Meatballs is hilarious!  Anyone who went to White Pine should see this movie-you will recognize everything. "},{"Title":"A vey funny lighthearted movie..Spaz you old makeout master !","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bill Murray's first movie and the first movie for many of the castmembers. This movie has funny lines as well as funny characters.Bill Murray gets a lot of support from Spaz and Larry Finklestien who can't seem to master the art of Love at summer camp.Fink You didn't do anything ! Spaz I held her hand. Fink You held her hand ?  Spaz you on your way ..you old makeout master.see it.its fun "},{"Title":"It just doesnt matter, it just doesnt matter.....","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It just doesnt matter! It just doesnt matter! It just doesnt matter.......because all the real cool chicks go to Camp Mohawk.  Bill Murray is the guy to hang out with for the summer, he'll even buy you french fries............... "},{"Title":"One of my favourites... absolutely hilarious!","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Definitely one of the funniest movies ever.  Lots of jokes that are easy to miss if you're not paying attention (You like ketchup? Tripper to Rudy, who's drinking a milkshake).Didn't bother seeing Meatballs 2 & 3 and didn't know until today that they even MADE a 4.  Seen The Original 29 times (yes, I know, I need to get a life...)Bill Murray's finest (yes, better than Caddyshack, where he just had a bit part anyway) and all the supporting cast were great - good casting work.They definitely should have stopped after this one though... "},{"Title":"A Fun Time at Camp...","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I spent a summer at sleep away camp and I wish I had half the fun that Bill Murray and the crew have in Meatballs.  This movie was the perfect star vehicle for Bill Murray, who is teamed with a bunch of not so memorable co-stars (whatever happened to Chris Makepeace anyway?).  Bill gets to run wild for 90 to 100 mins as one of the top counselors at summer camp. My favorite scenes 1. Bill Murray impersonating the head of the rival rich kid camp during a TV interview 2. The climactic pep talk to the kids after falling behind in the camp olympics (It just doesn't matter, it just doesn't matter).  Meatballs is a funny movie, that doesn't disappoint. If you love Bill Murray and you haven't scene this film run to the video store and pick it up. "},{"Title":"Are you ready for the summer?","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meatballs is an EXTREMELY dated but very entertaining film.  It tells a story about a summer camp that is the red-headed stepchild to the rich kids summer camp which gets all the breaks.  It also tells a story of a loner who has very little self esteem, but is befriended by the head camp counseler.  Bill Murray is the true star of this film and without him, it would be a bomb.  Fortunately, he is in it and it is a good movie.  A rating of 7 out of 10 was given.  "},{"Title":"How can you have a hook for a foot?","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh, god this movie was hilarious. Trippers pep talks had to be the best part of the whole film. If you haven't seen this yet, you should be publicly flogged!!! "},{"Title":"Bill Murray's Best!!!!","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Meatballs will always be my favorite comedy.It's a true classic. It's hard to believe thats it's almost 20yrs old.A young 29yr old Bill Murray was great in it.If you have never seen Meatballs, I highly recommend it. All of the other sequels that followed it are a big waste of time. Meatballs got my 10 vote... I want it to come out on DVD soon...    "},{"Title":"The kids are brats, and the food is hideous...","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meatballs does pretty well at milking laughs out of a rite of passage for many American people, the summer camp experience. True that the script isn't anything great, this functions on an often juvenile level, and not all of the jokes are terribly funny, but it works because of a basic likability. This viewer thought it was pretty harmless. Maybe in the scenes between Tripper and Rudy does it get too maudlin, but these scenes are effective at humanizing the Tripper character. Overall, it's a solid vehicle for SNL star Bill Murray, making the most of his first lead role. It's hard not to laugh at some of his morning announcements, the TV interview, and his big show stopping It just doesn't matter! speech.Murray plays Tripper, the head counselor at Camp North Star, a man with a wacky approach to life. There's not much of a story here (screenplay credit goes to Len Blum, Daniel Goldberg, Janis Allen, and Harold Ramis), but among the antics are the pranks Tripper and his fellow counselors (among them, Jack Blum (Happy Birthday to Me), Keith Knight (My Bloody Valentine), and Matt Craven (Crimson Tide)) play on camp director Morty (Harvey Atkin), Tripper reaching out to a shy and lonely young camper, Rudy (Chris Makepeace, My Bodyguard) who just wants to make friends, and the final Olympiad where Camp North Star competes with the more macho and aggressive Camp Mohawk youngsters.It's not too hard to identify with many of these characters, especially during their more awkward moments. By the end you really are rooting for them, and are enjoying the big finale involving a race through the woods.In addition to Murray, the rest of the cast does well, with Kate Lynch able to hold her own opposite the comedy star, playing the object of his affections. The lovely Kristine De Bell also appears as one of the counselors.Best of all, director Ivan Reitman keeps the gags coming right through the end credits.Overall, this is good natured fun and something that I can't believe anybody would hate.Eight out of 10. "}{"Title":"Why do all the movie critics miss the boat on this?","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm pleased to see so many good comments on this movie here. What I don't get is that Meatballs is always advertised as this kind of bawdy, teen sex comedy when you see a write up on it. Even IMDb in it's description goes there.Meatballs is really not that kind of movie. It is a very sweet little film about a bunch of misfits who find that they are not so bad after all. It also is the story of how one boy goes from outcast to hero after he is taken under the wing of a caring counselor.Sure there are jokes and highjinks, and a few teenage sexual references, but nothing over the top and they are all characteristic and true to form for summer camps.I love this movie. I loved when I was a kid, and I love it still today, and think it should almost be mandatory viewing for any young kid who feels like an outsider. "},{"Title":"Not so bad at all","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of those films that critics deem to be in bad taste. A film with a reputation like e.g. RHINESTONE (though MEATBALLS definitely has a cult following). I don't really understand the fuzz about it. This film isn't bad, isn't good, but is really nothing special at all too. BUT it has an enjoyable Bill Murray performance, some chuckles along the way and characters that are, well, tolerable (unlike many other similar movies). The overacting is cut down to a minimum and the villains are sized down as well, which is a good thing. In short don't expect a believable, dramatic story, nor big laughs or great acting. But on its own terms, this is decent stuff. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Murray saves it","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A typical summer camp film with the prerequisite fat guy, nerd, hot girl and the corny but fun-spirited song is saved by Bill Murray as Tripper Harrison the head counselor, making this film humorously enjoyable, if not laugh out loud funny. Not Murray best movie by a long shot, but an enjoyable enough time waster. Sadly Kristine DeBell who happily showed everything in the mid-70's sleaze classic Alice in Wonderland (tis a pity, trust me) Followed by three dire sequels, with the bottom of the barrel being the 'meatball' the alien starring Meatballs 2 My Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Why couldn't my summer camp been like this?  It Just Doesn't Matter!!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  MEATBALLS (1979) ***1/2 Bill Murray is manic genius personified in his first big comedy smash during his Saturday Night Live salad day stint, as Camp North Star's summer camp for kids' counselor-at-large who firmly believes in the philosophy of having a good time all the time with some laugh-out loud hilarious hijinks.  Some very funny bits and pieces of comedy.  Best line It... just...doesn't... matter!!  Directed by Ivan Rietman in his native Canada. "},{"Title":"Great movie for the summer","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well i believe it was 1983 and i just returned myself from a summer camp in Switzerland. I found myself in a hotel not long after and there i saw this movie for the first time. What can i say I LOVED IT. Especially the scene with this guy and A.L. (Kristine Debell) which really moved me deeply. I think i am a fan of her. Anyway great movie, great soundtrack and definitly worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Kristine DeBell's greatest performance","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kristine DeBell could have been one of the greatest American actresses ever, if it had not been for her hardcore performance in Alice in Wonderland that ruined her career when it was later released in cassette.  Although her role in this film is minor, when she is on the screen, this movie sparkles, when she is not, you just wonder, why was not she given the romantic female lead of Roxanne?.Well, we can only speculate on what might have been--I'll sure miss you Kristine. "},{"Title":"Meatballs","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Murray carries the entire film. You can tell when he's improvising. He's trying to save the film from complete embarrassment. He almost gets away with it.  "},{"Title":"Not the Greatest, But a Predecessor, If You Will","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So, this film is not the funniest or the best directed or the film with the most stars or hot teenagers running around... the late 1970s were an awkward time.Here is how to approach this film as a predecessor to other films, notably Ghostbusters. This was Bill Murray's first starring role, it was partially written by Harold Ramis and directed by Ivan Reitman. Five years later, this same combination would bring us the best horror-comedy of the 1980s.Beyond that, I do not know what to say... it is a decent film, a fun film. Maybe it has no real merit, and maybe summer camp was never like this -- have you ever even been to a summer camp? But a good film. "},{"Title":"Old-timey motion picture about summer camp hijinks!","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I knew little about Meatballs except that it had Bill Murray in it, Ivar Reitman was directing, Wikipedia said that it was considered raunchy in its day, so overall I was expecting a wacky gross-out comedy on camp life with plenty of hijinks and wet T-shirts. Instead it is a surprisingly muted, realistic and sentimental ode to the humble summer camp. In a subplot, Murray acts as an elder brother-type role model to a troubled camper, which in turn helps him to ground himself. This works surprisingly well, is less eerie than it might sound, and seems strangely antiquated by today's standards, where movies have become much more edgy and cynical. Although there is plenty of slapstick comedy, the pace is relatively slow.What really struck me was how natural the actors in this film are. They look like real counselors and campers. Especially Roxanne, the movie's sweetheart, is pretty but not catwalk material. That was a pretty audacious choice on the part of the film makers.Overall nice film. Could have done with a few more jokes, though. "},{"Title":"Nice setup, but doesn't quite deliver","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am a huge fan of Bill Murray, but Meatballs is not in league with classics like Ghostbusters or even Scrooged. The idea of having a racy comedy set in a kids' summer camp is not bad, but the great gags never really materialize. For one thing, the movie is too short; barely an hour and a half. Maybe if there were an extended cut with an extra half hour things would turn out better.The plot element with the inter-camp olympiad that takes up more than half the movie is not that interesting. I just wanted more old-fashioned gags and cool one-liners. As summer camp comedies go, this one is inferior to Addams Family Values, which is much stronger in every area, including as a political satire.Meatballs can be rated no higher than a 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Easy summer fling","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Between Peter Sellers and Eddie Murphy, you have to mention Bill Murray when you talk about filmdom's best comics. He doesn't have the range or talent of either Sellers or Murphy, but Murray has better taste in scripts and a stronger core comedic persona, that being the flip, slightly askew, occasional drooly fellow who debuts here, in Murray's first film.Meatballs is not sophisticated, it plays to the conventions of its period with routine sex jokes and raunchiness that (for 1979) stays just where it needs to be to avoid an R rating, but it does amuse. There's a dozen lines worth quoting as the film zips along, switching gears nicely from scene to scene. Brainless, yes, but not as stupid as Stripes or as boorishly snide as Caddyshack. Discarding the experimental Where The Buffalo Roam and Tootsie, where Murray's role is minor, I'll say Meatballs was not only a solid debut feature but Murray's best film all the way through to Ghostbusters.The best thing about Meatballs is it lets Murray be Murray, and he doesn't disappoint, running the film from front to back with his goofy ramblings, even sticking himself into the soundtrack during the Olympiad sequence (where he can be heard scatting phrases like communist nymphomania and suchlike.) He has many killer moments, like his just doesn't matter rant and his sideline pep talk during the basketball game. Even his tiniest asides are funny, even when they aren't witty, because his delivery is so on. Obviously he had something to prove back then, and this film benefits a lot from that.Would it be worth watching if Steve Guttenberg was playing Trip? I don't know. Meatballs comes across at times as an ensemble film, but Murray has all the good lines, all but Fink's earnest congratulations to Spaz (you old make-out artist) after Spaz holds a girl's hand for a couple of minutes. Still, the rest of the cast has energy and play off each other well. I liked the little I saw of them. If they never had any recognizable post-film career outside Canada (i.e. no film career period), they display solid charisma. Perhaps director Ivan Reitman should have showcased them more, but credit him with getting an improvisational feel to their line readings atypical for this sort of film. Even the fact they're not movie-star attractive isn't a negative. You accept them as ordinary people, the kind you might enjoy spending a summer with.The Rudy Gurnier subplot is odd. Maybe it's just me, but Chris Makepeace, who looks like Karen Black mated with the guy who played Scorpio in Dirty Harry, gives off a too-creepy vibe. Even with that, his character might be worth more attention if the film wasn't just about getting laughs. But he's merely there to give Murray some time to develop his human side, and the touchy-feely subplot feels pasted on. Doesn't Trip know giving a camper special attention like that will make him more of a target for cabin abuse?Morty the camp director is annoying whether or not he's the victim of ridiculous pranks, and the soundtrack tends to grate (though I think it's supposed to, as with Are You Ready For The Summer?). But Meatballs is funny, and it deserves extra credit for being such a nice introduction to Bill Murray the movie star. Love those Hawaiian shirts, and his PA announcement helmet. And lines like his one about sending Mohawk kids off with $2,000 cash and a thermos of coffee for Sexual Awareness Week. Sometimes you just have to laugh. "},{"Title":"the best in the series!","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  meatballs is a very funny movie. it's also highly underrated. theres some great one liners in this movie. the first i saw this movie was back in 1985 or maybe 1986. i've always liked this movie. it's one of the best camp comedies of all time. i give meatballs *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Disappointingly unfunny early Murray vehicle...","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Disappointingly unfunny early Murray vehicle has him at an outdoors camp with young women, etc. Bring on the filthy jokes!I saw this years ago, on public television, and I don't remember very much about it. I do remember that I found it disappointing and quite dry, without many laughs at all and Murray--fresh off SNL--had not yet perfected the dry comedy in a mainstream movie that he would show much better in Stripes (1981) under the guidance of Ivan Reitman. Here, it's just not very funny.2/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Are you ready for the summer? (!)","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For years I've heard about this film, so I finally decided to watch it and I wasted a buck and two hours of my life!  Bill Murray gives it his all (not surprising when you consider it was a do-or-die film vehicle for him) but even that's not enough.  Meatballs is a complete relic of the late 1970's...it's almost funny just to see these fashions and listen to this music.  I still can't get those child voices singing, 'Are you ready for the summer...' out of my head!  Craig Kilborne of CBS last summer did a clever comedy piece when they announced, 'And now it's time for Craig to learn that the movie Meatballs has nothing to do with meatballs... Forget this film, if your looking for a great summer camp movie try to find Poison Ivy a 1985 TV movie starring, Michael J. Fox, Nancy McKeon, Robert Klein and Adam Baldwin.  It's hard to find and not that great anyway, but Meatballs makes it look like a Billy Wilder film!Final rating 3/10 A bad movie.  Unless you have a very specific interest in this film, stay away from it. "},{"Title":"yikes - a few good performances couldn't help this film out of the hole...","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  it's a pretty weak film that everyone has seen a dozen times before, but if you like Bill Murray it is worth seeing.  He is as always, very amusing. Plus the kid who plays Rudy is great too.Unfortunately there isn't much else to this film - the laughs don't really hold up for the most part unless the jokes are Murray's, and the characters are all pretty lame and predictable.oh well.... "},{"Title":"Dreary exploitation comedy occasionally sparked by Murray","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Deserving or not, Meatballs has acquired a substantial cult in the years since its release, making it rather a shame that the film is not particularly funny.  Bill Murray plays camp counselor/activities director Tripper, a worldly, self-effacing smart-mouth far too bright to be trapped at a ramshackle summer camp (Murray has seemingly spent the bulk of his career wonderfully breathing life into these types of characters).  Crude and frequently dim stabs at situational comedy either misfire or fizzle (how many times did we need to see the heavy-sleeping camp director placed in wacky predicaments he discovers upon waking up each day?) and only Murray spares the picture from being a complete washout.  Meatballs also swerves unsteadily between cheap laughs and a ham-handed attempt to fashion some sympathy for a sad-sack loner kid (Chris Makepeace, in his feature film debut) befriended by Murray.  Murray, however, always seems so self-aware that his effortlessly ad-libbed one-liners keep the film bearable for brief stretches. "},{"Title":"Just plain awful","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This might be for those who have been to summer camps, but it sure isn't an entertaining camp. I went to one before, but it didn't make me scream up and down for joy. Instead, it made my head hurt.The first thing you notice is that Bill Murray actually had some hair in the 70s. Yeah, and he also didn't mind running some. But to get him to run a lot, you would need to give him a woman to chase after.Its not that some of the stunts can't be funny. For example the running joke with one of the councilors who is always waking up somewhere else due to the movement of his bed. Instead, its that the jokes and stunts were poorly setup and executed. It just failed to be funny.To somebody who loves comedy, this is a pain. Others are glued to it for life. I wish it was more like Leonard Part 6, but it doesn't come close. F "},{"Title":"Are You Ready for the Slumber?","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Canada's Camp North Star is the setting for summer fun. In the opening scene, groggy camp counselor Bill Murray (as Tripper Harrison) doesn't seem up for the job. He perks up fast when the new crop of school-aged kids arrive. The main co-star is sensitive Chris Makepeace (as Rudy Gerner), a lonely boy who may bond with Mr. Murray before the closing credits. Otherwise, we focus on the CITs (counselors-in-training). A lot of youthful co-ed skin (but no nudity) mixed with sex talk (but no action) made Meatballs a safe hit at the box office. Later camp films lowered the bar.***** Meatballs (6/28/79) Ivan Reitman ~ Bill Murray, Chris Makepeace, Kate Lynch, Russ Banham "},{"Title":"Tin Can Alley","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When The Planet Earth is invaded by an IVGO (Inverted Pyramid Group Oblivion) The Camp Consulars must separate The Wheat & The Chaff among The Campers by determining which campers are IVGO Members and which campers are not, who will be going back to Their Home Planet, and who will be going on a Tour Of Food Processing...The friendships for many are somewhat real with shared life experiences which will continue for those who leave The IVGO Environment...For those who stay within The IVGO Environment the facts must be faced that each remaining camper's mother is an escaped prisoner with unserved prison time and that the father which is missing from their life is a transvestite who is also a child of the same jail-bird mother...For some it becomes a Jewish Revelation which frees them back to Their Home Planet... "},{"Title":"meat's meat, and man's gotta eat...or rather, man's gotta watch Meatballs","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Once upon a time, Bill Murray didn't play serious roles, just goofy ones. Meatballs is one of the best, funniest examples. It's basically and hour and a half of complete silliness, with Murray as a counselor at a Canadian summer camp. If the movie has any problem, it's that the movie spawned a seemingly infinite number of movies about summer camps - and a lot of those were about kids trying to save their summer camps. But anyway, this one is a real hoot, especially what results from Murray's telling of the hook-handed-killer-tries-to-attack-teenagers urban legend. And of course, director Ivan Reitman later directed Murray in Stripes and the Ghostbusters movie (unfortunately, Reitman later backed Arnold Schwarzenegger for governor). A really fun romp.I wonder what ever became of Chris Makepeace. "}{"Title":"Dumb, dumb, DUMB!","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, so I saw this movie when it came out.  This was (and probably is) my brother's favorites.  Not mine!It is slow paced, full of unattractive people (even for the 70s! - In this movie you can call Bill Murray the 1979 Sex Symbol of the Year!), and nearly plotless.  Bill Murray doesn't come close to his Caddyshack persona! Everything in this movie has been done before and since.  I have to blame this turkey on the Canadians.There is better work by both Ivan Reitman (director), Chris Makepeace (My Bodyguard), and Bill Murray!  All the other actors and actresses have more or less disappeared into cinematic obscurity... probably for the better!The few bright moments Morty and his bed, Murray on the loudspeaker (even though MASH on tv did that endlessly).Everything else is just a waste.1 star - and that is being kind. "},{"Title":"Should be Forgotten in Time","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Meatballs' is the typical hi-jinx comedy that would come out during the late seventies and early eighties. Bill Murray leads a whole bunch of unknowns as one of the camp leaders of North Star. Across the way is evil and rich Camp Mohawk. Most of the humor is innuendo with most of the cast being kids.Bill Murray offers the only highlights in this one and can even be observed as cute when he helps a young boy suffering from low self esteem. Had even more forgettable sequels following it's release.  "},{"Title":"Kid Stuff.","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bill Murray goofs off in this disappointing comedy as a lousy camp counselor who tries to get his group of misfits out of long slump.  Not all is bad, however.  The movie does have its moments, such as Murray's horror story and the basketball sequence, but the rest is all ho-hum and some scenes make the film look a bit too dated.  Kids might like it, though, for it is aimed in that direction.  Thankfully, Murray went on to bigger things with director Ivan Reitman after collaborating on this predictable film.2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Forgettable fluff","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I only recently got around to seeing this film, and now I am left wondering what all the fuss was about.  Bill Murray displays little of his tremendous talent, yet he is probably the best part of this film.  It's watchable, but the laughs are few and far between.  The film had the right look, and it DEFINITELY had some appropriate music, but apparently someone forgot to spend much time on the script.  This is for die-hard Murray fans only. "},{"Title":"A film for those people who find fart jokes too sophisticated","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A lame-brained comedy that is rather dreary and ill-mannered.  The jokes are right at the level of 12 year-olds.  The story of Murray befriending Makepeace is poorly executed and silly.  Very crudely done on every level with Kate Lynch rather unappealing as Murray's girlfriend. The jokes with Spaz and Fink and truly immature and mean-spirited.  "},{"Title":"Predictable summer camp comedy","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Completely ordinary movie about an exclusive camp called Camp Mohawk. The program director Tripper Harrison (Bill Murray) provides most of the comedy as we see predictable PG rated shenanigans of the kids. We also get two violent, unfunny and stupid games with rival camps. To make it worse they throw in yawningly predictable romances and Murray helping a young kid (Chris Makepeace) come out of his shell.For some reason this was a huge hit and made Murray a star. I can't see why--I didn't even smile, let alone laugh, once. None of the bits are funny--just boring or raunchy (in a PG way). Murray's pronouncements over the camp's loudspeaker are eye-rollingly bad. In fact I never liked Murray. He's just not funny! This isn't a total washout. It was well-done and the acting (Murray aside) was pretty good. Kate Lynch especially was good. Also the good song played at the camp social--Makin' It--was later used as the theme song of a similar named TV series. For this I give it a 3 but it just wasn't funny at all. If you like Murray you probably will like this. If not, stay away. Give me Little Darlings over this any day. "}]