[{"Title":"I LOVE IT!!!","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"99 out of 138 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Please, don't judge me too harshly, but I love Moonraker, the peak of all things Roger Moore. Never again would the Bond films be this over the top or overtly silly, but the truth is that Moonraker does it right. It will never win awards for being the most subtle Bond film ever made, but it should not be trashed in the way that it usually is because deep down Moonraker is just great fun. Roger Moore's Bond is just fun to be with, the on going joke that everytime Jaws tries to kill Bond he almost gets killed himself, complete with close ups of his exasperated face are brilliant (not subtle, but guaranteed to get you chuckling) and one of the loveliest Bond girls, CIA agent Holly Goodhead. The script here is definitely not in the same league as the likes of From Russia With Love, The World is Not Enough, Licence to Kill or For Your Eyes Only, but Bond films never set out to be thought provoking pieces of art, they are meant to be grandiose fun pieces of entertainment and if you take Bond films on those levels then Moonraker succeeds admirably. Sure none of the acting is award worthy, and its frequently over the top in every regard. Over the top humor, over the top action sequences (a fight scene in a glass shop sees every bit of glass get destroyed) while the space sequences features a gigantic space battle complete with laser beams.However there is a lot to like here. The pre title sequence is superb, featuring some of the best stunt work you will ever see in a pre-Brosnan Bond, the special effects are magnificent and lastly John Barry's music is quite simply the best he has ever come up with. For a film so over the top his music is beautiful and would set the hallmarks for his future scores. The sweeping orchestra and beautiful theme song by Shirley Bassey are classics.Once again I end my review with a note not to judge me, but Moonraker is simply wonderful entertainment and one of my favorite Bond film of all time. "},{"Title":"A brilliant Bond film that is highly underrated!","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"118 out of 187 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moonraker is the most unfairly criticised of all the Bond films. The 11th film in the series and the fourth starring Roger Moore, Moonraker works very well for a number of reasons. As Ian Fleming's original novel (written in 1955) had become too dated to translate to the screen, the producers decided to capitalise on the sci-fi craze started by Star Wars, and so created a spectacular space-age adventure where Bond himself journeys into outer space.Whilst this film was certainly inspired by Star Wars, this is not meant to imply that Moonraker copies directly from the former. Don't forget that only the last 20-30 minutes of the film takes place in space. Although the laser battle looks dated by modern standards, it is still a classic slice of Bond action, that, as one reviewer has stated, compares with the underwater battle in Thunderball. And on that level it works superbly. What I especially like about Moonraker is the way it glides smoothly from one action sequence to another. This way, there's not only no shortage of thrills, but an overall level of consistency in the storyline is maintained, where Bond hops across the globe (to Venice and Rio, for example) uncovering clues as to the disappearance of the Moonraker space shuttle. On the way, he survives the customary assassination attempts by the bad guys (Drax and Jaws), and then at the end of the film all the clues piece together to complete the jigsaw. It's steady, consistent storylines like this that prove the key to a successful Bond film.Purists often accuse Moonraker of being too stupid. Although there are some pretty outrageous sight gags, the film still retains its enormous appeal. Certainly, Moonraker is the most light-hearted Bond film, and it's quite clear that Roger Moore was enjoying himself tremendously here. His performance in this escapade certainly brought a smile to my lips.There's also a wonderful cast. Drax is quite possibly the best Bond villain. His one-liners are great and he is certainly not short of ideas on how to dispose of Bond. The beautiful Lois Chiles proves to have the right qualities as an astronaut/CIA agent, and she is a worthy ally to 007. Bond's first romantic encounter Corinne Dufour (Corinne Clery) brings a lot to the film.  Richard Kiel makes his encore performance as the steel-toothed giant Jaws. After his superhuman appearance in The Spy Who Loved Me, Jaws plays more for laughs this time round, but his Roadrunner/Wile E. Coyote-type battles with 007 are still entertaining. There's also another henchman, Chang (Toshiro Suga) who provides more credibility if somewhat less invincibility in a superbly staged duel with Bond in a glass factory.Moonraker also sees John Barry at his composing best. He provides a number of rich, atmospheric tracks that perfectly reflect the film's outer space theme. Shirley Bassey's third title song isn't quite as good as Goldfinger but better than Diamonds Are Forever, and is certainly as good as Carly Simon's song for TSWLM.Moonraker has often been placed at the bottom of the Bond spectrum. It doesn't belong there. It has everything a successful Bond film needs a great plot, superb villains, exotic locations, beautiful women, brilliant special effects (for which visual effects maestro Derek meddings received an Oscar nomination) and action by the bucketful. There are scenes which generate genuine suspense and which feature awe-inspiring stunts in mid-air and on water. The space scenes are well done and all aspects of the space shuttle look true to life. In summary, Moonraker is a brilliant film in its own right and should rank up there with Goldfinger and The Spy Who Loved Me as one of the best Bonds ever made. I strongly urge you doubters to take a second look.  "},{"Title":"Experience the sheer magnificence of Q's final line!","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"44 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a Moonraker space shuttle, on loan from the United States to England, is hijacked, Bond is called in to investigate...Bond surely possess the latest knowledge about nuclear power and is able to fly a rocket ship... Bond's girls too have moved with the times and now join battle alongside him, fighting off the enemy with equal proficiency...It's nice to see Bond dressed as a Brazilian gaucho, galloping up to a 16th-century Benedictine monastery, and safecracking in a magnificent French château...Roger Moore is seen humorous and light hearted, gliding through St. Mark's Square in his motorized gondola... He fights with a Chinese manservant in the Venice Glass Museum with great style, and stops himself from throwing a priceless bowl valued at £1 million... He takes out one speedboat with some mines, another with a torpedo and takes off on a hang-glider as his boat goes over the falls...Bond was initially surprised that a top rocket scientist at Drax Industries was an attractive young woman&#133; He set aside his aggressive attitudes when he realized that not only was Holly a fully trained astronaut on loan from NASA&#151;she was also a CIA agent&#133; She liked better working alone and he had to exhaust himself to win her over&#133;The eleventh Bond film seems to recycle a number of elements familiar from earlier adventures, most obviously Stromberg's hired killer, Jaws, played once again by Richard Kiel... Hugo Drax, the vengeful ex-Nazi of Fleming's novel, is reinvented as a psychotic who is obsessed with the conquest of space, and plans to wipe out the globe's population with a powerful type of nerve gas... His plan for mass murder completed, Drax will then repopulate the planet with his own master race&#133; His fleet of shuttles&#151;the Moonrakers&#151;which are based in South America, will transport his master race into space&#133; There they will live on a radar-invisible space station until Earth's depopulation has been completed&#133;Drax likes to play a little Chopin on his grand black piano, and enjoys a cucumber sandwich... His vanity leads him to control his ferocious hounds by the click of his fingers&#133; He brings from France every block of stone used on his California residence... According to his charming pilot, What he doesn't own, he doesn't want! and, like Auric Goldfinger, affects a desire to play English country sports...Michael Lonsdale's performance is astonishingly controlled and precise as Hugo Drax... There's something really scary about his true personality and character... He gives sarcastic remarks about 007 'You appear with the tedious inevitability of an unloved season.' 'At least I shall have the pleasure of putting you out of my misery!' 'Mr. Bond, you persist in defying my efforts to provide an amusing death for you.'Jaws returns in Moonraker and adds some tension to the film&#133; Richard Kiel has become something of a cult figure since his appearance in 'The Spy Who Loved Me'. He reappears as indestructible as ever... He impersonates Christopher Lee in Dracula mode, and has an entirely different trip down a mountain... His little scenes with a cute little blonde girl are very sweet... His despairing search for her on the disintegrating space station is wonderful... The bitter little smile he and Bond share as they prepare for their set-to atop the cable car is inspired...Corinne Dufour (Corinne Clery) becomes one of Bond's early bedmates&#133; Corinne is Hugo Drax's beautiful helicopter pilot and executive assistant&#133; Unfortunately, in Drax's eyes, her amorous byplay with Bond also marks her for early elimination...Sadly, 'Moonraker' would mark the end of Bernard Lee's 45-year film career... Already visibly frail, Lee would succumb to stomach cancer; he died in London's Royal Free Hospital on 16 January 1981... Although he made a notable contribution to such outstanding mystery dramas as Carol Reed's 'The Third Man,' and Basil Dearden's 'The Blue Lamp,' it is for his definitive 'M' that he will be remembered... "},{"Title":"Not all that bad...","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"49 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Considered almost unanimously as one of the worst films in James Bond series, it is time for Moonraker to have a defender. On my opinion, this is Moore's best fourth outing as 007(may be not saying too much, but there are three films left), and a very entertaining sci-fi film. Critics argue that humor plays a strong hand in this movie-strong to such a degree that Bond character loses all personality, becoming blurred in an impressive set of FX and stunt men. I reply certainly there are flaws, some of them (particularly Jaws conversion towards the end) very ridiculous. But there are good points, too. Remember that pre-credit scene, which was ACTUALLY shot in the air, the motorboat chase or the final space battle, one of the most spectacular moments of the entire series, (yeah, it was unrealistic, OK, but tell me how much realism you can find watching other Bond movies which are frequently referred to as the best. Think of Goldfinger or You only live twice)However, Moonraker does not compare to Octopussy or TSWLM, because of a sometimes plodding pacing, due to the addition of unnecessary scenes, especially during the first half, when James is Drax's guest in California. The love story is a mere and inferior copy of TSWLM. And, while in other Moore's films the blend of humor and Bond's trademark coolness worked smoothly, here Bond is not given a scene to show, not necessarily ruthlessness, but a bit of harshness, as we could see in FYEO or Octopussy.Following Moore's outings will feature Cold War elements which seem to fit more with the character, and better screenplays from Richard Maibaum,the series' screenwriter who was mysteriously absent here.But action remains mostly exciting, sometimes brilliant, and highlights what could have been a mediocre entry. "},{"Title":"The most visually striking 007 ever made","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of all the Bond films, MOONRAKER is, imo, the most visually striking of the entire series. It looks like it cost a billion bucks to make. The sets by Ken Adams are amazing (he should have won an Oscar for them). The locations are stunning. The fx are well made and still hold up today. The women are above average gorgeous (they all look like supermodels before supermodels were in). All of this beautifully filmed by cinematographer Jean Tournier. I love watching MOONRAKER just because it's so damn gorgeous to look at. I don't know how many times I saw it at the movies when it came out just to appreciate the beauty of it all. Unfortunately, we are talking about a James Bond film and of course there has to be the usual formulaic stuff seen in every other James Bond film. Basically, MOONRAKER is a remake of YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE and THE SPY WHO LOVED ME. I always preferred MOONRAKER over the schintzy SPY WHO LOVED ME, which was made just before this one. Lewis Gilbert directed those three Bond films and MOONRAKER is his crowning achievement. Personally speaking, Gilbert is a bad director. His films are always bloated and sorta soulless and yet still gorgeous. Aside from his Bond films, he rarely made an impression with his other films. In fact, he's the one who directed THE ADVENTURERS, which is a good looking film but it's really, really awful. I'm glad Gilbert stopped making Bond films. He was always too laid back for action films like this.There ARE a lot of memorable scenes in MOONRAKER the entire intro is now a classic and much better than the one in SWLM. Corinne being chased by dogs. The simulator scene. Bond fighting with Chang in Venice. My favorite scene is when Bond and Goodhead are stuck below a shuttle's rockets and are about to be burned alive. A near perfect action moment there. The climax in space is fun if improbable. I love the scene when they have to destroy those globes as they re-enter the atmosphere. Really suspenseful. But as good as those scenes are individually they almost don't register as a whole because the story and direction are so lackadaisical, so relax. It's like everyone was on vacation. There's absolutely no grit to this film. It's really sleek and smooth but nearly bite-less. The whole story seems to be just a preamble to the action set in space. What really stands out about MOONRAKER are the many long moments with no dialogue. I'd say about 50 to 60% of the film has no dialogue. Just music and sound effects. It's almost a silent film. Moore didn't have a lot of dialogue to remember and this was an easy film to dub. The story is as easy as connect-the-dots The British owned Moonraker 5 disappears in mid-air and 007 is sent to California to investigate its disappearance. At the Moonraker plant in California (France really) Bond find blueprints of vials which leads him to Venice, where the vials are fabricated. And from Venice Bond goes to Brazil where the vials, filled with deadly nerve gas, are shipped to the underground layout of Drax (boringly played by the usually reliable Michael Lonsdale. Love the name Drax though). Oh and we learn that Drax wants to create a new race of super humans by killing everyone on earth by dropping those nerve gas filled globes from space while Drax and his super humans reside in Drax's space station. I actually like that part of the story and some of the grandeur of it (Drax wanting to be God) is actually achieved with the striking visuals and the amazingly lush score by the brilliant John Barry. Unfortunately, again, this is a James Bond film and thought provoking ideas are set aside for formulaic action. I wish this wasn't a James Bond film. Take away all the Bond elements, the stupid humor, flesh out the screenplay and this would be a spectacular kick ass science fiction film.Anyway, back to James Bond.I really like Lois Chiles as Holly Goodhead. She's my favorite Bond girl ever. Beautiful and sophisticated but tough. She's no bimbo. I remember a lot of my friends in school didn't like her because they thought she was too tough for a babe. I guess Holly Goodhead was Girl Power before Girl Power was in. For me, Chiles epitomizes everything chic and sexy about the late 1970s. She's unforgettable in that black jumpsuit. But the Holly Goodhead role is a really badly written one. She's almost an afterthought to the whole story. They basically needed a character to fly the space shuttle and Bond into space (something 007 obviously couldn't do) and Goodhead was basically that just a pilot. Then there's Corinne Clery who is truly gorgeous but sadly, again, her role is minimal. Then there's the not so beautiful Jaws. Jaws was so popular in SPY WHO LOVED ME they brought him back here. I don't mind this but they turned him into a good guy and he even falls in love with a ditsy girl. This part of MOONRAKER is *really* bad. Someone should completely edit that storyline out of the movie and its rating would go up exponentially. And like in THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, the musical in-jokes were needlessly distracting.These bad aspects about MOONRAKER are almost negligible though because the film is such a visual (and aural) feast. Whether it's one of the best or worst of the series, I really don't care. I can positively state though that this is THE best looking Bond film ever, with an actually cool science fiction story somewhere in it. I give MOONRAKER 10 stars for the look of it all but 5 stars for the laid back and sometimes silly direction. So an average of 7 stars. "},{"Title":"Take care of Mr.Bond.  See that some harm comes to him!","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"36 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore's first two 007 films - 'Live & Let Die' and 'The Man With The Golden Gun' - clambered aboard whatever cinematic bandwagons were rolling at the time, such as blaxploitation and martial arts. By the end of the '70's, sci-fi was back in vogue thanks to 'Star Wars', hence 'Moonraker' replaced 'For Your Eyes Only' as the next Bond movie.Until 'Die Another Day' in 2002, it was universally regarded as the nadir of the series. I disagree. One has to remember that around this time Kevin McClory was threatening a 'Thunderball' remake starring Sean Connery, and thus Cubby Broccoli could not afford to takes risk with the formula.The film bears little resemblance to Fleming's book, which concerned a nuclear rocket attack on London. As 'The Spy Who Loved Me' had proved popular with audiences, it was decided to give them more of the same, hence Christopher Wood's script had the villain hijacking space shuttles instead of submarines, and Richard Kiel's 'Jaws' returned to menace Bond. Lewis Gilbert once more supervised the mayhem.Bearded French actor Michael Lonsdale made an excellent 'Hugo Drax'. Like 'Stromberg', he is wealthy, and plans to create a new civilisation by destroying the old one. Ken Adam once again delivers some marvellous sets, such as the Pyramid control centre and Drax's Space City.The action scenes were even wilder that those of 'Spy', including a magnificent free-fall pre-credits scene, Bond's gondola turning into a hovercraft, Jaws and Bond getting to grips on a cable car over Rio, a speedboat chase in South America, and a shoot-em-up finale in outer space. John Barry produced another fabulous score, particularly 'Flight Into Space'.As a strapping young lad growing up in '70's Britain, I always made a point of seeing the latest Bond, usually with my friends in tow. We did not care if the films were faithful to Fleming, if there was too much humour, or if Moore was wooden, we went to have a good time and did.No offence to Connery, but for us Moore was The Man. Suave, sophisticated and debonair. On leaving the theatre we would attempt to recreate Bond's fights, usually resulting in one of us being cautioned by the police.And the gadgets! 'Moonraker' outdid them all. I once tried to build Bond's wrist-dart gun. I don't think anybody walked out of a Timothy Dalton Bond feeling like they could conquer the world, but with Roger's we did. And we saw them more than once in theatres.I do wish that some of the gags had wound up on the cutting room floor, namely 'Jaws' flapping his arms after his parachute breaks, Alfie Bass' cameo as a drunken Italian, and a pigeon doing a double-take as Bond's gondola roars by. Take these out and you have a pretty decent Bond movie.Sadly, 'Moonraker' marked the final appearance of Bernard Lee as 'M'. "},{"Title":"Fly me to the moon, Mr. Bond.","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take The comedy is occasionally off, but the special effects and action sequences are terrific. Why do some viewers think this entry in the series is by far the weakest of Bond. I beg to differ, I actually think this is one of the better Bonds with Roger Moore. Despite its occasional decline to over-silliness (even for Bond standards), I actually find it more entertaining than Roger Moore's early entry The Man with the Golden Gun. The plot, which is more like a variation of THE SPY WHO LOVED ME and YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE (only a little sillier), involves the theft of the Moonraker space shuttles. 007 is sent to Drax Industries, the manufacturers or these shuttles. He soon discovers that the owner, Hugo Drax (Michael Lonsdale) uses this rockets to fulfill his dastardly plans to create another civilization. One of the main reasons that critics mistreat this Bond entry is because it doesn't go with the trend of the other Bonds. MOONRAKER tries to be more faithful to the then-popular trend of science fiction movies (after the enduring success of such classic as STAR WARS and CLOSE ENCOUNTERS). Another would be its occasion to go beyond the level of silliness and not knowing when to stop. A humorous moment where Bond drives a gondola with wheels is OK, but it's other scenes like Jaws (Richard Kiel) finding a girlfriend are just too silly. More extreme silliness ensues (there are moments of true high-camp standards here), but as long as the sharp wit, the panache and style made famous by many other Bond films are there, there's no real harm in trying something else to go along with it. Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"At least I shall have the pleasure of putting you out of my misery.","Date":"5 June 2012","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker is directed by Lewis Gilbert and adapted to screenplay by Christopher Wood from the novel written by Ian Fleming. It stars Roger Moore, Lois Chiles, Michael Lonsdale, Richard Kiel and Corinne Dufour. Music is scored by John Barry and cinematography by Jean Tournier.Bond 11 and 007 is tasked with finding out what happened to the Moonraker space shuttle that mysteriously disappeared up in space. His investigation takes him to the billionaire builder of the craft, Hugo Drax, where Bond discovers a fiendish plot to start a new world of perfect human beings.At the end of The Spy Who Loved Me we were told that James Bond would return in For Your Eyes Only, but the gargantuan success of Star Wars and a rekindling of all things sci-fi led Albert Broccoli to send 007 out into space! Armed with a $30 million budget and using only the core base plotting of Fleming's novel, the makers crafted what many feel is the runt of the James Bond litter. The money is up there on the screen, it's excess overdrive, outlandish from start to finish and actually is very very entertaining. The problem is that in James Bond terms it barely feels like a Bond movie, it actually could be any bloke propelling the story, this is a guy reliant on gadgets and not his brain or brawn, quipping away purely for the sake of a cheap laugh. Ultimately it's a cash in, both in terms of the sci-fi boom hitting the late 70s and of the James Bond name.If judged away from the Bond universe on its own popcorn terms, film is a blast, literally. As a whole it's a bit choppy, but many of the parts desperately trying to make up a cohesive blockbuster are great entertainment. Mid air scrap for a parachute, a cable car sequence brilliantly realised, centrifuge chamber peril, boat chase, laser fight and much space age malarkey, the film is chocked full of crowd pleasing moments. In fact it's often mistaken as being a film set in space, when in fact the action doesn't move up there until the last half hour, the previous hour and a half is spread out over France, Italy, Brazil, USA, Gutemala and of course England. The score and the title song, however, are very much Bond. With Barry and Bassey back respectively, film is filled with appropriate atmospheric space strains and a hauntingly emotive theme song. Charaterisations are a mixed bag. Lonsdale's Hugo Drax is one of the better Bond villains, dignified, well educated and wallowing in a life of luxury, he's perfectly understated in Lonsdale's hands and in fact steals every scene he shares with Moore's Bond. Holly Goodhead (Chiles) is a bold Bond girl with many skills, she's a scientist and an astronaut, attractive and decently played by Chiles, if a touch unmemorable in the Bond girl universe. Kiel is back as Jaws, with the makers choosing to make him some love sick puppy dog, where once was a unique villain, now is cypher for slapstick and a crappy flip-flop of plotting, while the love interest for Jaws, Dolly (Blanche Ravalec), is cringe worthy. Sadly this would be the last appearance of Bernard Lee as M, but he leaves a favourable mark, as does Desomond Llewelyn as Q, but once again Moneypenny (Lois Maxwell) is all too brief, the flirt and banter she used to share with Bond now seems long gone.With a committed Bond fan base trudging through the turnstiles to see the latest instalment, the sci-fi fans intrigued by the themes of the story, and the general blockbuster loving crowd, Moonraker made a colossal $203 million at the worldwide box office. Making it the highest grossing Bond film so far, a record that would stick until Brosnan's debut in 1995. While critical notices were not as bad as some would have you believe, the critics clearly judging it on non Bond terms. Broccoli took notice of the fans, though, who were upset by the lack of respect to the serious side of Bond. He promised things would be different for Bond 12. 7/10 "},{"Title":"This highly underrated Bond film ... works extremely well for several reasons.","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"40 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This highly underrated Bond film, the eleventh in the series and fourth with Roger Moore, has Bond investigating the disappearance of a U.S. Space Shuttle. This film works extremely well for several reasons first, because Bond keeps his cool and escapes from so many deadly situations; second, because it is the most humorous of all Bond films, especially because of Jaws falling in love and its containing the best of Bond's one-liners; and third, because of the special effects the creators gave the film riding on the coat-tail of Star Wars, released two years earlier. All eight Bond films released since this one (up to Tomorrow Never Dies did not gross nearly as much earnings at the box office (when figures are adjusted for inflation).  "},{"Title":"Huge step for mankind","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"31 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This James Bond adventure from 1979 takes our beloved agent 007 to outer space after he chases the crooks all over the world. He goes there with Dr. Holly Goodhead (Lois Chines) and after them is the steel teeth Jaws (Richard Kiel) so that life in space doesn't get too boring.Roger Moore does his job well without taking it too seriously.Humor has a big part in this movie.Moonraker is an excellent Bond adventure which is a little underrated.It has some brilliant action scenes for you to enjoy.I really envy James Bond because he gets all the ladies and he gets to travel all over the world and in outer space.Sure his life is in danger all the time but that's what it takes to be a super agent.If you want to see James Bond going sci-fi then this is a movie for you to watch.  "}{"Title":"Likable Roger Moore in an amazing adventure set on  exterior space","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore's entry in which faces dangerous adventures around the world . Moore's outing with overwhelming action and spectacular scenarios , the film teams Bond with an American agent (gorgeous Lois Chiles) in an effort to stop an industrialist from destroying the surface world so he can rule an outland kingdom . After his first introduction in ¨Live and let die¨ as tough and attractive James Bond of the Ian Fleming's famous creation , Roger Moore went on playing various 007 , and ¨Moonraker¨ is one of the best . The picture starts with an overblown free-fall opening , the best part of this film and introducing a giant villain (Richard Kiel who will repeat in subsequent entry). This Bond film deals about seductive James Bond OO7 as the ultimate spy hero who is assigned by MI6 a dangerous mission pursuing an intergalactic mad man (Michael Lonsdale in a potentially sinister presence as the head baddie) . Meanwhile , Bond goes to Venice there happens a high-octane race and Bond discovers clues in Rio De Janeiro. James is double-crossed and continues to follow the lead , deciding to investigate in Amazonas . Following the tracks all lead a nasty billionaire , a maniacal villain who schemes a world conspiracy.Roger Moore as James Bond is cool , he does remarkably well , he earns in irony, suavity and sympathy, however also has coldness ,cunning , intelligence and toughness . Here Bond is an efficient , relentless agent trying to chase obstinately the criminals , traveling around the world as always , as this globe-trotting story is set in England ,America, Venice, Amazonas , Rio De Janeiro and exterior space . Bond to achieve his aims , along the way uses violent means even pulling off brutal killings against enemies who wreak all sorts of havoc . As always Bond will use gadgets provided by ¨Q¨ (Desmond Llewelyn) . In addition , there appears the usual as Lois Maxwell, ¨MoneyPenny¨ , Sir Gray as Geoffrey Keen , Walter Goetell as Russian general and Bernard Lee's last appearance as ¨M¨ .The picture contains comic-strip adventure , sensational pursuits , silly set pieces, great stunts, tongue-in check humor, frantic action packed , amazing gimmicks and stimulating images like are the happenings on the spectacular races, the breathtaking aerial scenes, and the spacial fights . As is like a roller-coaster , as is fast-paced, light, excitement, funny and entertaining ; it's a winner for oo7 fans and non-fans alike . The chase and suspense formula wears strong in this entry .Enjoyable title song by Shirley Bassey and stirring musical score fitting to action by the usual composer, the classic John Barry . Riveting and fancy main titles by habitual Maurice Binder , furthermore eye-popping production design by Ken Adam . It's brimming with colorful and fascinating cinematography by cameraman Jean Tournier. The motion picture produced by habitual producers, Albert R Broccoli and Michael G. Wilson , being professionally directed by Lewis Gilbert who directed various outings though with no originality . Director Gilbert keeps this moving at an incredibly fast pace and this story about every's favorite super-spy falling in love with a CIA agent is one of author Ian Fleming's best . The film will appeal to James Bond series's buffs but good for fans only ; because this one goes on far too long . Rating  6'5 , well worth watching . "},{"Title":"One of the Best.","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"33 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's interesting that some of the most beloved Bond films are also some of the worst (Thunderball, Diamonds Are Forever, For Your Eyes Only), and some of the most reviled are among the best (On Her Majesty's Secret Service, Moonraker, The Living Daylights).This movie set a new high in entertainment value when it was released in 1979. It was the necessary upgrade of the franchise in the new era ushered in by Star Wars a couple of years earlier. It preserved the best of the genre (espionage intrigue, plot twists, Bond mystique, beautiful women, gadgets, humor, haunting cinematography, and mesmerizing music), but brought them out of the gloomy and cynical Cold War atmosphere and into a more futuristic and optimistic format. It kept the Bond franchise fun at a time when the standards for fun had taken a quantum leap.Roger Moore does a nice job in his last credible portrayal of 007. Alas, his age became increasingly distracting starting with the next outing.A lot of fun. Deserves much more credit than it is usually given. "},{"Title":"Outer space now belongs to 007","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is definitely on of the best Bond movie ever! 'Moonraker' is usually sniffed at by Bond buffs, who regard it as the nadir of the Moore films, but I love it. As a strapping lad growing up in the '70's, I always made a point of seeing the latest Bond, and having fish and chips with my mates afterwards. We didn't care if the films were faithful to Fleming, if there was too much humour, or if Roger Moore's acting was wooden, we went to have a jolly good time and did. We'd seen Connery's Bonds on telly but for us, Roger Moore was The Man. Suave, sophisticated and debonair. On leaving the theatre we'd attempt to recreate Bond's fights, usually resulting in one of us getting cautioned by the police. And the gadgets! 'Moonraker' outdid them all. I once tried to build Bond's wrist-dart gun. I don't think anybody walked out of a Timothy Dalton Bond feeling like they could conquer the world, but with Roger's we did. And we saw them more than once in cinemas. No matter how many actors play the role, he's the one I remember with most affection. "},{"Title":"Bond #11 Space trip","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker was the most expensive Bond ever, but after the success of The Spy Who Loved Me, the producers were confident enough to take a step into the top budgets, also contemplating that after the blockbuster hit Star Wars, a technical show up in space would sell. The movie was an immediate success, but apparently didn't become one of the most popular for the fans in long term, admittedly it has a few ups and downs. A very silly bit is the gondola, driving on land in Venice. The centrifuge, on the other hand, was a terrific idea. The opening sequence is a classic again Bond falls out of a plane without a parachute, so he has to get one on the way down! The duel between Bond and Jaws (returned from The Spy Who Loved Me) in the dizzying height of the cable railway is breathtaking. So is the beauty of Corinne Clery; not easy for Lois Chiles afterwards to get Bond's attention, but take me around the world one more time is a beautiful line. We get a Goldfinger type of villain again, a more sophisticated person though Drax meets Bond early on, we know he's the bad guy, but we don't know what his plan is. The musical score of Moonraker includes quite a few ironic comments, but the western reference was a bit too obvious. The set design for Drax' base is remarkably different from the rocket base in You Only Live Twice. While the latter was covering a huge round crater, Drax' controls in Moonraker are crammed in a rather narrow triangle room, but with a hundred screens nonetheless. "},{"Title":"The most entertaining movie of them all!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the most entertaining movie I have ever seen. And I have watched a lot of movies.`Moonraker' is perfect in every way. It is much more than just an action movie such as the other Bonds.This really is a piece of art. Surreal. Ingenious. Stunning.Simply perfect.  "},{"Title":"Not Great, But Still A Likable Bond Movie","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"30 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Without Sean Connery in the starring role, I wasn't expecting that much, so this was a pleasant surprise because I found it to be one of the better Bond movies. I'm not saying it was one of the better-made, just one I enjoyed more than most. Except for Roger Moore as Bond, the actors in here are mostly no-names. However, it was entertaining, had some good action scenes, lots of pretty woman, almost no profanity and some nice European and American scenery. The opening six minutes of action was great as were the opening credits. Gee, I sound like I'm describing almost all the Bond movies. Well, I just felt this one is a notch above most of them in the categories listed above. The only negative to me was the ending, unfortunately. It was just too hokey and didn't live up to the excellence of the first 100 minutes. "},{"Title":"Another trend-setting film!","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" About 2 years after the release of Moonraker, NASA launched its first space shuttle, Columbia. This is the 2nd Bond film to involve rocket hijacking, since You Only Live Twice. In this film, Bond tries to stop a madman from eliminating the human race on earth and breeding new life in outer space. Roger Moore does a superb job playing 007 with great wit and humor. Lois Chiles plays Dr. Holly Goodhead very well, and Michael Lonsdale is very convincing as the madman Hugo Drax. I found an editing goof the first time watching this. When Corinne (Corinne Clery) is seen running through the forest trying to escape Drax's hunting dogs, at first you see she's wearing beige shoes. Then in another angle, she's running with black high top boots for a second, then it's back to the beige shoes in the last angle. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Bond, unfairly criticised for space theme","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Much like Tomorrow Never Dies, this is a great Bond that somehow copped a lot of criticism.The plot unfolds evenly and with a good dose of intrigue. The main villain, Drax, admittedly is intent on carrying out another end of the world plot, but he is more dark, disturbing and cunning than most villains. Superbly acted and the Noah's Ark style plan had a degree of disturbing intelligence, compared with the usual nuclear missile / bomb / satellite plans in other Bonds.Roger Moore was fantastic. Well settled into the role, he is cheeky, womanising, humorous, yet tough and sharp. The one liners were fun, the girls were both sexy and not one-dimension, though Lois Chiles was a bit wooden.Once in space, too many were quick to think oh god, it's Bond meets Star Wars , when it was nothing of the sort. Although the effects look dated, the space battle was good for its time and the enthralling climax extended right to the final minutes of the movie, and fantastically signed off with a bit of great double entendre.One you can watch over again and doesn't date as badly as other Bonds from the same time. Sure it had its corny moments, especially with Jaws, but who said Bond can't be a bit of cheesy fun at times! "},{"Title":"Bond in space!","Date":"16 March 2012","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" At the end of 'The Spy Who Loved Me' we were promised that Bond would return in 'For Your Eyes Only'&#x85; that was before 'Star Wars' burst onto the world's cinema screens and suddenly everybody wanted science fiction! As well as tapping into the post 'Star Wars' demand for Sci-fi 'Moonraker' made use of space shuttles which a the time were still being prepared for they first flight. The film opens with the midair theft of a shuttle that is being loaned to Britain by its builder Drax Industries. Naturally Bond is assigned the case and is sent to California to meet Hugo Drax; the man whose company builds the shuttles. When people start trying to kill him it is clear that something untoward is doing on there. A document he sees leads him to Venice where he bumps into Dr. Holly Goodhead, a woman he first met at Drax's facility and who claimed to work for NASA. His searches lead to a lab that is manufacturing a deadly nerve gas. His next stop is in Rio where he bumps into Dr. Goodhead for a third time and discovers that she wasn't being entirely honest with him. After surviving a run in with Jaws he heads deep into the jungle and finds that Drax has built a shuttle launch facility. Sneaking onto a shuttle Bond and Goodhead are taken to Drax's orbital space station where they learn of his diabolical plan to kill everybody on Earth so he can repopulate it with his 'perfect people. Bond and Goodhead must stop him before he can succeed and in doing so the receive help from an unexpected quarter.This film is obviously best remembered for the rather far-fetched space battle at the end; this is a shame as there are plenty of great moments before they get there; Bond's brush with death in a giant centrifuge, his fight in a glass museum, a confrontation with Jaws on a cable car above Rio and a great boat chase where he hang-glides over a waterfall just to name a few. Roger Moore continues to do well as Bond and Richard Kiel makes a welcome return as the steel-toothed Jaws. Drax is played by Michael Lonsdale who does a fine job and has some great lines. Lois Chiles gets to be more than just a pretty face as Dr. Goodhead; fighting alongside Bond and even piloting a shuttle. I know a lot of people will find this film sub-par due to its bandwagon jumping Sci-fi elements but I rather enjoyed it; silly moments included! "},{"Title":"James Bond in space!!??","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Where do I start? Well, Roger Moore's fourth 007 epic is indeed a poor affair to say the least. After the success of previous Bond movie 'The Spy Who Loved Me (1977)' the Bond franchisers lose the plot completely with this entry in the long-running series. I'm a die hard Bond fan, I love the films and find it difficult to find fault in them. However, whilst the film has certain redeeming features, in general this is bad!!  Moonraker contains the lowest point in which the 007 movies have sunk too - steel toothed villain Jaws falling in love!!  Its all too formulaic and is no more than Bond by the numbers. Released in 1979 and the first not to be made at Pinewood studios in England, it cashed in on the space craze which hit the silver screen at the end of the seventies (predominately due to the success of Star Wars). At the time the most expensive Bond film ever made, its not difficult to see that the majority of the alloted budget went to special effects rather than to that of the script! The character of 007 has never been so diminished then it is here in this movie. Bond is now merely a tool that demonstrates gadgets and not quick wits. The film can be entertaining if you can over look previous great 007 films such as 'From Russia With Love' and 'On Her Majesty's Secret Service'. For its when you compare this offering to those movies you realise how far off the rails the series has gone. Shirley Bassey provides the theme song for the third and final time, its nice enough but not particularly memorable. Bernard Lee makes his final appearance as 'M'.  If you're a 12 year-old and you like mindless sci-fi movies that require little attention span, then this is the Bond for you! Sorry to stereotype, but in actual fact most people I've chatted with who like this movie fall into this category. Bond films always provide a sense of deja vu. That's fine by me, its part of the charm of the series, in essence all (bar one or two) follow the same winning story line and it works well. Moonraker stretches credibility way too far without success. Thankfully producer Albert R. Broccoli took heed of this and returned the good commander to earth in 'For Your Eyes Only (1981).  "}{"Title":"Along time ago in bond movie far,far away....","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***Warning! Spoiler Information Inside***Star Wars was released in 1977 , and the world was captivated. The predictions of Peter Cushing that Sci-Fi would one day revolutionize film came true before his very eyes. James Bond had absolutely nothing to do with that.Cubby Broccoli was however, smart enough to realize the new trend was the future of film. The Spy Who Loved Me(1977) claimed James Bond would return in For Your Eyes Only(1981).007 instead detoured to outer space to one of the most successful movies of the franchise ever lensed Moonraker (1979).In mid flight, an American Space Shuttle on loan to her Majesty's government is stolen.007 is sent to California to investigate the theft. Where he meets space enthusiast Hugo Drax (Michael Lonsdale). As Bond follows the crumbs he begins to suspect cover-up.This was an over the top gamble aimed directly at the Star Wars crowd , and it hit pay dirt. The direction by Lewis Gilbert, Script by Christopher Wood , Roger Moore in his third consecutive year in character , the supporting cast including Richard Kiel (Jaws) as an encore , and Lois Chiles as the CIA double agent Dr. Goodhead (tounge and cheek name I am certain),all are epic in this well....epic.This Movie is Iconic , Lonsdale's Drax is directly responsible for Mini-me , Mike Meyers evil Minion (Austin powers), and this 6 year range of film responsible for that franchise itself.One of the top 3 bond films in it's franchise history.Four stars(of 5.) "},{"Title":"Out of this universe,  this movie rocks!","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ever since Roger Moore has taken the reigns of 007, he has been making some progress on Ian Fleming's character. This time, he meets Dr. Holly Goodhead(Lois Chiles), and the return of of Jaws from The Spy Who Loved Me Jaws(Richard Kiel, 1939-2014) is out for blood against Bond! After the failed parachute attack, he comes to help out a modern day Nazi named Hugo Drax(Michael Lonsdale). Jaws comes into place following Chang's(Toshiro Suga) fight against Bond which resulted in his last concerto. Holly Goodhead on the other hand is a CIA agent, who is helping Bond tracking down Drax. Not only Drax is a very rich man, he is also wanting to repopulate the Earth with his perfect specimen. So he hijacked his own shuttle, goes out in the jungles of Rio to find a rare orchid to wipe out mankind. So when Jaws is recruited, he ended up with a small blonde named Dolly(Blanche Ravalec). Even though, he has her, he still wants a piece of Bond, one way or the other. However, when he was in space with everyone, he felt more like a pawn than a partner with Drax. So he switched alliance, and become a hero. What was more touching, is when Jaws was able to find his small love, he grabs a bottle of Bollinger and says to her, Well, Here's to us! While he starts a new life, he helped out Bond for the last time. It's a great movie there. I enjoyed every minute of it. Jaws got redemption, no more killing for him there! Bond is at his usual self you know, Being a ladies' man..... A glass to you Richard Kiel. R.I.P! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"part 11 is better then first 10","Date":"8 July 2014","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is part 11 to the James Bond movies. All the James Bond movies are great. This one is better then all the James Bond movies that came before it. There are better James Bond movies that came after like For eyes only. O.c.t.o.p.u.s.s.y is also better. A view to a kill is also better. I do not think they is any thing wrong with a James Bond movie that is realistic. But I think that it should no be the b all end all. Realistic only matters so mush for documentaries. The James Bond movies are action movies. What is more important in these movies is how entertaining it is. No one goes to a middle earth movie and worries about how realistic it is. Realistic does not matter in movies most of the time. Sean Connery and Daniel Greg are great as James Bond. But Roger Moore is better. See all the James Bond movies. They are awesome. So what if this one is less realistic then the ones that came before it. It is awesome. "},{"Title":"First bond movie","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the first bond movie I saw with my father and its what brought me to love the series. It may be a little far fetched even for bond but it was fun. I still want his boat with the handglider. Drax was a great villian as was Jaws. I would argue that Ms Goodheads character was stronger than Halle Berries last character as well. All in all if you like bond and scifi you will love this otherwise you will just like it.  "},{"Title":"This movie is freaking kick ass......","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker is one of the most awesome movies I have seen in my entire life. Bond and Space together!!! How can you go wrong?! To review this movie, let us consider each of the characters.James Bond (Roger Moore) James Bond is a beast in this movie. I mean, he beats the ninja's ass, he bangs two babes (one while in space), and he saves the world from an evil Nazi from space. What more could he possibly do? Hugo Drax He has always been my favorite Bond villain (of course it helps we have the same first name). I mean, to begin with, he is a PIMP. Look at all those girls around him, it is like damn Drax you are fly. He lives in space. He shoots lasers. He wants to take over the world. He likes pressing people to cucumber sandwiches. He feeds his exes to dogs. This man is the coolest dude to ever grace the silver screen.Jaws He is my favorite henchman in a Bond film (ever since I reached the Aztec Comples in Goldeneye). I mean, come on, he has freaking metal teeth and is like 8 feet tall. Plus he gets a woman, although I always thought he could do better than Dolly. I love him here. I love him in The Spy Who Loved Me (movie and book where he's 'The Horror'). I love him in Goldeneye and Everything or Nothing, too. Here's hoping he's back for Bond 22.The Girls I have always thought Bond is at his best when he's with a Russian chick (besides Natalya who Goldeneye 64 convinced me to hate with a passion). Obviously here he isn't but oh well. The girls pass.The Song The main song of this movie is freaking sweet. I have the Best of Bond CD and love blasting it through the streets.Overall Moonraker is awesome. I recommend it to guys who like movies (especially movies with lasers and spacemen). "},{"Title":"007 Goes Sci-fi","Date":"28 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not sure what to make of this one. It's one of my least seen pre-90's Bond movies; I've maybe seen it just once before, probably twice and not in a long time. Good that John Barry is back for music. The last film had Marvin Hamlisch and he disco-infused the Bond Theme all the way through, then during the end credits it sounded like a Broadway musical number. Ugh! Back to sanity here. Unfortunately the plot took forever to get to while James womanized and hopscotched across the globe. This being the 4th Roger Moore film as Bond, and it being 8 years since Sean Connery, it's getting easier to accept Mr. Moore in the 007 role. He's really coming into his own by now. Overall, I liked it. It's entertaining enough, particularly the boat chase, Moore's second as Bond. Hard to beat the scenery, too -- Venice and Rio. Outstanding!--A Kat Pirate Screener "},{"Title":"Girls, Shuttles, and Jaws","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore returns for another James Bond movie. This time someone steals a space shuttle mid-transport. He investigates Hugo Drax (Michael Lonsdale), the manufacturer of the shuttle, who turns out to be the man with the evil scheme. Bond follows clues across the globe while dodging Drax's assassins including Jaws (Richard Kiel). Along the way, CIA agent Dr. Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles) joins forces with Bond.There are a lot of hot girls in this one. Maybe that's why Lois Chiles don't stand out as a Bond girl. In this one, I remember much more of Jaws' girl Dolly. And quite frankly, Jaws remains the greatest Bond villain henchman ever.The story is convoluted, and outlandish. They've literally gone out into space. The action is stretching out into exotic sightseeing. This is the formula now especially for Roger Moore. It works for a Bond movie. It's an escapist adventure. "},{"Title":"Not the finest Bond film,but still quite good,","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker is a good movie with a great cast,good action and a great storyline.Obviously,Moonraker is not the best Bond film ever made and not Roger Moores finest movie either,but its still very good and I find it to be very underrated by critics.The actors I enjoyed the most in it are Roger Moore as James Bond,obviously,and I also really enjoyed Richard Kiels role as Jaws,who I found to be a scary,but also very funny character.James Bond(Roger Moore) investigates along with his partner Dr. Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles),after a mysterious mid-air theft of a space shuttle with has clearly gotten into the wrong hands of Hugo Drax (Michael Lonsdale). "},{"Title":"007 Goes Space Tripping!","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Albert R. Broccoli sneaked into George Lucas' backyard--outer space--with director Lewis Gilbert on the eleventh James Bond epic Moonraker, the absolutely most outlandish 007 thriller ever made. Basically, Moonraker was an overblown version of Goldfinger with an audacious battle sequence at the end with Space Marines storming a space station established by the ambitious villain. All Bond movies are essentially alike, being stitched together with episodes from other Bonds. Hugo Drax steals a space shuttle on loan to the United States from Britain and M dispatches 007 to investigate. The pre-credit sequence where Bond performs a free-fall without a parachute is one of the best in franchise. Later, when Bond is strapped into the gravity simulator, he emerges looking pretty wiped out. The scene is the most realistic of any Roger Moore Bond. The gondola scene in Venice is rather far out and goes over the top later when Bond's gondola becomes hovercraft. Jaws who had menaced Bond in The Spy Who Loved Me returned but he was no longer a villain as he joined sides with 007. Moonraker ranks as one of John Barry's best orchestral scores, especially the bits during the theft of the space shuttle at the beginning. The riff on The Magnificent Seven in South America is cool as well as the monastery that serves as a training ground for spies. One of Q's coolest gadgets is the sleeping sombrero clad fellow who turns out to be shell concealing a machine gun. Lots of fun! "},{"Title":"One of MY Favorites!","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of all the James Bond movies Moonraker is one of my favorites.  I am a huge Roger Moore Bond fan but I especially looooooovvvvvvvvvveeeeeeeee Lois Chiles as Dr. Holly Goodhead.  She is the most beautiful and sexy of all the Bond girls, in my opinion.  Jaws has a good showing in this movie as well and the opening sequence is one of the best in Bond history.  Sir Hugo Drax is as evil as a Bond villain gets and the terrific pacing of this movie makes it one of the most enjoyable of the Bond adventures.  Maybe some other people don't like it but I do. "}{"Title":"Easily one of the BEST of the Moore Era","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I steered clear of MOONRAKER (1979) for years because critics unanimously said it was awful. In 2003 I systematically went through the Moore era and finally came to MOONRAKER, fully expecting to see a real dog. Wow, was I wrong! MOONRAKER is thoroughly entertaining from beginning to end and one of the best films of Roger Moore's 7-film stint in the series.THE PLOT Bond investigates Hugo Drax (Michael Lonsdale) after a space shuttle on loan to the British is stolen. James slowly discovers that Drax has a mad scheme to re-create a human race of perfect human specimens. The giant villainous sidekick Jaws (Richard Kiel) returns from THE SPY WHO LOVED ME (1977) as 007 teams up with the beautiful Dr. Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles). The story climaxes with a spectacular space battle at Drax' space station.WHAT WORKS Everything in MOONRAKER is over the top! The locations, the action, the villain's mad scheme, the humor, the seriousness, Jaws and the space-battle finale. This works fabulously because Bond films were never meant to be deep, thought-provoking pieces of art, but rather grandiose pieces of thrilling eye candy.One thing that I demand in any Bond adventure is great globe-trotting and spectacular locations. This is one of the reasons I consider LICENCE TO KILL (1989) weak, but MOONRAKER delivers in spades! The film starts out with breathtaking scenes high above Napa Valley, California, as Bond engages in a thrilling sky-diving duel. From there we get France, Venice, Rio De Janeiro, the jungles of Brazil & Guatemala and the spectacular Iguazu Waterfalls, Argentina.Lois Chiles is one of the more beautiful and competent Bond girls. Of course her name -- Dr. Goodhead -- is ludicrous in the tradition of Pussy Galore and Chew Mee (lol).Drax is a formidable, serious nemesis contrasted by the cartoony villainy of Jaws.WHAT DOESN'T WORK The film works on every level in entertaining the viewer, but -- depending on one's tastes -- some people may have one or two cavils. For instance, many criticize the goofy humor associated with Jaws. The good thing is that it's really funny and you'll likely bust out laughing a number of times. Regardless, the picture remains an essentially serious story, albeit totally outlandish, which is in keeping with the series (e.g. GOLDFINGER and YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE).Others object to the notion of Bond in space. I don't get this beef. He's been all over the earth and in every ocean, why not have an adventure in space for something new? Some have criticized that MOONRAKER was trying to go Star Wars, but this makes no sense; MOONRAKER has nothing in common with Star Wars. It's like arguing that THUNDERBALL ripped-off 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea because it has underwater scenes. Something else I'd like to point out One of the reasons I steered clear from MOONRAKER for so many years was because I thought most of the film took place in space, and space is not something I seek in a Bond flick, but this isn't the case. Bond doesn't go up in space until over an hour & a half into the story! Overall, only 23% of the film takes place in space. More importantly, the climax is actually interesting and exciting unlike the ending of, say, THE SPY WHO LOVED, which was boring.FINAL ANALYSIS Roger Moore has done more Bond films than any other actor (which is only matched by Sean Connery if you include his unofficial 1983 entry NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN). Roger started the role in 1973 when he was 45 and ended in 1985 at the age of 57 (!!). Regardless of his age he always looked great and perfectly convincing as 007 -- yes, even in A VIEW TO A KILL. His films contained more humor and action than the slightly-more-serious early 60's films, which were fantastical and absurd in their own way (e.g. Oddball's killer hat, etc.), but Moore's stint isn't so different when you consider Connery's later films, like YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE and especially DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER. Many prefer the Connery era, and I certainly appreciate those films, but I find the Moore era to be the most consistently entertaining in the series. Every one of his films was successful at the box office and MOONRAKER was the most successful Bond film until Pierce Brosnan's GOLDENEYE in 1995. There's not a dud in Moore's bunch. They're colorful, vibrant and full of pizazz.The film runs 126 minutes.GRADE A- "},{"Title":"Moonraker is Awesome","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I grew up watching Bond films as a kid, and that was during the 1980's, my late mother was a huge fan, and I always heard as a kid that Moonraker was the worst of the Bond films and then chose to ignore it.I didn't get around to watching it, until I was almost 27 years old. I'm now 35, I was born in 77 so do the math. Well regardless I think this is now one of my favourite films, not just a Bond film, but a space film. I love everything about this film, it has class, great acting, great special effects(for it's time), and also a great score. I loved all the space scenes, they were reminiscent of 2001 A Space Odyssey.I know Star Wars is the only reason Bond went to space in 1979, but still, it has great atmosphere, with an awesome technological story. They saved the best for last in this film, and I loved every minute of it.An arch villain trying to take over the world through some kind of atmospheric plague, creating a new super race. Sounds a lot like the idiot Hitler in WWII. Except this is on a more modern scale.I love this film for what it is, and love it as part of Bond history. Moore is excellent. I'm also not here to argue what actor played Bond the best, nor am I here to argue the point of what Bond film was the greatest. I just really love this instalment in the Bond series, and will love watching it for years to come. "},{"Title":"...while Ian Fleming spins in his grave...","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" To even include this monstrosity of a movie in a catalog of Jame Bond films borders on travesty. This was NOT Bond! This was simply a sorry attempt to cash-in on the space craze started by Star Wars, and complete the process of turning Bond into a comic-book character. Fleming's Bond (or even Eon's early Bond incarnation, as played by Sean Connery) is by now totally unrecognizable. He's not a secret agent (and government-sanctioned assassin) but a jet-setting playboy crime-fighter who stumbles from one action set-piece to another. Roger Moore's Bond is a total lightweight, and comes across about as credible as Inspector Gadget. Maybe that's fitting, because Moonraker is far more a filmed cartoon than a spy thriller.True, Moonraker didn't begin the slide from Fleming's vision into comic-strip, but did it accelerate it! You could even say that Moonraker ran the series right into the ground, so naturally there was no where else to go but up for the next entry, For Your Eyes Only. Moonraker is absolute rock-bottom for the entire series, what with a totally outlandish plot, overblown futuristic sets straight out of Star Trek, one-dimensional characters who are as thin as cardboard, and (most embarrassing of all) ill-advised attempts at broad humor.The plot is senseless and ridiculous. True, Fleming's novel was horribly dated by 1979, but ANYTHING would have been better than what Christopher Wood finally dreamed up. Drax plotting to destroy all life on earth and breed a new generation of perfect people under his rule in a space station??? Does this make ANY sense??? All the action sequences are only tired re-workings of previous movies (far too many to list, but suffice to say that I saw elements of virtually every previous Bond flick made to date). And if this rehash wasn't enough, they even went so far as to bring back the crowd-pleaser of the previous film, Jaws. Jaws made a mildly interesting villain for one movie, but trying to sustain menace into a 2nd appearance just doesn't work -- you get the feeling that both Bond AND Jaws are completely indestructible, so where's the tension in their fights? I suspect the producers and screenwriter must have recognized this too, for mid-way thru they turn Jaws into a virtual cartoon character, and ultimately a hero who helps Bond. (Can anyone remotely picture Odd-job having a change-of-heart in Fort Knox and helping Bond diffuse the bomb???)But what makes Moonraker truly unbearable is the comic relief. While Fleming purists might not like the witty remarks and tongue-in-cheek humor of the early Bond films, it could be argued that such an approach did make Bond more salable to the movie-going public. I suspect that if Eon Productions had retained the utterly humorless Bond of the novels, then Dr. No would have been a one-off production only, instead of the longest-running series in motion picture history. Unfortunately, each movie (especially from Diamonds are Forever on) became more and more campy and comic. By the time Moonraker was made Bond was being played strictly for laughs. James Brosnan, author of James Bond in the Cinema, has called Moonraker the most expensive slapstick movie since It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World...and unfortunately he's right.The gondola sequence in Venice comes off as ridiculous; the craft itself is stupid-looking, and the scene is far too reminiscent of the boat-chases in Live and Let Die and Man w/ the Golden Gun. But the scene really sinks into the pathetic when the gondola becomes a hovercraft and moves into the piazza. At this point we see tourists staring in disbelief and suspiciously eyeing their drinks, people falling into the water a la the Three Stooges, and even pigeons doing double-takes! (Man, but Ian Fleming must have been doing some serious turns in his grave at this point). Then we're treated to a scene in which Bond gains entrance to a lab by typing on a touch-tone pad, and it's naturally the alien's tune of Close Encounters (groan). Bond also rides a horse, dressed as a gaucho, to the theme from The Magnificent Seven (gag).But Jaws contributes the most embarrassing scene in the entire movie (and the entire Bond series) when he meets that little blonde German gal and it's love-at-first-sight. They come together to the strains of Tara's Theme from Gone with the Wind and walk off hand-in-hand. OH MY GOD...truly excruciating!!! (By now poor old Ian Fleming must of been spinning like a top). When I first saw this scene in 1979, I was practically grasping for a barf-bag. But I noticed there were plenty of yahoos in the audience who were belly-laughing big-time. Geez, but talk about the producers playing to the lowest common denominator. (And I thought the redneck sheriff of Live and Let Die and Man w/ the Golden Gun was as cheesy as it comes!). Jaw-in-Love would be bad enough to sink even a good movie (which Moonraker certainly is NOT) all by itself. But it's inclusion here insures Moonraker as the WORST Bond film EVER. "},{"Title":"Worst James Bond ever!","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This has to be the most ridiculous James Bond movie i have ever seen. The thing that made it so revolting was the scenes with Jaws and finding that girl and the premise that he goes from trying to kill Bond and then becomes his friend was so bad. And stealing a space shuttle gave the impression that the producers wanted to give a futuristic spin on the series and it flopped big time. Thank God they got back on track with For Your Eyes Only. An excellent plot driven movie. I skipped seeing Moonraker for a long time cause i heard it was awful, i wished i never saw it because it was 10 times worse than i thought it would be! So take my advice, skip this movie at all costs and see For Your Eyes Only or Man With The Golden Gun instead. "},{"Title":"Why, God, why?","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why did anyone involved with this wonderful franchise allow this trite to be filmed?  Why couldn't someone with a conscience have burned the final print before it was released?  Why did they allow Roger Moore to continue playing Bond when he was over 50??If you haven't gotten the picture yet, this is, by far, the absolute worst of the series.  There are a few decent scenes, but, let's face it, the whole space station battle thing was idiotic.  Then, there's Jaws.  He went from a terrifying villain to a comedic sidekick.  The acting is horrendous on all fronts, the story is horrible (read the book by Fleming, which has a much more insidious, believable plot), and, unfortunately, it's the last one Bernard Lee (M) is in.  DON'T SEE THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Fun filled Bond Movie!","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is certainly one of the better Bond movies of the era, which keeps moving at a good pace and not giving you much time to think about what is happening. On the positive side it also has a lot of really good action scenes, which kept me glued really. The locations and camera angles are really fantastic, especially in comparison to the previous few Bond movies. Roger Moore of course is brilliant as Bond and I feel this was the movie when he really got into the character and made it his own with his unique style. Lois Chilles is one of the most intriguing Bond women and certainly one of the most likable. And to top it all we have some really mean villains. On the other hand there are some of the old Bond clichés in the movie, and a few scenes that seem a little unbelievable, especially for those used to the latest Bond movies which are so serious in their plots. And Perhaps Michael Londsale does not compare to great Bond villains like Goldfinger or Raoul Silva. But the movie is certainly two hours of pure fun and action, and anyone who likes action movies would love it! "},{"Title":"A Sadly Underrated Bond Movie that is a Lot of Fun","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is often ranked pretty low on people's lists of worst Bond movies. However, I disagree. I think this movie is a lot of fun, and it's head and shoulders above Diamonds are Forever and The Man With The Golden Gun.Roger Moore is in his prime and is once again great as James Bond, and the silly nature of this movie really is fitting for his humorous personality. Lois Chiles as Holly Goodhead is the typical Bond girl gorgeous but with very little personality.I thought that Hugo Drax, played by Michael Lonsdale, was an excellent Bond villain. He was quite sinister and had a pretty crazy plan to wipe out the World's population and recreate humanity with a master race.We also get the return of Jaws, who is once again a very threatening figure. Go ahead and shoot me for this, but I actually liked that Jaws found himself a girlfriend. I felt that it brought some humanity to the character.This is definitely one of the most action-packed James Bond movies to date. From the boat chases to the sword fight in a glass museum to the sequences with Jaws to the crazy laser battles out in space, this is an action extravaganza.John Barry returns as the music composer, and he gives us some of his best work in this film. The music score here has a great sense of wonder and just really fits all the scenes it is in. The theme song, Shirley Bassey's final James Bond song, also has a wondrous feeling and atmosphere about it.People might be right when they say that this is basically The Spy Who Loved Me in space, but this movie is a heck of a lot of fun and does what you want in a Bond film it provides escapist entertainment. For that I love it.8/10 "},{"Title":"Bond&#x85; Interstellar Bond","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What with the tremendous success of contemporary movie-franchises that (partially) take place in outer space like, Star Wars or Close Encounters of the Third Kind or even Superman, James Bond naturally couldn't be the action hero who remained with his both his feet on the ground and thus the 11th official 007-adventure deals with topics like the conquest of space, the theft of hi-tech shuttles and &#x96; top of the bill - a genuinely absurd finale set in an outer space cult- community! By 1979, the familiar Bond formula had pretty much turned into a pastiche of absurd plot lines, cartoon-like villainous characters, ludicrous gadgetry and polished stunt work. It wouldn't be until the next installment, For your eyes only, before James Bond returned to more old-fashioned story lines and down-to-earth action sequences, and so Moonraker qualifies as one of the weakest entries in the whole series. Weak in terms of plot and plausibility, that is, because the last Bond film directed by Lewis Gilbert is undeniably fun and entertaining in a light- headed/undemanding type of way. When a massively expensive and hi- tech space shuttle gets stolen during its transportation from the US to England, James Bond is promptly put on the case to discover the whereabouts of the shuttle as well as to save diplomatic relationships with the Americans. He begins his search at the gigantic Californian estate of the shuttle's manufacturer, Hugo Drax, and quickly realizes that he doesn't have to look any further to meet an evil opponent. Drax owns secret research laboratories and warehouses in Venice and entire rocket-ship launch platforms in Rio De Janeiro. Why? Because he plots to exterminate the entire human race with nerve gas and breed an entirely new master race in outer space, of course! 007 teams up with the yummy CIA agent Dr. Goodhead in order to put a stop to the shenanigans, but Drax recruited a familiar ugly face from Bond's past to stall him, namely the metal- teethed Jaws. Okay, so admittedly you can't really claim that Moonraker is a masterpiece of realism or suspense, but the film works fairly well as a tongue-in-cheek Sci-Fi/action comedy and Roger Moore clearly feels comfortable in his more comically- orientated role. Hugo Drax (Michael Longsdale) surely had the potential of becoming one of the most legendary flamboyant and over- the-top deranged villains, but his part remains rather vague while more screen time is offered to the indestructible Jaws (Richard Kiel). The special effects are impressive, clearly very expensive and were righteously nominated for an Oscar (although they lost &#x96; also righteously &#x96; against Alien). Moonraker doesn't deserve a spot in my personal top five, or even top ten of James Bond movies, but still I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to anyone looking for a two hours of mindless good fun! "},{"Title":"No Mr Bond, I am your Father!","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have always wondered how Moonraker would have been created if the world was never introduced to Star Wars. The eleventh Bond film was changed from the scheduled For Your Eyes Only to tie in with the phenomenal success of George Lucas's action packed Sci-fi. But if that Galaxy was further away, the film version of Flemings third Bond novel could have been very different and in my opinion would have been better if the original story was followed. The film itself is a good entry with Ken Adams sets being the best feature. His design for the space station is incredible and must be one of the best film sets ever created. The storyline is pretty much a duplicate of the previous Bond film, The Spy Who Loved Me with a toxic substance depleting the human race rather than nuclear war. EON was definitely influenced by the force, which unfortunately deprived the fans of one of Flemings best stories. "},{"Title":"bond in space","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker is a jolly bond film. It stars roger moores bond and the tone in the 70s is humour. this is reflected on screen and gives the film a positive tone. Moonraker has pretty actresses lois chiles (who had just starred in death on the nile) and corinne clery. the film was made with french and USA help and the presence of french actors corinne clery and michael lonsdale add to the film. there are a number of memorable moments in moonraker- the freefalling parachute sequence, the sequence on top of the cable cars, the chasing dogs, the presence of laser guns and Bond and Holly popping up at the end on the MI6 screens. the film is also known for the return of jaws. the character was huge in the previous film and he turns good in this film. the film was inspired by star wars and it's part of the adventure of space. the romance in moonraker is also an uplifting element and it was a very popular film when released in cinema "}{"Title":"Maybe too fanciful but still enjoyable","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After The spy who loved me Bond producers wanted to do For your eyes only. But the massive Star Wars success made them change their mind -sending 007 to space.Moonraker (1979) is maybe too fanciful and slapstick, with too many special effects, stunts and gadgets. The film goes too far away also from the previous movie (The spy), which was perfect.But Moonraker is very well done, from a technical point of view it's a masterpiece. It's surprising to see how everything was made with accuracy -for movies, in 1978-79, there were neither computers nor CGI effects.The film is really funny and entertaining, with beautiful sceneries and sets. Venice, France, California, Brazil and Guatemala are the fantastic locations. Scenes in the space are only in the last 30 minutes of the movie -so it's not true that the film is entirely set in the space, as some detractors say.The film contains also homages to The magnificent seven, Close encounters of the third kind and 2001 -discover them! 7,5/10 "},{"Title":"Possibly the best Bond ever made","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film really has everything that Bond needs, and it has the budget and technology to make it look good. Moore seems quite comfortable in his role as well, delivering just the right performance whether it's action, seducing women, or having non-verbal encounters with the henchman. Granted, Bond can work as a more serious film, as we saw in For your eyes only, but on the spectacular side of the spectrum Moonraker finally delivered the ultimate experience. Those who find the film too unrealistic or outrageous fail to understand that at the end of the day Bond IS an outrageous character, and so are his antagonists. Moonraker simply did what most other Bond movies have tried to do, only this time they really did it well. It remains one of my fondest childhood memories. "},{"Title":"It Uses and Unconventional Approach, but it Is Fun and Impressive","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A Bond movie's pre-title section often indicates how the rest of the movie will be. There are a few exceptions; Moonraker is not one of them. James Bond (Roger Moore) is on the last leg of a mission, introduced with the first of many genuinely funny puns in this movie. Naturally, the unnamed villains plan to eradicate Bond, leading to an action scene in free fall with one parachute too few. It is nonsensical, but genuinely entertaining, thanks partly to composer John Barry's music. This scene is not fitting in a James Bond movie, yet, like the rest of the movie, it is great fun to watch.Goofiness has decimated more than a fair share of Bond movies. Moonraker does not fall victim itself because the filmmakers did not try to mix silly with serious, and never made a mockery of their characters. That is the reason I was pleasantly surprised on my first viewing. I responded negatively after my second because I started to analyze it. I should not have been so serious. The enjoyment I felt the first time gave me all the information I need. Just because I did not understand why I enjoyed it the first time does not mean I have to hate it.Moonraker is one of the two least popular Bond movies among the series' hardcore fans. It also made the most money until GoldenEye, and drew the most viewers and repeat viewers of all the Bond movies between Sean Connery and Pierce Brosnan. No matter how different the movie's tone is from the James Bond standard, it has enough positives to stand on its own. That is why both critics and audiences in 1979 voiced approval with their money and keyboards.Its production set at least three world records that are still unbroken most break-away glass in one fight, largest sound stage ever used in France, and the greatest number of actors in simulated weighlessness. Ken Adam became a legendary production designer with his work on the James Bond movies. Moonarker is his final, and he saved his best for last. The fact that the two-time Oscar winner was not even nominated for his work in Moonraker is a sad example of how political the Academy is. Like the movie or not, the Venice, Amazon, and space station sets are more than likely to impress even the most skeptical Bond fan.After reporting to his boss's secretary (Lois Maxwell) that he fell out of a plane without a parachute, Bond is tasked with investigating the loss of an American space shuttle that disappeared en route to England. He first visits Hugo Drax (Michael Lonsdale), the shuttle's owner. When informed that the shuttle itself was not destroyed, Drax offers full co- operation, then orders Bond's elimination as soon as the latter leaves the room. I have either discussed or viewed this movie with a number of people. Even though this twist occurs less than 20 minutes in, the movie conceals Drax's villainy so well that none of these people suspected him.Drax's plot takes implausibility to its highest level. I will give no details except to say that it makes Karl Stromberg's grand scheme from the previous movie look sophisticated and sane. As advertised, the story boldly takes 007 where no British spy has gone before. Drax's space station remains the coolest set in the series. The simulated weightlessness remains impressive to watch more than 30 years later.In tune with the movie's comical nature, Drax is often unwilling to harm Bond unless he can amuse himself with the creativity of it. Drax has more off-beat lines than the next two or thee Bond villains combined. I am not sure there is anybody who would seriously say, you appear with the tedious inevitability of an unloved season or greet a stranger with, you have arrived at a propitious moment, but Drax has at least a dozen such lines. Lonsdale adds surreal humor to his role by speaking them with an almost bored somberness. A majority of actors work a whole career without having to say anything so weird. If Lonsdale realized that back in 1979, he certainly was not going to let anybody know.In the meantime, Jaws (Richard Kiel) from the previous movie is back. Jaws' outrageous physical power and invulnerability made him a liability in the previous movie. Moonraker stretches it and uses it as a reliable comic device. In one scene, he stops a gondola wheel with his bare hands. The wheel starts to move again, but one look from Jaws makes it think twice about being rebellious.The gadgets feature not one, but two special made boats. The first can convert to a hovercraft. Of course, Bond takes advantage of it, just in time for Victor Tourjansky to make another appearance as The Man with the Bottle in arguably the best running joke in the series. Q (Desmond Llewelyn) tops off his contribution by ending the movie with one of the cleverest double entendres in history.Does all of this lavish praise equal a recommendation? Perhaps it does. My girlfriend condemned For Your Eyes Only, Roger Moore's most serious Bond movie, as too cheesy. Moonraker joined Tomorrow Never Dies and From Russia with Love as her favorites. That told a lot to me about how the casual Bond fan views Moonraker. It does not deserve elite status because it does not deliver the excitement a Bond movie should, neither is it an example of great movie-making even with numerous strengths. That noted, it sells out completely to its premise and is not reluctant to take the extra effort to entertain. I disagree with the filmmakers' comedic approach, but they did aim to entertain. In that area, they succeeded. For that, I give Moonraker seven out of ten stars. "},{"Title":"Don't Listen To The Critics !!!","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My, how Moonraker has received some unfair reviews. I must have been watching a different movie because I consider this to not only be one of the best 007 films but also the peak of Roger Moore's career as Bond. I suppose I will have to make an attempt to defend the goodness of Moonraker For one, the plot of this movie at the time was somewhat original and futuristic. Even now, it still stands out to a lesser degree. Second, the gadgets (one weapon in particular) made for a nice little battle at the end of the movie. Third, the Bond girl known as Dr. Goodhead is quite the attractive intellectual who can hold her own despite her cover. Fourth, the main villain while lacking personality is sinister and has some catchy dialog. Fifth, here it comes... the return of JAWS. Yes, the metal mouth giant played by the same actor comes back for his second and unfortunately final outing in the 007 film series. Though JAWS doesn't get quite as much screen time he got in Spy Who Loved Me, his performance suffers no less and still brings much entertainment to the action scenes that he is in. One more thing about JAWS and then I will move on... I really liked how his character turned out near the end of Moonraker. Without giving spoilers, this is one reason I wish JAWS was brought back a third time. The other reason of course being that his character is just so unique to begin with. Seriously, I don't think MGM noticed the potential franchise they could have had with this particular Bond character. To finally move on, the pacing might not have been quite up to par as it was with the Spy Who Loved Me and I think that is one problem critics had with Moonraker. As for me, the pacing didn't ruin a thing and I can't think of any major or central moment as to where the pacing lagged. Another reason critics bashed Moonraker is because of it's over the top futuristic plot theme. I beg to differ; this is part of what made Moonraker stand out from the typical and occasionally overused 007 formula. Trust me folks, Moonraker holds up there with its predecessor that critics so dearly praised though rightfully so and as I commented at the start; this may have been a peak in the 007 series especially considering a few of the future Bond films that came after it. "},{"Title":"Thunderball in space...James Bond in the 25th century...Moon Wars...","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 11th of 23 Bond movies.This is an entertaining movie but it sort of comes across as a futuristic reboot of the franchise...it's perhaps best to see it in that light, but there are some recurring characters which tie it closer to the time...which is unfortunate, as pretty much the most annoying thing about the movie is the Star Wars style laser guns, which feature later. It's anachronistic. However, since 1977's Star wars movie soon became the highest grossing movie of all time, it's perhaps unsurprising that this Bond film borrowed some ideas from it...with regard to weapons and setting.Bond formula Exotic settings - U.S.A, Venice, Rio de Janeiro and...outer space! Plot - A space shuttle manufactured by Sir Hugo Drax's Drax Industries disappears. The pre-title sequence shows what happened here. That sequence is what made me refer to this movie as Thunderball in space in my header...there is an equivalent sequence to this in Sean Connery's turn as Bond in You only live twice.Anyway, Bond must investigate the circumstances of the shuttle's disappearance.Gun barrel sequence...check.Pre-title sequence - The greatest to this point, in my view...and quite possibly the best ever in the franchise. It really defies belief! Main title theme song - One of the great elements of Sean Connery's incarnation as James Bond was the great Shirley Bassey singing the theme song to some of his movies. Le grande fromage returns for one last great song...perhaps her best in the series. It's beautiful. Hal David wrote the lyrics.Q - Usually not much to say about the man, as I don't usually include what technology he provides to Bond in my reviews. However, I must say that Q's line right near the end of the movie is killer! He usually doesn't get that sort of quality dialogue!Silly female names - Dr. Holly Goodhead work for you? Sexism - Check. Bond is paternalistic here, at times. There is a good, awkward moment between Bond and Goodhead when they first meet. She has some good lines to use on him! Bit of a war of the sexes here.Wine snobbery - Check. Bond says Bollinger. If it's '69, you were expecting me!. Hmm, seem to recall reading somewhere that that the wines that Bond values in the movies aren't really that well regarded by real wine connoisseurs! End teaser...check.Things of interest * Sir Hugo Drax is one of the better Bond characters...he has some marvellous lines to Bond...like the one about Britain's one indisputable great contribution to Western society...afternoon tea! Ouch! * Animal lovers take note...some pheasants are shot in this movie as part of game hunting...but it's OK...Bond was shooting them in self-defence! * If by this movie you can't spot the product placement, you really must get your eyesight checked! * Bond comes across as a little bit creepy at times in this movie...sort of a stalker...which isn't really very spy-ish. Other aspects of his spy 'technique' seem to leave a little to be desired too! * Not that Connery's Bond films were never silly at times, but here the comic book aspects are magnified and amplified...Q Division is in hyper-drive and Jaws is more of a comic book creation here...listen for the aural hint that Jaw's teeth aren't the only things made of metal on his body! * General Gogol returns in this movie.Notes to self - * big words I do not understand...bolas/vassar funambulists.* Is this true?...the orchidea nigra was worshipped once? Stuff about sterility...caused by this plant? * re gravity...20g is apparently fatal. 3g is what astronauts launching into space experience. At 7g most people pass out. Bond experiences at least 14g. That's a memorable scene...nicely done...wonder how they done it.This is a good, entertaining movie, but I get the feeling that the comic book aspects to it may alienate some people...not me, so much. "},{"Title":"goodbye Mr bond!!!!!!!","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker by ludo.t (starfox-4)Following the humongous financial success of the original Star Wars movie in 1977 and of the tenth Bond movie (The Spy Who Loved Me, 1977), producer Cubby Broccoli and returning director Lewis Gilbert could only see one way to continue the Bond saga in order to ensure larger revenue for the eleventh Bond outing By sending James Bond in outer space! Clearly listening to their fans who loved gigantic henchman Jaws from the previous movie, Gilbert and script writer Christopher Wood had to bring back the popular character. However, Wood basically ignored everything from Ian Fleming's third novel written in 1955. Moonraker is the story of how megalomaniac Hugo Drax (Michael Lonsdale) plans to create a master race of superior human specimens in outer space on his space station while wiping out the entire world population using a toxic nerve gas. Drax then plans for future generations to return to Earth and re-populate it, as his toxin would not have armed any animal or plant. With Moonraker, James Bond became science fiction, to many people's chagrin. Fortunately, Bond would return to the spy thriller genre for the next film (For Your Eyes Only, 1981). Many fans feel that Moonraker went too far! Others feel that original story from the Fleming novel is far superior and more interesting than the unbelievable storyline in outer space. Does James Bond belong in a laser gun fight? Nevertheless, Roger Moore's fourth outing as James Bond is certainly one of his funniest, with a script packed with humour and play on words. The first half of the movie is very similar to any typical Bond adventure. Bond has to travel to Hugo Drax's residence to investigate the disappearance of a Moonraker shuttle. Bond seduces Drax assistant Corine DuFour (Corrine Clery), and goes through Drax's safe, finding blueprints for glassware made by Venini Glass. Escaping from two attempts on his life, Bond leaves Drax and henchman Chang (Toshiro Suga) for Venice, where he follows Drax employee Dr. Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles) to Venini Glass. Bond later finds a secret laboratory where the glassware is being used to store a deadly chemical. Bond attempts to inform M, but Drax manages to move his laboratory before Bond can show any incriminating evidence to his superior. Bond is now left with two clues a packaging slip from C&W, and a phial containing the deadly chemical. Teaming up with Holly Goodhead who reveals herself as a CIA agent, Bond travels to Rio DE Janeiro where he finds an empty C&W warehouse. Q informs Bond that the chemical is a black orchid from the upper reaches of the Amazon. Bond makes his way to a hidden base in the Amazon, where Drax is launching various Moonraker shuttles in space. Up to this point, the storyline makes perfect sense, as Bond finds clues which leads him to different locations. He also uncovers that Holly Goodhead is a CIA agent, and finally ends in a typical situation having to save the world from a villain wanting its destruction. For the second time, Bond finds his way into an astronaut uniform, but this time, he does travel to space (as opposed to You Only Live Twice in 1965 where 007 is identified as an intruder and removed from the shuttle). If viewers can accept the unbelievable storyline in the last quarter of the movie, that their favourite spy finds his way in a Moonraker shuttle, having to team up with Jaws to battle Drax's army in a laser gun fight and having to destroy globes carrying the deadly chemical before they reach the Earth's atmosphere, the movie can be quite enjoyable. Learning from past mistakes, such as casting a dreadful actress for an important role (such as the awful Barbara Bach as secret agent Triple X in The Spy Who Loved Me), Gilbert and Broccoli chose an actress who could be believable as a CIA agent in Lois Chiles. Not being the most beautiful or talented actress, Chiles still delivered a convincing performance as Holly Goodhead. The returning Jaws and the fight between 007 and henchman Chang in the Venini Glass store were quite entertaining. Jaws was unfortunately not much of a threat to Bond, being used as comic relief throughout the movie and probably turned as a good guy due to his popularity with the younger audience. In The thirty silly minutes in space and having Frederick Gray & M go on the field to see the Drax laboratory (why would they ever do this?) isn't enough to tarnish a very good film. Moonraker is one of Roger Moore's best Bond, and easily better than The Spy Who Loved Me. We can look at the positives. The opening half hour is quite excellent, full of drama, brilliant dialogue, lots of real spying, and genuine suspense and action. Plus a beautiful, haunting theme song performed by Shirley Bassey.All as good as if not better than anything TSWLM had to offer. Even after that, we are treated to wonderful locations, more real spying (in Vienna), a terrific fight in a glass factory, and the eerie beauty of the Amazonian siren sequence. But all of this is offset by some of the series most ludicrous scenes. Dolly! Jaws becomes a wimp! Funny little spacemen shooting lasers! The cable car fight! That Bondola! And so on. Rating 9.9/10 "},{"Title":"Super spy meets sci-fi!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In my opinion, this is one of Bond's better films with Roger Moore at the helm.  I believe this because I am also a sci-fi fan and I liked the fact that Fleming incorporated the space shuttle program, which was fairly new at the time of production.  I've always been a bigger fan of Connery over Moore, but having watched the show just this afternoon on cable reminds me of my affections for this outing.Moore follows a shuttle which was believe destroyed on this mission that sends him, once again, to the United States, where his CIA counterpart, for once, is not Felix Lighter (sorry if I misspelled the last name--& I am not going to spoil it for you, either).  Among his travels, he encounters many space related problems and his old nemesis, Jaws.  Good movie, overall, I think, and I gave it an extra point just for the fact that it was sci-fi based. "},{"Title":"John-597 is absolutely correct- Moonraker is one of the best!","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" John-597 is absolutely correct!Moonraker is one of the most enjoyable Bond films for its complete package of excellent stunts, special effects, gadgets, beautiful women, and Globe-trotting plot.  We even have closure for Jaws! Given that nearly ALL Bond films are (just a bit) far fetched, this one at least gives a rather unique plot with a double dose of technology and eye-candy! "},{"Title":"A Very Good Movie - Highly Underrated","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was with good reason that Broccoli and Co. decided to release this one before For Your Eyes Only.  Moonraker was more in line with The Spy Who Loved Me and it offered a returning role for Jaws.While a lot of IMDB users may say this movie is over-the-top garbage, it is not.  All the most successful Bond films starting with Goldfinger, have been over the top.  Moonraker is no exception.A lot of the effects are dated, which is why I think most people trash this movie, but this movie still retains its appeal.  The space battle may look weak from an effects standpoint but that action is vintage Bond straight out of Thunderball.Drax is by no means the best villain of 007 but he is more believable than many throughout the series (See Savalis as Blofeld in OHMSS as a bad example).  He is clever, cunning and creative in his use of methods for trying to kill Bond.  And how he kills Corrine Clery, it is every trespasser's nightmare.  Drax definitely sent chills down my spine.Jaw's return is great but this role tends to be a subject of great controversy.  How can a really bad guy in one film become a good guy in another?  I think so, it is possible.  Women make men do strange things. Controversies aside, Jaws picks up where he left off in The Spy Who Loved Me, and continues his larger-than-live role.Many people fault the story and say it is not believable.  I have never expected a Bond movie to be believable.  Others say the script has holes. I agree that there are some scenes that have too much screen time but what keeps this movie together is a consistent storyline that keeps Bond trotting around the globe.The locales are definitely where this movie excels over other Bond movies. Rio, Venice, and few other places I can't recall. These are what make this movie great.  It offered great opportunity for Bond to investage Drax and maintain our interest at the same time.  As well, Bond's encounter with Jaws on the cable car was a real nail biter the first time I saw it.The women in this movie are great.  Lois Chiles was perfectly cast.  She was serious enough to pass as a CIA agent and sexy enough for Bond.  Clery was a great as an executive assistant.  It was unfortunate how she was eventually disposed of by Drax.The music in the movie is retro since it is scored by John Barry.  And since this movie succeeded The Spy Who Loved Me, everyone was expecting another Nobody Does It Better.  The Moonraker theme is up there with Goldfinger due to the fact Shirley Bassy's voice has aged quite well.  It is unfortunate that this song didn't fair as well chart-wise as Carly Simon's song.  The melody is more complex and suits Moonraker better than Simon's song suited The Spy Who Loved Me.  I guess history will decide.No wonder this movie did so well at the box office; it is pure eye-candy. The outer space theme coupled with good villains, great women and many exotic locales.  This one gets a 9/10 in my book.  A very good movie that is highly underrated.  "},{"Title":"Slow & full of mistakes But Great Entertainer","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker 1979 starting Roger Moore as James bond is a a very slow & have a lot of mistakes but a very great entertainer.you wont feel for one second that all those mistakes & slow pacing is affecting the viewers the only reason is roger Moore's unlimited charisma makes you forget everything leave the brain behind & enjoy to the fullest.the story,direction & cast is superb .the bond girl are hot & special effects are good for that time.& jaws is the bad guy with long teeth just wants to kill people adds a little humor in the film.Moonraker is about a shuttle hijacked & bond is assigned to find out whats going on.later revealed the mastermind Hugo Drax himself is behind this & is creating bad plans how bond stops him you will have to see it yourself.my rating is 10/10 do not missoverall this film is gold. "}{"Title":"Take Me Around The World Again James","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My favorite James Bond film with my favorite James Bond has 007 foiling one of the wildest plots ever concocted by a Bond villain. Michel Lonsdale plays Hugo Drax, billionaire industrialist has a scheme to exterminate the undesirables and impose a new world order from no less than outer space. Adolph Hitler with all his theories on racial purity is a piker compared to what Lonsdale has in mind.Roger Moore is 007 in Moonraker and British Intelligence brings him in when a US space satellite is hijacked in mid flight. The satellite was designed by Lonsdale's company and when Moore starts investigating Lonsdale, some very nasty traps are set for him, all of which James Bond has to elude.The official Bond girl in Moonraker is Lois Chiles playing Dr. Goodhead, part time scientist and part time CIA employee. Does she live up to her name, you have to watch Moonraker to find out. Her scientific skills are even more valuable than her romantic ones.Richard Kiel returns as super villain Jaws. He was a most menacing figure in The Spy Who Loved Me and Cubby Brocoli must have thought he was good enough to use again as he survives in that film. In Moonraker he does the bidding of Lonsdale, but Moore makes the rather logical argument that the racially perfect world that Lonsdale has in mind will have no need of freakish people like him. Kiel has to do some serious reassessment in Moonraker.Moonraker got an Oscar nomination for Best Visual Effects, but lost to another classic space adventure, Alien.Even with three succeeding James Bonds, Moonraker remains my favorite film with my favorite 007, Roger Moore. Just the breathtaking extent of the villainy gets me every time I see it. "},{"Title":"One  Of  The  Best  Bonds And  Definitely  One  Of  Moore's  Best","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes- I have given this one a 10/10 rating, because I give a damn for what critics and purists think.This is one incredible adventure that will never get dated. What more can you expect from an action movie ? It starts with a spectacular sky-diving sequence,and mind you, this is 1979 ! This couldn't have been done better today. Roger Moore looks, and performs excellently in this movie.Wooden performance ?? He is the best Bond there ever was !Then come the action sequences, which are as great as they can be in a James Bond action movie.I am saying action movie because those who are looking for a James Bond thriller should go for Sean Connery's films, or Timothy Dalton's , for that matter.This is Moore's territory, and here we have action by the bucketful.Add to that the space aspect, and man, you get an all-rounder. Moonraker is definitely one. The scenarios are lavish, the score is good, and the Bond girls are too. Michael Lonsdale is a decent villain, and Jaws' transformation from monster to loverboy is one of the best parts of the movie. Compare this to today's action fare dished out by Hollywood, and you will see that Moore's Bond films will have their place in posterity .Watch it ! "},{"Title":"Underrated Bond movie","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker is often said to be the worst Bond movie, but it's hard to understand why. It's fast-paced, entertaining and follows the Bond formula to the letter.The megalomaniacal villain is Hugo Drax, who's out to replace humans with his genetically engineered superhumans. The Bond girl who gets killed is Drax's pilot. The Bond girl who survives (Holly Goodhead, played by Lois Chiles) is a CIA agent. The exotic locations this time take place in South America; there are cities, swamps, pyramids and all sorts of other beautiful locations. And what Bond film doesn't include a memorable, totally implausible climax? This time it occurs in and outside of a space station.There are several good action scenes; for example, one in a G-force simulator and another on cable cars. The villain has truly insane ways to kill Bond, and all of them fail. There's a giant python that Bond kills in one scene, and in another, Drax puts Bond and Holly under the exhaust of a space shuttle, ignoring that there was a shaft that they could escape through.The special effects are excellent. I don't know how Alien could have won the Oscar over Moonraker. This is especially true during the laser battle at the end. And James and Holly trying to destroy the errant gas pellets is very tense.Lois Chiles isn't much of an actress, but her character is a good one. She won't put up with Bond's sexist nonsense, and she can really kick some tail. Richard Kiel returns as ace henchman Jaws, but this time he isn't quite as mindless.This movie isn't ground-breaking in any way whatsoever, but it is an entertaining movie that those who like cinematic Bond should like. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Bonds","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When first I saw this movie I was 13 years old so I have fond memories of it being a Bond fan myself.When I watch it now, it doesn't feel the same because the movie industry has progressed a lot since 1979. But for its time, its a very good production. The movie did cost a lot and made well in ticket sales.I know that at times the fight scenes aren't great but still has classic Bond elements.It has Great stunts (the opening is one of the best in the series),exotic locations, beautiful women,devious villians and nice humorous lines.Some people today mock ,criticize or belittle James Bond as too difficult to believe or something silly.But James Bond isn't about real life or your average spy. He is a larger than life persona and the embodiment of the best secret agent.That is why when a Bond movie comes out, people around the world go and watch it.Plus the ticket sales would be awesome. People like like to live in a fantasy for a couple of hours watching their favourite hero save the world again and again. So if Bond wasn't so popular then the series wouldn't have made it past 3 movies.The people who wrongly criticize Bond movies, should try to make one.I am sure that all the producers around the world have tried to imitate Bond in making spy movies or use stuff that are found in his movies only to fail to surpass the legend.Imagine that the Bond film makers have to outdo themselves each time a Bond movie comes out.So for those people, try to take each Bond according to each time and you will see that its one of the best of its time.There are a lot of cinematic techniques that have been revolutionized through the Bond movies as well as record breaking stunts and gadgetry.Moonraker is a great Bond movie.Roger Moore is a wonderful actor and plays his role well.James Bond is about tradition and legacy so get used to it, enjoy the show or try watching something else. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Bond movies!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In fact, if I had to have an absolute favorite Bond movie, this one might be it.  Its exotic locales are certainly among the best, not the least of which being Venice and Rio de Janeiro.  Jaws is brought back by popular demand, and in the end, he becomes a good guy this time!  Most of all, though, this time Bond actually goes into space, and if you think about it, the stakes are much higher.  Most of the time, the villains just want to hold America and its allies feet to the fire for some ransom (or revenge, or both, take your pick), but this time, the bad guy's actually out to wipe out the whole human race.  Last but not least, I'd argue that Lois Chiles as Dr. Holly Goodhead is one of the hottest of all the Bond girls.  Oh sure, many would argue she's not the ABSOLUTE hottest, but you've got to admit, she ranks right up there!I will admit that the theme song isn't the best, but in the end, that's small potatoes compared to the movie itself (plus, the pre-credit free-fall scene sort of makes up for that anyhow).  Still, it was nice for them to bring back Shirley Bassey to do the singing again (previous credits  the themes from Goldfinger and Diamonds Are Forever).  Overall, it's not quite the classic Bond film like most of the Sean Connery Bond flicks, but 'Moonraker' still deserves its rightful place in the 'Best of Bond Movies' echelon. "},{"Title":"2 hours well spent.","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This review may contain spoliers.Roger Moore makes his fourth appearance as James Bond in this big-budget adventure.  He seems to have settled into the role by now and the actor exudes confidence.  Although Moonraker is often degraded for being overly fatuous, it is a highly entertaining adventure that epitomises Moore's light-hearted portrayal of Bond.The opening sequence is very shrewd and is only spolied at the close by the inappropriate comical actions of Jaws.  Maurice Binder fails to produce an innovative title sequence and this one looks dated and two-dimensional.  John Barry's musical scores are below par and they fail to augment the drama of the film.The plot is credible even though I am nonplussed at why Bond immediately thought that Drax was responsible for the hijack of the shuttle after he received his mission briefing.  Drax's apocalyptic plot should present Bond with his toughest challenge yet, but the movie fails to exploit this and therefore the drama is often flat.  The locations are impressive and Bond spends a lot of time travelling from the US to Venice and then onto Rio de Janeiro before he heads into the Brazilian jungle and then into space.  You can't help but feel that 007 should stay in one place for longer.The tone of this review is somewhat disparaging but the movie does have its high points.  Q's wrist-dart-gun proves to be useful to 007 and Lois Chiles is very effective as Bond's sidekick, even if 007 does go out of his way to be cringingly chauvinistic at times.  Didn't he learn anything from Major Amasova in the previous offering?  Most of the action takes place on terra firma and therefore learns from the mistakes of Thunderball.After a stuttering start, the Moore mobile was in cruise mode for this film and it would continue to be for several films to come.  Moonraker shows THE James Bond in action.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"James Bond meets Star Wars","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moonraker was the movie that sent James Bond into space, partially cashing in on Star Wars's success two years before this was made in 1977.A space shuttle being carried by a Boeing 747 is stolen and the 747 crashes into the Atlantic Ocean.  When the wreckage is examined, there is no sign of the shuttle.  James Bond is sent to investigate and after a speed boat chase in Venice, a fight with old enemy Jaws on top of a cable car (where after it crashes, Jaws falls in love with a small blonde), another boat chase and eventually, he ends up on Drax's space station which can't be seen on a radar.  During all this, Bond meets and falls in love with Dr Goodhead.  When on the space station, the radar tracking system is switched off and a space shuttle with an army of men is sent up to see what it is.  During the laser gun fight, Jaws becomes Bond's ally and Bond sends Drax into space.  After the space station breaks up, Jaws and his new love end up being safe after descending in a capsule from it, and Bond and Goodhead destroy the capsules that Drax sent to Earth to destroy cities.   Part of the theme tunes from Close Encounters of the Third Kind and The Magnificent Severn are used in this move and we also here Jaws speak his only dialogue in both his Bond appearances Well, here's to us.This was Roger Moore's fourth appearance as Bond and Richard Kiel's second as Jaws.  The movie also stars Lois Chiles as Goodhead, Michael Lonsdale as Drax and Bond regulars Bernard Lee, Desmond Llewelyn and Lois Maxwell. Despite reading some bad reviews, I think Moonraker is one of Moore's better Bond movies.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Take a second look","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Such a shame, this film is one of the most highly underrated bond films. Beneath the outrageous sight gags, there is in fact an excellent film. A little editing would have made this film better. Nevertheless the film does not fail to entertain, it boasts exotic locations and supplies an endless array of excellent stunts and action sequences. Once again John Barry provides an excellent music score, making sure every action scene is accompanied by some scintillating music.Chang is an marvellous villain. He is a silent, menacing figure; the intention was obviously to bring back memories of Oddjob. Chang makes a failed attempt to kill bond by manipulating a centrifuge to breakneck speeds. It's the best sequence in the film because there is genuine suspense and bond looks terrified by the ordeal. Despite all the aforementioned criticisms 'Moonraker' was both a public and financial success, the public seemed to enjoy it very much, and it went on to gross a staggering $203 million worldwide making it the highest grossing entry until 'Goldeneye' in 1996 which grossed $351 million worldwide. This is an excellent film in very respect, so sit back and enjoy!  "},{"Title":"The best Roger Moore bond.","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My favourite Bond film. Features some of the better-looking of Bond women. Not very popular with the critics. How can you like one Roger Moore Bond and hate another? They're all great. One of these morons even wrote that Moonraker is too absurd, with its plot of outer- space adventure. You've gotta be kidding me! In nearly every single Bond film he saves the world (or just a couple of big cities, on his bad days), and in each and every one of them he survives in the most improbable ways, nearly single-handedly destroys whole crime empires, and gets laid with every single girl that he fancies. And then they pick on Moonraker for being short on logic and realism! They don't mind him saving the world from the Earth's ground, but it bothers them when it's outer-space based. Go figure. Film critics are MORONS. "},{"Title":"Excellent, but heavily criticised, disliked, and underrated.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the prime reasons this film was disliked is because they disliked the space aspect, and some of the silly comic things. Although it does have mixed reviews. Many also rate it well. I didn't see anything wrong with this movie. Roger Moore's performance was fine, the villian wasn't horrible, and the women weren't terrible. Personally one of my favorite Bond films, and yes this is partly because I like things involving space. Another thing HEAVILY underrated is Jaws's performance. I saw nothing wrong with it. Yes, maybe they shouldn't have had him fall in love, but before this he was as evil as he was in the Spy who Loved Me. Maybe I overrated in giving it a 10/10, but after seeing this movie I was highly satisfied, and saw nothing wrong with it. "}{"Title":"Comedy in Lieu of Good Suspense","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a space shuttle on loan from the United States to Great Britain disappears over the Atlantic Ocean, James Bond (Roger Moore) is called in to investigate. This investigation takes him to various places like California, Venice and Rio de Janeiro with each place getting more and more dangerous. Now as far as this movie is concerned I have to admit that I didn't think it was one of the better James Bond films produced. One reason for this is that the director (Lewis Gilbert) went a bit overboard on the comedy in lieu of good suspense and this caused the film to seem a bit cheap and silly at times. For example, having one of the female scientists with the name of Holly Goodhead (played by Lois Chiles) is the kind of humor one would expect in an elementary school playground. But is it really necessary here? When considering the fact that this gag was already played in Goldfinger (i.e. Pussy Galore) then it seems to me that the joke gets less funny each time it is attempted. Likewise, I didn't particularly care for the love affair between Jaws (Richard Kiel) and Dolly (Blanche Ravalec). Again, while it may have been good for a couple of quick laughs it didn't elevate the overall movie to levels comparable to most James Bond films. Even so, I liked the performance of Roger Moore and the presence of several beautiful actresses like Corinne Cléry (as Corinne Dufour), Emily Bolton (Manuela) and the afore-mentioned Lois Chiles certainly didn't hurt. Along with that, I must admit that even a mediocre James Bond movie is generally better than most movies of this type and I have rated the film accordingly. Slightly above average. "},{"Title":"Star Bond","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore is back again as James Bond for Moonraker, Bond's first step into the final frontier. Lewis Gilbert returns to direct a movie similar to his previous Bond movies... but now it's in SPAAACE. Jaws (Richard Kiel) is back, this time to serve a new villain - Hugo Drax (Michael Lonsdale), whose plan is to create a master race and eliminate every person who doesn't meet his needs. He has some great speeches, he's very rich and he's also a bit scary, a perfect Bond villain. Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles) is a bland, boring Bond girl, that has way to many similarities to Anya Amasova from The Spy Who Loved Me. The movie is also filled with ridiculous scenes such as Jaws falling in love with Dolly (Blanche Ravalec). But the worst thing here has to be the dreadful double-take Pigeon and while it only appears for like 1-2 seconds, whenever I see that thing I feel like my DVD/Blu-ray is lagging, but no it's the actual part of the film. It also has what is quite possibly the very best of John Barry's soundtracks. Ken Adam does some of the best sets we've ever seen in a Bond movie. Q's gadgets are really fun and put to a good use. Locations are great. We go from Venice to Rio and even outer space. Jaws is great in this film and we get an awesome pre-title sequence with him. While it's not as good as Star Wars or The Spy Who Loved Me, it's a good mix of both. It will definitely keep you entertained just don't pay attention to its Absurdity. Don't listen to what people say, it's actually a very good film. I give this science fiction Bond adventure a 8/10. "},{"Title":"Outer Space Adventure.","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore returns as James Bond 007 in this eleventh installment, which finds him sent on a mission to recover a stolen space shuttle, which leads him to the ship builders Drax industries, where owner Hugo Drax(played coldly by Michael Lonsdale) denies all knowledge of the incident, but of course that is a lie, as he has a secret plan that will affect the whole world... Lois Chiles plays a CIA agent(Holly Goodhead) who helps him with his investigation, which takes him from Venice, to Rio, then finally outer space! Richard Kiel also returns as hulking hit-man nicknamed Jaws.Though hurt by some undeniable silliness and copying of Star Wars, I still found this a fun adventure(as long as you don't think about credibility too much!) that benefits from the good will left over by Roger Moore's growth in the role, and the previous film The Spy Who Loved Me. Still, this tone couldn't continue, and it wouldn't upon his return... "},{"Title":"I've Seen Better James Bond Movies","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This motion picture hit the theaters on June 29 1979 Starring Roger Moore as James Bond, Lois Chiles as Dr. Holly Goodhead, Michael Lonsdale as Hugo Drax and Richard Kiel as Jaws. Agent 007 James Bond blast into orbit in this action packed adventure that takes him to Venice, Rio de Janeiro and Outer Space.Summary When Bond investigates the hijacking of Moonraker, which was piggyback on an American Space Shuttle, he and the beautiful CIA Agent Dr. Holly Goodhead are soon locked in a life or death struggle. The person there struggling with is Hugo Drax, a power mad industrial whose horrified scheme may cause people to reshape there lives. The picture opens with the shuttle riding piggyback when the engine fires and it takes of on its own. James is shown to be in a private plane when he's left by himself as the man and lady that were with him, shootout the plane instruments before bailing out. Therefore, Bond jumps out of the plane after and goes after the man that has the parachute. Both Bond and the man he's after fight over the parachute as they fall through the sky heading for land. James is summoned by the British Prime Minister to find out what happen to Moonraker. Therefore, Bond leaves the office and goes to California where he's met by a helicopter who takes Bond to Hugo Drax place of training. After a meeting with Drax, Bond is given a tour of the grounds. After his tour, Bond is taken and introduce to Dr. Holly Goodhead and she process to take Bond to see Moonraker. Drax tells his supervisor to make sure some harm comes to Bond. Bond is put into a machine by Dr. Goodhead that can reach 20G, which could kill you. When Dr Goodhead is call up by Mr. Drax, Drax hit-man takes over the experiment. As the supervisor takes control of the instruments he starts to make the machine go faster and faster. The only way for Bond to get the machine to slow down is to shootout the instruments. Later that night Bond charms his way into the Drax office where he unlocks the safe and takes pictures of plans that he found in Drax presents. The next day, Drax invites Bond to go on a pheasant hunt where Bond first shot takes down a pheasant. However, the price for one of the employees who help Bond could be costly. The role of Drax was first offered to James Mason who turned it down. In the picture The Spy Who Loved Me, Lois Chiles was offered the part to play Russian Agent Anya but turned it down because she wanted to cut back on her workload. Some parts of the picture where shot in different locations such as the Rockwell International Manufacturing Assembly Plant in Palmdale California. The other location that was used for this picture was the Vehicle Assembly Building in Cape Canaveral in Florida. This was the fourth film in which roger Moore was used as James Bond and the second one that the opening scene was shot with Bond using a parachute. This was the first movie that featured a space shuttle. The release of this film was suppose to be around the time the NASA was going to release its first ever shuttle launch into outer space. In order to create the final shot in which the space station is destroyed, the visual effects crew locked themselves in the studio and shot the model of the space station to pieces using shotguns. When work on the film began, NASA had in fact not yet officially finalized the design of the Space Shuttle. Fortunately, for the production designers, there were subsequently no visible changes made to the shuttle's design, making their rendering of it accurate.As far as my thoughts on this movie? I didn't think that this picture had attention grabber that the others did. Even though I thought Lois Chilies was good she didn't have the glamor that some of the other Bond picture did. Barbara Bach would have done so much to the role of Bonds leading woman if she would have been given a chance. Overall, this movie didn't have the suspense the others had so I give this movie 6 weasel stars. "},{"Title":"Half Bond, Half Buck Rogers","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" With loads of Bond girls Roger Moore returns with a tongue and cheek James Bond that is even more so prevalent in this entry.Lead and strong Bond girl Lois Chiles as Dr. Holly Goodhead is more than sufficient and Michael Lonsdale's Hugo Drax is perfect. Calm, charming and debatably one of the best Bond bad guys. The stunts are fantastic but the stunt doubles are usually so unlike the leads it takes you out of the moment particularly in Moonrakers case. There's excellent sets, a great Barry score but the film has too many comedy moments. The first half is pretty good but as soon as Bond goes into space it loses it's way. The great special effects are wasted due to its outlandish laser beam driven ending that feels removed from what 007 is all about.  This coupled with too many unsubtle nods to other movies hampers its enjoyment which is a shame for such a successful entry in franchise.It's fun fast food Bond that overall fails to mix two genres and just cashes in on what was hot at the time. In this case science fiction and cash in it did, surprisingly becoming a 1979 smash hit. "},{"Title":"Bond Meets Star Wars","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The eleventh in the series and the fourth to feature Moore, it starts off pretty well as Bond investigates the disappearance of a space shuttle, taking him from California to Venice to Brazil. The locales are nice and the action scenes are well executed. Then the action shifts to space and the film becomes tedious and drags on far too long. It's obviously an attempt to cash in on the recent success of Star Wars but the film would have done better to stay grounded. Lonsdale makes a capable villain while Chiles and Clery are lovely if standard-issue Bond girls. Kiel returns as Jaws, gets a girlfriend, and even gets a line of dialog. Barry provides one of his better scores. "},{"Title":"James Bond at his.....er.....er.","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Seems to me that James Bond was at his worst in Moonraker as some film critics would say and there appears to be a lot of flaws about this film. I have seen it loads of times and there obviously appears to be lots of good points about it and the plots worked out well while in other parts of the film's length, there are some weaknesses. I like the country settings particularly when set in Venice and Rio whereas the settings of Drax's stately mansion would actually have been impossible to be set in a heart of a Southern Californian vineyard or dessert as he would have been living in Las Vegas-style luxury instead while a giant 7.1 Richard Kiel steals the show with a second and one more appearance as a lovable steel-toothed henchman called Jaws. Around that time, much to his own embarrassment, Roger Moore had to complete two other films (North Sea Hyjack and Escape to Athena) that were issued the same year as Moonraker, neither of them were a success in the box office but a disaster and was this coupled with the reason why the critics rated Moonraker as underrated and a worst James Bond film and Roger Moore being either a typecast and can't act? In some philosophical point of view, this had little to do with the typecast actor's acting abilities but mainly due to landing quite by accident in some silly film plot that just didn't work of some kind. "},{"Title":"Bond in space","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker went over the top, but it's still highly enjoyable.After the success of The Spy Who Loved Me, the producers felt Bond movies could even be more outrageous.The audience loved it and Moonraker became the most successful Bond movie ever, until 1995 when GoldenEye was released.The actors don't have much to do between all the special effects, including James 'Roger Moore' Bond himself.The storyline can't be taken seriously, but it doesn't attempt to be serious. The space-scenes, though admittedly ridiculous, do look real from a 1979 point of view.Moonraker was a roller-coaster ride from beginning until the end and the people loved it. "},{"Title":"Skywalker. Luke Skywalker.","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you watched the end credits to 'Spy Who Loved Me', you read that James Bond would return in 'For Your Eyes Only'... ... that was until 'Star Wars' took over the known universe.Loosely... very loosely based on the Ian Flemming premise, Moonraker takes us where no Spy has gone before. This film does for Moore what 'You Only Live Twice' did for Connery, it paid the bills. Take a good female sung title song and John Barry score, mix it with great locations and exotic women, shake it up and then fling it into the upper atmosphere. It'll stick to the wall, but the epic length really doesn't lead to epic film.Still, a good bond vehicle and popcorn movie. "},{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before watching this movie I had heard a lot of negative remarks about this movie. I was pleasantly surprised at how good this movie was. The plot was pretty interesting, the main villain was pretty charismatic and Roger Moore was actually better here then in many of his previous movies. He showed well his fragility when he refuses the helping hand of Dr. Goodyear just when he gets out of the space capsule that was turning around pretty fast in circles. Even the soundtrack sang yet again by Shirley Basset is pretty good. It has similarities with 'the spy who loved me' but is as good as that movie and in some aspects even better. Some people may not like the space battle but I thought it was quite cool for a 1979 movie. I enjoyed the part of the various people who were selected for the space station and we get to see them in the space shuttles with the heavenly theme being played. "}{"Title":"Real entertaining! I had fun!","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yeah, it's campy, far fetched and hokey. But I like that. A good  villain, and Jaws, who gets some character depth, help the entertainment value. Technically, it isn't very good, but it's entertaining and that what counts. 7/10! "},{"Title":"Champagne! If it's the '69, you've been expecting me!","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (may contain spoilers)Yes, Moonraker has its bad points, but overall it's worth watching.First of all here are the major flaws This was the first Bond film in which Mr Moore started to look just a little bit past it. He seems to have aged quite a bit in the two years since the excellent 'The Spy Who Loved Me' and his wardrobe doesn't help - naff looking flares, blazers and safari suits in comparison with the far cooler suits and naval uniform of TSWLM. The makeup team also seem to have gone over the top with the hairspray - perhaps to keep Mr Moore's hair in place during 'zero-g'?Some great action scenes are spoiled by poor special effects and editing. For example, the fight scene on the cable car had an obviously fake backdrop - surely this could have been done more realisticly with a safety net or good camera angles (like in the Harold Lloyd films)?The whole of Drax's evil plan is ultimately pointless. Why go to all the trouble and expense of building a space station for a few people? Why not use a sealed underground cave (which he already has) while the rest of the earth is gassed? Surely this would be easier. The humour is poor. Bond films (especially those with Mr Moore) have always been funny but the humour has usually been verbal. In this film feeble attempts at visual humour abound, such as our friend from TSWLM who looks at his bottle when he sees Bond driving the gondola. (Hmm - remind me to buy some of that hallucinogenic wine from Italy.) Now the good points!Excellent score - the music is really atmospheric and there are some memorable tunes that I found myself humming after the film.Superb locations, (even if Drax's Amazonian lair does look like a 1970s garden centre)To balance the feeble visual humour, Bond has some good quips 'If it's the '69, you've been expecting me'...'I think he had a crush on me'...'your perfume is a trifle overpowering'...'Heartbroken, Mr Drax'.Good supporting work by Mr Lonsdale and Ms Chiles, as reasonably believable villain and Bond girl. Even though Jaws is played more for laughs, Mr Keil still manages to make him a frightening opponent.  "},{"Title":"You know back in 1979 they thought this was the best since goldfinger","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my personal favourites, as Bond goes to some great locations (Venice, Rio, Space?). But reading reveiw's for the film 'For Your Eyes Only'(from the time of it's release) it actually said that this was one of the best Bond films around and was on par with the excellent Goldfinger and i'm pretty sure that most of you people will disagree with that these days  "},{"Title":"My second favourite","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well after the quite serious On Her Majesty's Secret Service, Moonraker is possibly my favourite Bond film. What I love about Moonraker is it fast paced style; jumping quickly from one dramatic stunt (and location) to the next. There are lots of good fight scenes and well-executed stunts throughout the film. I love the way in each location Bond spies a glamorous lovely eyeing him off and then when he finally arrives at Drax's Head Quarters, all those lovely girls assemble and we realise (well, we sorta already guessed) that they are all baddies who have been following Bond through the entire movie. The film is light-hearted with a comic-book style throughout, but that said I find many of its sequences quite dramatic and suspenseful. I also think the general plot is quite good; its all very suspenseful and mysterious and at each dazzling location we find another clue to the puzzle, but the truth is not revealed until the end. The musical score is great too.Why do people go on about this film copying from Star Wars when in fact everything in the film is pure Bond. The closing battle is pure Bond. And it is not the first Bond film to feature space sequences... what about You Only Live Twice and Diamonds Are Forever? What is so wrong with outer space anyway?! I really can't understand why people don't like this film!!  "},{"Title":"Look after Mr. Bond. See that some harm comes to him.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moonraker is one of the best Bonds. The memorable Jaws is back and still killing. The lovely Dr. Goodhead comes to Bond's aid and the evil Drax will try to take over the world. Gee, I wonder what happens? "},{"Title":"James Bond perfectly at home in outer space!","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Usually considered as a low point in the series of Bond movies, MOONRAKER is to me one of the best. There are a few minor flaws but on the whole MOONRAKER is tremendously  beautiful (I easily give it a 9 out of 10 ).Many people have compared MOONRAKER with Star Wars, but both movies have almost nothing in common. Almost everything in MOONRAKER was designed to create realism and believability, especially the wonderful special effects in space. Of course, the bigger-than-life dimension is present, as in every Bond movie, making MOONRAKER an excellent experience.As usual Roger Moore is an excellent James Bond, surrounded by a very fine cast, among which the icy-cold Michael Lonsdale and two beautiful ladies, Corinne Cléry and Lois Chiles. Lewis Gilbert's direction is nice, the production design by Ken Adam is very impressive and John Barry's music is exquisite.There are lots of breathtaking scenes in Moonraker the precredits sequence, the death of Corinne, the boat chase in Venice, the fight with Chang, the second boat chase, and most of the final space sequence.About flaws a little too much humour at times, maybe a little too much technology; the space battle in the end looks artificial and the destruction of the spheres looks like a video game...The space theme had been introduced and developed very early in Bond movies (Dr. No, You Only Live Twice, Diamonds are Forever) and it thus appears logical that one day Bond would have to go to space himself; and there he seems perfectly at home! "},{"Title":"Good Bond film that followed The Spy Who Loved Me's blueprint","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Through the years there have been countless sequels. Some times when a film company makes a sequel they use the same formula from the previous film. Usually this is done because there is not quite the time to develop a completely unique plot. An example of this would be the Batman franchise. There were three years between the first Batman and then Batman Returns and three years between Returns and Forever. All three films whether you liked them or not were unique and different. Then they cut the time by a year and they rushed Batman and Robin which followed the blueprint of Forever. Not entirely the same movie, but you see the similarities as the film follows the same flow. Another example is Ghostbusters and Ghostbusters II. This one is a bit more perplexing as they had five years between films, so while you can see that it is following the same flow as the first film, I am still not so sure why they did it. Now for this film...at the end of The Spy Who Loved Me it states that Bond will return in For Your Eyes Only. Instead, the film is Moonraker, a film with a plot, villain which are very much like those found in The Spy Who Loved Me; heck, this film even has the same henchman in Jaws. Obviously, they wanted to put Bond in space because of films like Close Encounters and Star Wars and while the film was put together hastily it performed quite well at the box office and was actually a very good Bond film. Just not as good as the film whose formula it follows.The story has a space shuttle being hijacked midair as it rides on the back of a plane. Seems it was under British care so now they have to send Bond out to find what happened to the shuttle. This leads him to the maker of the shuttle, a man known as Drax who is obsessed with the conquest of space. Bond will travel the world to find out what happened and things begin to get very sinister when he finds a strange room in a glass factory in Venice where a very potent poison is being manufactured. Bond's final stop takes him into the stars as he must infiltrate Drax's space station...built in secret and containing a very deadly secret indeed.This film has loads of action and fun. Roger Moore does great once again as Bond, and the other characters are good too. Just seems they did not really get too many big stars to be in this one as Richard Kiel as Jaws is one of the few actors I know other than the normal Bond regulars. I believe this was Bernard Lee's last Bond film as M. There are scads of Bond girls in this one and Louis Chiles is okay, but she is not in the same league with Barbara Bach. Heck, out of all the girls in this film, the most attractive one for me was the very short blond who Jaws falls in love with...she certainly had the best bosom of the lot.So this film was very fun and good, but it does have a bit of a been there done that feel to it as well. However, not so much that it detracts from the movie in a majorly significant way. This film also contains more comedy than did Spy as Jaws goes from being a very dangerous foe who kills to a bit of a comic relief person. The final scene is a bit strange as it does feature a laser fight in space, but they did a pretty good job considering the lack of time they had to make this film. The laser battle in space almost looks like the one found in Flash Gordon and I wonder if Dino De Laurentiis may have been inspired by it a bit. So in the end, a good Bond film that may have borrowed a bit from Spy, but still manages to be different enough to be entertaining in its own way. "},{"Title":"The ultimate Moore formula Bond and my joint favourite","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker is hugely divisive amongst Bond fans, loved and hated in equal measure. I absolutely love it and proudly had the Moonraker shuttle, laser gun (which unfortunately only fired caps) and Drax corporation helicopter in my toy collection (oddly the shuttle has a satellite in its' cargo bay which doesn't feature in the film, I'd have preferred some tiny space marines. The helicopter fires missiles which also doesn't feature in the film but that's because it's Naomi's gunship from 'The Spy who Love Me' repainted).Speaking of which the parallels between 'Moonraker' and 'The Spy who Loved Me' are striking but the later film takes its' themes and style to the most extreme degree imaginable. Considering it was the late 70s the special effects really stand up, especially when you think that at the time the real space shuttle had yet to fly. The end space battle and shooting down of the nerve gas filled globes are still thrilling over 30 years later as is the scene in the G-force simulator. Brilliant Bond girl in Lois Chiles as Holly Goodhead. Anya in the last film was good but she still ended up being rescued by Bond from Jaws on the train and in the finale is tied to a chair in a sexy outfit being lustfully molested by the villain. Holly is a different kettle of fish altogether, from Bond being surprised by her in their meeting she never needs rescued once and is more than a match for him, not least that she can fly a space shuttle and he can't.Michael Lonsdale is an excellent villain as Drax and gets most of the best lines, I'm especially fond of 'Look after Mr Bond, see that some harm comes to him'. All told, I think this may just pip it's illustrious predecessor, the only downside being from this point there was no way they could top it in terms of sheer spectacle. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable entertainment","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker is the movie critics like to attack. I am not going to disagree with them about the ludicrous plot and the descent into childishness.To me it's obvious that Moonraker has just one purpose. To entertain its audience and give them a memorable spectacle. This movie delivers that.There are many silly things in Moonraker but it knows it. Some of the scenes are too silly but after the appalling slide whistle sound that almost ruined a wonderful car stunt in 'The Man With the Golden Gun' I think we grew accustomed to Roger Moore movies being taken as a joke.Even the 'serious one' For Your Eyes Only had a Margaret Thatcher impersonator talking to a parrot and Blofeld being dropped down a chimney stack.Roger Moore and Michel Lonsdale are great in Moonraker. Drax saying to Bond Can I press you to a cucumber sandwich is worth the budget alone.Moonraker was the movie I wanted to see as a child but was never taken. Instead I was taken to see For Your Eyes Only. If I were a movie critic I would have been pleased but as a kid excited by the previous 2 Bond movies I was disappointed. I wanted an epic story with a big battle at the end. Moonraker did that.The sets and special effects were amazing, Jaws got a girlfriend, the final line by Q remains the funniest line ever uttered in a Bond Movie and above all it's memorable.To say it jumped the shark misses the point in my opinion. It was supposed to. Every scene in the movie was played to the max with the intention of entertainment. Not all of it works of course but at least you could see they were trying.Also I don't see how Moonraker is all that more ludicrous than You Only Live Twice (Connery trying to look Japanese!), Goldfinger or 3 out of 4 of the Brosnan movies.Die Another Day is jumping the shark. Windsurfing a Tsunami, a Korean guy turning into a billionaire white Englishman being knighted by the Queen in 14 months, invisible car and Halle Berry trying to act! Roger Moore in a Space Shuttle looked like a trip to Walmart in comparison. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's interesting that some of the most beloved Bond films are also some of the worst (Thunderball, Diamonds Are Forever, For Your Eyes Only), and some of the most reviled are among the best (On Her Majesty's Secret Service, Moonraker, The Living Daylights).This movie set a new high in entertainment value when it was released in 1979. It was the necessary upgrade of the franchise in the new era ushered in by Star Wars a couple of years earlier. It preserved the best of the genre (espionage intrigue, plot twists, Bond mystique, beautiful women, gadgets, humor, haunting cinematography, and mesmerizing music), but brought them out of the gloomy and cynical Cold War atmosphere and into a more futuristic and optimistic format. It kept the Bond franchise fun at a time when the standards for fun had taken a quantum leap.Roger Moore does a nice job in his last credible portrayal of 007. Alas, his age became increasingly distracting starting with the next outing.A lot of fun. Deserves much more credit than it is usually given. "}{"Title":"It's not even a bad film.","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think that Moonraker is a lot of fun that is really underrated. Everyone gives it such a low rating. I actually sat back and enjoyed the film quite a bit. Bond travels quite a bit in this film, to some places even I have been to. Like there is one scene where is kicking some Chinese guy's ass in Venice. I have been to Venice and thought it was the best place I went to on the Europe trip. Moonraker is just trying to entertain and it succeeds. I didn't think it was as good as The spy who loved me but I still thought it was a great film. The only problem I have with it is the scene where they are in a lazer fight in space. I just found that a little silly. But other than that I was pretty happy with Moonraker. Moonraker is a fun film that I appreciate but nobody else does. I was happy to see that Jaws(Richard Kiel) returned again. I think that Moonraker is actually better than some of Sean Connery's. I am not going to give my rating out of 4, because like with Live and let die, if I give my rating out of 4 there will probably be an angry mob. I had fun with Moonraker and I think that you should see it. "},{"Title":"An underrated film","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the first Bond movie I ever saw, and it's still one of my favorites. It's the only one that really took a few steps into science fiction territory, and Richard Kiel as Jaws does an excellent job. Even though I don't feel this is Roger Moore's best movie as Bond (my vote goes to A View to a Kill), he does good nonetheless.As a side note, the laser guns used by the Marines in the film's denouement were later featured in the Goldeneye video game. I remember them there for being fast, powerful, and with unlimited ammo.Well, this movie has girls, gadgets, and guns; what else could you ask for in a 007 film? Watch it. "},{"Title":"Truly Epic, one of my favorite Bond films","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back in the late 70s, we were fresh out of the Star Wars phase. We saw Star Trek's first movie. We saw BattleStar Galactica. And they were all big hits in the box office, or in the case of BSG, cult favorites. In comes Moonraker, Taking the success of Star Wars and using it in the Bondfranchise. The plot here is simple. There is one very rich bad guy. And Bond must take him down, no questions asked.We don't really know the villain's plot until the very end. We don't know why there is a space station up there until the very end. This film was loaded with extras, great costumes, set design and very good stunts. Most of the film is a collaboration of scenes involving Bond and his quirky humorous way of fighting. The acting wasn't very serious, it felt very comic bookish, but its OK, because the movie doesn't try to be serious really.In the end, we are given the motives for the villain's actions. He doesn't say much, but he doesn't have to. The audience is given enough information, just sit back, enjoy the space battles in this, because they are superb. The CGI was fantastic, the models of the Space Shuttles were incredible, as well as the eerie Space Station that makes you think of our ISS and how prophetic this film really is! Good PopCorn film, 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Pitfalls of Eugenics (and hurrah for Jaws and Dolly!)","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to admit that I never became the full fledged fanatical follower (there's some alliteration for you) of James Bond that many others are. I saw DR. NO and FROM Russia WITH LOVE when they came out, then I missed all the Bond films until YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE. I did not see GOLDFINGER until about 2000. I still have not seen THUNDERBALL, DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER, or NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN. As for Roger Moore's films, or George Lazenby's one film, or Pierce Brosnan's, or...well I have not seen most of them.But I did get a chance to see MOONRAKER. The plot of the novel, about a mysterious industrialist who is working on a private project for the British people, always drew my curiosity. It reminded me of other billionaires (Howard Hughes, for instance) who did projects that the Americans got the benefits from (his underwater spy machine that helped retrieve a Russian nuclear device comes to mind). But Sir Hugo Drax is a villain, and he is first raising curiosity when M mentions casually to Bond that (Horror of Horrors) Drax cheats at cards. Shades of the Tranby Croft Scandal.Actually he is not the only Bond villain who cheats. Goldfinger always plays golf for large sums using golfing equipment that gives him an unfair advantage, and also cheats at card games. But Auric Goldfinger is not a British subject.As it turns out in the novel Drax is actually not developing nuclear power to help Britain, but a pair of powerful nuclear weapons to unleash on London. Bond, of course, stops him.That is not the plot here - but then movies have been known to jettison the story line of a plot and create a new one. With the success of the space shuttles, Drax project is to create an outer space station for the Earth's exploration of the solar system. In reality it is being changed for the egomaniac's plan to kill off all life on Earth, and only he and his followers will be the survivors.Moore gave a reasonable performance as Bond (I'm sorry, I like Moore's Simon Templar on television, but the sturdiest Bond remains Sean Connery for me). Michael Lonsdale was threatening as Drax, but I actually found him too quiet. Give me a more inviting villain, like Gert Frobe as Goldfinger or Joseph Wiseman as Dr. No. Lois Chiles was properly beautiful and reasonably good as an actress as Holly Goodhead (after Pussy Galore my favorite Bond female name).But my favorites were none of these three. It was Richard Kiel (repeating his villain as Jaws) and Blanche Ravelac (repeating her role as Dolly, Jaws girlfriend). Jaws was never in the original Bond novels (the name was invented due to the Stephen Spielberg film) nor was Dolly, but in the second film appearance the screenwriters gave Kiel a bit more for his role than threatening to use his steel teeth to kill Moore. He is forced to flee for his life, and is found barely alive by Dolly, who helps him. A sweet romance develops between the giant and the short sized woman. This was continued in MOONRAKER, but with an ironic twist.Except for this film and Kiel's Jaws (and Ravelac's Dolly) none of the villains or villainesses in the Bond films ever switched sides. The reason here was simple. Up to the last twenty minutes of the film, Jaws is loyally helping Drax as his henchman. He and Dolly are in the space center that is supposed to protect Drax and his followers (and where Bond and Goodhead are hiding). But Drax gives a pompous speech to his followers (all of whom look aryan in features and proportions) about eugenics and breeding a proper race. Now Kiel rarely had dialog, but he is never shown to be stupid. As he and Ravelac listen they both become dismayed about what they hear. It's obvious that once Drax has put his plans to kill off the population of earth into effect, he will also weed out those who don't fully match his eugenics views (which includes poor tall Jaws and short Dolly). They keep looking at each other as they realize they have backed the wrong horse here. As a result, for the only time in a Bond film, a villain and his girlfriend end up allied with Bond and his girlfriend. It helps tip the balance against Drax. And in the end both pairs of heroes scoot out on their own space shuttles while Drax's plans literally explode.I really ended up liking that ending. It is improved also by the end of Drax - who is forced to take one giant step for mankind. "},{"Title":"It's fun...","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't see why so many people are down on this movie. It's entertainment. It's fun. War and Peace it ain't. You want a serious movie with a deeper message then have a viewing of a classic like Gone With The Wind or Citizen Kane or Wuthering Heights. You don't view Bond films for that. They're just escapism and entertainment. Enjoy them for that and you'll be a much happier person.That said, Moonraker delivers on the entertainment and fun aspect. Sure, there are some contrived sequences and corny lines, but those fall into the context of the fantasy. This movie has some tightly scripted and well-drawn action sequences, some nifty special effects (for it's era), a terrific score and title theme by Shirley Bassey, and a well-paced plot. The filming locations are lush and exotic, ranging from Southern California to Venice to Rio and the Amazon rain forest and, finally, outer space.The cast is the usual top-quality Bond ensemble. I have to say that Sir Roger Moore is my favorite James Bond actor. He brings a touch of light-hearted and subtle British humor to the role, unlike the Sean Connery incarnation, who was simply too much of the Serious Spy for me. And Lois Chiles as Holly Goodhead (there's a classic Bond name for you) is probably the most beautiful and sophisticated of the Bond girls. She scores an 11 on the 1-10 beauty scale, but also brings the added attraction of a brilliantly intelligent and accomplished woman to the role, more than the equal of James on that account, the kind of woman you could fall deeply in love with not only for her beauty but her intellect as well.'Moonraker' might not be a classic in the world of films, but it holds it's own in the Bond film rankings. "},{"Title":"Exciting and Funny Bond Film.","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker starts with a thrilling scene where the space-shuttle was hijacked and the jet carrying it is blown up in mid air. It then leads to M asking Miss Moneypenny where James Bond is, and she responds by he's getting his last leg. Then, it shows him flirting with a woman, which leads to an exciting and daring scene where Bond jumps out of an airplane to avoid his assailants. This is one action-packed prologue that takes this film off to a fast start, and then to the main plot where Bond investigates the mid-air theft of a space shuttle and discovers an evil plan to commit global genocide. This 007 film is full of brilliant special effects and some neat martial arts type action. The plot is slow at times and drags toward the middle. However, Roger Moore is great, with his hilarious one-liners, like when he utters Play again after he throws a bad guy down onto a piano and when he says Take a one giant leap for mankind when he throws another out of a spacecraft. Q has another awesome batch of gadgets to help Bond on his daring mission and to deal with a host of villains, including the sharp-teeth super-henchman, Jaws. The laser-gun fight scene was probably a homage to Star Wars, which was released the same year, and is definitely the highlight of this film that is not to be missed by 007 fans.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"An under-appreciated contribution to the Bond franchise","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many people have written about this being the weakest of the Bond movies, but I must respectfully disagree. Yes, it latched on to the Star Wars fascination by being an outer space adventure, but it certainly stands on it's own merits. The special effects are terrific, but this is not just a special effects movie.Bond's nemesis in the film, Hugo Drax, is a wonderfully overconfident, determined, bad guy in the truest sense of the word. The main Bond Girl in the film, Lois Chiles as Dr. Goodhead is by far the most capable Bond girl, up until Halle Barre in Die Another Day. She is a CIA operative, immune to Bond's charms for most of the movie, and not only able to pilot a space shuttle, but also able to take out two of Drax's henchmen on her own without any help from James.This locales used to film this movie were appropriate for the story line, but they were all equally exciting.. from space shuttle centrifuges in California, to ancient ruins in the Amazon. No wonder it is one of the highest grossing Bond films ever. "},{"Title":"The Most Beautiful thing Ever put in a Bond Movie","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Jaws and his girlfriend end up together and Jaws ends his maniacal quest to bring about death and violence. He just needed to be emotionally fulfilled, it brings a tear to my eye every time I see it. Man...I'm so lonely.Actually this is one of the most divisive Bonds, it made a lot of money, over $200 million when the average price of a movie ticket was less than $3. But the reason for that has been hotly debated. Some think that since the late-1970's were the hey-day of sci-fi spectacles, people were just continuing the fad, which coupled with the mere fact that it was a Bond picture (none of which have ever lost money in theaters) kept people coming to the theaters. Others think it is a really good movie. I take a somewhat middle of the road stance.As far as action and sci-fi films go, this is the top of the line, better than anything to be brought forth by most of the action stars of the 80's and 90's (yet strangely nobody ever lists Roger Moore among the action heroes). As a Bond film, it's far from the worst. Not the best film in the series, and I have seen them all, but somewhere in the middle. Roger Moore is my favorite James Bond, reputed to be Ian Flemmings original choice for the role, he had to wait ten years to get his shot, oh well the time brought forth a great experienced Bond. As the oldest Bond (oldest at time of casting and at time of final appearance), Moore had a certain quality that I always liked even when I started watching Bond films at the tender age of five-which incidentally was A View to a Kill, another Moore film-I guess he is just my Bond. The things that make a bond film work are here, the gadgets are in force. Q is around with some of the best witty banter. Miss MoneyPenny is in fine form-dang Lois Maxwell was hot. Drax, our main villain, seems to have put some real planning into his plot for world domination. He has armies of people who are ready to put it into motion, not just cannon fodder for when Bond starts to ruin the bad guy's plan. Very much of it's day, the film is a little dated when you consider the space shuttle is about to be retired in the real world, but there hasn't been a Bond film that doesn't get dated after a while, no biggie. Everything works, we were used to high tech cars and boat chases, the production staff threw us for a loop with a high tech boat chase. You know they're thinking when they combine the nest elements from the previous films without making it look stupid or insulting to our intelligence.And then there is the relationship between Jaws and Dolly, although a pretty minor subplot of the context of the film, it was just so remarkably handled. The actors took what in the script was maybe a half a paragraph total of direction and dialog and made it the most memorable thing to ever enter into the movie. I know I am making a big deal out of it, but, if you don't think it's a big deal, then you really missed the movie. I pity you for that. But if you see what it really is, the greatness of it, then there's hope for you. The 180 Jaws brought about in Jaws by this young lady (called Dolly) is astounding. Odd-job (GoldFinger), Grant(FRWL), and Stamper (TND) are all big henchmen who wouldn't possibly do such a thing in a convincing way. Maybe someday in a future Bond film, we'll see Jaws and Dolly again, married with two or three kids, bump into Bond, maybe invite him to a BBQ or just say hi. "},{"Title":"Bond Blasts Off Against Memorable Foe","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moonraker is something of the guilty pleasure of the James Bond series. It is the one that polarizes Bond fans the most, criticisms aimed primarily at the film's admitted excess of comedic relief and at the inappropriate nature of the sci-fi aspect of the plot.While the comedic relief in the film is admittedly a bit much, it does not hurt the film fatally, and the space setting of the film is a natural evolution given the space themes of Dr. No, You Only Live Twice, and Diamonds Are Forever.  Some of the comedic relief actually winds up making the film better, primarily in the film's treatment of outsized killer Jaws; Richard Kiel becomes the first villainous henchman to return to the series from a previous Bond film.  In the film Jaws acquires a love interest (Blanche Ravalec; she is not overtly identified in the film but listed as Dolly in the credits), and while the introduction is cheesy (overblown music amid the wreckage of a destroyed Brazilian gondola), the denoument proves strikingly effective, when the full extent of his employer's plans sinks in to Jaws, and his heart is swayed by the love of Dolly; at the end Jaws and Dolly have a tender scene with a toast in which Jaws has his only lines of dialogue in the series; Well, here's to us.  Certainly no one could have expected this pairing to work as superbly as it does.Character interplay also serves the film well.  James' interaction with Sir Miles Meservy (this proved to be Bernard Lee's final go as M) and Major Geoffrey Boothroyd is better than normal and includes the introduction of my favorite Q gadget, the wrist-mounted dart discharger.  It proves decisive in James' relationship with Dr. Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles, initially considered for the role of Anya Amasova in The Spy Who Loved Me).  Their relationship begins coldly, but begins to warm when Goodhead places James in a centrifuge chamber and it malfunctions and threatens to crush James to death; he uses Q's dart discharger to blast the controls out of action and slow the centrifuge to a stop.  Roger Moore wisely plays the scene totally straight, brilliantly pantomiming the sickening dizziness James feels upon exiting the centrifuge.James has been assigned to investigate the disappearence of a Moonraker shuttle on loan from the US Air Force to the RAF; HMSS has found evidence that the craft was hijacked in mid-air, and James must begin his investigation by interviewing the shuttle's builder, head of Drax Industries Hugo Drax (Michel Lonsdale, his name anglicanized as Michael for US audiences).  Here the film engages in a brilliant use of masking, using Paris Airport and a chateau and passing the setting off as California by explaining that the chateau was brought from France stone by stone in a forest straddling the Mojave Desert.Drax is the most understated Bond villian of all, easily matching Donald Pleasance's Blofeld in monotone of evil.  Look after Mr. Bond, see that some harm comes to him is one of the all-time best Bond lines.  Drax's sinister nature shows when he places a sniper for Bond amid a quail shoot, a shoot that Bond in his inimitable style foils; humiliated Drax watches Bond leave and then turns on his personal pilot Corinne Dufour (Corinne Clery), who suddenly must run for her life at the opursuit of hungry dogs, one of the most genuinely terrifying scenes of the series.James' investigation takes him to Venice, and a showdown with Drax that humiliates M and Defense Minister Frederick Grey (Geoffrey Keen), who demands Bond be suspended; James, however, has a crucial clue that leads him to Brazil, and eventually to alliance with Holly Goodhead as Hugo Drax's plan begins to unfold.The film displays some of the more engaging SFX of the opulently imaginative late-1970s-early 1980s sci-fi era as well as one of John Barry's strongest scores; particularly effective is the cue used for James' discovery of white-clad young women in the jungle of the Amazon.But the clinching scene comes at the end with by far the best double entendre of the series, coming as Q doesn't bother to watch a video display but instead reads a tracking scanner.Sci-fi may not be pure James Bond, but here it works for one of the most entertaining entries of the long and classic series.  "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the Hungarian commercial televisions is broadcasting all James Bond-movies from 'Dr. No' to 'The World Is Not Enough'. Yesterday evening the next in the row was 'Moonraker', the 11th installment in the series. According to the IMDB rating (5,9/10) and the critics, besides 'A View to a Kill' this would be the worst of the series. Having seen all the first 10 James Bond-movies, I would say that this is one of the best of the 1960s and '70s. Only 'On Her Majesty's Secret Service', 'From Russia With Love' and 'Goldfinger' could top this one. It is a very good action movie because it didn't take itself seriously and the film-makers at last realised that James Bond is deeply rooted in the worst traditions of the pulp fiction. Ian Fleming is not Len Deighton nor John Le Carré. So this is the first 007-movie which doesn't want to be more than an escapist action spectacle with gorgeous locales, sexy women, dazzling fights and state-of-the-art special effects. Fortunately the slapstick is more subtle than in the 'Live and Let Die' and in 'The Man with the Golden Gun', which are the lowest points of the series and I'm sure that 'A View to a Kill' can't be worse. Many people say that this was a 'Star Wars' ripoff. I would say that every James Bond-movie should be watched in the context of its historical (both cultural and political) background. It's natural that the producers wanted to profit from the success of the 'Star Wars' and other sci-fi films of the late 1970s. The greatness of the James Bond-series is due to the fact that every episode is a perfect interpretation of the actual state of the politics, culture and movie trends. I recommend this film to every movie fan but one should consider those observations above first.P.S. If you don't believe in the power of love, you should check Jaws out. "}{"Title":"Moonraker rakes in my vote!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moonraker had the testicular fortitude to make a space movie on the heels of Star Wars. Nothing wrong with that. You have to ride the wave in Hollywood and they did it with Moonraker. The film raked in mega bank and was a huge success. Roger was gritty and fun. The film had some great names in it too, such as HOLLY GOODHEAD! Hugo Drax played by Michael Lonsdale was great too. The boat chase was excellent! The return of Jaws was awesome. Wonderful sets and special effects. The title song was way cool too. Moonraker is a lot of fun. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"007 in Space","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Roger Moore returns as James Bond 007 in his fourth Bond movie. After the fantastic The Spy who Loved Me the Bond filmakers really had to pull out all the stops to top it. To do this they had a huge budget (for 1979) $30, plus they tried to cash in on the Sci-Fi boom created by Star Wars. The result was in many peoples minds one of the worst Bond films, because mainly I suppose because it is so over the top. It is also very similar to in storyline to the previous film (swap underwater for Space), have the same henchman (Jaws) etc. It does seem a bit James Bond by numbers. Then why is it that I love this entry so much?. Well as I mentioned before Jaws returned, my favourite Bond henchman, also John Barry scored the film and its a fantastic score too, especially when they finally enter space. The sets and special effects are wonderful, give me this over the computer trickery of Attack of the Clones anyday! Holly Goodhead (snigger) is a great Bond girl, she's a match for him and Lois Chiles is beautiful AND she can act, actually look out for her in a cameo role in the first Austin Powers film! Also Michael Lonsdale as Drax is the bet Bond Villain since Donald Pleasence in You only live twice. The only downers are the over reliance on comedy, I hate the sequence in Venice when Moore drives his Gondala through the square with a pigeon doing a double take, awful! Plus the theme song is a bit weak too. They made the next Bond film more reaistic so just sit back and enjoy this one, its terrific entertainment. ***8/10*** "},{"Title":"007 goes to outer space!","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moonraker, the 11th James Bond adventure, is probably the most sloppily made 007 movie to date. Many consider this to be the worst Bond movie (others may say The Man with the Golden Gun or A View to a Kill as the worst). Well I'm a huge fan of the series and I've pretty much enjoyed every movie, including Moonraker. This joyfully silly adventure has our favorite British spy (Roger Moore) investigating on why a space shuttle was hijacked. This investigation takes Bond first to California, then to Venice, then to Rio de Janeiro, and finally climaxing in outer space. Moonraker has alot of good things going for it. The action and special effects are fine (if a bit tacky at times). Bond gets a good female companion in Dr. Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles), and 007 crosses paths once again with that steel-toothed villain Jaws (played once again by Richard Kiel, who played the character in the 007 movie before this one, The Spy Who Loved Me). However if their is one objection that I have to make about Moonraker that would have to be the main villain Drax, played by Michael Lonsdale. This has got to be the dullest Bond villain so far. I was constantly laughing at this bad guy whenever he talked in the movie. Hahahahahahaha! Aside from that, Moonraker is a fun 007 adventure. Not one of the best in the series, but out of the 19 007 movies in the series to date, it lies somewhere in the middle.*** (out of four)    "},{"Title":"Why is the average just 5.8? this is a much better film than that","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Perhaps a bit too far from the james bond formula but this was the highest grossing james bond film until goldeneye 16 years later. this is sadly the last appearance of bernard lee as M as he died in the production of for your eyes only.Richard Kiel's performance is as good as it can be for the character he plays and the fact that the man is 7ft 2in tall he steels the camera with each appearanceroger moore is now beginning to show his age also but his acting is as fine as everthe film's biggest attribute is the set which took 22000 man hours to build, and it shows. we have now tacky pictures like we saw in goldfinger and even the explosion pictures are unusually good looking for a james bond film "},{"Title":"A great film worthy of more than the rating!","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a truly great film. It has a low rating 5.2/10 and even less in others but in my opinion was the (second) most enjoyable Bond film that i have seen. I have seen all of them all except the most recent and they are all good in their own right, but this is one of the best. Not only that, but it stars Roger Moore who was the best Bond. Thank-you. "},{"Title":"Moore comedy for Bond","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker was the last time the Eon team made a slightly forward-looking Bond. While there are obvious references to the past, as is inevitable in every franchise, it makes a departure from previous outings by sending 007 into space. Today's Bond is a retro man, who tries to capture the romanticism of the past by driving what looks like Sean Connery's Aston Martin.One problem is that Moonraker is a remake of 1977's The Spy Who Loved Me with a space theme. Another is, as Bond fans will tell you, that this is hardly 'Ian Fleming's Moonraker' as the titles and movie posters proclaim. Only the recurring characters are the same (Bond, M, Q, Miss Moneypenny), but there is a different female lead role and the villain is no longer ex-Nazi Sir Hugo Drax, but Drax (no Christian name), obsessed now with the conquest of space rather than the destruction of London.Moviegoers must bear in mind that Moonraker is a comedy. This is about Roger Moore metaphorically winking at the camera. Moore himself has said he enjoyed his Lewis Gilbert-directed outings the most, because he and the director had a similar sense of humour, and both had a fun time injecting light comedy into the piece. Scriptwriter Christopher Wood has created something to suit, although the absence of Richard Maibaum is evident.Michael Lonsdale plays a suitably mad villain with such lines as 'First there was a dream, now there is reality,' and the famous 'Look after Mr Bond. See that some harm comes to him,' played with a menacingly calm manner (although not as nonchalantly as Gert Frobe in Goldfinger); but on the whole, all characters-and their wardrobes-are cartoon-strip caricatures.For moviegoers in 1979, one appeal was the return of Jaws (Richard Kiel), the most popular henchman of the franchise. In line with the comedic angle, Kiel has one sentence to say after two films, at the end of Moonraker. While scary in The Spy Who Loved Me, Jaws is now a cartoon villain, playing for laughs while Bond head-butts him in the teeth.There are some saving graces in the beauty of the Bond girls, but even they are flat characters who can hardly be called independent. Dr Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles) may have a Ph.D. but can hardly be called a counterpart to Bond in the manner of the leading ladies in the Brosnan Bonds to date; but like Corinne Dufour (a luminous Corinne Cléry), she is stunning and the camera delights in her presence.Moonraker is notable for featuring the last appearance of the excellent Bernard Lee as M, here adopting a more fatherly relationship to Bond, as he occasionally does in the books.Maurice Binder's opening title is probably the best of all his Bonds; the primary colour tones are used to good effect, the typography observes certain rules about balance and letterspacing, and it has, for the most part, aged better than the rest of the film. John Barry's score is absolutely marvellous and heavily orchestral; there are strong melodies and it accurately reflects the comedic action in its arrangement of The James Bond Theme. The Moonraker theme itself is such a beautiful piece that it must rank as one of the finest Barry has composed; it is not as Bondian as Goldfinger or OHMSS, but it is very Barry, used most effectively as love themes when Bond meets Corinne in her bedroom-or when Bond meets Holly in hers. Shirley Bassey lends something to the vocals but in some respects she does not seem to be the right choice for such a romantic theme. Matt Munro might have been, but we will never know.There are some good (for 1979) special visual and miniature effects, particularly the floating-in-space sequences when the first astronaut arrives at Drax's space station, and Moonraker does not suffer as badly next to the space films of the era as, for example, You Only Live Twice (also directed by Gilbert) did against 2001 A Space Odyssey.Product placement is at its peak in this Bond film, in a far more obvious fashion than in Tomorrow Never Dies. Marlboro cigarettes and Air France tickets are in Holly Goodhead's drawer; Bollinger is referred to expressly by Bond; and a road in Brazil has the billboards of all the major participating companies in this film (!) Seiko, 7 Up, British Airways, Marlboro.The fun everyone had on the set is apparent. Provided that a goofy and offbeat Bond is what you seek, Moonraker doesn't fail to deliver Jaws attempts to fly by flapping his arms when he discovers his parachute won't open; Alfie Bass coughs and chokes when he sees a villain's coffin floating down a Venetian canal; the opening notes of Close Encounters of the Third Kind are used as the code sequence to a secret lab; a tourist examines his wine label when he sees a gondola on land (an old joke, but thank you Christopher Wood); and Bond rides across the desert on horseback wearing a poncho to the theme of a wonderfully arranged The Magnificent Seven (a throwback to the John Barry Seven days-or simply a concession to the product placement by Marlboro?).This is not a Bond where you have to think. Then again, none of the Bonds are. As long as you approach it with comedy in mind, it is successful. Moore fans &#150; those who enjoyed The Saint or The Persuaders &#150; will find nothing wrong at all with this film and wonder why people are so cruel about it. This is the trademark light comedy Roger Moore Bond, and is a fine example of that genre &#150; if it can be called one. "},{"Title":"the most fantastical bond","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think that people mistakenly dismiss this movie as pure cheesiness.  I have seen all of the bond films several times and i think that this is my favorite for several reasons.  the locations are fantastic, the villains (even without jaws) are really interesting, and the way that the plot leads to outer space, though unrealistic, is just a lot of fun to watch.  this bond film takes all the aspects of a bond film and pushes them to the limitwho would watch a bond film to learn some deep message about life???  if only the new films wouldn't be so serious.  If i want a fun film i will watch moonraker, you only live twice, or diamonds are forever.  i would pick the evening news over goldeneye or tomorrow never dies anyday.i like the bond films that make me feel like i am reading a comic book which is what moonraker does best. "},{"Title":"Stop Knocking this movie because it ROCKS!!!!!!!!!","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WHY? Why all the negative comments about this film? I mean, I'm not trying to be be impartial even though I am a BIG Bond fan and really like Moore's acting ( though he's not as good as Connery or Brosnan ), but I think that this movie deserves more credit than it's getting. It has great action, a great plot and GORGEOUS women!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! So Pleeeeeeeeease give this film more credit than it's getting. "},{"Title":"Bigger isn't always better","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After its excellent predecessor The Spy Who Loved Me, this was a rather underwhelming film. It cost $34 million to make, more than twice as much as that film and about 30 times as much as Dr. No 17 years later. However, I enjoyed those films far more than this one.In his fourth appearance, Roger Moore is on fine form, playing 007 with his usual wit and charm. While the then 51-year-old was already beginning to look a little too old for Bond, he was very bit as effective in the role as he had been in the first three films. In his eleventh and final appearance as M before his death in 1981, Bernard Lee was as excellent as ever, though it was quite clear that his health had declined quite a bit in the two years since The Spy Who Loved Me. He was a wonderful actor with great presence. His performances, even in the lesser films, helped to make M seem three dimensional. The character's bark was often worse than his bite and, in spite of the fact that he frequently chastised 007, he had a great deal of respect for him as an agent and I would like to think on a personal level as well. I'll missed his invaluable contribution to the series in future films. While Lois Maxwell is always convincing in the role, the flirting that was so prevalent between Bond and Miss Moneypenny during the Sean Connery seems to have all but disappeared in the Roger Moore era. As Q, however, Desmond Llewelyn gets better material and more to do than in the previous three films and his banter with Bond is the best for quite some time. He also gets the best line in the film!However, the guest characters are a bit of a mixed bag on this occasion. Lois Chiles is quite good as Holly Goodhead but the character isn't very interesting. She's certainly a capable woman but she has no distinguishing characteristics. She is also the fourth female spy in as many films. It's beginning to get a tad old at this stage, particularly since they couldn't really have improved upon Anya Amasova and her storyline from The Spy Who Loved Me. Michael Lonsdale is a very good actor but his acting style is too restrained and understated for a Bond villain. He never really conveys a sense of menace as Hugo Drax, I'm afraid. In much the same way as Holly seemed like a poor man's version of Anya, Drax seemed like a poor man's version of Karl Stromberg. While their appearances are brief, Corinne Clery and Emily Bolton are classic Bond girls as Corinne Dufour and Manuela respectively. The former meets one of the more unpleasant ends for a woman in the films, surpassed only by Helga Brandt in You Only Live Twice. Among the rest of the film's male contingent, Geoffrey Keen and Walter Gotell were the only ones who stood out.After the seriousness of The Spy Who Loved Me, the film marks a return to the kind of silly humour seen in Diamonds Are Forever, Live and Let Die and The Man with the Golden Gun, which is a disappointment as the previous film helped to re-establish Bond as the premiere action thriller film series. I doubt that the fact that the only 1970s film without copious amounts of silly humour is the best regarded is a coincidence. Reintroducing over the top humour seems like a step backwards, though at least we are spared the sight of Sheriff Pepper in California, Venice, Rio de Janiero or space! In this instance, Jaws is the centre of much of the film's humour and it does neither the character nor the film any favours. In The Spy Who Loved Me, he was bloody terrifying but introducing a love interest for him and making him a goodie was a dreadful idea. The character should have remained a one- off henchman in spite of his popularity. Failing that, they should have at least waited to bring him back in a more serious film. As I mentioned earlier, Eon spent what was then an absolute fortune to bring the film to life and it shows. The scenes in Venice and Rio de Janiero look wonderful, the Sugarloaf Mountain sequence is excellent and the space station set is one of Ken Adam's best. However, for all that, I still don't think that it matched the spectacle of the previous film. This isn't helped by the fact that the plot is essentially the exact same as The Spy Who Loved Me, making it appear rather uninspired. Admittedly, that film's plot owed a great to deal to You Only Live Twice but I felt that it improved upon the 1967 film in every single aspect so it didn't bother me. Of course, Moonraker is best known as the one where Bond goes into space. While these scenes are certainly very impressive, I don't think that it was a great idea. The last half an hour or so of the film, particularly the laser battle between Drax's forces and the American forces, seems too far removed from its roots to be taken seriously. I had similar problems with the opening sequence in which Bond is able to steer himself while falling from a plane without a parachute and catch up with the henchman, stealing his parachute. Shortly afterwards, Jaws manages to pull off much the same trick. My first thought was, Christ, this is James Bond, not Superman!Overall, this is a decent and well made film but a rather uninspired one. Bigger isn't always better. It tries too hard to be Star Wars when it should be trying to be excellent James Bond. I'm looking forward to the series going back to basics with For Your Eyes Only, though we were promised that film last time as well! "},{"Title":"Another great movie in the series","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I need to give The Spy Who Loved Me (1977) - I just could not get into that movie on Monday. Moonraker (1979)I really enjoyed this one, much better then last two and first scenes was great, very memorable and there some great scenes though out. I found this flick to really fast pace and flowed really well and I don't think I looked away from my TV screen once!. I loved most of this movie, until about the last half hour of the movie, which I thought was bit silly, it didn't really fit with the movie and far to cheeses for a action movie. 7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"A silly, spectacular spy-fi adventure.","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I admit it&#x97;even at the tender age of eleven, I had problems with the laser battle at the climax of Moonraker, recognising it as a lame attempt by the James Bond camp to jump on the Star Wars bandwagon. I also had issues with the film's many other unbelievably corny moments, especially the pigeon doing a double-take, Bond and Holly Goodhead leaping to safety from a Rio cable car, and the previously emotionless professional killer Jaws experiencing love at first sight.Over the years, though, my disdain for Moonraker's abject silliness has waned somewhat, with me eventually accepting the camp nature and tongue-in-cheek humour as part of the Bond series' evolution; as Moore grew obviously too old for the part, self-mockery was inevitable, and besides, after Pierce Brosnan drove an invisible BMW and para-surfed a tidal wave in Die Another Day, nothing that Moore ever did as Bond has seemed quite so stupid again!Nowadays, I watch this one with an admiration for the spectacular sets, gorgeous women, breath-taking scenery, impressive special effects, and an undeniable sense of fun. "},{"Title":"good James bond movie.","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another good James bond movie and for all the same reasons it has lots of action in it it has a good screen play James bond in space awesome idea roger Moore once again does a great James bond in this movie the acting is good in and the actors are good in it the villains are good again and once again Richard Kiel does a great jaws in this movie. I'm sure you will not be disappointed with moonraker. I'm sure that you will have a good time watching moonraker and you will watch it over and over again. Great adaption of moonraker Overall score ******** out of ********** ***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Escapist Perfection","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A wise man once said I may not know art, but I know what I like.  The same holds true in film, which is why I dismiss the short and scathing reviews of Moonraker.  Roger Moore's fourth outing as Bond certainly seems to be the most polarizing of the series, which is surprising because it has all the classic Bond elements on a sweeping scope from the opening credits skydiving sans parachute, hang-gliding, not one but two boat chases, a French chateau, Venice, a Concorde ride to Rio, and finally to earth orbit in a space shuttle. (For you post-Nixon children, the space shuttle was a big deal in 1979, since NASA's didn't actually fly into space until two years later.)  And of course, the incredible sets.  It's not any more far-fetched than Die Another Day (Brosnan's worst!).  And it did not have the continuity problems that plagued Diamonds Are Forever.  (Ughh, don't get me started on that one the reason Connery said Never again.)One of the underlying attractions of the Bond films is that they take the average poor schmoe somewhere they would probably never go otherwise. Moonraker has that sweeping scope.  Granted, it requires a greater suspension of disbelief to fully enjoy (as opposed to the hard-edged examples of For Your Eyes Only and License To Kill), but if you can get past some of the silliness (such as the visually-stunning yet implausible space battle finale), you can see the really fantastic job the producers pulled off.  A megalomaniacal premise in the Bond tradition, solid (if occasionally uninspired) acting, ILM quality special effects, and superb scoring.  It is escapism, pure and simple.  But then again, all Bond films are, to one degree or another.  The fact is, if you want an edgy, realistic spy flick, see Ronin with Robert DeNiro and Jean Reno.  Incidentally, Michael Lonsdale, the icy Hugo Drax, is in that one, too, in a more human and humane role.  For escapist perfection, you have Bond, with Moonraker the most expansive example of escapism the series is likely to ever produce. "},{"Title":"Nasty Reviewers","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have read all the comments about James Bonds 11th film **Moonraker** and all I have to say is if you were born after 1962 you should leave this film alone, I love it when the kids today review movies and they just don't get it, you have to have lived in the time when all these movies first came out or you just don't have a clueI love reading how **Moonraker** ripped off **Star Wars**, actually **Moonraker** was written by Ian Fleming in the late 50's and they adapted the screenplay to make the movieIf you can't enjoy this movie then I truly feel sorry for you, because it has everything you could want in a James Bond film; Beautiful Women, Great Locations, Great Actors, and Great Stunt Work; the opening scene when Jaws pushes James Bond out of an airplane is truly fantastic!!You young reviewers are truly pathetic!! "},{"Title":"Not so good","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker, released in 1979 is the eleventh film in the James Bond series and the fourth to star Roger Moore as the fictional British Secret Service agent James Bond. When the end credits rolled for the previous Bond film, The Spy Who Loved Me, it said 'James Bond will return in For Your Eyes Only; however, the producers chose Moonraker as the basis for the next film, following the box office success of the 1977 space-themed film Star Wars. For Your Eyes Only was subsequently delayed and ended up following Moonraker in 1981.In the film, Bond is set on the trail of a space shuttle that went missing during transport on the back of a plane. He visits the owner of the transport company, Hugo Drax, to investigate further. After befriending space scientist Holly Goodhead and a narrow brush with a centrifuge, Bond follows the trail of clues from California, to Venice, to the Amazon rain forest and finally into outer space in a bid to prevent a genocidal plot to conquer the world.7/10 "},{"Title":"Why did this do so bad?","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am very surprised that people call Moonraker the worst Bond - I think it is great. It may be 27 years old now, but Bond's first scene on the plane with Jaws is one that I won't forget and always enjoy watching. It isn't badly done either - I don't understand why Moonraker has lost universal appeal.This Bond is also full of classic scenes - including the bit where Bond drives the special Gondola through the streets of Italy and the bit where Bond shoots the sniper who is trying to kill him from a tree. The fact that this Bond was filmed in space makes it a true landmark in film-making - even nowadays, filmmakers rarely go beyond the bounds of Earth.Roger Moore is a good Bond, and one of the most well-known. Richard Kiel is brilliantly menacing as Jaws, who keeps his status as a great baddie throughout the whole film. Bond's best line in this film was Take a giant leap for mankind, after killing Hugo Drax on his space station and then pushing him into space to his death. With classic quotes, action scenes and Bond's super-spying, why did Moonraker lose appeal with many? I don't care what you lot think - I think Moonraker is a great Bond and one that should be watched many times to appreciate its true glory. Even if it is just to see the ninja get thrown out the clock tower and go crashing into the concert hundreds of feet below, I still recommend you give this one a try. Brilliant! 9/10 "},{"Title":"good","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moonraker was made in 1979, the last movie of the 1970's, i thought it was a good movie to watch, i thought it was great to see Jaws back in the movie. Roger Moore is a fantastic actor i think but i think Sean Connery is the best james bond actor ever than the others who took the part as playing james bond. Roger Moore played james Bond 7 times as he took over the part of playing james bond in 1973 after Sean Connery. His first james bond movie to starr in was Live and Let die, which was released in 1973. The next one was the man with the golden gun which was released in 1974. The spy who loved me was his 3rd bond movie which was released in 1977, Moonrkaer was of course the next title which was released in 1979 (the last in the 70's) for your eyes only was the next one, the first in the 1980's, this one was released in 1981, the next one was octopussy which was released in 1983, the last james bond movie roger moore did was a view to a kill which was made in 1985. I give Moonraker 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good 007 film!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This James Bond film is cool! the beginning was great! I loved the veryfirst return scene of Jaws when he pushed 007 out of the plane and I loved how 007 was flying through the air trying to get the bad guy.I liked how it was edited and how it matched with the Bond theme. Roger Moore was good and Richard Kiel is always good. I was a little surprised when Jaws got his large self a girlfriend and she wasn't bad looking either and I really think Jaws/Kiel is just not a neat person but a handsome man as well. Drax was a good villain. I don't think Moonraker is Star Wars rip off. If you liked all of the other 007 films then you'll really like Moonraker! "},{"Title":"The best Bond movie","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think that Moonraker is one of the best Bond movies. Roger Moore is very good as James Bond. The movie is an adventure. James Bond travels to many different countries, for example Italy. James Bond is also in space. The movie is very very exciting.  "},{"Title":"Great movie, Moore is the best Bond & Jaws the best villian in the franchise","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the first Bond film I saw as a child. I thought Moore was great as Bond & Jaws IS the best Bond villian. The opening scene with the skydiving is arguably the best of all Bond films. Does it have some low points? Of course, as I see all 007 films as having some camp to them. Lois Chiles is not a great actress & the whole laser gun shooting scene was a bit absurd. Other than that, I don't see why people bash this film as much as they do. I still enjoy the film to this day as I approach my 29th birthday. To all the people saying this should have never been made, think again. The film cost in the 30 million dollar range to make & grossed over 400 million worldwide. I'm sure if you were getting a piece of that action, you would shut your mouth. These are probably the baby boomers who think Connery is the only Bond.Think again. "}{"Title":"James Bond in outer space , what's the problem here?","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all this is not a Star Wars ripoff. It was a book before George Lucas ever thought up the story for Star Wars. Roger Moore has never been at his best has James Bond. He always seems to make the character more interesting every time. A good mix of action, sci-fi and romance. Richard Kiel is also good has Jaws. In my opinion this is not a Star Wars ripoff "},{"Title":"Not perfect-but not for the reason most people believe.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some say this film has gone too far from Fleming's creation but it really hasn't. Only the last 30 minutes are set in space. In other words-it's still Bond. It's still not great-but it's still about 007. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A very good bond movie","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one is a very well done action movie, underestimated by many people, that have criticized it probably for some humoristic scene.It has many good features good actors, intriguing plot,a frightful villain, a great soundtrack by Shirley Bassey (Goldfinger). And, first of all, the space scenes, although a bit dated today, have something epic that is rarely represented in modern action movies. "},{"Title":"A step backwards in quality, but still a good movie.","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Roger Moore returns in his fourth James Bond-movie.   Moonraker tries to take on Star Wars, but does not succeed at all. However, saying that Moonraker is a Star Wars-clone can be very misguiding, because most of the movie takes place in normal Bondish-locations. The action is good, but what makes this movie worse than most of the others, are the sloppy space-scenes during the last 30 minutes of the movie. But Moonraker still stands at the quality level which is typical for Bond-films(except for On her majesty`s secret service). Moonraker is worth the money! 7,5/10 "},{"Title":"Haven't been there, nor done that...but it's Bond!","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ah, Roger Moore returns as Bond in Moonraker which seems to be way over it's head.  The big space station idea is crazy even for 1999 standards. This movie was made two decades earlier.  The Bond elements are there, but not without the lighthearted Moore behind them.  The Spy Who Loved Me was definetly his best outing.  This movie tries to pull of hi-tech visuals but fails in comparison to anything today.  It could have worked, but it didn't.  Pretty good action, but Moore needs to tighten it up some.  Jaws was a goofy villain, but I liked him in a weird sort of way.  Rent this if there aren't many other Bond films avaliable.     "},{"Title":"Jaws the Return!","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Roger Moore returns again as James Bond and this time he still has his arch enemy after him......Jaws!!!.It starts with Bond being double crossed inside an aeroplane and everyone except him has a parachute,they all jump!.James Bond follows and steals one of the bad guy`s parachute, now enter Jaws.They fight a bit and then Bond pulls the rope on the chute just before Jaws has a bite on Bond.Jaws is then left to pull his chute, only it doesn`t work and Jaws is left to fall to his death?, not likely, a touch of comedy as he tries to flap his arms to fly.Great plot, special effects, baddies this has everything except it is a bit too stereotype for Bond standards, but I liked it all the same. Oh yes Jaws finds a girlfriend, and what an opposite from him is she!!, Jaws says his first words Well....here`s to us!I give this a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One Of The Best","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only people who don't like this are Connery fans. Unfortunately, most Bond fans are Connery fans. Still, for anyone  else, especially anyone young, this is one of the most enjoyable. Great stunts (and I mean really great - better than most Bond stunts), great standout characters, the returns of Jaws, one of the most beautiful ever Bond girls  in Holly Goodhead, and plenty of action, humour and decent special effects and plotting. Okay, it's very similar to The Spy Who Loved Me - but all Bond films are essentially the same, aren't they?This one has some of the most dramatic and spectacular scenes in any Bond film - the opening skydiving fight took 79 jumps to complete, and it is truly unforgettable. Even better is the cable car scene - the best sequence in any Bond movie. As Bond and Holly take on Jaws on two stranded cable cars, you will be holding your breath as they sway in the wind, hundreds of miles up...and they really are there, as well.  Awesome. This is one of the stand-out action/suspense scenes of all time.Overall, this is a great variation on the Bond formula. One of the best.  "},{"Title":"Calmly saving the world","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Roger Moore Bond movies are pleasant - The rather nonchalant Bond travels across the world, and in this movie also beyond it, as  something like a tourist with an interest in saving the world, seducing an unheard of number of women, having a few fights and managing to stay alive and distract the megalomaniac long enough to preserve civilization as we know it.This Bond-movie is neither worse nor better than the other Roger Moore Bonds. It's always a good thing to have Jaws there.  The plot moves slowly but steadily towards its climax, making the movie rather a comfortable and not too tense view. I missed a scene or two where Bond didn't seem to be in control.Highlights were the scenery of Drax's resicence, a fight in a glass museum, the simula-tour and Roger Moore's expressionless face when driving through Venice in - you'll see. 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This 11th Bond film proves once again that Albert R. Broccoli's James Bond series is still the most powerful movie franchise in Hollywood.  Roger Moore returns as James Bond for the fourth time in this adventure.  In an effort to capitalize on the outer space films of the late 1970's, Moonraker also takes place in outer space, with nothing short of phasors and space-walks included in the action sequences.  Filled with more action sequences than any other Bond film and with some of the best stunts ever on film, Moonraker is sure to uphold the expectations of all Bond film lovers. "},{"Title":"A fun movie to watch, anyways","Date":"7 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although I like the more serious and action-driven tone of the more recent James Bond movies, I kinda miss the humorous adventure style of the old ones. Moonraker probably is the entry in the 007 series in which the funny approach is the most evident.I remember watching it a long time ago and the film was everything I wanted in an adventure movie. It has a likable hero, lots of puns, one-liners, cartoonish villains, spaceships, and even a laser battle (PEW PEW PEW)! I've watched it again recently and I have to disagree with the 8-year-old me it is not the greatest film of all time. But who cares? It still is a lot of fun! The opening sequence or the cable-car fight for instance, those scenes are as thrilling as it gets! The space station (which reminded me of 2001 A Space odyssey) is also quite remarkable.It was very nice to rediscover this gem! I'll definitely put it in my list of fun/laid-back titles. It is perfect for a movie session with friends. "}{"Title":"Where MOONRAKER Stands","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker is Roger Moores fourth time as agent 007 and is quite enjoyable. The film stands 16th on my list where I have ranked the 007 movies from worst to best. After the release of Star Wars in 1977 the film makers decided to make MOONRAKER and succeeded. I like Moonraker as a film but I just don't know why they decided to make an outer space battle at the end. The plot is extremely pointless and extremely stupid. Hugo Drax is a good villain and Holly Good head is an OK Bond girl. Roger Moore is good here as Bond and this is one of his better performances. One thing that really bothers me is that this film pretty much takes the plot from the spy who loved me and then instead of the villain wanting a world beneath the sea all they add is Hugo Drax who wants a world up in space. This film wasn't liked by many when it came out but I think the film is good, even JAWS returns which makes the film much more watchable. But why turn Bond into Star Wars, the only reason the makers did this is because Star Wars earned a lot of money and they thought this could do the same. Ian Fleming had written this first as a novel but he never wrote anything about a battle in space! But I guess this is me just throwing some bad things from the film at you, I actually consider you watch this and you'll see that it is under rated.... And so ends my review on MOONRAKER, the Bond film which in my opinion stands 16th out of 23. "},{"Title":"Big budget fun","Date":"21 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker features Roger Moore's James Bond at his smuggest, in a load of old piffle which tries to balance villainy (Michel Lonsdale's Hugo Drax is one of the most believable of all the Bond bad guys) against broad humour (Richard Kiel's Jaws is back for laughs - check out the slo-mo ballet).There is the usual blend of thrills, locations, punch-ups and stunts, all fairly well if not terribly convincingly executed, augmented with some space opera antics in the era just after Star Wars first made space movies bankable. The battle between opposing forces at the end (Thunderball in spacesuits) is incredibly noisy (and incredibly doesn't mean extremely, it means unbelievably - sound doesn't happen in the vacuum of space).And, as was the case of all the Bonds from this era, it has nothing - nothing! - to do with Fleming's novel. "},{"Title":"the series' sole straightforward comedy","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ultra-expensive Bond movie of epic proportions which goes over the top from start to finish, and which compulsively insists on being played for laughs. The big budget is unashamedly evident throughout, with Bond being utterly and dismally diminished not only by the vastness of the whole enterprise but also by his own buffoonery, a clear sign of the producers' crass efforts to adjust the hero to a hype of mass consumption. It holds the distinction of being the series' sole straightforward comedy; and a physical comedy at that. Still, there are bits and pieces to chew on, even if one is often appalled by the drollery. "},{"Title":"Well paced Moore adventure, marred by insipid climax","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker is an enjoyable Bond adventure, partially ruined by an insipid space climax. For an hour and a half, things move smoothly with a suave villain Michael Lonsdale and a charming Moore locking horns. The film is well paced and exciting. Alas, the final thirty minutes which resemble a cheap video game shoot-out dampen the viewer's enthusiasm. This is probably what accounts for the low rating of this film on IMDb. My advice see this film as its mostly enjoyable, just skip/Fast Forward through the final half hour and you should have an entertaining time overall.6/10 "},{"Title":"Moonraker is a super edition to the series!!","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am i great fan of roger Moore and the way he portrays bond, moon raker is another good film which sees bond investigate the disappearance of space shuttle. Along the way he encounters hair-raising moments in the film such as the tangle with jaws on the cable car. This film is heavily underrated which i don't really understand, the part i would criticise would be jaws turning into a good guy and getting a girlfriend ha, but the prospect of bond going into space is a new experience in the series and it needs to be there as well.Overall i really enjoyed moon raker and roger Moore's portrayal! "},{"Title":"Disengage brain.  Enjoy.","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie features one of the more outrageous Bond plots that comes to mind, as megalomaniac Hugo Drax hatches a wild plot that involves a secret space station and a fleet of shuttles. I won't reveal what he's doing with them, but suffice to say he has no admirable intentions. It's Roger Moore to the rescue.Opinions seem to be split about this film, which contains a great deal of jokey humor in it. Personally I think it's a great time, with the expected Bond elements (martinis, womanizing, death-defying confrontations) well represented alongside cartoonish sci-fi elements. Roger Moore was a great bond, for me, and also the first Bond I was familiar with. The way the movie begins to go wrong is the increasingly outlandish conclusion. Star Wars and Close Encounters having been major hits already, Moonraker works in a very silly laser fight in its finale, and takes some rather obvious liberties with the laws of physics in terms of its outer space action.But really it's just nitpicking, because most of the elements in a Bond film are over-the-top in some way. Isn't that why we enjoy them so much? "},{"Title":"A film that takes you out of this world.","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moonraker is a film that is loved and hated by Bond fans depending on how you like your Bond. If your idea of Bond is that of an eyebrow raising secret agent who is a saint to some and a persuader to others than this is for you with Roger Moore managing to do what few others have achieved, looking good in a safari suit. Bond here is taking on Hugo Drax, who like most Bond villains, isn't content to take a simple nine to five job down at Tescos and instead wants world domination, building a new super race of humans on his own space station in space. Helping Bond is the lovely Holly Goodhead, whose name alone is enough to make our Roger raise at least one eyebrow. On the villain front, the walking skyscraper that is Richard Kiel drops back in for a quick bite as Jaws , whose role this time is more of a humorous giant, which was probably due to the kids all writing letters about Jaws after The Spy Who Loved Me. Because of this, Jaws is not as menacing as he was before, and this takes away the edge to his character making him seem more at home with The Munsters than in a Bond film. Michael Lonsdale is suitably evil as Hugo Drax, although one does wonder how he managed to assemble a space station in outer space without anyone noticing. There are plenty of lovely bond beauties in this film, which gives Roger Moore a chance to live up to his name! Moonraker is a fine addition to the Roger Moore series of Bond films, and is guaranteed to leave you shaken and stirred.  "},{"Title":"Nothing wrong with this Bond. Good ending to the second 007 decade.","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of course for a long-time Bond fan it's always rather hard if not impossible to criticize these wonderful films (expect perhaps On Her majesty's secret service, A View to a kill and Tomorrow never dies - three Bond flicks that are surely good movies but differs from the rest of the series because they've got more flaws than 007 adventures usually). Moonraker is however a great Bond movie. Formula works like a dream, Moore is amusing and not yet too old to be Bond. Michael Lonsdale's Hugo Drax is a classic Bond villain, not very unique but still brilliant. Splendid Richard Kiel's second coming as Jaws (the most beloved character of his career as an actor) is just as memorable as his first appearance in The Spy who loved me. Excellent action, terrific score, successful humor. Although not Roger Moore's best James Bond movie, his fourth performance as the cool, witty and dangerous secret service agent 007 in Moonraker is definitely a feast for every single one who loves the sensational series.  "},{"Title":"Implausible, yes, but I liked it.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'd say that if you prefer the Roger Moore Bond to the Sean Connery Bond (as I do, and I don't care who knows it), you might like this one. If you're so devoted to Connery's Bond that you actually liked Never Say Never Again, then you'll probably hate this even more than you hate most Moore (and probably also Dalton) Bond films.Sure, it's full of plot holes. One's right in the teaser A space shuttle that looks exactly like the ones we've had for some 20 years, blasting away from its ferry 747 under its own power? With main engines that have no onboard fuel supply??But in my book, Bond films aren't supposed to be realistic; they're supposed to be fun. And for me, this has everything that made the other Moore Bond films fun. "},{"Title":"WHY IS THIS MOVIE TRASHED SO OFTEN?","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think Moonraker is an excellent film in the Bond series but I have never met anyone who rates it.It may be unrealistic but that's what I like about Bond films. A great Bond film is great because it is pure fiction.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS)Bond travels to many exotic locations in this film and even into space. There is action throughout from the beginning scene where Bond is pushed out of a plane without a parachute (call me crazy but I've always fancied trying that)right up to the epic finale in space.As usual, Roger Moore plays his part well. Also, having Richard Kiel back as Jaws helps. Jaws becomes more human in this film (he falls in love with a girl within seconds) and he's totally invincible this time round. Nothing can hurt him. He falls onto a circus tent after his parachute fails (even a circus tent would hurt once you hit it), his cable car crashes into a building and he even survives a trip over a waterfall. At the end he turns into a good guy and it is done in a believable way after Bond convinces him that the villain-Hugo Drax-will dump him once he's served his purpose.The Bond films are pure escapism and it's great to see 007 overcome astronomical odds to save the whole planet.Like all the films from the Roger Moore era the theme tune is great. It is sung by the delightful Shirley Bassey.This was a great film and Roger Moore so obviously had fun for this role.All in all, a good movie. But when is Jaws going to return to the series? I'd love to see Pierce Brosnan's Bond battle Jaws. "}{"Title":"James Bond meets STAR WARS....some spoilers!","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 1979, this film was released and was 007's answer to the STAR WARS craze. One of the 007 movie franchises endearing traits, is it's ability to change with the times or current film fads. The plot is simple....a diabolical madman who has better one liners than 007 steals a NASA space shuttle for the purpose of world conquest. 007 is dispatched with the beautiful DR. GOODHEAD, to foil the villians evil plan. Naturally, good battles evil and our pithy hero ends up in bed with all of the film's bond girls. MOONRAKER was a clever attempt by the producers to capitalize on the success of STAR WARS, two years earlier. I enjoy this film and it's epic scale space battle in the film's conclusion. The aerospace firm ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL (actual builder of the real space shuttle) provided technical assistance to this film. This film will appeal to sci-fi fans and 007 lovers alike. One note, this film marks the last appearance of RICHARD KIEL as JAWS. "},{"Title":"007 Goes to The Final Frontier","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In You Only Live Twice (1967), 007 lost a chance to pilot a spacecraft, when Blofeld ordered an astronaut out of a spacecraft.  This time, 007 gets his second chance.  The plot is a carbon copy of The Spy Who Loved Me, with a few science fiction references.  Before SpaceCamp (1986) and Armageddon (1998), this was the debut of the Space Shuttle on screen.   Drax might be modeled after Adolf Hitler, and the Bond girl (Lois Chiles) might be a CIA agent posing as an astronaut.  Holly Goodhead might be similar to Jadzia Dax from Star Trek DS9, but a good choice for the ideal Bond babe.  She might not be tough like Jennifer Watts (Jessica Steen) in Armageddon, but the Dr. Goodhead character seems underdeveloped.  The return of Jaws might be the lowest point in the 007 franchise, since the Roadrunner/Coyote chemistry from The Spy Who Loved Me was re-incorporated.  What happens after Drax's henchman is killed?  Simple.  He hires Jaws, and just becuase he was Stromberg's bodyguard before, he still would like to get 007 once and for all.  LOL, until Jaws becomes 007's ally after Drax expresses a psychotic episode.  LOLs, especially the musical score used from Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977) as a entry code.   "},{"Title":"Wraps off a rather depressing decade for Bond","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While maligned by many Bond enthusiasts, Moonraker is certainly a fun, visually compelling film.  Released when such late 1970s blockbusters as Star Wars and Close Encounters were rekindling an interest in outer space, the movie should be seen as a reflection of its time, right down to the outrageous outer space scene and the disco music.  It is arguably the second-best Bond film of the decade after The Spy Who Loved Me.Notice the shameless promotion of commercial products throughout the film--British Airways, Air France, and 7-Up (after the cable car crashes into the wall in Rio, the only thing left standing is a 7-Up cooler!). Also, Drax certainly has a British accent for someone who hates Britain. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed the space elements, but found the rest of it boring.","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll break in popular opinion and say that I love the Star Wars inspired elements. It's all about entertainment and I don't expect a Bond movie to be realistic.However, the 90 minutes before Bond arrives at the space station are bog standard and boring. The film makers didn't know how to get Bond to go to an evil space station so they just took a bunch of random scenes and tacked them onto the Bond formula. There are some good gags, but a lot of the scenes early on are forgettable.Jaws returns, and the scenes of him which were peppered in, as well as change of heart, were all entertaining. Lonsdale does a great job at playing a despotic but sophisticated villain. The third act features the most ambitious well thought out evil lair in the Bond franchise, a very strong climax and plenty of great special effects which have aged well to this day. There are moments worth watching for but I don't think this film comes together well as a whole. "},{"Title":"James Bond...in Space!!!","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't hate MOONRAKER. I know it's got some major issues but it was my first classic Bond movie. I still remember getting it on VHS when GOLDENEYE made me curious to see earlier 007 films and, as a younger kid, I was drawn in by the promise of James Bond in space. MOONRAKER is Roger Moore's fourth film in the franchise and, after putting together the excellent, THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, I guess everyone decided they could slack off a bit for the next installment. Released in 1979 on the heels of the release of the original STAR WARS, the producers decided to add some science fiction into the mix to capitalize on the popularity. Keep in mind I use the phrase science fiction here as loosely as possible. The movie starts with the mid-air hijacking of a space shuttle off the back of a jumbo jet transporting it across the Atlantic, setting the film's events into action. James Bond is assigned to investigate the shuttle's disappearance, starting his investigation at the facility where it was constructed. The millionaire industrialist who's company created the Moonraker shuttle, Hugo Drax (Michael Lonsdale), doesn't seem all that concerned with the missing spacecraft and immediately goes about instructing his personal henchmen to kill the British agent. So, right off the bat, we've established the villain and eliminated any mystery there. With the aid of the supposed NASA scientist Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles), Bond will follow the clues to Venice and Rio de Janeiro as he pieces together Drax's evil scheme.What I find most interesting about MOONRAKER is how my taste has changed in the years since I first saw it. The movie is sort of split into two major parts the secret agent action here on Earth and the third act set aboard Drax's private orbital space station. As a kid, I loved the space action and found myself bored with everything that led up to it. Now it's the opposite. I actually really enjoy the first two acts of the movie and dread everything after the shuttles launch. I'll admit the movie has serious tonal issues. It can't decide if it wants to be a more serious spy/action movie or a parody of itself. I'm not going to lie and say I don't like the goofy bits though. The movie brings back Jaws (Richard Kiel) after his popular introduction in THE SPY WHO LOVED ME. He's not as much the stone cold killer this time around. I guess the moment in the last film where he dropped a sandstone block on his foot got a lot of laughs because he spends most of MOONRAKER finding himself in zany predicaments (i.e. going over a waterfall or free-falling with a busted parachute) and mugging for the camera. I can't hate it though. Jaws has been one of my favorite characters since I first saw this movie years ago and, while I love the stone cold killer version better, I'm fine with the punch line version too.The real issue with MOONRAKER is how fast it hits the brakes once we leave Earth for the big final act. You know we're in for trouble when the initial journey to the space station feels like forever (think the initial Enterprise reveal in STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE but not quite as excessive). The filmmakers were proud of their initiative in sending Bond to space and their special effects so they make sure we have plenty of time to soak it in. Whenever there's no gravity, everyone starts moving incredibly slow because&#x85;I dunno&#x85;outer space. And if you don't get enough time to appreciate the outer space effects on the trip up, don't worry. There's a long, dull space laser battle to really drive the point home. I'll give them credit; the effects aren't that bad. I actually like the look of it all. I just wish the filmmakers weren't so proud as to forego keeping the action interesting. Space marines floating around, exchanging laser fire (seriously, lasers) with Drax's personal army, and spinning off into the distance whenever they're hit. We're treated to a handful of those shots as men are zapped into oblivion. With my newer perspective, I can see it all for the pandering that it is, trying to rake in a buck after STAR WARS, but I still find it fun. Roger Moore is a good blend of serious and goofy. Jaws is still awesome. And Michael Lonsdale is great as Drax, growling his lines ominously and only ever raising his voice once over the course of the film. He's a soft-mannered, well-spoken sort of megalomaniac. I could see him cracking my top-ten list of Bond villains.MOONRAKER is a weird little anomaly in my 007 fandom. It's obviously not a great film but it's far from the worst of the franchise. It's got some heavy nostalgia behind it for me and, even setting that aside, there's enough here for me to enjoy. The casual fan? I couldn't tell you how well it'd sit with them but I know I'll be busting it out once a year to revisit Bond's adventure into orbit. "},{"Title":"Moonraker is a straight up goofy ball.","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Bond in space doing goofy things and Jaws falling in love with a girl that he just met during his important mission to kill Mr. Bond. I'm sorry is this a James Bond movie or a Austin powers movie?.The story is about Mr. Bond himself in space as the secret agent is on the trail of a missing space shuttle that leads to a plot to no less than global genocide by Hugo Drax, who has his own plans for civilization.This has to be the most cheesiest and the most gooiest James Bond film I've seen out of them all. The visual effect's at times can looking good, but most of the times it looks out dated. I loved the character Jaws. I though he was pretty awesome in the other Bond films, but here he falls in love... wait WHAT?!.The good things about the film Roger Moore once again does a fine job playing Mr. Bond. The theme song was nice to listen to, even when it's not the best theme song for a James Bond film, but I still found something to like in it. And the movie may be a comedy at times with it's cheesiest, but I still enjoyed those parts of the film because it's very rare to see that in a James Bond film.But overall Moonraker is a straight up goofy ball with a plot that goes nowhere, and a boring main villain. But the movie can be laughable but in a good way and I found some enjoyment in that. "},{"Title":"A solidly OK-ish piece","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rating-6/10Moonraker is a Bond film which is although far from the best, and far even from Moore's best but still manages to entertain and can be enjoyed quite a bit(if you ignore the absurdities). With a good cast and a villain that was wasted though, Moonraker is a film that will split peoples decision and some will also love it. I felt it was solidly OK- ish and maybe moving towards being OK, and here is why I felt that about it.The story is fast and fun and although of course is a more silly, outlandish Bond plot, it can still be thoroughly entertaining. The pace is slow and takes a little while to really get stuck into the plot nevertheless it could be rewarding for some, I meanwhile felt average on that point. Finally on plot it is crazy at the end now I won't tell you, but Oh my it truly is crazy and you may see what I am talking about, it dragged it's mark down considerably which was only about a 5 minute scene.Moore is fun of course and does what we always expect from him with his humorous performance and light hearted action, he manages an OK job, even among all the excess mess. The rest of the cast do not do that well really and although I did feel it was poor that wise, they manages to not destroy this film. Finally on the characters the villain named Drax was actually kind of a good bad guy and managed even with his bad acting performance to feel sinister and a good example of how to portray super villains.The script is poor and very much overly trying to be humorous and just ruins the dialogues too. Directing is also poor and both contribute to the more poorer scenes, but they don't really affect it much. I did enjoy the gadgets with some cool contraption being made by not just Q but also Drax who's safe I felt was a piece of art(in film). The cinematography wasn't too bad either and with some great shots of the second half of the film, it looks pretty good along with the ridged plot.The film is pretty poor though and most of is ridiculous, although I did say it was entertainment and that is what it is. The things I have already criticised are it's main bad points and not much else has to really be said either but if any little extra points have to be put down it is in the sense that the film continues it's point of making Bond much more lighter since Connery left his role as Bond.Bond series film fans should enjoy as always but I believe most won't find this there favourite one of all time with it's crazy plot, even for Roger Moore as Bond!. You can enjoy it I know it and I did too but it seriously isn't near being a straight good film, could be the worst of the Bond series but that is up to you, but maybe a heads up for those hoping to watch all the Bond's, Moonraker is not up to scratch.Overall a 6/10 meaning Solidly Kind of OK and with some fun parts like I was saying, it can be entertaining for those willing to just let themselves go and stop thinking about what secret agents really do in this world. I feel a good point about this is it's craze with space as Bond has never been and a Bond hasn't been set there either but it is interesting to see the sets used in space here which do turn out well, they actually possibly make the film just a little tiny but better. "},{"Title":"Bond just keeps on being Bond - even in outer space","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker held the record of being the worst James Bond movie ever made, that is until we were hit with 'The Living Daylights' and 'License to Kill' and even they they only held the record for a short time before the movies that seemed to have come out of a random title maker (Tomorrow Never Dies and the World is Not Enough) were released, but it has been quite a while since I have seen those one, so I will not pass judgment until I actually watch them again.Anyway a space shuttle is being loaned to the British by the Americans (I didn't think the British had a Space Program, let alone the facilities to launch a space shuttle, but then again, this is a James Bond movie and logic tends not to play a huge role &#x96; also, I didn't think the shuttle program had started at this time &#x96; no wonder the Russians got the idea of the space shuttle, the stole the idea off of a James Bond movie) and the guy who sold it to the Americans, who are in turn loaning it to the British (for whatever reason only the film makers actually know), decides that he wants it back so, instead of saying 'hey, can I have my space shuttle back, I need it to take over the world' he steals it. This was a bad move because it means that Bond has to go on an adventure so that he can push this guy out of an airlock (oh, sorry, I gave away the ending).So Bond travels to California where he meets a beautiful woman, but she is killed. While he is snooping around this house, he find a single reference to Venice, so, for no other reason than this single reference to Venice, he decides to go to Venice (hey, any excuse to go to Venice). When he gets to Venice he meets a beautiful woman, and drives a Gondolla through the middle to St Mark's Square (there are a lot more pigeons there than when I went). He then sees a crate with Rio De Janero on the side. Guess he better go to Rio, but then again, I don't blame him. When he gets to Rio he meets a beautiful girl.However, the bad guy his having some difficulties killing James Bond because Bond seems to be immune to death, and when he discovers that Jaws is in between jobs, he decides to hire him to kill James Bond. So Jaws eats a cable that holding up a cable car, and then crashes the cable car into a building where &#x96; he meets a beautiful woman.However Bond's travels haven't come to an end yet because they learn that the bad guy is making a deadly poison out of a flower that grows only in the middle of the Amazon rainforest, so he goes on a boating expedition and gets into a boat fight with a bunch of boats. While fighting the boats he once again outwits Jaws, who goes flying off the top of a waterfall, and as it turns out, like James Bond, Jaws is also immune to death.Then I discover, thanks to James Bond, that there is actually a Mayan Pyramid in the middle of the Amazon rainforest. I also discover what ridiculously rich people actually want all their money for &#x96; they want to build a fleet of space shuttles, fill them full of beautiful people (some of which James Bond met, but before he can make a witty comment about being surrounded by beautiful women, he is dumped into a pool of water which contains &#x96; no, not piranhas, but a boa-constrictor), fly them up to a space station, and then spray nerve gas on the rest of the world so that he can have it all to himself.We also learn that the US has a battalion of Space Marines, just in case a super villain, or a ridiculously rich capitalist, decides to build a space station and populate it full of beautiful people, so that he can then kill all the ugly people, and return the Earth to some form of Edenic paradise. His mistake was that he forgot that Jaws and his girlfriend weren't actually beautiful people.The moral of this story &#x96; don't upset Jaws. "},{"Title":"Bloated, OTT, but well made for its time","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the bloated travelogue that is Octopussy, Moonraker is my least favourite Moore Bond. To me it's like an advert for Venice and Rio at times, the battle in the spaceship is a blatant cash in of Star Wars and has dated horribly, and Jaws turns into some banal comedy villain and his role develops into a far fetched love story with an American 18 year old. Also Moore is starting to age in Moonraker and looks less convincing in the fight scenes.This isn't to say Moonraker is dire in the way Diamonds are Forever is. It does have some very good parts. The scene with Bond nearly being crushed by G forces in Drax's gyroscope is brilliant, Drax is a convincing villain who wants to take over the space programme and start a world war, the gondola chase in Venice is entertaining, and Shirley Bassey provided a top notch theme song. It's just the whole film seems to be bloated, and the space station scenes seem too far fetched. However, Moonraker is still entertaining and the box office was excellent. "},{"Title":"Spacey but far from the worst","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of all the James Bond movies, Moonraker seems to elicit the quickest negative opinions in conversation. The producers, admittedly, attempted to capitalize on the sci-fi bandwagon of the late 70s taking major liberties with the original story and rocketing James bond to space. On the cover of it all, indeed even the movie poster itself, this is a laughable scenario. But in practice, I'm not sure it's actually enough to doom this Bond outing. In my opinion, Moonraker is far from the worst Bond movie, and actually quite enjoyable.All Bond movies are a product of their time. All these movies are a great reflection and pulse of their respective contemporary popular culture. So while today it is easy to say Moonraker is a cheesy forgettable Bond movie, I'd say you never saw Live and Let Die or Octopussy. Essentially, you've already seen Moonraker. Just like The Spy Who Loved Me, Moonraker is yet another re- working of You Only LIve Twice which was really just reworked from Thunderball. A water/space craft is stolen and taken to an underwater/outer space fortress to wreak havoc on the free world. That's pretty much it.So you think Moonraker is cheesy? Space Shuttle cheesy? Did nobody actually watch Goldfinger and the laser beams, razor Odd Job hat, or Thunderball jet pack? Jaws is a good guy cheesy? Well Lois Chiles' Goodhead is pretty laughable, but runner up to the raciest double entendre after Pussy Galore. There are no stupid poison tipped knife shoes. Bond does not build a helicopter from a briefcase or dress up as a clown. Moonraker is definitely riding the coattails of the near perfect success of The Spy Who Loved Me, one of the top two Bond movies ever in my book, and it's a great piece of entertainment with a nice, if nonsensical, title song. There is no perfect or reference Bond film. They are all just escapist entertainment with flaws keenly visible on any repeated viewings. Many people want to point to Goldfinger as the, er, gold standard, but it's cheesy as heck in every way. While Connery is easily the best 007, I think On Her Majesty's Secret Service, The Spy Who Loved Me and Goldeneye are the actual movie benchmarks. But don't fool yourself thinking Bond is anything more than a two hour fantasy. Even the really bad ones like Die Another Day, License to Kill or Live and LEt Die are watchable. Moonraker fits nicely in the middle. Don't be a snob, Moonraker isn't a comment on the human condition but it's fun and entertaining in a way the dour and stale Skyfall isn't. Cut it some slack. Space Camp from 1986 is much worse than this. "}{"Title":"Does It Ever End??","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What should have been a fun little Bond venture turns into a drawn-out, largely unexciting spectacle in MOONRAKER. Roger Moore, already a little aged to play our hero, is dispatched to find out the five W's of a hijacked space shuttle called the Moonraker. From California to Venice to Outer Space, he discovers that the wealthy, eccentric Hugo Drax is behind it all - all part of a plan to wipe out the entire human race!MOONRAKER has the feel not of a big-budget Hollywood production, but of a 007 ripoff. Everybody, particularly those behind the scenes, just seem to be going through the motions without much thought. They try to rely too heavily on the likability of the character, distracting romance and terribly unfunny shots at humor. Even the sporadic elements of MOONRAKER that do work, such as the high-flying opening and the cable car showdown, seem clumsy. The final 20 minutes, with its incredibly cheesy astronaut battle and explosions, take far too long to arrive.Sometimes labeled the worst of the Bond series, MOONRAKER disappoints whether you're a fan or not. An apparent attempt to merge the world's greatest spy with the outer space craze of the late 1970s, this one falls flat on its face. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Bond Movies","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think Moonraker was one of the best Bond movies and one of the most exciting. I have lost count of how many times I have seen that movie, along with many other Bond movies that I like, as a Bond fan that is. The one character I also liked very much aside from James Bond, was Jaws. I thought he was more funny than he was scary, with some of the expressions on his face like where he goes over the falls in that boat. Bond was also great in using his quick thinking wit to turn Jaws on his side when he and Dr. Goodhead are just about to be expelled from the space station when he says to Drax Leaving you on your flying stud farm conceiving your new master race And anyone not measuring up to your standards of physical perfection will be exterminated right? Then Jaws hearing that realizes he's too big and his girlfriend is too small. But Jaws I think was already somewhat aware because when everyone arrived at the space station and Drax was announcing Here will be created a new super race of perfect physical beings it showed you Jaws look concerned (the way he grimaced)as if to think My goodness who is this guy and what have I gotten myself into kind of thing.But I thought it was a well done movie, but what I would very much like to see is Richard Keil (Jaws) Come back and be in another Bond movie one more time but as a good guy seeing as he went on Bonds side in the end of Moonraker. "},{"Title":"My least favourite Bond film","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I mean, just the idea of this is unbelievable, James Bond goes out into space and fires lasers to stop an evil man from making a Space Colony and gassing Earth. Those words alone should be the biggest turn off for any viewer, but apparently that's not the case.There are really too many Clichés in this film that you'll lose count within the first five minutes of which I have listed below- Instead of either shooting or stabbing Bond, they decide it's better to take what appears to be a very expensive plane and abandon it in mid- air, leaving Bond to tumble helplessly from the sky. Bond breaks free from his bonds (forgive the pun) and steals the nasty bad-guy's parachute and attempts to fight off Jaws (yes, him from the last one with the steel teeth), who is left crashing into a Circus Big Top.- Rather than secretly killing him whilst Dr Goodhead is away, Drax instead sends his personal Ninja (wierd isn't it?), to turn up the G- force simulator to the point of death. Bond uses his special watch to blow up the controls and shut down the machine.- Assassins to turn Bond into Swiss Cheese in the most obvious and overly engineered way possible. Bond escapes in what many have considered the stupidest escape method ever, using a Hovercraft disguised as a Venician Gondola! If you don't think that's stupid, I don't know what is!- Rather than using a concealed assassin in the dark rooms, they instead have the Ninja from before try to slice him into Exotic food with a Sword. After running amok and smashing the Glass Museum into a broken mess, Bond is able to kick the Ninja out the front of a clock and down onto a restaurant below.- Jaws (yes, he's still in this movie), cuts the steel cables with his razor sharp teeth before confronting Bond and Goodhead on the Cable Car as it tumbles to the bottom. Bond and Goodhead escape just in time for the car to smash straight into the bottom station. Again, Jaws, despite everyone else around him being dead from the impact, manages to calmly walk away, and in so doing comes across a girl and the pair fall in love.- A group of henchmen in speedboats attempt to sink Bond in the Jungle. A concealed sniper would have worked perfectly, if not, pre-placed Depth Charges.- Rather than having Bond and Goodhead put up against a wall and shot, he instead feels it necessary to put Bond under the blast pad of the launching Moonraker rocket and thereby cremate them. This of course leaves our heroes with ample time to escape and Drax's rocket blasts off into space, our heroes stowing aboard at the same time.- In space, a Space Shuttle (which would normally take months to plan and prepare)full of Marines has been whistled up in a matter of hours to come to the aid of our heroes, resulting in a Laser Fight in Space!! This isn't the Battle of Yavin, this is James Bond!!Like many films of that era, it suffers from the Star Wars effect, where it feels the need to add lasers and space adventures so that it can keep with the current trend. But when you're dealing with James Bond, that cannot and will not work! Roger Moore's acting is quite enjoyable, with his endless run of One-Liner's coming over the hill like the American's at Iwo Jima and Michael Lonsdale makes a really good villain as the menacing and calculative Drax. But other than that, this film falls through the floor faster than Dr Schnider in The Last Crusade. Don't get me wrong, the idea of Social Cleansing with Nerve Gas can make a good story, but not when you apply it in Space with Lasers. It could have been a regional thing, possibly an act of Chemical Warfare on a neighbouring country, or an attempt at Ethnic Cleansing, but no, they had to drag it to the stars and leave it with it's head in the clouds. It's long winded, overly complex and just cannot be Bond... "},{"Title":"Even his name is an innuendo","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film proves that Roger Moore is the best bond. Not only does he make a safari suit look like standard attire, his innuendos pack more punch than a Rocky Balboa uppercut. However this film suffers from a ridiculous plot (even for a bond film), terrible special effects, a disappointing theme tune and a supporting cast that would look out of place on the set of JAG.These downfalls are overcome by the blazing performance of Moore. even though he looks like he could qualify for his bus pass, Moore is still sharper than Martin Lawerence covered in broken glass. If you want a serious bond film with a plot look towards The Living Daylights, The Man With the Golden Gun or From Russia With Love. Otherwise sit down, relax and appreciate the greatest comedy until Caddyshack 2. "},{"Title":"Its one of the most obviously flawed Bond films but it is enjoyable and thats what counts for Bond","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My Rating *** out of ****. I have been reviewing James Bond films from the Volume 2 pack I got for Christmas. I have seen You Only Live Twice, Diamonds are Forever, and now Moonraker. So far out of those three the one that I like the best is You Only Live Twice. In fact, I hated Moonraker when I first saw it.I can honestly say now I have a favorable reaction towards Moonraker. Its not quite as good YOTL but it is certainly better than Diamonds are Forever. Like Diamonds, Moonraker is hailed as one of the worst Bond films. To be frank, it is easy to have that kind of reaction. The plot is absolutely preposterous Bond in Space? That was my reaction the first time. It is quite obvious Moonraker has flaws, I mean nearly every Bond film has flaws.One disappointment about Moonraker is how terribly bland the Bond Girl turns out to be. Despite being attractive, Lois Chiles is dull as Holly Goodhead. She is definitely better than say Jill St. John as Tiffany Case but pales to the likes of Ursula Andress and Honor Blackman. This was one of the problems I had with Moonraker the first time I saw it and its still a problem here.Michael Lonsdale is solid as Drax but he still cannot stand up with the greater villains. In many ways Richard Kiel is much more memorable as Jaws. He has an undeniable screen presence and is not someone you would want to run into in an alley (this happens in the film). Although he undoubtedly pales to Connery and even Brosnan, Roger Moore is quite good as Bond here. He has a certain charm that makes him memorable but at the same time his film gets a little silly. This is the first film I have seen with Moore as Bond. The special effects in Moonraker are quite impressive. They are at least close to being as good as Star Wars special effects. The action scenes are all done well. My favorite being the Cable Car scene. Moonraker will more likely be looked at as a weaker Bond. It is by no means a great film or a great Bond. But it is definitely a good Bond that (for the most part) will keep you entertained from start to finish.  "},{"Title":"BOND#11 007 Zooms into Orbit","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" MASTER PLAN Eliminate the human race (with a toxin derivative of orchids, no less) and start over with a new master race. Bond finally makes it into outer space, a dozen years after just missing his chance in You Only Live Twice. Capitalizing on the success of the previous The Spy Who Loved Me and taking advantage of the recent sci-fi craze following Star Wars, the producers ended up with the most financially successful Moore Bonder, but the positive aspects pretty much end there. There is a fairly exciting theft of a space shuttle in the beginning and the rest of the teaser is great - a flabbergasting use of skydiving to create a special thrill - but even here, it ends on a disquieting note returning giant henchman Jaws, mugging for the camera, is made to look like a clown as he falls on top of a circus tent. Singer Bassey returns for the 3rd time to sing over the credits (after Diamonds Are Forever) and it's her least effort. With the same director and a few other elements duplicating the better stuff of the previous Bonder, there's a 'by-the-numbers' feel to the storyline. Even worse, there's too much tongue-in-cheek, with Bond grinning away many of the threats to his well being and almost winking at the camera. When Q presents Bond with his latest gadget (a wrist gizmo which fires darts) in M's office, it comes across as perfunctory, almost tedious, and even laughable considering all the high tech weaponry we see later. This was, by the way, actor Bernard Lee's final performance as M.Bond's mission takes him to California at first, where the main villain has seemingly transplanted a big chunk of France to set up his own private kingdom (it's actually filmed in France, natch). This sequence expands on the usual master villain's domain premise, going all the way back to the first one, Dr. No, and very similar to Stromberg's lair of the previous film. The villain has unlimited funds (it's mentioned that he even purchased the Eiffel Tower) and so much money has apparently gone to his head in a very bad way. Later, of course, we see that his domain has been expanded beyond even the constraints of the Earth and his master plan denotes an ego of monstrous proportions, making even Hitler look short-sighted in his ambitions, yet there's no sense of actual megalomania which we've come to expect of Bond's top nemesis. It's telling that the only really threatening scene here involves a couple of trained dogs. Bond then travels to Venice, Rio de Janeiro (where there's another action scene very high up on a couple of cable cars), the Amazon jungle and, finally, into orbit around the Earth, being dogged by Jaws and a few other minor henchmen most of the way. Most of the chasing involves water sports, such as in the canals of Venice and on the Amazon River; rather than a gimmicked auto, Bond employs souped up boats in this one. Rather than sharks or piranha, Bond tangles with a snake in the water, a misconceived and pointless scene (there has to be a weird animal threat, based on previous Bonders). His ally, a female scientist/covert CIA agent (Chiles), continues the liberated woman concept begun in The Spy Who Loved Me. The problem here is that Chiles' line delivery is very flat, somewhat robotic, as if she were reading her lines off a script placed just off camera. Maybe the actress was nervous, being in her first big blockbuster role.But, the problem extends to the other major roles, as well, including master villain Drax. The actor Lonsdale has been superb in many other roles (as in The Day of the Jackal), but here he is very stiff, in monotone, as if someone was pointing a laser gun at his head during his acting scenes, threatening to pull the trigger if he dared to emote even slightly. In fact, he seems quite bored during the entire movie; this suggests an intriguing concept, that the villain has decided to change the world simply because he's bored with the whole thing, but, unfortunately, the boredom attaches itself to the viewer. By contrast, Stromberg, though not the most colorful of villains, at least suggested a necessary mania to convey why the world must be altered in his godlike view. Worst of all is the revised approach to the brutish Jaws character, who behaves more and more like a buffoon as the film progresses, rather than the scary killer of The Spy Who Loved Me (the only bad guy to be brought back from a previous Bonder, this seems, in retrospect, an error). Especially cartoonish is his mortified expression at the end of each fight with Bond, as he heads for another painful disaster. It reaches Monty Pythonesque proportions when Jaws meets his new lady love, recalling scenes from the James Bond parody Casino Royale from 1967. The whole thing ends up on a huge space station, with a battle now parodying blazing laser guns of conventional sci-fi pictures. This station was meant to be a modern Noah's Ark, with a group of couples meant to begin a new human race, but I think Drax and his scientists overlooked the limited genetic variation of such a small start-up; all these perfect specimens either disappear or are killed in the finale - it's a sign of the film's weaknesses that I didn't pay much attention to this. Moore, just past 50 at this point, looked good for his age, but he probably should have been retired after this one. He, as Bond, would return in For Your Eyes Only. Bond7 Villain6 Femme Fatales5 Henchmen5 Fights7 Stunts/Chases7 Gadgets6 Auto5 Locations9 Pace7 overall6+ "},{"Title":"Not the Best Bond Movie...  Or even a decent one","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, I'm not the biggest fan of James Bond you'll find, but I've seen my share of them. Now, I was never crazy about Roger Moore to begin with but it wasn't just his performance that makes this one of my least favorite Bond films. The plot is weak and it seems like the main drive behind this film was to earn popularity (and money) in the same way Star Wars A New Hope had done just two years earlier. The attempts at action are laughable and often times portray way more violence than is necessary. Granted the usual dry humor can be found through Bond's comments and social situations (which is why I gave it some credit) but everything just seems forced. It's almost like the producers felt obligated to make Moonraker to appease the fans who didn't want to wait a few extra years for them to come up with a good script. In my opinion they'd have done the fans a huge favor by forgoing this mistake. "},{"Title":"Moonstinker","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has a couple good scenes but that's just about it. Certainly the opening free fall parachute scene was perhaps the best ever conceived for an opening. Even the Moonracker theme song is very beautiful and a bit haunting but the movie is all froth with little substance. Perhaps little children might find the gondola chase scene entertaining but that only shows how bad this series has become since the glory days of From Russia With Love and Goldfinger. Bond is now pretty much a space cowboy who knows how to fly a space shuttle, steer a motorized gondola, ride a horse, free fall from an airplane, maneuver a runaway gurney, and put the shuttle on autopilot so he can have sex with bland Dr. Goodhead. Hmmm...I remember when James Bond used to be a ruthless spy not Flash Gordon. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I may have the minority opinion, but Roger Moore is w/o a doubt my favorite 007. He has true charm, is extremely handsome, and is unintentionally funny. His facial expressions are also quite priceless. This movie is probably the most criticised of any in the series, but certainly has its merits. It's a sleeper and is a bit hokey, but has real entertainment value. The villain is Drax, a worthy nemesis. Suave and sophisticated, wealthy, sarcastic, and supremely pompous, he exemplifies what a 007 foe should be. Dr. Holly Goodhead (oh so subtle) is Moore's primary love interest, and is embodied by the stunning Lois Chiles. Although all installments are quite incredible, this one perhaps pushes the envelope a bit too far. Still, aside from this most obvious and other flaws, this is a very enjoyable (and quite funny) film. The highlight of the movie is the soundtrack. Moonraker sung by Shirley Bassey is a gorgeous song, and sets the tone nicely. At any rate, worth watching. "},{"Title":"The first Bond movie I saw in a theater...","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've always appreciated Roger Moore's dashing portrayal of Bond, even thought he didn't have the authority of Connery. This particular story is a favorite, combining all the features I've come to expect from 007--goofy gags, wonderful gadgets, along with a bit of action and suspense. Only ten years after Neil Armstrong landed on the moon, the space scenes are period-accurate, though not altogether realistic. It's a romp through old technology...and one more reason that the list of things evil megalomaniacs should avoid grew as long as it did. I enjoyed the return of Richard Kiel as Jaws...hardly makes a sound, but makes his presence known nonetheless. The no-gravity scene at the space station near the end is a little cheesy, with space marines going after the bad guys with weapons we haven't seen even twenty-five years later.It's a James Bond movie, for crying out loud...not the best one, but I think one of the good ones.  "}{"Title":"Bond as science fiction?","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bond steps into the realm of space in this clearly Star Wars inspired adventure. In this film the series has abandoned any sense of realism in the vein of an espionage thriller. The film is a sci-fi adventure. As such it is fairly entertaining although Mr. Moore is starting to show his age at this point and believability already on the wane is really stretched here. The Bond girls here are not in the top tier in my opinion. Jaws a formidable opponent in Spy is a caricature in Moonraker and Drax while not as bad as Kananga is far from anything approaching Scaramanga. Still the sets and special effects were quite good for their time and overall one feels he reached a reasonable degree of escapism for two hours. On the other hand the series, after the highlight of Spy, is starting to have an eerie feeling of creekiness and it's not just coming from Roger Moore's knees! 6/10  "},{"Title":"silliest of the series but still great fun","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker is regarded by many Bond fans as the worst film of the series. It is certainly the silliest,and the furthest from Ian Fleming. The slapstick which was a big part of the Roger Moore era is most prominent here,with the result that there is hardly any actual tension. The film is packed with action scenes,more than most other Bond films,ranging from an eye-popping opening sky-diving fight to a fight on a cable car to two boat chases,but most of them are almost ruined by too many laughs in them. The gadgets are also too prominent-though an essential part of Bond,here Bond never seems in danger because you know he'll have something on him to get him out of it. Also the basic plot is almost lost beneath the frivolity and constant changes of location. And Jaws,returning from The Spy Who loved Me,is just an annoyance,some of his scenes are cringeworthy,such as when he finds love.Yet I think too many people 'slag off' the film completely. It sets out to be and still manages to be great,fun entertainment. The locations,including Brazil and Venice,are great,the film is never dull for a moment and the last half hour,if bordering on complete fantasy,does have effects which are still really impressive. Moore by now has his light-weight Bond down to a T and Michael Lonsdale is one of his best villains,delivering some of his lines with relish. John Barry delivers another fine score,less dynamic than his other Bond work but often eeriely beautiful as with the shuttle flight sequence,and the theme song is lovely.Not a film for Fleming purists maybe but still good,'switch your brain off' fun! "},{"Title":"Is this a Bond film? Could've fooled me","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Could have spoilersMoonraker was not intended to be the follow-up to the tired The Spy Who Loved Me. For Your Eyes Only was to be the 11th James Bond adventure, but the success of Star Wars had Cubby Brocoli make the decision to take the villain, title, and nothing else from the novel and send Bond into space. Cubby maintained in the production that it wasn't science fiction; it was science fact. But that isn't the case, and this film both isolates itself from the rest of the films AND seems tired.To begin with, the story is good. Very good. But it's hidden beneath everything else in the film. The ridiculous attempts at humor in the script make the film very boring, and the overall plot of the villain; destroying the world and then re-creating it; is a carbon copy of The Spy Who Loved Me and even more ridiculous. Space shuttles existed then, but a space station like that and a space program that organized wasn't even thinkable back in the 1970s, and it doesn't even exist today. With everything that goes on the film, you don't think of it as a Bond picture. It's either an elaborate, overly-dramatic science fiction film or a drama with some science fiction in it.Roger Moore again gives a tired performance, and the female lead; CIA agent Holly Goodhead, is again rather pathetic. Yes, she's an astronaut and scientist, and she can fight, but why couldn't she fight the goons who knocked her and James out? The acting by the person in the role isn't Bond quality. Jaws's return was un-needed and he could've easily become Bond's ally without the worthless, puny girlfriend. A lot of the suspense and intrigue at the beginning of the film looks and feels good, but because of the tired feel of the film and actors, it doesn't really work.The film is better than TSWLM, however. Special effects of this sort belong in Star Wars, not 007, but you could never tell that the filmmakers didn't actually go up into space and shoot real spacecraft. The models and rewound camera techniques are far more impressive and believable than any kind of CGI used in the new Star Wars films. The music is very beautiful. The interesting thing about this film and TSWLM is that, while the films are tired, the music is exciting, enchanting, and everything the film was supposed to be. We have good performances by Q and Moneypenny as usual, General Gogol and Fredrick Grey reappear, and we have a beautiful farewell performance from Bernard Lee as M. In his best performance as the head of MI6, Lee's final scene; seeing 007's love-making to Goodhead, is a bit of a copy-off of TSWLM, but he does it so well. No one can replace the original M, who died of cancer after filming. Hugo Drax is a very interesting villain, with a very interesting death.The film gets 5 and 3/4 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Who's been a cosmonaughty boy then?","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker is a no-cheque-book-spared romp, whose cheek in directly borrowing Spielberg's tunes (Close Encounters) and George Lucas' Death Star, among others, is mitigated by the scale and ambition of its own original production. And Ken Adam of course, who finds great beauty and his classical elliptical asymmetry even in a simple blast chamber, let alone the space station itself.In fact I would imagine that the greater part of the spending went on the location budgets. What's rather wonderful about Lewis Gilbert's film is that, in a miserable story about an evil eugenicist and his judging the calibre of humanity unsatisfactory, John Tournier's exquisite photography captures the unarguable urban beauty of Venice, Rio and Guatemala. Drax is dismissed in frame after gorgeous frame. Tournier even manages to make industrial California look utopian.Yet the drama is about wiping us all out in favour of a collection of beauty pageant contestants. I like the premise; it does away with the disingenuity of having an unstemmed trickle of attractive women walking into shot (men being grudgingly introduced later as the plot reveal demands it). That's not to say that the film is any good. The script is dismally offhand, stringing the locations and set pieces together like a French waiter taking an order from a tourist.Michael Lonsdale is totally credible as the insane old-European Drax and Richard Kiel plays out his second and final Jaws in exactly the manner Gilbert and indeed Moore need it. Lois Chiles, though she may be for many the best choice of all the women on screen to repopulate the earth not only for her looks but also her fictional intellect, ultimately turns out to be rather plain. 5/10 "},{"Title":"To the wannabe Bond purists who slated this film - Hey, go get a life!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    MOONRAKER is so far from being a dud Bond, its not funny! THUNDERBALL undoubtedly holds that honor, with THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH a close second! Never developed a taste for THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS either!MOONRAKER is a totally fun experience - precisely what a BOND film is supposed to be. Never have the innuendo's flowed better...DR Holly GOODHEAD? - u gotta be kidding! is THAT risque enough for you or not?  It also boasts the greatest and most subtle of villains, DRAX - Michael Lonsdale's finest cinematic moment, especially when he delivers the two greatest lines in all BONDom. Please take Mr Bond away and see that some harm comes to him! and the all time classic Would you please put Mr Bond out of my misery! Those two alone rate this up in the top half a dozen Bond capers.So what if it's stupid?  You want Shakespeare, go watch HENRY V! You want method acting? go catch ON THE WATERFRONT...you want subtle brilliance - watch SLEUTH, but if you just want a good time with a spot of action, pretty girls, and the only opportunity you'll ever have to see JAWS in love - stick with MOONRAKER!  and lay off this flick wouldja!Oh, by the way, it's a 6.9! "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water....","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ....Jaws returns! This is a pretty good movie but lets face it if Bond was going to go to outer space it should have been less Star War-ish and more Bond. It could have been more like in the beginning of You Only Live Twice or something similar. **out of****stars  "},{"Title":"Moonraker copies Close Encounter's","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Those who watched Close Encounter's of the Third Kind will remember the tune that all of the people who had close encounters were humming.That same tune was used again while communicating with the alien ship at the end of the film.Close Encounter came our in 1977.Moonraker seems to have paid homage to this film by including the Close Encounter's tune.The code used to enter the lab, when typed on the numeric keypad, plays out the Close Encounter's tune. "},{"Title":"sci fi Bond?","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A questionable entry in the Bond series, I think the Bond people were trying to go with the flow of the Star Wars and Star Trek movies, made about the same time. It wasn't a bad film, but the scifi parts were a bit much, I thought, as Bond goes to space to fight of his enemies. It was obviously done to capitalize on the sci fi films of the time.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's best.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to admit that when I began to watch Moonraker, I had very low expectations. I expected some sort of Bond-in-space nonsense that would have been a desperate attempt to add some new interest to the same old espionage Bond story. Ultimately, however, Moonraker is a surprisingly good installment in the Bond series, although a good portion of the film is filled with the same old garbage. The opening theme song is just as bad as they are in every single Bond film ever made that is not The World Is Not Enough, but then again, this is the 1970s, which is probably the decade that is associated with horrible music more than any other decade. The opening action sequence of Moonraker is a very honest attempt and almost stands as one of the better ones of the series, except that there were several things that were just done horribly wrong. Jaws, for example, saved Bond's life when he shoved him out of the plane after the bad guy, because it's not like he was going to go up to the cockpit and grab the controls, which had just been all shot up. The fight scene on the plane was boring and ineffectual, and the skydiving itself, although thankfully much of it was real footage, was screwed up, especially in the way that Bond kicked the bad guy and managed to send him sailing helplessly across the sky.The role of women in Moonraker was also something of particular disappointment. It is only minutes into the movie before Bond gets onto a helicopter piloted by some air-headed brunette, and then when he goes looking for Dr. Goodhead (not quite as creative as `Pussy Galore,' but still ridiculous to the point of being offensive), he finds her and comments, `A woman&#133;' Yeah, good observation, idiot. And then you have the fact that for the first couple of times that Bond meets with Drax, the film's villain, he is introduced to two beautiful women, who smile but leave as soon as they are introduced. The film's producers must have had a bunch of women standing around and they just wanted to throw them into the movie somewhere. There is also a scene where Drax has one of his female assistants killed by dogs for revealing information to Bond, and this scene is inexplicably drawn out with slow motion photography and lots of unnecessary footage of her running through the woods while the dogs chase her. This is so inappropriate that the entire scene looks like it was supposed to have been in a different movie, but mistakenly was left in here. And lets not forget that, in a goofy romantic scene, this woman had revealed to Bond that she had never learned to read. I bet the feminists had a field day with this movie in 1977.(spoilers) Jaws was also given an unenviable role in this installment. Clearly, he is not the most attractive guy, but in Moonraker, he is particularly ill-used. The cable car scene, for example, was one of the dumbest things I've ever seen in a Bond film (particularly Jaws' cartoonish jump from one cable car to the other), although it doesn't even compare to the idiotic idea of having a semi truck do a wheelie in License To Kill. And Jaws sure does have some bad luck in this movie. His ripcord comes off in his hand while skydiving in the opening scene, leaving him to fall into a circus tent. And can I point out that he fell out of a plane and came to no injury whatsoever? It's never explained how he avoided getting hurt in that scene, he just showed up again later in the film. And then the steering wheel of the boat comes off in his hand during the boat chase, leaving him to go over the waterfall and onto the jagged rocks below, yet he managed to miraculously avoid injury again. But I actually liked the way that Bond turned Jaws against Drax near the end of the film, turning him into a good guy, although I really hope that someone was fired for the idea of having him and a tiny tiny pig-tailed blonde girl fall in love and live happily ever after. That was ridiculous before he managed to pick a bottle of champagne and a couple of nice champagne glasses out of the rubble near the end of the film.And of course, at the end of the movie, Drax explains his outlandish plot to destroy the human race and replace it with his own perfect race with a bunch of his own chosen Adams and Eves, in true Scooby-Doo form. But it was a pretty impressive scene when they were chasing down the nerve-gas-laden globes near the end of the film, and the special effects (except the lasers) in the excellent final climax were very impressive. Also listen for the musical code to get into Drax labs in the middle of the film, you may recognize it as the tune that was played back and forth between the humans and the aliens in Close Encounters of the Third Kind, and we also see the origin of that hilarious tiny camera from Austin Powers in this film.There is a scene here where Bond turns a canoe into a hovercraft that is able to move along without any fans, there is a fight scene between Bond and some sort of samurai that is a pathetic excuse to break a lot of stuff, and as is usually the case, the villain girls always mean to kill him but wind up sleeping with him. This is just an example of the crap that fills this and most other Bond films, but Moonraker manages to get past that and come through with a relatively interesting story. Nothing spectacular, but Moonraker is good for a Bond film, which is especially impressive because it stars the worst James Bond ever&#133;  "},{"Title":"007 in space.......","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Roger Moore's 4th 007 film, 'Moonraker' promises everything, literally, but leaves you with the feeling that you're missing something familiar..... First of all, Roger looked very comfortable in the role, and charmed his way around every scene, but what's new? Anyway, bond girl 'Holly Goodhead' (Lois Chiles) delivers a stern performance as a strong willed woman, who tries to match 007 in every way! The plot includes billionaire space designer 'Hugo Drax' (Michael Lonsdale) attempting to create a space station in space, literally, and agent 007 trying to find the missing Moonraker shuttle, which was stolen in mid-air. The scenery is very nice with France, Venice and Guatemala providing key location spots. Bernard Lee is present, in his last 007 film, and so too is 'Jaws' (Richard kiel) who stars as Drax's bodyguard, and the scenes between him and 007 provide the amusement. The theme tune performed by Shirley Bassey is very haunting and very under-rated, under the talents of John Barry and Hal David. Overall, a fun film, which has many flaws, but hugely enjoyable nevertheless. A film I recommend is 'The Spy Who Loved Me'(1977), the previous 007 film before this, yet far superior in plot, performances and action, and a brilliant theme tune performed by Carly Simon. "}{"Title":"You missed Mr. Bond!   DID I?","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie is worth watching for those lines alone. It still makes me smile.I just love Moore as Bond.He's neither better or worse than Connery in my book. Just different.It may not be the best Bond film ever but it does have some of my favorite Bond moments.Jaws expression going over the waterfall. The pet python. The name Goodhead.Worth watching twice. Or more.I discovered he had a crush on me. Indeed.  "},{"Title":"Double 0h-Please!","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moonraker is far from a boring film, but I can think of few action pictures that have ever been more frustrating. What we have here is the opportunity for a tight, exciting, gloriously spectacular 007 adventure, but due to the filmmakers' decision to substitute juvenile humour for thrills at every opportunity, the final result is sporadically enjoyable at best, placing this overblown entry on the very bottom rung of the Bond ladder (well, the official Bond ladder anyway - at least it's still miles ahead of Never Say Never Again). Keen observers may notice that the end credits of The Spy Who Loved Me stated James Bond Will Return in 'For Your Eyes Only'. And if you'll pardon the pun, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out the success of a little film called Star Wars inspired the producers to send 007 to outer space instead.Needless to say, that decision was a far cry from Ian Fleming's original vision. His original novelization of Moonraker was a solid page-turner about an megalomaniacal villain's scheme to fire a nuclear rocket into the heart of London and even contained a scene where Bond almost makes the shocking decision to sacrifice his own life to save the city. This time, the villain wants to wipe out all life on earth and start his own utopia of perfect human specimens. Of course, ludicrous storylines like this are what make the Bond franchise what it is, but this is probably the only entry in the series that actually manages to be MORE silly than the Austin Powers films that spoof it. The first half hour gives an indication of how much better the film might have been had it played things more straight. Things start off dynamically with a breathtaking sky-diving sequence that is undoubtedly one of the best teasers in the series and also earns high marks later on for a scene in which Bond is trapped helplessly on a G-force simulator. It is one of the very few instances in the series where 007 is left too shaken up to even utter a one-liner, but unfortunately, this is the ONLY moment in the film where an action setpiece is not completely obliterated by an overuse of low, cornball humour and juvenile sight gags.By the time Moonraker has reached its outer space finale, all suspense has been drained away and the flashy battle sequence, while undoubtedly expensive, is pretty underwhelming, especially when compared to the climactic setpieces in The Spy Who Loved Me. The supporting cast also does little to enhance the proceedings. Lois Chiles is awfully wooden as the aptly-named heroine, Dr. Holly Goodhead, and Michel Lonsdale, despite having a great deal of witty dialogue (Take good care of Mr. Bond. See that some harm comes to him), is one of the more dull Bond villains, mainly because he speaks in monotone throughout the entire film and doesn't even seem to truly relish his evil schemes. And then there's the character of Jaws, who was arguably the most memorable Bond villain of them all in TSWLM, but has his credibility completely shattered here. The character is now portrayed as an inane buffoon who could never stop 007 if his life depended on it, and a scene midway through in which he suddenly falls head-over-heels in love has got to be the most embarrasing moment in the entire series, bar none! As you can imagine, I didn't much care about anything that happened in the film after that, which pretty much sums why Moonraker is so frustrating. 007 has always held a license to be as he silly as he wants, but this particular entry demonstrates that boundaries DO have to be drawn somewhere. You know you're in the trouble when it gets to the point where the appearance of Mini-Me would lend more credibility to the proceedings! "},{"Title":"The worst of the series...","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before Goldeneye, this was the highest money grossing Bond film of all time, which is sad.  From the title song, to the villain, to the trashing of Jaws, to the stupid space conflict in the end with laser beams, it has THE worst of the worst of the series.  Roger Moore, my personal favorite Bond (although I no no one will agree with me), looks tired all the time or confused.  All the death traps featured have been done before.  There's a lot of unnecessary and ineffective goofiness.  The villain and the plot are straight out of a sci-fi turkey of the 50s... It's plain stupid.The only James Bond movie that I haven't been able to watch more than once... "},{"Title":"Formulaic, Childish","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Basic plot outline - On returning from a tropical place, James Bond finds out that a mastermind has come up with a plan to make a fortune / rule the world / destroy the world. James Bond must find out who it is and stop him, preferably going to three to five different exotic locations, doing it with two to four beautiful women en route, be shot at hundreds of times (but never wounded), etc, etc.I didn't bother filling in the details. As you probably know, the James Bond series relies heavily upon formula. Above is the generic storyline for all the films. At the moment, I can't think of one which does not fit into the above very well. This movie is another example. In fact, this relies upon formula more than most James Bond films. Formula isn't necessarily a bad thing (if done well), but formula done badly can be worse than an original film done badly.This James Bond fits into the latter category in that it relies heavily on the formula, and doesn't do it particularly well.My main problem with this is that the plot is a lot weaker than most other Bonds. Basically, Bond finds the evil superpower very quickly, then wanders aimlessly around many exotic locations, then finds himself in Space. To be good, this movie really needs a stronger plot.On the plus side, the James Bond name does guarantee a certain level of quality. Almost from day one, they have drawn huge expenditure from studios (which usually reap huge rewards), and this is no different. The action takes place in not only about 5 different cities around the world, but in Space (in order to cash in on the post-Star Wars sci-fi money). It also has the usual amount of huge explosions, (they always sneak one of these in) a long Motor-Boat chase, loads of gadgets, and they rarely use the same set twice.On the down side (apart from its predictibility), i'd say the whole movie is much too stupid. At the end of the seventies, and the start of the eighties, James Bond films seemed to be stuck in a comic book phase, with the inclusion of characters like Jaws - the man with teeth (and presumably Jaws) made out of some sort of super-hard metal. When punched on the face, the puncher will get a sore hand. When shot at (conveniently always in the mouth), the bullet is deflected magically by his super-strong teeth. Of course, this will go down great with the 8-12 year olds in the audience. For the more mature audience, we can rest assured that Jaws was killed (or maybe not - you never know with Bond films) at the end of this one.However, the movie does suffer a lot from its predictability, hence my rating of 3 stars.David Bridson "},{"Title":"Of all the shots Bond took, this one misses the mark.","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moonraker is the weakest of all Bond films.  Cashing off the release of Star Wars, this movie is contrived of originality.  Bond has the stupid slapstick jokes, and the movie is just a homage to sci-fi.  Drax tries to be a Stromburg, with his stupid super race too.  The beginning scene was pretty good, I guess, and I liked Bond's Dart Gun.  But still, I don't get this Bond film. Then another note, Jaws is nothing but a stupid lackey in this film, I mean one moment you see him chase you, the other he becomes an accident-prone henchman, similar to accidentally prone Kenny, but never dies.  This is one of the worst Bond movies. "},{"Title":"Bad Bond, but still fun.","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moonraker is not quite the nadir of the series--that distinction is left for View to a Kill--but it comes close.  Made to capitalize on the Star Wars craze it is a virtual remake of The Spy Who Loved Me turned silly.  Bond now seems along for the ride as the special effects take over.  Jaws is back, but now instead of being menacing he's just silly.  And yet there are still a number of exciting scenes, just enough to make the whole mess worth while. It may be bad Bond, but it still manages to be fun. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The bottom of the James Bond barrel. Aside from the pre-title sequence and the very end, this film blows. Whereas what made A View to a Kill poor was not enough good stuff (Mayday didn't help, either), this flick had a bunch of bad stuff. The fight scenes were pathetic and fake-looking. Jaws defeats the purpose of the Bond villain in this. Bond villains are supposed to be insane people who try to take over the world, not superhuman immortals. (Samedi was an exception, but a good one)  None of the women are memorable. The plot has been done to death. Read the book; it's much better. "},{"Title":"You missed, Mr. Bond! (Did I?)","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moonraker marks one of the low points in the Bond series; a few interesting  (even exciting) sequences strung together by a thin plotline and only two  memorable pieces of dialogue.  Moonraker serves as an example of what can  happen when a good but non-science-fiction francise jumps on to a science -fiction bandwagon begun by Star Wars.  At the very least, there are a few  good scenes  the teaser, the swordfight in the glass factory, the pheasant  hunting, etc.  Jaws is brought back from The Spy Who Loved Me, but rather  than act as a superhuman henchman, his antics become reminiscent of Wile E.  Coyote.  Luckily, by For Your Eyes Only, Jaws is gone, Roger Moore is less  glib and more lethal, and the soundtrack is back on key. "},{"Title":"More Pompously Than Ever.","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There was not much left of Ian Fleming's novelty original character James Bond by 1979. A pretty satisfied Roger Moore flesh out his modern fashion suits between the tiring pun, never even bother to draw his PPK once. By then the most expensive 007 movie so far - of course - but hundreds of miles from being discussed even in the mid rankings of all Bonds.I think time ran out for that vaulting joinery the film team had become, and the competition with contemporary big-time movies made the producers lose some genuine Bond feeling on the way. In all it feels a little paradoxical, this Moonraker movie.But it entertains all right, no question about that. A twelve year old today still can enjoy this to the fullest. But it is kind of a patchwork, with the traveling around the world theme, and the action scenes feels like more of fill-ins when the dialogue loses it's way.But now to all my joys of Moonraker-The opening parachute scene is still a legendary classic, even by today's standards. Nowadays they just can computerize such scene.-The return of Jaws was a master stroke by the scriptwriters. He's needed when the movie sometimes fall asleep. The bloodthirstiness is there for a start, then lacks considerable....-CIA wonder woman Lois Chiles as Holly Goodhead. (My god, what a name. Ranks among the Goodnight's and Christmas's in 007 history.) Pretty as a picture; they straightened her natural curly hair just to get her Holly-look to feel right. As a participant of the world-wide popular TV-show DALLAS some year after this, she was allowed to show her natural hairdo (and bikini-filled curves) as another Holly, this time oil-business Harwood. -Michael Lonsdale does a great, psychic villain, with the ordinary grandiloquent plans. Cold and designing as we want them.-The returning of the bottle-man from TSWLM (now in Venice.) Catches some of the essential mood of this 007-era. Was to return for full-filling a triple appearance.-The bawled ending - who surely was half the budget - is quite good, not to say real excellent by then standards. Well money spent.But this was the end of such Star Wars-projects for EON productions. The 80's then started off quite brilliant.... "},{"Title":"Why didn't Oddjob get the chance . . .","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" . . . to save 300,000,002 lives, including that of James Bond himself? After all, Harold Sakata (who played Mr. Job in GOLDFINGER) represented America in the Olympics. What has Richard Kiel (the world-saving cannibalistic serial killer henchman character Jaws in MOONRAKER) ever done for U.S.? This is the sort of blatant racism--glorifying Caucasians over other Races--of which the tone-deaf James Bond series producers frequently are guilty, since the human rights movement never gained much of a toe-hold in England. While Kiel's Jaws obviously inspired Michael Tyson (who ate opponent Evander Holyfield's ear during their heavyweight championship bout) and Luis Suarez, the serial cannibal on Uruguay's World Cup soccer team, such a role model is not healthy in the long run. Though some citizens of the 21st Century may stomach MOONRAKER's inane space warfare sequences (which look far cruder than much earlier STAR TREK and STAR WARS episodes), few modern viewers will fail to cringe at MOONRAKER's racist casting stereotypes. "}{"Title":"Yet another blip!","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just as Bond recaptured the magic with The Spy who Loved Me, along came Moonraker, which was brought out in a rush because of the success of Star Wars. Sadly, this film and the quality of the finish really does reflect the producer's desperation to capitalize on it, and Moonraker slips into the reals of farce, though not as badly as it might have done if it had not been for some decent action scenes before the entrance into space.A space shutting belonging to Hugo Drax is stolen in mid-air, and because it happened on MI6's watch, Bond is sent to investigate. Bond discovers very quickly that Drax himself is behind the theft, and must quickly find out why. This takes him to Venice, where he discovers a laboratory that is manufacturing a very deadly nerve gas that harms only humans. He immediately reports this, and M visits himself, only to find that Drax has had the whole place cleared up as part of a cover up. Bond then travels ti Rio, where with the help of CIA agent Holly Goodhead, they discover the Drax is moving things further into the Amazon for a secret reason. He also discovers that his old foe, Jaws, is alive and well and now working for Drax. Eventually, Bond and Goodhead find themselves at a secret launch base in the Amazon, where they are blasted into Space because Drax has a large space station there, where he can kill everyone on Earth and repopulate it. As you can tell, this plot doesn't cut it. Yes, Connery nearly made it to Space in You only Live Twice, but that film had a far stronger plot than Moonraker, which leaves far, far too many holes in it's plot, and has too much farce (the double take on the pigeon, the classical music during Venice, the jokey CIA gadgets). Ultimately, it just loses the point. The plot is just to thin, and offers absolutely nothing new to the franchise even with Bond going into Space (an idea too far for a spy, I think). Still, this is not without some good points, thankfully. There are some great actions scenes between the rubbish. The fight between Bond and Chang in Venice is first rate, as is the Cable Car fight between Bond and Jaws. There's also a reasonable boat chase, though you do feel that it's a bit of a rehash of older Bonds, rather than a fresh Bond film.Another positive note is the villain, Hugo Drax, who I do rather like because of his understated, totally ruthless outlook. Look after Mr Bond. See that some harm comes to him. A good line, from a decent villain. A nice laugh for Sunday afternoon, I think. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Shaky but not stinky","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For a movie often billed as the worst Bond film of all time there seem to be an awful lot of people defending it. I'm old enough to remember seeing this when it first came out and my 12 year old self thoroughly enjoyed it and watching it again 34 years later it is still fun. It is rightly criticised for the silly gags and they are certainly annoying, the idea that a secret laboratory manufacturing a deadly nerve gas would use the theme from Close Encounters as the code to the door is so fatuous that it robs the film of credibility. It is also hard for a modern audience to watch the scenes from Drax's base without being reminded of Dr Evil's lair from the Austin Powers films. But all these criticisms miss the point of 70's Bond, these movies were not intended to be high art, they were entertainment for a teenage audience and as such this succeeded being one of the highest grossing Bond movies. "},{"Title":"Not really out of this world","Date":"27 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Bond movies typically exploit current headlines or the most recent craze in order to ensure the success of their movies and no more was it shamelessly done than in Moonraker (the science fiction craze of the 80s), followed by the Man with the Golden Gun( the kung fu craze of the 70s and Live and Let Die(the blackploitation craze of the 70s too).Obiously cashing in on the sensational success of Star Wars, Brocolli and his team decided to bring out their own science fiction cum espionage movie and Moonraker with the scifi sounding title was the obvious choice.The film starts with the hijack of space shuttle called Moonraker from the back of a 747. It beats the imagination why a shuttle fully loaded with fuel will be transported on the back of a 747 but then Bond movies never make sense. Neither is it explained why the shuttle was being sent to Britain in the first place. We just have to accept it.Bond is sent to investigate the mysterious disappearance and the most obvious place to start is Drax Industries, the builder of the space shuttles.There he encounters the megalomaniac who has his own plans to dominate the world(what else is new?), the sexy space guide Dr. Holly Goodhead who may not be all she seems, Chang the Chinese henchman and the return of (Yikes!), Jaws.This was Roger Moore's fourth outing in James Bond's 11 installment. And he really hammed it up here. With his classic one liners, his humorous double entredes, Roger Moore was a hoot to watch. Simply hilarious and most memorable was a scene involving a would be assassin in a tree.Moonrakers suffers from trying to be a balance between a serious action packed film and a comedy. There is no tension at all or excitement in the action, mainly because all actions were heavily overtoned with comic effects.The movie becomes totally ridiculous ( but somehow strangely entertaining) when Bond's adventure takes him to outer space to battle the evil Darth Vad...(oops!) sorry, Drax in his space city. The weapons are not machine guns but laser guns. Thank God, the script writers resisted the temptation of adding light sabers.Michael Londsdale gave an understated performance as the villain Drax, obviously modelled on Wiseman's performance as Dr. No. He did not have the brilliance of Gert Frobe(Goldfinger) or the seductive menace of Donald Pleasance (Blofeld in YOLT).Bowing to criticisms of his films being sexist, Lois Chilles was given a more physically aggressive role as Goodhead and was the first Bond girl to kick ass. For once, a Bond woman stood alongside Bond fighting the bad guys and did not need to be rescued by Bond. In a subtle reversal of roles, she is the one giving Bond instructions on how to thwart Drax's plan for global annihilation.Jaws (Richard Kiel) made a surprising entrance first as Bond's adversary in the stunning aerial dominated pre credit sequences and eventually as his ally. Moonraker is not one of Roger Moore's best efforts but not his worst. The action sequences were not terribly exciting, especially as Roger Moore remained completely unruffled throughout. But then, only James Bond can take the rough so smoothly, even when he is out of this world! "},{"Title":"Diverting 007, But Not Engaging","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A scene in Moonraker sums up the whole experience of viewing the film today. Roger Moore, in his fourth Bond film, hangs from the roof of a cable car, gripping the side.Hang on, James! shouts his woman of the moment, Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles).Moore looks up, raising his eyebrow as only he and Gregory Peck can. The thought had occurred to me, he deadpans.The 007 franchise was hardly hanging on for dear life as the 1970s came to an end. Indeed, the series was never so popular as it was at that time. You wouldn't know that watching Moonraker today. The film is structurally and stylistically a mess, with odd bits of comedy and logic gaps too large for even seasoned Bond lovers to look past. Yet the film isn't dull in the least, anchored by Moore at his most spry and amiable.A space shuttle has gone missing, and Bond is sent to investigate. His suspicions center around Hugo Drax (Michael Lonsdale), who terminates employees with the aid of Dobermans and seems a little too eager to keep Bond going around in circles - at 20 Gs. With the aid of Dr. Goodhead, a gondola that drives on land, and a camera that sports his 007 logo, Bond finds his way to Drax's secret headquarters - a space station invisible from Earth.Was Albert Broccoli and the production team behind Moonraker trying to make a Bond comedy, or just mimic Star Wars? Broccoli claimed Moonraker was not like Star Wars or Close Encounters Of The Third Kind because his film was science fact, not science fiction. Well, there are no aliens in Moonraker, but there is a space station that somehow got built in Earth's orbit without anyone noticing. I call that fiction, and not very good at that.Drax is jolly fun as played by Lonsdale as a very different kind of Bond villain. He's very dry, pretty unflappable, and gets off some killer lines. Your desire to be America's first woman in space will shortly be fulfilled, Drax tells Goodhead as she is escorted to an airlock on the space station, one of several fantastic sets designed by the great Ken Adam.Chiles is a strange Bond Girl, her inexpressive face and atonal line readings suggesting a kind of covert protest by the actress at her character's off-the-charts double-entendre of a name. Faring worse is Richard Kiel as Jaws, as bad here as he was great in The Spy Who Loved Me due to some unfortunate softening of the once-deadly henchman-for-hire. (I did think his new girlfriend was cute, though.)Director Lewis Gilbert liked spectacle - his three Bond movies all feature big-battle finales on giant sets. But he never took Bond seriously, and this time the condition seems to have been contagious. Moonraker gets by on the strength of Moore's ability to play well against the inanities around him, and occasionally throws a scene at you good enough to make you wonder about what could have been had here with just a slightly straighter approach. "},{"Title":"Another Movie Mistake","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not bad Bond movie and effects at all, but they once again made Brasil looks like Mexico... Also I think it's because of Marlboro and 7up Sponsorship.A real shame, they don't even bother to ask an Brazilian how is his own country... and they came here to film... ( The movie made the biggest mistake when start the Marlboro music and Bond came on a horse like an Western Movie (this don't exist in Brasil and never was)I wonder how many countries have been mistaken in movies, may be even Unite States it's not what appear in movies...But after all, it's not bad Bond movie and the soundtrack and effects are better than previous Roger Moore movies. "},{"Title":"Bond In Space...","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" With the success of the 1977 Bond film The Spy Who Loved Me, producer Albert R. Broccoli, director Lewis Gilbert, executive producer Michael G. Wilson, and screenwriter Christopher Wood began work on the next film, For Your Eyes Only. But with the success of Star Wars, United Artists and the Bond creative staff choose to send 007 into outer space with an adaptation of Ian Fleming's third novel, Moonraker. It turned into one of the biggest missteps in the history of the series, that while it was a box-office success, it has become one of the black sheep of the series.Roger Moore's performance in this film is filled with his strongest attribute humor. Throughout Moonraker, Moore is spiting out one liners at every possible opportunity. This leaves Moore in sleepwalking mode. Once in the film does Moore show any vulnerability and that's in the film's most effective sequence the out of control centrifuge sequence. He is battered, lucky to be alive, and suspicious of everyone at Drax's plant. Because of the film's lack of character depth and a focus on humor, action, and special effects that ruin the film's main character and what should be the focus of the film.The lack of character depth continues on the film's leading lady, Holly Goodhead. Her introduction at the plant and her action before, during, and after the centrifuge sequence show her to be a mysterious and possibly threatening figure. But from the point that Bond meets her in Venice till the end of the film, Holly comes across as an emotionless ice princess. While intelligently written, Holly Goodhead is one of the most forgettable Bond Girls of the series.Of all the main characters, perhaps the worst of all is the villain, Hugo Drax. He is an aristocrat held in high regard by the whole world, stands (or rather sits) back and issues orders, and gives some of the worst lines ever delivered in the entire series. Michael Lonsdale is a fine actor but this badly written role is only further ruined by Lonsdale's low key style of acting.The supporting cast is good. Get beyond the disastrous return of henchman Jaws, which is only behind J.W. Pepper in LALD and TMWTGG in terms of cringe worthy comic relief, and the waste of a character that is Manuela, you have some good things to say. The film's best character is Drax's assistant Corinne Dufour. Her death in the forest at the teeth of Drax's dogs is only the second scene in the film to have tension. Drax's servant/henchman Chang is a much better character than Jaws and is the only one of the villains to have any menace and it is another shame that he's killed after the film's best fight sequence. As for the staff at MI6, Bernard Lee gives his best performance as M in a decade, Desmond Llewelyn gives a good performance as Q and gives the film's best line and Miss Moneypenny is once again given a massively down graded part.The action in this film is a mixed bag. The mid-air fight in the teaser is one of the best teaser sequences to appear in a Bond film and is just behind the ski jump in Spy, but it is ruined by the appearance of Jaws flapping his arms trying to land on a circus tent. The boat chase in Venice is rather bland and stoops down to the boat chase in TMWTGG, even copying it at times. To completely ruin it, the gondola hovercraft. The series is nothing like reality most of time, this is one of the cases where it stooped lower than the deepest spot on the ocean floor. Anyway, the fights in the film outside the fight in the Venice museum are worthy of a B movie rather than a Bond film. The boat chase in the Amazon is a great action sequence and is one of the easiest to watch of the film's action sequences. Even the battle on board the space station is lacking what made similar sequences in other films so memorable. The film's last action sequence has Bond trying to blow up a globe containing poison with a laser, proof that this film was doing it's best to copy Star Wars as this scene is just like the famous finale of that film minus Use the force, Luke. The sci-fi element of the film is what ruins it. The whole plot of stealing a space shuttle and the space station that can't be seen on radar are among the worst ideas to ever appear in a Bond film. The battle sequence and the finale sequence, as I discussed above, are all you need to realize that while Broccoli was aiming for science fact, not science fiction the film is sci-fi. If you need logic, avoid this film like the plague.If there is a bright spot in this film its John Barry's score. The score is never played for laughs and helps to add some much-needed tension to the film, particularly during Bond's sneaking around Drax's plant in Venice. The action music makes some of the series best use of the James Bond Theme and the romantic cues are very fitting. But the score doesn't quite seem up to par with his other scores. The main title theme is another classic from Shirly Bassey, though not as good as Goldfinger or Nobody Does It Better. But there is also the use of the Close Encounters Of The Third Kind theme, The Magnificent Seven theme, and other music is cringe worthy at best and proof of the emphasis on humor.Even with a decent supporting cast and a good score, the film is hampered down by bad main characters, mixed action sequences, bad humor, and overly sci-fi elements, Moonraker comes off as the third worst film of the series. "},{"Title":"Just proves that Bond should set trends, rather than follow them","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker is widely considered to be among the worst of the Bond films. So, where do I start with this? The pre-credits sequence seems appropriate. Some kind of disaster happens, M is informed and instructs Moneypenny to retrieve 007, Bond is seen canoodling a beautiful girl who turns out to betray him, Bond escapes death by doing some death-defying stuns. (yawn) It feels like we've seen it all before, and that's exactly because we have, in the form of 'The Spy Who Loved Me'. Everything about Moonraker is basically the same as the previous film.Firstly, the plot is a straight copy. An incredibly wealthy businessman plans to wipe out the human race and create a new civilisation (this time in space, as opposed to under the sea). Bond is paired up with a fellow secret agent (this time from the CIA) and investigates the villains plan and eventually foils it at the last possible moment. I suppose the fact the screenplay is by Christopher Wood (an experienced comedy writer) who also wrote 'Spy' doesn't help. There is little originality in the script and it often resorts to cheap jokes to complete the otherwise dull scenes.Roger Moore's Bond is at his most flippant here and is occasionally downright rude (quite similar to Connery in Goldfinger or Thunderball). He makes constant patronising remarks against Dr Holly Goodhead (and women in general) and even when Bond tries to be funny he falls flat on his face. Holly Goodhead is perhaps the most uninteresting Bond girl in the series. Though she doesn't exactly make a convincing CIA agent, the audience admires Holly for being able to put up with Bond's remarks without slapping him, and she often shoots him down with her sardonic replies. Hugo Drax has the potential to be one of the best villains, though sadly it is wasted. Michael Lonsdale is a great actor and he does have some of the best lines in the whole film, but he is given little else to do than think up schemes to kill 007. (Though admittedly, he does come closer to succeeding than any previous Bond villain) One of the main atrocities of Moonraker is the return of Jaws. This time he becomes a walking barrel of 'laughs', and is even given a girlfriend, who happens to be half his height (oh Mr Wood, you're killing us with these jokes!)The set pieces are just plain ridiculous, the Bondola scene is the most pathetic idea ever for a James Bond film, I'm astonished this made the final cut (Ian Fleming would be spinning in his grave). The parachute jump is hardly exciting either as it is ruined by the 'circus music', and the final space battle looks incredibly cheap (even for 1979 it looks dated, Star Wars did a much better job just two years earlier). One particularly nasty sequence worth mentioning involves one of Drax's assistants, Corinne Du For, being hunted down and killed by his two Doberman dogs.Just in case the first 2 thirds of the film aren't dull enough for the audience, Moonraker gets even worse when Bond leaves the planet in a stolen space rocket. The whole idea of James Bond going into space in the first place is just absurd anyway. Bond used to be about espionage and secrecy, not laser battles in outer space. Also, how did Bond suddenly become world famous? He is supposed to be a SECRET AGENT for god's sake and yet he is recognised wherever he goes.Moonraker is just plagued with problems from the start. The hero is a sexist pig as opposed to a charming gentleman spy, the plot just about hangs together thanks to ludicrous coincidences and the whole film in general just lacks the 'spark' that James Bond films are supposed to have. You can't help wondering why this film was even made in the first place. So, the Hollywood trend at the time was sci-fi movies, but James Bond doesn't follow trends, he sets them! "},{"Title":"Holy Bond in Space Batman!","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The James Bond series has always swung like a pendulum along a line of stupidity, flitting from more or less realistic spy thrillers like 'From Russia With Love' to the sheer ridiculousness of 'Die Another Day' with it's invisible cars and never-sleeping villains. 'Moonraker' is one of those entries which is very far removed from your standard spy film and from it's opening sequence of a space shuttle theft blowing up a 747 to the gloriously over the top laser gun climax, it wears its colours proud; this is James Bond as an action franchise with tongue lodged firmly in cheek.Whether you enjoy it the first time you catch it on one of the multitudes of Bond seasons that frequent television schedules these days then will depend on your mindset at the time. If for example you believe that Bond begins and ends with that Scottish man that everybody does impressions of then this isn't going to be the movie to change your mind. In Roger Moore's defence though, he is more than competent in the role and should be celebrated for playing the character his way, rather than trying to copy his predecessors. His version of James is like a public schoolboy on a round the world trip who also happens to be a deadly assassin; all double-entendres and raised eyebrows allied to a ruthless killing efficiency. Interesting to note that he only fires one gun in the entire movie, but just look at how he does it - effortlessly dispatching a would-be hit-man before nodding an arrogant gesture of triumph at Super Villain Of The Week Drax.However, if you're ready for a bit of mindless escapism with plenty of bad one liners (I think he's attempting re-entry sir), large explosions and beautiful women then this is certainly a lot more entertaining than some of the horrific misfires that would dog Brosnan's post-Goldeneye jaunts. Barely ten minutes elapses between set pieces before our man in the tuxedo finds a new way to get into peril and some of them are excellent. His bull-in-a-china-shop brawl with a Japanese martial artist in the middle of an art gallery for example is a riot, the two combatants smashing priceless artifacts to pieces with such reckless abandon there's barely time to question why Drax's henchman has brought a wooden sword to the fight. And then there's Jaws. Oh yes, Jaws. Richard Kiel returns for his second and final time as the metal-toothed and indestructible giant and though he manages to speak only four words in the entire movie, he is still one of the most memorable aspects, his facial expressions summing it all up. Just look at those bulging eyes and the slack jawed terror when his speed boat first pitches over the side of a colossal waterfall, or his frantic attempts to fly when a parachute fails to open. Kiel is nothing less than a scene stealer all the way through and while some may moan about him becoming more of a slapstick foil this time around, just check out the moment where he advances in a carnival costume down on a dark alley on one of his foe's numerous lady friends; cold and evil menace made reality.In short then one of the most riotously-enjoyable entries in the franchise. It's not a classic by any means and the fun factor hinders that status as much as it helps it, but it's still a worthy entry. It may have a higher level of a camp than an episode of the old Adam West Batman TV series, but as one of the suave super-spy's less cerebral adventures it definitely delivers the goods. "},{"Title":"It was good until they got into space!","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Things started so well for this instalment in the Bond series, there was an effective villain in the form of Michael Lonsdale's Hugo Drax with his dry Goldfinger like witticisms and evil demeanour, an excellent Bond Girl in the form of NASA and CIA agent Holly Goodhead who provided an intelligent and strong opposite character for Bond and marked the welcome start of a trend towards more dominant and strong willed Bond girls.We even had excellent touches such as Q and his most infamous closing line, the return of old favourite Jaws and plethora of scantily clad beauties naturally.However there are bad points - two powerboat chases in this film make for a total of four near identical action sequences in the last three instalments, the space effects are laughable (the flimsiest space station ever built surely?) and don't even mention the scientific holes and zero gravity sequences!Sadly this also marked the passing of long term resident Bernard Lee as M although he maintained a distinguished presence throughout and we will always be thankful for the wonderful contribution he has made over the years.If you can hold your disbelief and maybe squint a bit at the space sequences then this is more than passable but should have been much better.  "},{"Title":"Ridiculous but fun!","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everyone always says that Moonraker is the worst bond and it's pathetic. Therefore I've never hired it and there's always been something else on TV when it was on. After getting the 007 DVD box set, I've been watching the Bond movies in order. Tonight was Moonraker, so I put the DVD in and expected the worst. Everyone who knocks this one need to loosen up! Sure it's stupid and easily the most absurd Bond movie, but I still found it very entertaining. Bond is hardly a realistic show. Even the most realistic Bond movies are still 50% fantasy. Obviously Moonraker isn't the best Bond movie, but it's still a very entertaining way to spend 2 hours.To put it simply, I probably wouldn't have purchased it seperately, but I'm certainly not annoyed about it being included in the 007 box set.I rate this one at 6/10 "}{"Title":"Bond goes beyond the beyond!! Fun stuff for 2 hours","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After putting Bond back on the right road in 1977, Lewis Gilbert returns to directing duties for what is the most absurd film in the series. Moonraker is weak, it's not original, essentially the same plot from the previous film and Bond in space? Yikes, it's too much, but it's rather entertaining if you don't think.The film relies on locations, one-liners and set-pieces. Bond doesn't have to do much, it's really far out, it's excessive, it's just toooo big!I grew up with Moonraker, this must be the reason why I have an attachment to it.Jaws is back, he shouldn't have returned, I cringe at some of the stuff he does here!Drax is not an original villain, but is played well by Lonsdale. Roger Moore is quite comfortable as 007 by 1979, but doesn't have much to do. Lois Chiles is my favourite Bond girl, but only because she looks hot, her role is under-written!The special effects are awesome, Meddings out does himself yet again, the model photography is stunning.Glad to have John Barry back for scoring duties, the Bond theme is a welcome edition! This Bond is way over-the-top but it's entertaining but in terms of Bond, it's really weak. Does Bond return to Earth in For Your Eyes Only?  "},{"Title":"Why-oh-why?","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy who Loved Me generally presented a fresher less tired but unfortunately deriative Bond film. Moonraker goes one step better (or lower) by transplanting Spy's plot to different locations and Outer Space (more on that later) and even using the preceeding film's action sequences as a springboard. Sure, a parachute battle might seem original, but after the parachute antics in Spy it doesn't seem as inspired.            Following the pre-title sequence is one of the dullest songs in Bond history- sung by Shirley Bassey! Much to be preferred is the disco variation at the end. On the whole, though, John Barry delivers one of his finest scores using Outer Space as his musical motif.           Acting (or the lack of) is the next issue. While Michel Lonsdale (the correct spelling of his name) performs well and manages to upstage Roger Moore, the Moorester, Lois Chiles and Richard Kiel are all largely embarrassing. Kudos to Moore, though, for actually acting a scene- the centrifuge torture, essentially a reworking of the traction machine in Thunderball.           And finally, wasn't it a bit lame having 007 going into Outer Space? I doubt the chances of anything like a huge spacestation going un-noticed and space marines (shooting lasers!) emerging from space shuttles. Please note that the Outer Space storyline is influenced by the far better Star Wars, made two years earlier.            To end, I'd like to say that Moonraker was a mistake. The main reason I hate it is because of it's similarity to the Spy who Loved Me, but it's also got a fairly unlikely plot. Agreed, that's not unusual in a Bond film but all the previous adventures had a grounding in reality- this one doesn't and just comes across as laughable. "},{"Title":"Shallow, but not that bad compared to some other Bond films.","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Compared to The Man with the Golden Gun or A View to a Kill, surely Moonraker can't be THAT bad. Admittedly, it has several silly moments and outrageously over-the-top scenes (culminating into the infamous laser battle), but it can offer 2 hours of good, harmless entertainment if you watch it with an open mind.Moonraker sticks to the Bond formula very strictly. The film is merely a string of technically impressive action sequences in different exotic locations. Something reminiscent of a plot is there in order to give it a little coherence.James Bond does seem out of place as a space hero, but the idea of him in a ninja school (You Only Live Twice) was just as ridiculous. Drax is a dauntingly typical megalomaniac, but Lois Chiles' Holly Goodhead is one of the smarter Bond girls. However, she's not as alluring as Corinne Clery in a minor role.Shirley Bassey's barely memorable title song is one of the weakest in the series. "},{"Title":"Obviously never watched Mr Wizard!!!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the documentary provided on the DVD Special Edition, producer Albert R. Cubby Broccoli is seen to say something like This isn't science-fiction, it's science-fact.  Actually, it's science-fahgeddabowdit.  Seriously, there is more scientific accuracy in your average Power Rangers episode than in this horrible, horrible film.  The mistakes are side-splittingly hilarious.  Like how everyone moves very slowly in zero-gravity, even when strapped into a chair.  Jaws walks in zero-G like someone would walk on the moon.  But the moon has gravity, which is why someone *can* walk on the moon.The plot is bad, the characters are bad.  If the CIA has operatives who are anything like Holly Goodhead, God help us.  If there are doctors who are anything like Holly Goodhead, God help us.  If NASA would have as an astronaut anyone like Holly Goodhead, God help us.  She is totally useless and unrelentingly stupid.  More cheap chauvanistic crap from the director who thought Anya Amasova (from The Spy Who Loved Me) was a feminist icon.This film represents little more than a totally forgettable bump on Roger Moore's road toward excelling as Bond. Each of the previous two films, The Man With the Golden Gun and The Spy Who Loved Me, are better than their immediate predecessors.  Moonraker is a huge step back, and is every bit as awful as Live and Let Die.  But the next film, For Your Eyes Only, puts Bond back on track again, thankfully. "},{"Title":"I have friends in Low Places","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would not say Moonraker was perfect but to shrugg it off altogether is utter sacrilege. Again like OHMSS, you compare it too much to other Bond thrillers instaed of seeing it in it's own unique right!. Sure Moonraker has it's faults but it's got it's upsides like Michael Lonsdale as megalomaniac Hugo Drax obbsessed with being head of a new terrestrial empire, perhaps one feels it was done more to Flemming's specifications the film would not be so highly criticised but one thing we all seem to forget about this is that Moonraker by the end of December 1979 had accumulated  $203,000,000 world-wide in the box office "},{"Title":"NOT the worst of them","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No, this is NOT the worst Bond film. I really don't think so. It's extremely stupid and stands out somewhat - but that doesn't matter. It's fun, it's not in the least believable and it's full of idiotic details. In short, it has everything a Bond film should have.As for the weird plot and terribly dumb ending, there's only one thing to say they really liked Star Wars.... "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but not that good.","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MOONRAKER was good, but I didn't like a couple of things. One is that it was too much of a sci-fi movie, and not a Bond movie. The acting was pretty good, but could have been better. The only thing I really liked about this movie was Jaws. I love his teeth that he kills people with-its so different. Roger Moore also was again good, and he and Jaws saved it. This was an OK movie, and I kind of recommend it to Bond fans, but there are better Bond movies. 6/10 "},{"Title":"I think he's attempting re-entry........","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A space shuttle is stolen enroute to London and M sends 007 out to apologise to the shuttle creator, billionaire Hugo Drax. While visiting Drax's estate several attempts are made on Bond's life, making Drax himself the number one suspect. Bond meets Dr. Holly Goodhead, a NASA scientist who is also a CIA agent investigating Drax. Their investigations lead Bond to discover a plot to murder the world's population so that Drax can repopulate the planet in his image. The mission takes Bond all over the world, California, Brazil, the Amazon Jungle and, finally, to Drax's huge space-city over the Earth. Drax, meanwhile, has hired a old friend of Bond to take care of any problems.....It's ironic that Jaws makes another appearance in this movie, because is the movie where Moore and the creators really jumped the shark with Bond. I'm not saying its a bad film, I really enjoy watching it, it's just unbelievable that this movie is from the same franchise as From Russia With Love, and even Skyfall.Moore once again is great as the worlds most famous secret agent, and whirl this is the film where he really starts to show his age, he and the rest of the cast and crew are clearly having a ball.It's clearly cashing in on Star Wars, but unlike other copycats,Mathis has a really good story, amazing concept, and pretty wonderful narrative. It's just that when the film goes daft, it gives us double taking pigeons and that gondola.Action scenes are as good as expected, but this time, whenever Jaws is on screen, he doesn't feel as threatening as he should, because we know he's there because he was just so popular.Saying that though, the Mardi Gras scene with him walking slowly down the alleyway still gives me the creeps to this day.The soundtrack is wonderful, the effects are still surprisingly good even to this day, and even know its one of the lesser appreciated Bond movies, it's still one of the most successful. "},{"Title":"Bond Month #11 A Fun Adventure with Outstanding Effects","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Star Wars came out in 1977, it was of course one of the best movies of all time and the most moneymaking film of all time up to that point. What could Bond do to keep up and cash in on this new space boom, Moonraker of course! People find this very silly, but its a fun Bond movie, but does it hold up? Hmm...The story again involves a megalomaniac trying to destroy the Earth to create a master race, only this time the filmmakers trade Under the Sea to the empty vacuum of space. Bond must stop Drax, who is a little more interesting and intimidating than Stromberg, who uses his Moonraker space shuttles as transports for his Aryan race to space. I've said space too much in the space provided for me to write about a movie with space in it. (If you can read that fast, you're good) Roger Moore is again in top form as Bond, finally settling his performance that he would use until he became 50 years old in A View to a Kill. Lois Chiles is a tad bit wooden and monotone as Dr. Holly Goodhead (hehe lawlz) Drax is very memorable because of actor Michael Lonsdale's commanding screen presence.The story is interesting because everything before the launch of Moonraker I find to be boring.When we get to space, however, its amazing to see all the special effects devised by Derek Meddings. Everything looks amazing and surprisingly great for model work, and when its combined with John Barry's excellent score for these scenes make them unbelievably awesome.Now with those things said, there are some silly things, like Jaws' girlfriend, yes that happens. The gondola on land in Venice, the nerve gas, the ninjas (never explained) and even the sky fight is moronic.But like I said before this film is very fun to watch. There are silly moments of course, but it doesn't make this the campy silly film that most people would think it is. So, I recommend this movie to watch, but only if you want an escape to the stars.Next comes one of the absolute worst in the series, For Your Eyes Only. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, but vapid","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This one ignores about 99.9% of one of Ian Fleming's best novels, and emerges as being nothing more than a silly Star Wars rip-off, as Bond tries to locate a downed space shuttle after an alleged accident, and stumbles on to a plot to annihilate the human race.The modelwork during said hijacking of the Moonraker is well done, and the opening free-fall is quite well done, until Jaws starts flapping his arms trying to fly, in a really lame comedy attempt. After that dynamite opening, the film is carried through its first half almost completely on the strength of Roger Moore, and some incredible sets, and spectacular on-location photography in Venice.The only elements of the book which make their way into this film are the title Moonraker, and the names of the characters Hugo Drax and James Bond, (but the characters themselves are completely different) and one vague reference to playing bridge with Drax.The leading lady's name is different, but the character actually seems a bit similar to the character in the book, being very cold, or at least indifferent, especially towards Bond. This was both beneficial, and detrimental to the film.The boat-which-turns-into-a-hovercraft was a needless gimmick, followed by an even lamer double-taking-pigeon. Several kung-fun elements appear, and feel like hangovers from 1974's The Man With The Golden Gun, and the brief boat chase and hang gliding scene are remnants of 1973's Live And Let Die. Bond's fight in the glass museum is like something out of an old Three Stooges short film from the 1930s, but that's NOT compliment in this case. But the following fight in a clock tower was considerably better. One of the few highlights to this movie.Mostly this film manages to coast along as far as it does on Roger Moore's charm and some spectacular on-location photography.Jaws was just ... I mean, ... what the bloody hell were they thinking with that character this time around? Turning him from villain's henchman into an ally was an interesting idea, and his fight with Bond on top of the cable car was another highlight of the movie for me, but for most of the rest of the character's screen time is nothing more than unfunny comic relief.Some of the most obvious product placement (Marlboro, British Airways, and especially 7up) is crammed in here, with all the subtlety of a rat jumping out of your underwear drawer.By the second half, my interest was waning. One of the lesser Bond films in the series. "}{"Title":"Bond goes too far","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore's biggest box-office hit during his tenure as Bond, Moonraker has seen its reputation plummet to the point where its widely regarded as the worst film in the entire series. It's not exactly difficult to see why. The ill-advised jokes that end the otherwise stunningly shot pretitle sequence of Jaws and a parachuteless Bond battling midair unfortunately give a hint of what is to come, but for the first 35 minutes it chugs along very competently, even throwing in one good setpiece in a G-Force simulator. Then comes the gondola/hovercraft sequence, a setpiece that abandons any notion of internal logic for cheap gags and illustrates one of the film's biggest problems there's no real menace when we know Bond doesn't need to rely on his wits because he's got an absurd gadget for every occasion, and without any sense of threat the action scenes constantly fall flat. Many of them aren't even particularly well-staged but look rather haphazardly thrown together. Worse still, by offering the second consecutive reworking of You Only Live Twice's plot (all from the same director, Lewis Gilbert) it all feels like it's just going through the motions because they can't think of anything better to do.While it doesn't show the contempt for Bond that Octopussy revelled in as it seemed to go out of its way to humiliate Bond by making him literally butt of all the jokes, it constantly winks at the audience as if to say We know it's nonsense, but at least it's very expensive nonsense. Unfortunately, it does set up two of the least welcome future developments in the series - as well as being the one where the product placement started to get out of control (my, didn't 7-Up and British Airways do well?), it also started the unfortunate tradition of the Michael G. Wilson cameo. Still, it's nice to see Bernard Lee getting to play a warmer M in his final Bond, finally proud of the boy (the film is very much the end of an era, with most of the surviving members of the old team breaking up &#150; this was Lee, Gilbert and Ken Adam's last film), the great special effects are genuinely impressive even 28 years on and Michel Lonsdale provides the series with one of its best villains and gets all the best lines (Look after Mr Bond. See that some harm comes to him) even if he is wasted by the derivative plot. "},{"Title":"Jaws, the docking arm won't release. Can you help me?","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, those words are infamously said by Bond to the steel-teeth, eight foot assassin who's been hired to kill 007 through two Bond films, but after numerous murderous failed attempts in moving trains, moving aerial cars, at the Pyramids of Egypt, on speed boats, underwater, and once in space &#133; Jaws obliges and helps 007. In From a View to a Kill another hired assassin May Day will also switch sides (so to speak) and be of assistance to 007. In fact, it is that later franchise entry that is the truer bottom of the Roger Moore 007 movies. The low point that would be followed by Dalton's fine turn as 007.Moonraker is a notch above the worst. I first saw it the summer of '79 when the other movie-going options were Cruisin and Rocky II. Now, twenty-eight years later, I viewed it again and I agree w/ the reviewers who write it's the worst, and the reviewers who write it's enjoyable. It is enjoyable and also not very good. However, the incomparable audacity of the main villain Drax who isn't content like past meanies w/ just sabotaging NASA space shots (Dr. No) or stealing atomic bombs (Largo from Thunderball) or spreading various plagues (Blofeld from On Her Majesty's Secret Service) is what makes this entry fun. Drax is a madman taken to the Nth extreme.Plus Q's last line is unforgettable I think Bond is attempting re-entry, sir! "},{"Title":"Moonraker Review","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Critics Introduction After reading hundreds of reviews, for hundreds of films here on the IMDb which have helped me decide if I would like to see certain films. Or that just let me know how other people feel about movies I enjoy (or dislike) I have decided to write my own series of reviews, in hope that my unique outlook will help others. Being a huge 007 fan since 4 or 5 years old, having seen them all many, many times, and having a wealth of useless 007 knowledge outside of venues such as this, I have decided to review all of the Bond films in order of my least favorite to my #1 favorite. Let me start by saying that there is no bad Bond film to me. That is one of the things that divide the Bond films from so many other series of films and their pointless sequels that continue to get worse and worse. I begin with Moonraker, a good film that I like, but my least favorite of the 007 films. Like any movie there will be people who think it's the greatest/worst film ever. But I hope to bring an honest aspect to my review. I don't like to just trash films, yet I don't overly praise much either. My view is that every film no matter how bad, has a least one good thing about it. Even if it's just a funny line, cool camera angle or a hot chick. There is that satisfaction of at least being able to say I've seen it for myself. I've seen Moonraker many times, and without a doubt it does contain one of the most exciting opening procured scenes of them all. A mid-air free fall battle for who gets the parachute. No CGI back in those days, the stunt men had to make dozens of jumps if not more to film the scene. The villain with the steel teeth Jaws returns. There is a great fight in the 1st half where more glass is broken in any fist fight I can remember at the moment. And the special effects are great, if dated, they still look really good. The kind of effects that in a way look more real than a lot of recent stuff. But there are some draw backs. Being that Roger Moore was about 50 during the previous film The Spy Who Loved Me, his age was starting to show during this one. Remember Connery is a few years younger than Moore in real life, and had done six 007 films before Moores first. So yes I like Moore but he stayed to long. This is only a minor however. The real issue is the silliness factor. The story is pretty out there, and then throw in a bit to much slapstick and it begins to strain credibility. The Bond girl Dr. Goodhead is beautiful, but kind of bland. The villain Drax is good, but nothing exceptional. But all of this type stuff is forgivable as in many of the other 007 movies. The real problem is that it was made because Star Wars was a hit, so.....lets postpone For Your Eyes Only and send Bond to space! Granted the film made a lot of money, it broke the formula a bit too much in a bad way. There were to many slow spots through the middle of the movie. A cable car sequence has a cool start with a ridiculous finish. And even the big space laser battle finale seems slow. Jaws becomes a good guy at the very end, along with his pigtailed girlfriend now? I was looking forward to a big final showdown between Bond and Jaws to see how Jaws would finally die and that moment never comes. It defiantly stands apart from the others as does Brosnans Die Another Day, his fourth outing as well. It is worth seeing if your a Bond/Moore/sci-fi fan. But if your introducing a friend to 007 flicks, don't start with this one. Every Bond film is good. And on a 1-10 scale of just the 007 films I give it a 4. Lookout for my next Bond review.........The Man with the Golden Gun. "},{"Title":"And It Was Going So Well, Too...","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The problem with Roger Moore's Bond films is that the series is full of ups and downs. The previous Bond film to this, The Spy Who Loved Me, is a definite UP. Moonraker is a definite DOWN.The plot is simply a rehash of the previous film. Mad man tries to kill everybody on the face of Planet Earth in order to start a new world order of which he is in charge of. It's got huge sets and action sequences in a deadly surroundings - this time the vacuum of space. It even has Jaws, a bad guy from the previous film, returning.This repetition of plot has been done before in the past - after all, it can be argued that TSWLM is in fact a re-hash of You Only Live Twice. But it doesn't always work, and here is a fine example. It starts okay-ish, with a pretty fine aerial stunt marred by the appearance of Jaws - why is he there? Wouldn't Bond have spotted him on such a small plane? There are good points - no Bond film has no merits. Lois Chiles is rather good as the unfortunately named Holly Goodhead, packing quite a good punch in several of the scenes. She can certainly take care of herself. It is a pity that Bond's obvious sexism at the beginning spoils the mood a little.But again, like the previous film, where this film fails is it's baddie. Michael Lonsdale tries his best with Hugo Drax, but his portrayal just brings back memories of Stromberg from TSWLM. As for Jaws, the less said about him the better.The music scores highly - John Barry is back on form, and the Shirley Bassey title song is a haunting ballad.But there's just something about this film that just doesn't work. Perhaps it is because that, up to now, there had been some elements of the Bond films that had been believable. Moonraker just goes straight off into the fantasy genre. I don't think that that is what Bond is about, and apparently so did Albert R Cubby Brocolli. For Your Eyes Only is true evidence of that...5/10 "},{"Title":"A Little Too Tongue in Cheek","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although all of the Bond films contain elements of fantasy, Moonraker has perhaps the most fantastic plot of all. It is less a spy story than a science-fiction movie, probably influenced by the vogue for outer space adventures that followed the success of Star Wars. Although the scenes set on earth clearly take place in the seventies, without any attempt at a futuristic look, Drax's space station clearly could not have been built with seventies technology. (Indeed, it still looks futuristic today, a quarter of a century later). It has a similar plot to that of its immediate predecessor, The Spy Who Loved Me. In each, Bond must thwart a megalomaniac industrialist who has ambitions which go far beyond simply achieving world domination. Both men intend nothing less than the near-total extinction of the human race and its replacement by a new, purer society. Stromberg in the earlier film hopes to build this below the sea; Drax in the later hopes to repopulate the world with the descendants of a few physically perfect individuals who have survived the holocaust on his space station in orbit above the earth.This is far from being the best of the Bond series, but I would not agree with the opinion I have seen on this board that it is the worst; that dubious honour belongs either to On Her Majesty's Secret Service, with the inert Mr Lazenby, or to A View to a Kill, in which Roger Moore's performance finally toppled over into self-parody, or Licence to Kill, which was really a violent revenge thriller dressed up as a Bond film. In terms of quality, Moonraker is probably on a par with some of Roger Moore's other outings in the role, all of which have their own particular strengths and weaknesses. The strengths of Moonraker include an excellent musical score from John Barry (possibly the best of any Bond film), a well-handled final battle aboard the space station, and a notable villain.Whereas some of the Bond villains have a back-story that would explain their villainy, Hugo Drax is a mysterious figure. We never learn what background he came from, how he rose to become the head of a powerful industrial conglomerate or how he developed his insane quasi-Nazi theories of racial purity. Even his identity is doubtful; Drax is a genuine, if unusual, English surname, but he is clearly not an Englishman. He lives in America, but is equally obviously not an American. (To judge from his accent, he is probably from somewhere in central Europe). Michael Lonsdale's makes him into one of the most frightening characters in the whole of the Bond series, a man who hides a vicious sadism beneath a veneer of culture and sophistication. He seems all the more chilling because there is nothing insane about his manner, but rather delivers his lunatic speeches in a calm, deliberate and sonorous bass voice.Unfortunately, Moonraker also has its weaknesses. Lois Chiles, who plays the heroine Holly Goodhead, is a better actress than Barbara Bach (who played the heroine of The Spy Who Loved Me), but to say that is to damn her with the faintest of praise, as the improvement is only a slight one. Although Holly is supposedly an astrophysicist and CIA agent, she came across as beautiful but shallow, so much so that I wondered if her surname should have been Airhead. I felt, however, that the film's greatest weaknesses were Roger Moore's performance and its overall tone. Moore was never a bad actor in the sense that George Lazenby was a bad actor, but he could be a lazy one, content to stroll through a film without much effort, and Moonraker has always struck me as an example of this approach. (He was much better in both The Spy Who Loved Me and For Your Eyes Only, the film which immediately followed Moonraker.The Bond series has always relied on a delicate balance between excitement and humour, and Moonraker is one of the films in which that balance was pushed too far in favour of the humorous approach. This is partly the fault of Moore's nonchalant approach and partly the fault of the script, which seems too often to be saying Don't take any of this seriously. A good example is the sudden change in the character of the villainous Jaws (who also appeared The Spy Who Loved Me) from murderous assassin to tender lover after he meets a diminutive pigtailed blonde. Some of the chase sequences, particularly the one along the canals of Venice, were a little too tongue in cheek. Like all the Bond movies, this one was entertaining enough, but not one of the best. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Where no Bond has gone before...deep space","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MOONRAKER (1979) *** When the USA's space shuttle is abducted by meglomaniacal Hugo Drax (Michael Lonsdale) only James Bond can save it and mankind from a lethal laser and helped by  easily the series' smartest Bond Babe Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles).  Richard Kiel makes his second appearance as Jaws who undergoes a change of heart and falls in love! "},{"Title":"A bit slow, but just right","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, this movie may not be the most exciting film ever. But when I watched it today, I really enjoyed it. In this one, James Bond must find out how the Moonraker shuttle was hijacked and what happened to it. He is led to millionare Hugo Drax, who is secretly planning to wipe out the earth's entire population with nerve gas and start a civilization in space. The movie starts out with a classic opening intro scene and a beautiful theme song by Shirley Bassey. It moves a little too slowly but easily makes up with great scenes such as the Venice boat chase, Jaws' arrival at the airport, Q,s invention testing scene (great inventions!), and the battle on Drax's space station. The laser battle had me out of my seat, followed by the destruction of the space station and the tense gas pod chase. Richard Kiel delivered another great role as Jaws as well. This movie is definitely well worth checking out. I give it about 3 or 3 and a half stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Waaaaay over the top.","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me start by saying that Moore is my favourite Bond. Don't get me wrong, I think Connery is great, and chews up the scenery far more entertaingly on the whole, but as Bond, Moore is the best.Now, to this movie. James Bond movies are SUPPOSED to be ridiculous, but this one goes beyond ridiculous. The villain is wholly uninteresting, save for the fact that he's a complete and utter idiot - he has Bond in his clutches more than any other villain ever, and every single time he still has some hairbrained scheme to reveal, before placing bond in an easily escapable deathtrap. Jaws is turned into Wily E. Coyote, making several seemingly-fatal plunges, complete with a shocked face as he realizes he's standing on thin air. The other henchman, Chang or whatshisname, is unintimidating, not to mention incompetent. The non-sidekick, informant love interest (there's one in every DECENT bond movie), is killed in the most ridiculous manner possible - given complete indication that she's about to be pursued with a pair of vicious dobermans, she ignores a perfectly functional motorized vehicle (golf cart) that she used to get there in the first place, but instead walks sloooowly into the woods, where, after about a minute of walking, she begins to run. In about 2 more minutes, the dogs catch her. The forest, meanwhile, is  filled with trees that she could easily climb for safety. Suffice to say I was not saddened by her removal from the collective human gene pool.I'm not sure if i should mention the science. It goes beyond ridiculous. 'Radar jamming' obscuring an orbital object with a diameter of 200 meters from detection by the US or USSR? Sure. Space shuttles arriving in orbit 3 minutes after detection of an orbital space station? Sure. Eugenics experiments involving only 6 shuttles full of people, roughly 20 per shuttle? 120 people producing a 'master race'? Inbreeding, anyone? And don't even get me started on the floating laser gun marines in space, complete with screams and sound effects.The special effects are just plain hokey - zero gravity is depicted by people walking really slowly, laser beams shoot at odd angles...If this movie was 80-90 minutes long, it would be watchable, even enjoyable in a campy sort of way. But at 2 hours, it's pretty much a pain to watch. Thank god for fast forwarding. "},{"Title":"Space","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is the best Bond movie forever. The space is excellent "},{"Title":"Bond for the kiddie set","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the least interesting in the James Bond series, Moonraker is big and dumb and bears no resemblance to the superb thriller penned by Ian Fleming. This is the movie where Bond goes into space to prevent madman Hugo Drax from destroying human kind with the poison from orchids (in the novel Drax only wanted to destroy London with a rocket). Idiocy is rife throughout, from Drax's comical henchmen notably Jaws (who was menacing in The Spy Who Loved Me) to Space shuttles that blast off at a moments notice as though it's as easy as taking off in a Cessna. There's also Drax's space station that is invisible from radar (yes, but optical telescopes and the naked eye don't require radar). The increasing globe trotting nature of the nutty Q (Desmond Llewellyn) is quite absurd also, remember way back in the early Bond's when he was just a common functionary in the bowels of the secret service building. The best scenes are the free fall moments from a plane in the pre-title sequence, Bond's spin (literally) in a centrifuge machine and the death of Hugo Drax's secretary (who Bond has bedded) at the hands of some vicious mastiffs - a scene that is a bit jarring amongst the rest of the campy and less serious than usual action scenes. Those that enjoy the zany and campy such as the 60's Batman and Dean Martin's Matt Helm movies may love this but the Bond character (and the situations)are too far removed from Fleming's version for any satisfaction. "}{"Title":"Far out, man.","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Spy who Loved Me so obviously put production on such a high pedastool that the creators of Moonraker felt the only way to improve on it was to out produce it, which it does thanks to the inspiration of Star Wars. Because of Star Wars, James Bond was sent into space, and it is this kind of empty-headed cash-in attempt that makes most of cinema the garbage that it is today. But this cash-in wouldn't have been so bad if the comedy didn't try to reach the same height as the production. Moore is sillier than ever, and NOT funny, the gags are sillier than ever, and NOT funny, and Jaws is now a bona fide idiot. And the love-at-first-sight scene with Jaws and a pig-tailed blonde with a gorgeous chest makes you bend over the toilet. And Drax is just a poor imitation of Dr. No (with even the same outfit). The story is soulless as usual. Thankfully, after this the creators new exactly what Bond needed and For Your Eyes Only delivered.   "},{"Title":"You appear with the tedious inevitability of an unloved season.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Take a look at most of the lists of favorite Bond films found on the internet and you'll usually find Moonraker at or near the bottom. While I don't consider it the worst (I reserve that distinction for Die Another Day), it's not among my favorites either. Most people when writing about Moonraker tend to focus on the ill-advised, Star Wars inspired, laser shootout. As ridiculous as Bond in Space is, it's not my main point of contention with the movie. Instead, I have a real problem with the gag-fest that is Moonraker. It's one lame attempt at humor after another. While humor has always been a part of the series, here it's taken to the extreme.There is no better example of the buffoonery found in Moonraker than the gondola chase scene. (Bear with me here, this is going to be rather lengthy.) It gets off to an okay start as Bond's gondola passes another one carrying a coffin. The coffin's lid opens and the man inside throws a knife at Bond. Of course he misses giving Bond the chance to throw the knife back at the would-be assassin. The now dead assassin falls into the coffin and the lid slams shut. Oh the irony! But we're just getting started. The coffin falls off the boat and floats under a bridge just as a man hacking up his lungs crosses the same bridge. He sees the coffin and immediately gives up smoking. At this point my sides are splitting with laughter! In the meantime, Bond flips a switch revealing that this is no ordinary gondola, but a supped-up MI6 variety of gondola. Out of seemingly thin air, boat loads of baddies appear and begin chasing Bond. During the chase, Bond barely misses a gondola carrying a couple in the middle of a passionate make-out session. They are apparently so into their lovemaking that they are oblivious to the baddie's boat that hysterically slices their gondola in half. As their half of the gondola sails off (apparently still sea worthy), they remain in their oblivious embrace. The gondolier in the other half isn't so lucky. As his half begins to sink, he continues to use his pole in a vain attempt to stay afloat and gives the camera his best look of comic exasperation. Stop it! I've got tears in my eyes! Just when you think things can't get any worse, Bond approaches land and pushes another button turning his gondola into a hovercraft. It's at this point the real fun begins. As Bond drives his hover-gondola through a major Venetian square, we are treated to several hysterical reaction shots. A man drinking wine swears off alcohol. A painter loses his painting and isn't aware it's gone. Even the animals get in on the act as a pigeon gives Bond a double-take. Yes, that's right &#150; a pigeon does a double-take! The utter ridiculousness of this brief moment encapsulates everything that's wrong with Moonraker. Cubby and Company changed Bond from a tough, womanizing spy with a penchant for the occasional quip into a clown with an infinite supply of gags and one-liners. Ian Fleming must have been spinning in his grave.It's really too bad because there are some nice moments and things to enjoy sprinkled throughout Moonraker. If you can excuse Lois Chiles and her impersonation of a piece of wood, the acting is okay for this kind of movie. I've read any number of bad things about Michael Lonsdale as Hugo Drax, but I think he's one of the bright spots. I appreciate his cerebral, understated approach to playing the Bond heavy. Some of the action set-pieces in the first half are quite enjoyable. I particularly like the sword fight in the glass museum even if it does end with on of Bond's more groan-inducing quips. And even the final laser showdown in space is well-filmed and enjoyable regardless of how absurd it might be.In the end, even though there are some things I like about Moonraker, the comedic core of the movie really hurts it in my eyes. The best I can do is rate it a 4/10. "},{"Title":"Outer space now belongs to Bond","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Directed by Lewis Gilbert and produced by Albert Broccoli, has script by Christopher Wood and is the eleventh film in the franchise. Its definitely the great Bond film about the conquest of space, topic that other films had approached. For Brazilians, its a special film because it was partially filmed in Brazil.In this film, James Bond investigates the disappearance of a space shuttle belonging to Drax Industries, which largely finance the aerospace project. He begins with a visit to the headquarters of the firm, in United States, staying at the château of Mr. Drax, a man fascinated with the conquest of space. After several dangers, the trail leads Bond to Venice and Brazil, where he discovers the frightening plans of the villain.To some extent, Drax is like Stromberg, the villain of the film that preceded it. Both feel a fascination for environments that aren't naturally theirs, and both despise humanity and are ready to make it disappear. However, the decision to make the film an authentic space odyssey was, probably, a response to the increasing popularity of science fiction films due to the Star Wars trilogy. One of the most famous scene in the movie is the approach to the space station built by Stromberg in Earth orbit. Equally famous is the scene where Jaws (who returns in this film and gradually turns into an good guy) finds love after the famous fight scene in the Corcovado's cable car. To date, its the only villain in the franchise that redeems and presumably becomes good. Machines and inventions also continue to be part of the Bond films, which a famous Venetian gondola who turns into an hovercraft.In this film, apart from central casting inherited from the previous films, Lois Chiles gave life to the bond-girl Holly Goodhead, Corinne Clery played Corinne Dufour, Michael Lonsdale was the villain, Drax, Richard Kiel returned to the role of Jaws and Bernard Lee plays, for the last time, Bond's boss, M. The actor would die shortly after. "},{"Title":"Bond in Space!","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After The Spy Who Loved Me I thought just maybe just maybe the next James Bond movie with Roger Moore wouldn't be a 007 spoof. Where Roger Moore wouldn't be a caricature of the silliness that applies to the Bond films he is in. I thought he would be out of that stage and it was smooth sailing from there on...Well I was wrong. I just didn't think the title Moonraker would literally apply to the films plot. This film starts out alright despite the campy and ridiculous intro of James Bond parachuting and Jaws (the villain from the previous film) returning and trying to kill bond. It's quite obvious they got the idea from that scene from D. B. Cooper. It was actually kind of cool to see Jaws again as one of the villains, he was like a menacing figure in the first one. In this he is like Nemesis from Resident Evil 3 minus the intimidation, he is actually more goofy than a intimidating figure in this. Mainly because of the set ups and Jaw's facial expressions during certain parts. It just made him look like a dumb tall guy at a children's party that just didn't know what was going on. There is one scene where Jaw's falls for a woman after their eyes intertwine, it was sweet but it was very laughable. Anyways like I said this installment started off alright until the Venice chase scene where Bond uses his pimped out Venetian row boat to escape by also being able to move on land as well. The whole super car being able to go under water is alright, but a Venetian row boat that moves on land was comedic for the wrong reasons. There is also other ridiculous parts, but lets just skip to Bond going into outer space. I guess after Star Wars was such a mega hit, the producers probably wanted to take some ideas from that film. There is even a laser gun in this as well, with the similar guns the stormtroopers have. As for the main villain, it didn't seem like they were trying anymore. Some of the really standout villains are the ones you can sort of understand why they are the way they are. Or at least understand their motives, not necessarily agree with it but understand where they are coming from. That is far from it in this, the past villains was about world domination, money or just killing people. In this one it's the whole Noah's Ark scenario. Except a human guy that is out of his mind, chooses only certain people that fit his terms of human perfection onto his spaceship. Than wipe out the whole human race so only people he deems perfect can repopulate the world. Overall this is probably my least favorite Bond film compared to the previous one. At least The Man With The Golden Gun was amusing. Like in some previous Bond films there is a climatic battle scene, well this one is with a band of astronauts and laser guns *sigh*. I like Star Wars as well but some universes should not mix.3.5/10 "},{"Title":"Bond 11 Moore contemplates his fall, and charges on!","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A US space shuttle on loan to the British government is hijacked, setting off a scandal. James Bond (Moore) is sent to investigate, first visiting the megalomaniac plutocrat Drax (Michel Lonsdale), whose conglomerate built the Moonraker shuttle. Yet things quickly turn nasty and Bond runs around the world after clues of Drax's involvement (and his more sinister scheme beyond the hijacking).I consider The Spy Who Loved Me to be Moore's apotheosis as James Bond. It refined what had been done with the great Live and Let Die and solid Man with the Golden Gun and pushed it to extremes, getting the balance of threat and comedy just right. The producers then contemplated their options more realism, or shall we continue down the escapist parody route? The producers marched on.Of Roger Moore's later Bonds, Moonraker is still enjoyable, ranking with Octopussy, even though it is a case study of how things went wrong. The villains became blander (as did the ladies, with the exception of Maday), Moore became older, and the action became all the more ludicrous. Grand scale is one thing, but when kitsch gets thrown into the mix, as is the case with the final space battle here, things do not look promising. Effects aside, a less forgivable fault is making Jaws - the metal-toothed colossus from Spy Who Loved Me - fall in love. It was tellingly followed by an attempt at more realism, For Your Eyes Only that unfortunately proved lacking in the entertainment department.All in all, the film is not completely woeful, boasting some neat tricks (the cable-car fight, the eerie Michael Lonsdale) despite some jarring faults. "},{"Title":"Bond goes too far beyond","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Moore returns as James Bond again for the fourth time and this time doesn't stay on the ground, but also unfortunately moves into space. His mission is to stop Hugo Drax (Michael Lonsdale) who wants to destroy all life on earth and start a new breeding colony in space who would move to earth to begin a new life. You must agree it sound a bit far fetched? Not very realistic looking either. The model work is good i must say but sometimes does look faulty.Shirley Bassey returns with her third Bond theme, but unfortunately this theme doesn't live up to the exposure the others have. John Barry returns with a hardly memorable score. There are a few good action scenes, but most seem be have already been overuses, such as the third boat chase to be seen in a Roger Moore Bond film. The sound effects also let it down, with some which seem more fit in a Carry On film.Moonraker was just about bearable to watch, but thankfully the next instalment brings Bond back to earth. James Bond will return in For Your Eyes Only "},{"Title":"Band all but at his worst","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mediocre plot + dry characters= Not worth your time.The James Bond franchise has so many films you can't go wrong with, that there is no need to waste your time with rubbish like this. In this film, the central villain is Hugo Draxx; a billionaire whose works is in space exploration and plotting to poison all of the Earth except for those he deems worthy of living. Sounds like a cliché for Bond to me. The haphazard attempt a decent plot sets this film off on the wrong foot and it goes down hill from there.To me, the greatest problem with this film is the poorly incorporated camp. The humor does not fit with the action. For instance, when James Bond is riding the Gondola through Venice, viewers are supposed to laugh at the absurdity of that while he acts all casual and all the citizens noticing it are stunned. They're not running from a huge Kyac; they're staring in shock. The sex scene with Bond and his chic for this film when they lose gravity truly sets the tone for how dull this film's humor attempts are.Why Ian? Please say you only used this book because you though you'd used the best up when Connery was Bond. "},{"Title":"Take my unfinished life and make it complete","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" You don't review James Bond movies, you evaluate them, rate them according to how well they meet expectations. There are certain things one has come to expect, even demand of a Bond film and each individual effort either delivers or it doesn't. So, here are ten elements that make a Bond film a Bond film and how MOONRAKER rates on a scale of 1 to 10 Title MOONRAKER Apparently a moonraker is the tallest mast on an English sailing ship, or, according to a folk legend, one who foolishly strives to attain the unattainable, i.e., to rake in the moon. Which one applies here is debatable, but, poetic symbolism aside, either way it does give THUNDERBALL and A VIEW TO A KILL a run for their money as the worst Bond title. 2 points.Pre-Credit Teaser One disabled plane, three men and two parachutes -- you do the math. One of the better stunts in the Bond film, though largely irrelevant to the rest of the film. 8 points.Opening Credits Though Maurice Binder seems to be trying to suggest weightlessness, his sexual gymnastics here seem heavy handed. An apparent homage to Superman flying seems oddly out of place. Okay, but nothing special. 5 points.Theme Song The melody is haunting and the great Shirley Bassey is back for a third time to deliver the seductive lyrics. Unfortunately, Hal David's lyrics aren't all that seductive -- you try writing a song called Moonraker. Though it's no Goldfinger or Diamonds Are Forever, still it sets a romantic tone; though the disco version of the song tacked on at the end is a bit dubious. 7 points.Bond, James Bond Roger's interest in the character seems to ebb and flow -- the better the story, the better his performance. Since so much of MOONRAKER is according to formula, he seems to be merely going along for the ride. 7 points.Bond Babes Corinne Clery is served up as this film's sacrificial lamb and gruesomely murdered (by attack dogs) for no apparent reason. That leaves Lois Chiles as the Bond Girl du jour (Dr. Holly Goodhead, no less) and one can pass the time deciding if she is less convincing as a rocket scientist or as a CIA agent. In fairness, Chiles has a fresh-faced all-American charm and she banters nicely with Moore. 8 points.Bond Villain It is said that James Mason was offered the part of maniacal billionaire Hugo Drax and it is a pity he turned it down. One can just hear his contemptuous, world-weary voice saying a line like Mr. Bond, you persist in defying my efforts to provide an amusing death for you. Instead, Michael Lonsdale announces his plan to destroy the world with all the enthusiasm of a bureaucrat announcing the implementation of a new accounting system in his division. Really, they should make all Bond villains watch a few Vincent Price movies so they can get an idea just how to play a villain with style. 5 points.Bond Baddies When Drax's favored samurai assassin, Chang (Toshiro Suga), is quickly dispatched by Bond, he is soon replaced by Richard Kiel's Jaws, who apparently needs the work, having been left unemployed at the end of THE SPY WHO LOVED ME. Jaws is a great henchman, but he seems plugged into this film more as a stunt than for any real purpose. Then, along the way, Jaws falls in love and sorta, kinda turns into a good guy! It's a strange twist and I am not sure if it is supposed to be a joke or what. Very odd, but at least his return is more welcome than a reappearance by Sheriff J.W. Pepper. 7 points.Sinister Plot It's almost a remake of the last Bond epic, THE SPY WHO LOVED ME. In it a mad billionaire wanted to destroy the world and repopulate it from an underwater colony; now a mad billionaire wants to destroy the world and repopulate it from an outer space colony. A submarine is stolen in the former and a space shuttle in the latter and both open with stunts involving parachutes. Again Bond teams with a rival agent from another country and, of course, he even is battling the same assassin. 3 points.Production values After the lush, romantic style of THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, the clean, efficient look of MOONRAKER seems a bit of a letdown. The big battle in outer space, much of it in slo-mo, is especially disappointing, though the battle atop a couple of disabled cable cars is pretty neat. 5 points.Bonus Points I know that the Bond films are expensive to produce, but if they have to rely on selling out to product placement, can't the filmmakers do it with a bit more panache? For instance, there are three intrusive plugs for 7-Up right in a row, each more blatant and out of place than the last. And we all know that James Bond just loves his 7-Up -- shaken and not stirred. Minus 5 points.Summary Allegedly, MOONRAKER was rushed into production to capitalize on the success of STAR WARS and CLOSE ENCOUNTERS; they should have waited a few years and worked on the screenplay. It's not a bad Bond film by any means, but it lacks a fresh approach. The Moore films tend to ride a roller-coaster, going up and down in quality. MOONRAKER is a dip between the two best Moore films, THE SPY WHO LOVED ME and FOR YOUR EYES ONLY.Bond-o-meter Rating 57 points out of 100. "},{"Title":"Bond reaches space, but the series crashes to Earth","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSI suppose it seemed like a good idea at the time. Star Wars had just become a huge box office phenomenon, the success of The Spy Who Loved Me had just put the Bond franchise back on track, so why not make a sci-fi OO7 adventure? From a commercial perspective the decision paid off, because Moonraker became one of the biggest grossing Bond films at the cinemas, but this really has to be the worst film in the entire series. After a promising start it descends into a pit of ever-increasing silliness and self-parody, completing the transition of James Bond from suave and sophisticated superspy to a smirking cartoon character, and I would not be surprised if the whole fiasco left Ian Fleming spinning in his grave.To give the film its due, it does start off quite well. The opening sky diving sequence is pretty spectacular, and Bond's first encounter with supervillain Hugo Drax is entertaining, featuring some witty one-liners. It is also the only point in the film that Bond's life appears genuinely in danger, when Drax's henchman tries to kill him in a space flight simulator. This scene is one of the rare occasions in the whole of Roger Moore's reign as OO7 where he actually looks scared and near death, and it proves that Moore can act when he wants to. Unfortunately, for the rest of Moonraker he is back in semi-detached eyebrow-raising mode, strolling through the film with tongue relentlessly in cheek as the story becomes more and more absurd.It is when Bond travels to Venice that things start becoming really silly, with the gondola episode and the infamous double-taking pigeon. After that it is downhill all the way, as we are treated to such delights as Jaws becoming a good guy and falling in love with a nerdish little girl with blonde pigtails, Bond fighting a very unconvincing snake and, to cap it all, a laser fight in space! This last scene must represent the absolute nadir of the Bond series, and it hammers the final nail in the film's coffin. In his previous two Bond films director Lewis Gilbert had favoured a lavish and OTT feel, but in Moonraker he goes too far, turning Bond into a joke. The storyline is laboured and silly as well, with Drax's predictable and absurd plan to destroy the world a carbon copy of Stromberg's in The Spy Who Loved Me, and even more unconvincing. Even Shirley Bassey's theme song is dull and tired, although John Barry's eerie incidental music is quite good.The cast is not especially memorable either. Michel Lonsdale makes quite a good Bond villain, and has the best lines, but he is hardly the most original or distinctive foe OO7 has encountered. The return of Jaws, meanwhile, is a big mistake, for the joke of his invincibility had already worn thin by the end of TSWLM, and does not feel any fresher here; as for his love scenes with his cartoonish girlfriend, they are just embarrassing. The film scores no higher on the Bond girl front, with the wooden and relentlessly uncharismatic Lois Chiles making Barbara Bach look like a top-class actress. Chiles is not as bad as Britt Ekland or Tanya Roberts, but she certainly comes close. The only actor who lends any real dignity to proceedings is Bernard Lee, making his final appearance as M before he succumbed to cancer. Lee remains the definitive M, and to this day the Bond series misses his crusty gravitas.Bond films, even the toughest and grittiest ones, do have an element of fantasy about them. The very best Bonds, however, do at least have some connection to the real world and a measure of believability. Moonraker has neither, and takes OO7 way too far over the border line between fantasy and reality, cheapening the character in the process. Thankfully, no Bond film since has ever reached the same heights of absurdity or stupidity, and hopefully never will. "},{"Title":"Subtlety and understatement not strong points here","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Blame &#145;Star Wars'. It could have been so very different, but EON Productions got ideas above their station and decided to send Bond to space, in order to compete with one 1977 blockbuster and outdo the other. The plot might have been sinister were it not so far-fetched, though somehow it is better executed than the equally preposterous Die Another Day. That aside, Moonraker could easily have got away with it, had better editing stripped the movie of some of its more awful moments. (Spoilers ahead). The visual gags are terrible and profoundly unfunny, serving only to lower the tone; the product placement is obscene; the return of Jaws and his ability to survive just about anything is ill-advised, and whoever came up with idea of an amply-breasted pigtailed love interest for the lumbering giant should be pelted with rancid tomatoes. Without these detriments, some of the stronger elements in Moonraker would have stood out more prominently. Drax is an excellent villain who bags all the best lines, delivered with beautifully understated acidity. The scene where Corinne is set upon by dogs for her betrayal is superbly executed, and Roger Moore plays it straight in an early scene where his life is genuinely at risk &#150; he emerges from his vestibule of death too shaken to even murmur a smarmy quip. He's good throughout, in fact, comfortable in the role, but likeable rather than menacing, and not given much to get his teeth into. The special effects in space are fine, considering it was 1979, and John Barry's score during the space scenes are sublime. At times Moonraker is a gloriously escapist travelogue of lush locations - with a seemingly endless bevy of beautiful women draped across the scenery - rather than a gritty espionage thriller, but is it the worst Bond film ever? Well, according to some Bond fans' criteria, it possibly is. But it is guiltily enjoyable, in a vacuous way. There are probably &#145;better' Bond films that I've enjoyed less than this one, but I think most people can agree that reigning in the series for the next film &#145;For Your Eyes Only' was the only sensible course of action. "}{"Title":"Raked.","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quite possibly the most ridiculous James Bond film and arguably the worst of the entire series. Moonraker tried to capitalize on the Star Wars craze of the late-1970s and did do well at the box office, but overall the film is mediocre at best. Bond (Roger Moore) is sent to find out what happened to a missing space shuttle. It is plain as rain that billionaire madman Michael Lonsdale is the culprit as he has a wild scheme to kill the Earth's population and re-create society in his image. It is as stupid as it sounds. Lois Chiles is the NASA scientist/CIA agent sent to assist Bond. Richard Kiel once again chews up scenery as the evil henchman Jaws. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"What is going on???","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moonraker is a well made film, but the story is bad, like REALLY bad! Sighs erupt from everyone watching in the terrible Venice gondula scene, and after that, stupid unrealistic scenes appear constantly! Roger Moore provides a solid performance, even though he looks considerabley older than in the previous bond movies. This film in not a masterpiece, in fact, its rather a disaster, but it may be worthy of watching plainly for the fantastic performance from Richard Kiel as Jaws. Try Harder Lewis Gilbert! "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's worst and the worst of all","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"         Roger Moore's Bond career started on a swing similar to Sean Connery's. Sean Connery started of fairly well with Dr. No (1962) and Moore started of fairly well with Live & Let Die (1973). Connery followed up not-so well, but not badly with From Russia With Love (1963) and Moore followed suit with The Man With The Golden Gun (1974). Then Sean Connery then went over the top with his smash Goldfinger (1964) and Moore did the same with The Spy Who Loved Me (1977). But then we come to this film where it changes. Connery's 4th Bond film, Thunderball (1965) became his greatest film. For Moore's 4th Bond film he goes ahead of Connery and makes Connery's 5th film You Only Live Twice (until this came out, YOLT (1967) was Connery's worst and the worst of all.) and so we get this stinker and unfortunately Moore never really recaptured the luck he had with The Spy Who Loved Me (1977), although he did come close with For Your Eyes Only (1981).             There are a number reasons for the errors with this film. First of all, the film is virtually a re-make of The Spy Who Loved Me (1977).  The return of Jaws is a  devastating disappointment, but probably the best part of the movie. Although the hype of the phase JAWS IS BACK is probably the reason it was Moore most financially successful. Actually it was also the last Bond film to receive an Academy Award nomination. The Bond girls were excellent especially Lois Chiles and Corrine DuFour's performances. The comedy is probably the most mild part of the film. There are some great action sequences though.        I also was personally disappointed with the film, because I expected judging by the VIDEO COVER Picture that it was going to a JAMES BOND MEETS SCI-FI which could have been excellent. Star Wars (1977) and Close Encounters Of A Third Kind (1977) also unintentionally helped make this film fail. Because they were so good (so good I think they stole a lot of Academy Awards from The Spy Who Loved Me (1977) I think the producers want to make Bond better than those films. But thats like comparing The Godfather (1972) and Jaws (1975), they're to different even though they are both great.   Thats largely where they failed. Also they obviously didn't plan on making this one right away anyway, because at the end of SPY it says Bond will return in FOR YOUR EYES ONLY. That possibly jinxed the operation, but when For Your Eyes Only (1981) did come out luckily it corrected the previous mistake, but hurt the Bond series lightly. The 80's saw some of the worst Bond films (with the exceptions of FOR YOUR EYES ONLY (1981), The Living Daylights (1987), and Licence To Kill (1989), although they didn't make much money in comparison to others, but they were still good). The Bond hype wouldn't return until Pierce Brosnan's GoldenEye (1995). But, I still say watch it worth seeing just because it is not just Moonraker, its JAMES BOND XI "},{"Title":"OK, FUN IS FUN, BUT..........","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had high hopes for this when I saw it in its initial release.  After all, The Spy Who Loved Me had gotten the series back on track right? WHAT HAPPENED?!?!?!  (Potential Spoilers) Yes, I AM a Bond fan and would rather see a bad James Bond film than a good ARNOLD/WILLIS one, but come on!   The film starts out silly even in the pretitle sequence with Circus music.  High points as always go to John Barry's Score and Shirley Bassey back for a third Bond title-song.  As much as I thought this film would get better it only seems to make Bond look like a frustrated detective throughout.  (Witness the scene when M and the others storm into the Laboratory wearing gas masks for a predictable it was here...I swear it was exchange.)  Even the chases turn ridiculous with comical sped up shots of birds doing double takes and hoky music within.  NOT ONCE do you ever feel that Bond is truly in any danger in this film. I have credited the producers in the past with a knack for incorporating topical subjects into their films, but this STAR WARS climax is just completely ridiculous even for a Bond film.  I know we are supposed to suspend belief for two hours, but is Bond now suddenly a rocket scientist too?!?!?!?  It's perhaps the first and only time I ever walked out of a 007 flick not eager to turn around and see it again. OK, in the interest of fairness.  There ARE some great sets within the movie, the usual spectacular locations, and a couple of decent fights. My main complaint with this one is that it tried TOO hard and forgot that without at least a shred of believability, it becomes more MATT HELM than James Bond.  If you want a good Bond spoof, watch Dean Martin in Murderer's Row instead.  As for this one, watch it...but don't expect anything that keeps you on the edge of your seat.RATING 5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"This movie was the worst JB ever","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was not even supposed to be made. Til' A little star by Geroge Lucas with the name of Star Wars was made. Moonraker was made to catch up with the star wars craze created in 1978. This movie was faltered due to the Bond girl, sexy Dr. holly Goodhead. Do you think a girl could go into space like that. It took til' 1984 when a woman went into space. If there were space experts like Dr. Goodhead, we have problems. If you have people with a name like Goodhead, we have problems.The villain, Hugo Drax, is probably the only glimmering star in this hellhole of a movie. A villain who actually has better one liners than Bond himself. Hugo Drax is also a very tormenting villain. From the first time you see him, You are most possibly anxious. Jaws had no need to come back into this movie. Usually, villains died or never was  found again(Nick Nack, Irma Bunt, Baron Samedi).I do not recommend this movie to anybody but young people who like space movies.0 out of *****  "},{"Title":"The Worst Bond Film Of The Entire Series","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have always hated this film, for several reasons. It is the most ridiculous, cartoonish film of the entire series. True, it does feature some very futuristic sets and outer space scenes, but this is supposed to be a Bond film, not Star Wars. I believe that this film was a blatant cash-in on the success of Star Wars, which was released two years before. Most of the action scenes are just ridiculous, with far too much emphasis on silly slapstick, which just ruin it completely. Roger Moore also looks as though he is just not interested and would rather be somewhere else and Michael Lonsdale, who plays the main villain Drax, lacks any menace or physical threat to Bond at all. I understand, though, that this was one of the most financially successful Bond films, but I assume this is because a lot of children and people who liked sci-fi went to see it at the cinema. The Bond girls in the film are also nothing special, so we don't even get any decent eye candy. I regard this film as a failure on almost every level. I know it is beloved by some fans, though and that is their opinion, but thank God that the next one was For Your Eyes Only, which was an infinitely better film and restored my faith in Bond. I did, however, like the pre-titles sequence in Moonraker, but even that was ruined by some very obvious stunt doubles. To sum up, I cannot recommend this abomination to anyone except for the most forgiving of Bond fans or die-hard Roger Moore fans. My advice is to pretend this film doesn't even exist and just watch any of the others instead. Even Die Another Day had some entertainment value and was more enjoyable than this. Moonraker is a dud, by Bond film standards. "},{"Title":"Bond goes into outer space, but in terms of quality this is a submarine","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker, which is linked to the far superior novel in name only, follows Bond as he tries to stop another super villain plot. This adventure will take him all over the world and finally into space. I hate Moonraker. OK, maybe hate is a strong word but it's one of my least favourite Bond films by some distance. The fourth outing for Roger Moore is the first time the series went completely into unbelievably stupid territory and it never looks back. Some will enjoy this. There's nothing wrong with Bond films being light hearted but they need to be fun as well and this one just isn't. The special effects are genuinely good to be fair, while the opening skydiving sequence has more thrills than some action films have in 90 minutes. The final battle is entertaining as well. As always there's an enjoyable sense of escapism and it's a more feminist outing with a strong Bond girl and the final scene is a bit low but undeniably funny. Despite this, Holly Goodhead isn't one of the best Bond girls. She maybe a stronger character but Lois Chiles... has a worse actress ever appeared in a Bond movie? Roger Moore is still awful as Bond, while Michael Lonsdale is half asleep as the main villain. Jaws is turned into a joke, one of the many cringe worthy and face palming comic moments throughout Moonraker. Aside from the opening and ending there isn't really any exciting action. It's all flatly filmed and uninteresting. The scene where Bond drives a gondola through Venice is a real low point. The Bond films have always been ludicrous but this is going to the levels which Die Another Day would go to. The script is ludicrous, filled with cringe worthy comedy and despite the madness still fails to actually be any fun. Ian Fleming is nowhere to be found here. Well that's to be expected as this is hardly a Bond movie. It's a badly acted science fiction comedy bomb which is a total space shuttle wreck of an action film. It's boring, it's not funny, it's foolish. It's more ludicrous than Bond going into space, fighting a laser battle and defeating a villain with a ludicrous plan to create a new super race with a dart. Wait hold on... oh.3/10 "},{"Title":"Bond in Outer Space","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well its take to review Moonraker, its not the best Bond Film, but at the same time its not the worst either. What can we say about it. Well Bond having chased bad guys all over the Earth needed a new challenge perhaps so now we takes his adventures into outer space.Maybe the reason this Bond film just isn't quite like the others is because its trying I'm my opinion to follow some of the Science Fiction films that we around at the time an not so much the traditional Bond theme. I mean driving a Gondola with wheels? Too Camp for my taste. Its bond so I watch it. But not as much as others. "},{"Title":"Space age Bond","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The last Bond of the 70s, and Roger Moore's fourth. He has settled nicely into the role but maybe is starting to look a bit old at 52 to be lusting after 20-year-olds.The pre-title sequence is again spectacular and involves a parachute (well it worked last time) However the theme music is not so memorable despite Shirley Bassey getting the job again and vocally as good as 15 years earlier.Richard Kiel gets the henchman role again as Jaws but plays it more for laughs. Michael Lonsdale is good as megabaddy Drax. M, Q, Moneypenny all present and correct, though this is Bernard Lee's last appearance as M, the actor dying before the next one could be completed.Eye candy is provided by Corinne Clery (as Corinne Dufour) and Lois Chiles as Holly Goodhead. But acting is poor, Corinne is clearly dubbed, Chiles delivers every line in a monotone and I didn't find either of them as hot as Jaws' girlfriend played by Blanche Ravalec.How lovely it is to see Alfie Bass in a 5-second cameo. But what a waste.The close encounters notes must have seemed funny at the time but its humour wears off after a bit.So how many 7-up product placements did you spot? "},{"Title":"Double taking pigeon","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bond Review. Title Another title that sounds cool, but doesn't really mean anything.Pre-Titles A space shuttle on loan to the British government is mysteriously stolen in mid-air. Meanwhile Bond is forced to jump from his hijacked plane and battle old foe Jaws for a parachute. The first part is dull yet it sets up the story. The plane jump features truly outstanding stunt work and is shot incredibly well as Bond plummets to Earth. It's as exciting an opening as you could want.Theme Song Shirley Bassey returns for her third theme and it isn't as memorable as her other two. It isn't a bad song, it's just a bit slow and it doesn't have that good a hook or lyrics. Given the films tone and plot something with more energy would have fit better.Plot Bond is sent to find out who took the space shuttle, which leads him to Drax Industries and he begins to investigate the creator Hugo Drax. He soon discovers that Drax plans to create his own perfect human race on board his space station and Bond must stop him killing everyone on Earth. As you can see the story is incredibly far-fetched even for a Bond film. The plot is also extremely similar to The Spy Who Loved Me, but instead of an underwater civilisation it's one in space. The motivation for Drax to do something so crazy isn't given a good enough explanation and Bond gets lost beneath all the silly events taking place.James Bond Roger Moore is as charming and likable as ever in the role, but he isn't given anything interesting to do. He still looks fantastic and delivers the one-liners with ease as usual. Yet he does appear a bit too casual at times considering the bizarre mission he's on and doesn't get to stretch the role.Bond Girls Lois Chiles is decent as CIA operative/NASA scientist Holly Goodhead. She is very charming and has a warm screen presence. However she isn't very believable as a scientist or an agent and in the grand scheme of things she just isn't that memorable. Corinne Clery is okay as Drax's captive pilot, but she isn't given much screen time to leave her mark.Villains Michael Lonsdale is surprisingly good as Drax. He has some truly brilliant lines and his mildly bored delivery makes them all the funnier. He has the some bored expression throughout and it actually adds to the character as he is clearly sick of Bond's intrusions. Richard Kiel returns as Jaws and the character is watered down which is a shame. His role is played for laughs much more and though some parts are amusing he doesn't feel like a genuine threat, not to mention his sudden turn to Bond's side feels forced.Support Bernard Lee gives his final performance as M. His stern portrayal was always dependable as well as enjoyable and he would certainly be missed. Geoffrey Keen makes a welcome return as minister of defence Frederick Gray.Action The action ranges from stupidly overblown to surprisingly fantastic. Bond fights Drax's henchman Chang in a museum and it is a really entertaining scene. Bond also fights Jaws atop a cable car and it is fantastic, both tense and well shot. However we get Bond fleeing some henchmen via gondola in Venice and as if that was dumb enough it then drives on land. The climax is very messy with a massive laser filled battle between the two sides and it's difficult to care about it.Score John Barry makes a welcome return and provides another solid score. The music here is slightly slower and more romantic in many places which is a nice change, but when it needs to be high-octane Barry delivers the goods.Production Values Lewis Gilbert does a competent directing job here, but many of the shots feel too much like a call back to his previous two Bond films at times. By far the biggest issue is the tone and story set-up however. The story is just so absurd that it's difficult to get yourself invested in what is taking place. The direction and editing doesn't make it any easier to follow or any more enjoyable. The humour is just too silly here and it is played up far too much. The best evidence is in the gondola scene with a man looking in shock at his wine and a double taking pigeon, it's so forced that it's painful. On the other hand the locations all look fantastic and we get a great amount of variation, moving from Venice to Rio de Janeiro to the Amazon. The stunt work is consistently excellent here and most of the effects do look very impressive for the time.Conclusion Moonraker is possibly the most hit and miss of all the Bond films. For all the good things it does, it has just as many bad moments. We get a solid Moore performance, an amusing villain, very good effects and some great visuals. But we also get a forgettable Bond girl, a ludicrous plot and some painful humour. The action sequences pretty much sum the film up, with some being spectacular and others being ridiculous. It was clearly a response to the Sci-Fi craze of the day and you have to treat much of it as daft entertainment to truly enjoy, but if you can do that you'll have a fun time. "}{"Title":"Moonraker rake my eyes. Its license to kill, nearly kill James Bond, forever. It's redeemable only due to its camp value. It's still fun to watch.","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite the previous 007 film, 1977's The Spy that Love Me, telling us that James Bond will return in 1981's For Your Eyes Only, producer Cubby Broccoli choose Moonraker as the next installment after the success of Star Wars Episode IV - A New Hope. Another factor that, the film's release was supposed to coincide with the first ever launch of the NASA space shuttle, but this unfortunately didn't occur until later. Being the 11th spy film in the James Bond movie series. The movie was directed by Lewis Gilbert, whom directed the last two previous James Bond films before this. You Only Live Twice (1967) and The Spy Who Loved Me (1977). In the movie, James Bond played by Roger Moore for the fourth time, investigates the theft of a space shuttle, leading him to Hugo Draxs (Michael Lonsdale), the owner of the shuttle's manufacturing firm who is holding an evil secret plan to wipe out world population, and recreate humanity in his own image. Along with scientist Dr. Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles), Bond must find a way to prevent Draxs from releasing this terrorism plot onto the world. For a movie that supposed to be all about space. The movie only has the last 30 minutes in space. The trailer say that the film will deliver the moon, but it's doesn't. It's nowhere near the moon. The movie Sci-Fi element is so out there, you can toss logic out of the window. Seriously, don't try solving the plot holes, from Space Marines, to how Drax got a Space Station. The movie had unrealistic survival Deus ex machine tone in its writing. Even when the movie is grounded on Earth. It's somewhat had silly action with gondola converting into hovercrafts, oddly done snake battles, and really bad ninjas. You don't see much gunplay, in this movie due to Roger Moore's distaste in guns. Still, there were some great scenes, like the sky cable cart scene and the G-Force stimulator. Most of all, the movie has one of the best James Bond opening stunt scenes ever with two men freefalling fighting over a parachute. The only problem is how cartoony, it got toward the end, mostly with metal teeth giant, Jaws (Richard Kiel) looking like an idiot Wile E. Coyote. It get worst with the big man when he fall in love, half way through the film. The stuff with Jaws and his girl is just awful. It's made cheesier with Tchaikovsky's Romeo and Juliet theme. It's the ultimate in bloated. The reason, why for this big change from a great menacing henchman to goofy big guy was due to children writing to the director, wanting to make Jaws into a good guy. In my opinion, that was a really dumb idea to have the character return from 1977's Spy Who Love me only to murder his badass appeal even more. The movie is beautiful shot. I love the locations in the film, ranging from Rio De Janeiro, Brazil, to Venice, Italy. There were some really good intense moments, such as Corrine Dufour (Corinne Cléry) being hunted by dogs chase that was beautiful haunting shot. The movie humor is more of a hit than miss for me. Bond on the quail hunt was a bit fun to watch. Roger Moore is alright in the role. Moore's Bond is a sociopathic jester; while author Ian Fleming's Bond is a shell-shocked veteran with an alcohol problem. When it comes to Lois Chiles, frankly, I just found her to be boring, as both a character and actress. With a name like 'Goodhead', you would think, she would stand out more. In my opinion, she's one of my least favorite Bond's girls. This movie was the final Bond film to feature Bernard Lee as M; he died after this movie. Drax comes out as a typical James Bond villain with over the top evil plan. It's pretty much, the same plot of the previous film. Drax's background as a Nazi party member is completely absent from the movie version. The movie might share the same title as the novel, somewhat similar plot and few characters, but for the most part, the two are nearly different. In the book, there wasn't no Dr. Holly Goodhead, but Gala Brand who share a few common characteristics. Most of the character ideals for Gala Brand would be used later in other James Bond's films, such as 2002's Die another Day. Also, worth noting is that Jaws wasn't a character in the novel. He appear extensively throughout the movie. The biggest different from the book is none of the action in the novel occurs in space. In fact, none of the science-fiction elements of the movie are based on situations described in the novel. The title song was sung by Shirley Bassey, the third and last time she did so in the Bond series after doing 1964's Goldfinger & 1971's Diamonds Are Forever. The lyrics sucks, and the music isn't the best. There are some clever hints to other films such as the tune of Steven Spielberg 1977's Close Encounters of the Third Kind. The movie does have some bad editing such it was rushed into production. There is a really bad lazy double take pigeon in the film, that a bit distracting. The special effects were mediocre. It can't help seeing the awkwardly intercuts with blue screen in certain scenes. The budget for Moonraker was more than the combined budget total of the first six EON James Bond movies put together and it shows how clunky, it is. I guess, people at the time, wanted a less serious spy-thriller as it made a lot of money at the box office at the time. Overall Campy as hell, but still entertaining. "},{"Title":"The worst Bond Film","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've been watching the Bond series in order, and just finished Moonraker. Not only is it the worst Bond film so far, it ranks as one of the worst MOVIES ever! Now I realize you have to give some suspension of disbelief when watching a Bond movie, but this whole movie is disbelief. Nothing in the plot makes any sense (I mean, why would Drax try to kill Bond right after meeting him? that makes it pretty obvious he's behind the missing shuttle--and that's just the start of the idiocy).May be the worst Bond girl ever--we just came off Britt Ekland and Barbara Bach, who each know how to show off their bodies, and here Lois Chiles just wears these blah dresses. And if she ever talked in anything other than a monotone, I missed it (maybe she was really a robot, like in Westworld or something). And what about that first girl, Corrin Dufour--was she made out of plastic--don't they have hair brushes available when they film these scenes?The movie was clearly played for just action and humor, and neither are pulled off--Austin Powers showed us how that could be done.Jaws softening up was dumb, plot holes are egregious, dialog was terrible. Villain Drax was good, but who cared with the rest of the movie. Even the song was bad.I am shocked to see this did so well at the box office.I did give it one point for Q's final line in the movie--that was excellent. "},{"Title":"Really?  Has to be the only Bond I haven't liked","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought for the longest time that I would be incapable *not* liking a James Bond film. From 'Diamonds Are Forever' to 'Die Another Day', there had not been a Bad Bond film that I didn't find some redeeming value in. I guess in an over twenty movie-long franchises I was bound to come across one that I wouldn't enjoy, and the day finally came. Moonraker is without a doubt the worst James Bond film I have ever seen. Everything about the film just comes across as wrong. From the random references to popular science-fiction films, to Moore using the same gadget to solve just about all his problems, this film feels like an exercise in camp, and pointlessness. These were present in other Moore films, but never were they as poorly used as in Moonraker.The plot is pathetic, and when Bond finally gets into space it really is worthless, as it only lasts about twenty minutes. The plot is almost non-existent, and the villain is one of the most forgettable ones in the franchise's history. Jaws also returns from 'The Spy Who Loves Me,' which does lead to one of my favorite Bond lines All I know is his name is Jaws. He kills people. Funny bit of dialogue, and often Moore does give good one-liners in this film, but they can't compare to the many bad bits of comic relief thrown in throughout.Only die-hard Bond fans should own this film. Yes, I purchased it, because I am a fan of the series, and like re-watching all the films on a fairly frequent basis, but I can say that Moonraker will be the one I return to most seldom, and will do so only with friends so that we can point fingers, laugh, and engage in conversation.It isn't a BAD action movie, I will give it that. But it IS a bad Bond film. "},{"Title":"Colorful, entertaining and underrated Bond film","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Often inexplicably referred to as one of the worst Bond films (I can easily mention at least one worse from each Bond actor Diamonds Are Forever, The Man With The Golden Gun, Licence To Kill, Tomorrow Never Dies), Moonraker is an entertaining, large-scale fantasy-adventure that essentially follows the Spy Who Loved Me formula (so closely, in fact, that it's something of a mystery why that film has such a higher reputation than this one) a megalomaniac villain who wants to destroy the world and create a new one, a female special agent who begins as Bond's rival and later becomes his ally, Jaws as the indestructible henchman (OK, he DOES fall in love in this one....), the various international locations and outrageous gadgets, etc. The two scenes most often criticized as too over-the-top for Bond, the gondola on the Venetian piazza and the laser space battle, are direct copies of the car coming out of the sea and the climactic submarine battle of TSWLM. What I'm trying to say is that these two films are a lot closer in quality than most people suggest.Roger Moore is in top form in this one - when it comes to sarcastic line delivery and facial expressions, no other Bond actor can match him. Michael Lonsdale is a paranoid but classy villain with some witty one-liners, and Lois Chiles is a step-up from the already good Bond girl Barbara Bach, because she gets the chance to prove her skills in physical combat. Jaws falling in love and turning good is a matter of taste, but Richard Kiel is still fun in the role, and he even gets to speak this time! The production is spectacular from beginning to end - you get the flavor of each location, and at the end you feel as if you ARE in space!Overall, for those who can appreciate the lighter Bond films, Moonraker is good entertainment and quite undeserving of most of the harsh criticism it has received. (***) "},{"Title":"Bond in space = BAD IDEA","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although a constant element in the James Bond franchise is a lack of credibility, and steadily more unbelievable villains and fiendish plots, Moonraker took this way too far with the decision to bring Bond into space. As a result, Moonraker is by far one of the very weakest 007 installments ever - bluntly put, a foolish concept terribly executed in pretty much every aspect. The turgid script is cringe-worthy, even for a Bond movie, and each action set- piece seems dull, poorly executed and just plain uninspired, with the exception of the airborne parachute battle between Bond and steel toothed villain Jaws (Richard Kiel), the high point of the movie. Then after the credits, we move into a just plain silly plot of an industrial extremist and fanatic Hugo Drax (Michel Lonsdale) who is determined to wipe out the world's population and collonate the moon with his own master race. Even for Bond, the idea of global genocide from space is just plain ridiculous. Later comes the inclusion of dull and completely unnecessary love interest Dr. Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles), perhaps one of the least interesting or even attractive Bond girls ever, and other useless and yawn-worthy supporting figures. It is great to see the return of antagonist Jaws, who without words easily outshines Lonsdale's painfully bland and completely menace free villain Drax. The film also marked the last appearance of beloved Bernard Lee as Bond's superior M, and he is given a bit more to do for his last time around. But Kiel's appearance is easily the film's highlight, and even Roger Moore doesn't seem to be in regular form as 007... perhaps he had the foresight to read the script and realize what a terrible movie he was attaching himself to. All in all, Moonraker seems like a painfully bad, fan made interpretation of a Bond movie. Director Lewis Gilbert tries far too hard to maintain the spirit of his previous film, the excellent Spy who loved me, and instead serves in essentially pantomiming all the elements that made all the other Bond movies so great. Moonraker drags along, with absolutely no excitement or enjoyment derived from the feeble action sequences, or the boring, completely unthreatening villain, or the tasteless and pointless love interest... or pretty much anything, other than Richard Kiel's wonderful Jaws character. Avoid Moonraker at all costs, unless a genuine die hard Bond fan, in the truest sense of the term, or one searching for a cure for insomnia.-2/10 "},{"Title":"Drive this Moonraker *into* the Moon.","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is perhaps no more telling a sign for the sheer awfulness of a film when critics start telling you that it isn't as bad as you might have heard. So it is with Moonraker, a shamelessly Star Wars-influenced reconception of an Ian Fleming short story by the same name that richly deserves its relegation to the low end of the Bond pecking order.Moonraker pivots on the supposedly accidental destruction of an American space shuttle, inexplicably on loan to the British government (which is incapable of launching them, so why do they want one?). When prying eyes reveal the shuttle was stolen by its maker (in a manner factually impossible by virtue of the shuttle's design) as part of a broader plot, only James Bond can save the day. Too bad he couldn't save the whole movie.To be sure, Moonraker carries with it all the requisite elements of a Bond feature; a megalomaniacal villain (the dreadful Hugo Drax), the spectre of world destruction (purging humanity for a perfect race), and the only women on the planet named for the sake of double-entendre (Lois Chiles as Dr. Holly Goodhead). Yet when the lead villain's beard is more interesting than any of his dialog (Drax best line is Can I interest you in a cucumber sandwich, Mr. Bond, and *that* gets repeated), Houston doesn't have to be told that we have a problem. Hugo Drax is arguably the least intriguing villain of any Bond movie, and when he meets his inevitable demise, we breathe a sigh of relief not for the safety of Bond's earth, but for the notion that this silly space epic is crawling ever closer to its merciful conclusion.It's standard procedure to suspend your disbelief for any Bond film, but this one asks you to send it into a space vacuum. Beyond the sheer silliness of one man reposed with the manufacture of something the scope of a space shuttle is the notion that he would even need to steal them for his own malevolent purposes. Add to that the myriad ways Moonraker simply ignores the way the American space shuttle actually works, and you clearly have a movie stitched together like granny's quilt rather than one born of a sound screenplay.To be fair, Moonraker does hold serve in the tradition of wonderfully photographed and scored Bond films, and the in-space sequences are supported by some of the better special effects given the era of Moonraker's production. But it's not fair to expect these technical elements to carry an entire film, and they don't. For a spy adventure franchise that has given us movies as grand as Thunderball, as tense as For Your Eyes Only, and as politically relevant as Octopussy, Moonraker deservedly stands as a decided dud. "},{"Title":"Could have been better (SPOILERS)","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the world of James Bond, most mainstream audiences see the British secret agent as a comic-book superhero who can survive anything, court any woman, and save the world from destruction while holding a martini glass in one hand. Such people would then appreciate films like You Only Live Twice, Die Another Day, and 1979's Moonraker. Of all the Bond films, these particular three are the most outrageous and it's for that reason why they're not among my favourites. For this review, I'll focus on Moonraker, a film that, despite it's positives, is still mostly a failure.The best part of the whole movie is the beginning the pre-credits sequence features Bond (Roger Moore, in his fourth appearance) being thrown out of a plane in midair and having to catch up to a villain who has the only parachute. It's a thrilling scene that's fantastically shot and is appropriately on numerous best-of lists. After the average song and titles, we're introduced to the main plot it turns out that a space shuttle on loan to Britain from the U.S. was skyjacked and Bond is sent to the shuttle's manufacturer in California, the Drax Corporation, on a diplomatic mission and to investigate the plant. He soon realizes that the company's founder, Hugo Drax (Michael Lonsdale) is up to more than meets the eye and that his refined demeanor is simply an act.There are two main problems with the movie it's similarity to the previous outing, The Spy Who Loved Me, and the sci-fi influence of Star Wars. On the former, I usually don't mind if a Bond film is similar to another; TSWLM is a rehash of You Only Live Twice, yet it's still one of my favourites. But two films in a row with the exact same plot (and in some cases, nearly identical scenes) shows laziness on the part of the producers. That brings me to my next complaint the space angle. Granted, the idea itself isn't too bad and it only takes up the final half hour. I only wish that Albert R. Broccoli had been a little more creative in developing the plot, instead of just repackaging TSWLM in outer space.This plot also demands that the crew create convincing special effects, but perhaps their aims were too ambitious because the movie failed to amaze me. While there are some innovative uses of models and they do look realistic, they don't jump out from the screen as they're meant to. Moonraker also contains the infamous laser gun, and those effects are downright horrible. In other words, there's no real 'wow' factor, which is a shame because, ironically, the cinematography is fantastic.It's the minor areas where Moonraker shines. The production design (from Bond veteran Ken Adam) is top notch, with Drax's estate and the space station interiors being highlights. The make-up effects/costumes are suitably out-of-this-world, and even the sound effects are worthy of a mention. Plus, John Barry scores another beautifully haunting soundtrack that perfectly accompanies the wonderful locations featured in the movie from Venice to Rio de Janeiro to the Amazon. But the film struggles in more important matters namely, the script, the direction, and the cast.Returning to pen his second (and last) Bond screenplay is Christopher Wood, who definitely had more success with The Spy Who Loved Me. As I said before, Moonraker is an almost exact copy of the previous film and Wood's storyline is fairly uninspired; if anything, his strength comes in the dialogue, which is some of the wittiest and most quotable in the series (as well as the most tasteless). Consequently, Bond isn't given any real depth and only seems to be there to follow the by-the-numbers plot. Fortunately, while Roger Moore's performance isn't on par with his best, he still manages to keep the film afloat somewhat. Then there are his co-stars, who are less impressive.The love interest of the film is Dr. Holly Goodhead, played with little flair by Lois Chiles. Other than the name, the character isn't exactly the most memorable and the actress doesn't make it any better by delivering all of her lines in the same monotonous voice. As the villainous madman Drax, French actor Michael Lonsdale is a worthy opponent. While the character is a carbon copy of Karl Stromberg from TSWLM, the actor manages to not only look menacing in every frame, but the way that he says even the most banal of lines will leave the viewer in stitches. So it's fortunate that the film's best lines belong to Lonsdale.Unfortunately, one of the highlights of The Spy Who Loved Me, Jaws, returns and his involvement in Moonraker is anything but welcome. The once imposing villain is reduced to a bumbling oaf who is the punch line to numerous failed gags and who induces groans rather than fear. The secondary henchman, Chang, is forgettable and only serves as a minor irritation that is disposed of in an admittedly first-class fight scene. Finally, special note must be given to Bernard Lee, who played M in the first eleven films of the series. Moonraker would be the actor's final film (he passed away shortly before production started on For Your Eyes Only) and he gives the usual excellent performance.If I could blame one person for the movie's faults, it would probably be director Lewis Gilbert. While Cubby Broccoli was responsible for the lion's share of what happened on screen, Gilbert's extravagantly uneven tone is also to blame. The film is almost permanently veered towards slapstick but deadpan scenes such as the ones featuring the G-force simulator or a vicious dog mauling, while both brilliant, are completely out of place in a movie that nearly doubles as a comedy. Nothing is wrong with a little bit of humour in a Bond film&#151;the trick is not to overdo it. Moonraker crosses that line far too many times and it unfortunately doesn't pay off. 4/10 "},{"Title":"The worst( Roger Moore) Bond","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has to be the worst Bond film starring Roger Moore.  The plot is moronic and the characters are weak.  The entire story is original except for the name Drax. The only thing that saves this disaster is that it didn't star Timothy Dalton.  "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If A View to a Kill isn't the worst Bond movie, then Moonraker certainly is.  The action is dull and full of tangents and the plot is ridiculous.  Hugo Drax wants to destroy the world to repopulate it with his ideal civilization.  The plot is way too reminiscent of The Spy Who Loved Me, where Stromburg wanted to destroy the world to create a world under the sea, and is even more unbelievable.  The Bond/Jaws scenarios are done to extreme overkill and suffer the J.W. Pepper effect.  Drax is somewhat of a mockery of previous Bond villains, with the standard quips looking extremely ridiculous.  The intro is one of the best in the series and the first 45 minutes or so is actually pretty good.  The rest of the movie deteriorates quickly and becomes uncomprehensible in spots.  It seems there really wasn't much material in the middle so the movie just stalls along.  Some of the Moore quips seem added just for the hell of it and don't really flow with the story.  The end battle is the ultimate in unbelievability and is thankfully the last in the series of end conflicts between a large group of good guys and a large group of bad guys that became a staple in the series starting with Goldfinger.  There really wasn't anything left to do with it. 4.9/10   "},{"Title":"This is not the best of Moore!","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw the movie I thought it was a third-rate Star Wars pic. Just kidding! As I'm a Bond fan, this film is a big disappointment. Roger Moore is not at his best, the script has its ups (most of the time it's DOWN) and the score is not John Barry's best. Locations and sets are excellent, but it's all so....un-Bondish. I don't have that exciting feeling when I watch this 007-episode. Bond is space is not a good idea. Only Jaws bites through...My recommendation watch The Spy Who Loved Me instead or For Your Eyes Only "}{"Title":"Bond becomes Carry On James Bond in all-glitz travelogue","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It started off promisingly with a great stunt and an atmospheric, original plot being set-up. Michael Lonsdale offers to be a superior bad-guy but early scenes in Drax's chateau and Venice are let down by a deterioration into silly chases and set-pieces. Jaws' return is a bad move in spite of his effectiveness in The Spy Who Loved Me, and the inclusion of a space laser battle at the end is completely at odds with the spy world of James Bond.Great looking, a good start, but an empty middle and finish. "},{"Title":"Thought I would give it a try...","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I read the reviews here, saw that some people actually liked this, and thought, Hey, maybe I'm misremembering it.  So I watched it.  And...sorry, Moonraker is still a pretty sorry excuse for a Bond movie.  There are some chilling moments (the dogs in the woods, the fight scene in the clock tower).  But Richard Kiel and the writers seem to think Jaws is Wile E. Coyote - other than one suspenseful moment (as he stalks a woman during Carnival in Rio, dressed in a clown outfit), he brings unwanted humor to every scene he's in, non-demonstrating the same light sense of humor he brought to such classics as Eegahh and The Human Duplicators.  Despite the producers alleged claims of wanting a realistic space station, laser pistols make loud whoosing noises and fail to even singe the shirts of the people being shot down.  Most irritating of all, Bond stops the station's rotation by hitting the big red Emergency Stop button the bad guys put him next to.  Roger Moore is adequate, Lonsdale-as-Drax is downright chilling, and the fight and chase sequences, but there's a general feel of been there - done that to the whole thing which, along with the plot holes and comedic elements, just doesn't jibe. "},{"Title":"Wasn't Great to begin with; ages poorly","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While Moonraker is not awful, it challenges A View to a Kill and Die Another Day as cheesiest and worst Bond movies. Moore is up to par in this film which starts off well enough- a space shuttle is sabotaged/stolen and Bond must find out why. However, the movie devolves into poor jokes, unbelievable plot lines and a Star Wars impersonation. Lois Chiles plays Dr. Holly Goodhead, and though supposedly educated and an equal of Bond's, she comes across as a bratty 12-year-old. Outside of the return of Jaws, the henchmen are meager and uninspiring. Without giving the story away, the villain, Drax, is intent on destroying the world and creating a master race. Bond does some investigative work to learn what Drax is up to and then must work to stop him. Some scenes and the climax are just too out of touch with reality and the ability to suspend disbelief is crippled too much to let this movie pass as a good Bond film. The early part, as Bond tries to figure out who Drax is and what is really going on are good (except for a lab suddenly disappearing overnight), but once the meat of the plot is reached, the action and cheesy effects throw the story into a spiral. The movie didn't work then and it doesn't work now. This definitely ranks as one of the lamest of the Bond movies. Maybe worth the price of admission in 1978 and, if you are a Bond fan, you want all of them, but this is one you leave on the shelf unless in the mood to watch them all in order. "},{"Title":"Certainly not all bad, but still one of the disappointing Bond films","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know what people might think of me reviewing one of Roger Moore's Bond films on Sean Connery's birthday, but I assure you, it happens to be a mere coincidence that I'm ready to review Moonraker, starring the second long-term Bond actor, today. Anyway, this was Moore's fourth James Bond film, after his first two, Live and Let Die and The Man with the Golden Gun, which I think are pretty good, and his third, The Spy Who Loved Me, which is slightly better than its two predecessors, in my opinion. However, I think this fourth outing of his in the Bond movie franchise is inferior to all of the previous three.While headed for the U.K., a space shuttle called the Moonraker is mysteriously hijacked! Who is sent to investigate this deed? Well, James Bond, Agent 007, of course. His mission takes him to the Drax laboratories, run by Hugo Drax, where he meets Dr. Holly Goodhead, a CIA agent and NASA astronaut, who has been sent here to investigate. Bond also sees some suspicious activities happening in the Drax laboratories, and faces a killing attempt! After this, the mission takes both Bond and Goodhead to several different places in the world, and eventually, somewhere out of the world! Unfortunately, Jaws, the giant, strong henchman who can kill people by biting them with his metal teeth, is back, now working for somebody else, and he will make this mission more difficult (like he did with Bond's last mission), appearing in a number of different places! In Roger Moore's first three outings as Bond, I've found excitement and humour. In Moonraker, I once again found both of those, but certainly not as much. For example, in the scene where Bond is in the G-Force simulator, spinning faster and faster (an attempt to kill him), it starts out exciting, but is too long, with the simulator just rather gradually picking up speed more and more. Humourwise, there's the scene where Bond takes M and the Minister of Defense to the lab. All of them enter in gas masks, but it turns out that the lab is no longer there, and Drax acts puzzled as to why they're wearing those masks. While I did find this one mildly amusing, I couldn't figure out why I didn't find it funnier. Like certain other Bond films, tediousness is a problem in this. Also, they decided to bring back the Jaws character, and while he was good in The Spy Who Loved Me, he may get tiring in this movie, though some surprises involving him come towards the end, some of them mildly amusing, silly surprises, though some might not like them. What other problems can I think of? Let's see, the way the movie goes from the opening sequence to the theme song sequence confused me a bit, and that may not only part. Bond films are known to have silly aspects, but I think this one has more than usual.I'm not sure how much it's the film that caused me not to like it so much, or the fact that I was in a rather tired state when I watched it. However, it appears it has less appeal than all ten of the official James Bond movies that preceded it. I may have been more impressed if I had more energy while I watched it (I'm not 100% sure), but probably not by much. I'm sure I still would have found significant problems in it. 5/10 is the vote I gave for On Her Majesty's Secret Service (George Lazenby's only outing as Bond), and Diamonds Are Forever (Connery's last stint in the role in the official franchise), and I give Moonraker the same, though it just might be slightly inferior to those two. In conclusion, this Bond adaptation is one of the weaker ones in my opinion, and on to another subject, although Connery isn't in this film, I am talking about James Bond, so I think it's appropriate to say happy birthday, Sir Sean Connery. "},{"Title":"Pretty Average Bond Flick that Jumped on the Band Wagon","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It became pretty fashionable to make space films in the 70's, after the huge impact of Star Wars, it seemed to be what the audience wanted; Bond however is definitely better off keeping his adventures here on earth, but thankfully Moonraker is not a total flop because of it.Once again Roger Moore takes the mantle as bond, this time up against a new villain with delusions of world domination, and lets not forget the the return of the wonderful steel toothed bad guy 'Jaws'Mooraker does have plenty of good moments and plenty of the usual Bond style action; it just gets a little ridiculous to ever be one of the best.7/10 "},{"Title":"The Worst Bond Ever!","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has to be the most awful Bond film ever! The story is just ridiculous for a Bond film. SPOILER!! James Bond in a space!? and most of all Firing with Lasers!? Drax, Bonds villain isn't very good either, he's just boring and his plan about making a new super-race into space isn't very believable. The spacesuits are also very cheesy. Okay, I admit, that Bond is a very fictional character and most of the films are very far from reality, but what the h..l is a secret agent doing in a space!!?? The only things that save this film from being an absolute fiasco is Moore as Bond and of course Jaws (But why they had to make him fall in love!?) Moonraker is a bit better in the beginning, when the action is still on earth, but the end is just stupid and laughable. The plot is very farfetched and weird, even for a Bond film. Score 2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Truly awful","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Implausible. Completely silly. That pretty much sums up Moonraker. The only plus side is the incredible number of great looking women, nutshell tans and great legs, in the movie. Roger Moore destroys the series with this monstrosity. "},{"Title":"Bonnnnddddd innnnn sppppaaaaaccceeeeeeee","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Broccoli and company straddle a big-bloated bandwagon in this post-Star Wars cash-in. It took Fleming just short of a year to write the book (to which the film bears no resemblance) but it took Bond's producers just five minutes to write the screenstory in which Moore goes in search of a missing space shuttle, the Moonraker of the title and uncovers a dia-bollockall plot to create an art of genetic super-humans in space which, you've guessed it, means all of us are for the geno-can marked 'trash' on the little glowing ball of water and extraneous land below. Moonraker was rushed into production forcing For Your Eyes Only onto the shelf but you'd never know it given the polished production values, the crisp dialogue and the first rate special effects, all of which only exist in the part of my mind that switches on whenever I'm faced with a potentially psyche-destructive trauma. They're so desperate here they've got the Master in from Doctor Who, renamed Hugo Drax for copyright reasons for a generous portion of villainy. Thats the only good move though in a Bond which neuters returning characters, murders excitement and cock triggers - namely the ones you're got your finger on as you hold a pistol to your head.To be fair to all concerned its one thing to aim high and fall flat on your face so you can understand their reaction to go the other way and make the next one as bland as possible. Step forward Sheena Easton.... "},{"Title":"Perhaps the silliest installment of the Bond series","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although this film has it's moments,I found it for the most part to be far fetched(even though most Bond films are,somewhat),and overly silly. The good points are few here,with Roger Moore doing his usual credible job as Bond,and Michael Lonsdale gives a stout performance as villain Hugo Drax.It certainly lacks in all other areas,I feel,with the worst of it coming in the form of the return of Jaws(Richard Kiel),as he seems somewhat out of place in the story line,and immersed in an incredibly sappy love story,which could ruin your memory of the bad guy we loved to hate in The Spy Who Loved Me.Overall,this movie has the feel of a middle-of-the-road B-movie.Not worthy of your time. "},{"Title":"The worst Bond movie of all time ... bar none!!!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I truly hated this movie.  I have always wanted to see Moonraker, and now I wish I never did.  I have never seen a Bond movie that mad so little sense. I mean, Jaws falling out of an airplane without a parachute, landing on a circus tent and living????????????  Never before in a Bond movie had anyone had such superhuman powers ... never before had a Bond movie lose as much credibility in my mind.  Or how about that boat that Bond turns into a Hovercraft AND IT'S NOT EVEN A Q BOAT!!!!!  IT'S JUST SOME BOAT HE GOT INTO!!!!!!!!!!  There are action sequences that make no sense, why were the bad guys there???  The whole movie followed no rhyme or reason, it was painful to watch.   "}{"Title":"No Small Step For the Bond Franchise","Date":"20 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Can we all be honest and just admit that 80 percent of the Bond villains to this point are pretty much the same in motivations, setting, and their presence. I don't know why it took this long for me to be bothered by this. Perhaps because Moonraker to be begin with isn't all that fun. After all, you can only get away with normalcy and clichés if you have a great movie around them. Moonraker just didn't do enough for me to be distracted by the same old Bond story.The 4th and least interesting Roger Moore Bond film was fast tracked after the success of 1977's Star Wars. It's pretty crazy that the day after the Star Wars The Force Awakens trailer releases I find out that Moonraker was made early due to capitalize on the success of the first film in the Star Wars franchise. They even had a scene in which an MI6 agent shoots a gun that resembles a stormtrooper's. Which is later shown at its full potential later on as each astronaut have these said guns. Most of the film doesn't take place in space at all, in fact, the opening sequence before the credits is nothing short of magnificent film making. I'm amazed they were able to pull off the stunts and special effects needed to make that plane scene work so well. I immediately thought of Mission Impossible when I saw what they were able to accomplish with what looked like minimal CGI.Sadly, that's about as good as the film gets. We do however get another go around with a fan favorite villain, Jaws. If it wasn't clear in the first film, Jaws is virtually indestructible. He literally survives anything thrown at him. I'm honestly surprised they didn't drop him out of a spaceship at the end of Moonraker only to show up in For Your Eyes Only. But there comes a point when he's so unrealistic that you're taken out of the film by him. Although, I do like where his character ends up in this film. The villain we really focus on here is named Drax. He doesn't particularly standout at all. In fact, he's overshadowed by his own henchman, Jaws, for a good portion of this film. It's quite puzzling why a guy like Drax who wants to create a perfect race would target someones like Jaws to be one of it's members.The film comes off as boring and dull which is surprisingly for a plot that includes Bond going to outer space. It's so outrageous of a plot on its own, but there is nothing special at all about its characters, plot, or execution. Lois Chiles' 'Holly Goodhead' seemed to be a rehash of Barbara Bach's Anya, and really a far less interesting or polished character I may add. I love Roger Moore's Bond and I love watching Jaws, but I'm getting tired of those Bond villains and girls that do nothing but spill exposition and give us eye candy respectively. Moonraker contains better special effects, better action, but a far less interesting story and characters. But I will say it was entertaining to watch actors try and exhibit zero gravity by moving in slow motion. So bad it's good. The bottom line is that Bond doesn't do anything that relates to being a spy here at all. This isn't even a Bond film, really.+Jaws is back and better than ever+Opening sequence+Star Wars nods-Same old same old villain-Why Bond in space, why.-For a different setting, everything plays out exactly the way you'd expect 4.8/10 "},{"Title":"Bond becomes camp . . .","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I enjoy 'Moonraker' as escapist entertainment but as an entry in the Bond series, it's very basic. It contains every aspect that we've come to expect from a James Bond movie The guns, the girls, the gadgets, the madman and elaborate plot for global domination, the monstrous sidekicks, the beautiful sidekick, the martinis and of course location, location, location.This was Roger Moore's last fluffball Bond film. The two that followed 'For Your Eyes Only' and 'Octopussy' had the usual elements in place but were closer to the spirit of the Connery films. 'Moonraker' is just escapist fare.The plot is the daffiest that I've ever seen in a Bond film (even though it basically repeats the plot of 'The Spy Who Loved Me), a diabolical millionaire intends to steal a deadly virus, take his race of genetically perfect people up into his space station and wipe out whoever is left on earth. His name is Hugo Drax (played stoically by Michael Lonsdale) who steals space shuttles right out of orbit.Bond is briefed, given a gadget or two and set off on his mission. His lovely in this film is the beautiful Dr. Holly Goodhead played (dryly) by Lois Chiles. Chiles can't come close to the best of the Bond girls but giving credit where credit is due she delivers the perfect closing line.'Moonraker' is typical Bond fare but it is never dull, it's a jolly popcorn movie made to keep up with the times (Star Wars and Star Trek were huge business at the time) but I enjoy it as just a bloody good time. "},{"Title":"It's not the worst Bond movie, but it might just be the silliest&#x85;","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen this twice now, and I've never been able to figure out what they could have possibly been thinking when this movie was green lit. What is people's fascination with bringing franchises into space? It's not a very interesting setting in my opinion. It's not really boring, just inexplicably moronic. I also felt the action wasn't as prominent as some of the other movies in the series, and it doesn't have a whole lot of suspense either. I'm a bit of an adrenaline junkie, so I was a bit disappointed, even if it was watchable. Call me a stickler if you like, but Jaws falling in love? Give me a break! This is around the time where they really began to get too cute with the franchise. I always felt Roger Moore played a solid Bond. He's my 2nd least favorite, but he was entertaining. He is saddled with an extraordinarily silly script here, and there isn't much he can do but be all suave. Lois Chilles is OK as the Bond girl, but they got a bit lazy with her character direction. The twist in her character was done in the previous Bond film with another Bond girl. Final Thoughts It's not the worst. That dubious honor goes to either A View To Kill or The World is Not Enough. This is still a pretty stupid entry into a series that was starting to get tired. Moore would rebound a bit with For Your Eyes Only, and one of my personal favorites, Octopussy, but this was a major misfire. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Even Bond wasn't immune to the effect of Star wars","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1977, Star Wars (and Close Encounters) exploded into the public consciousness and changed movies forever. It raised the bar for spectacle and special effects. It helped create a sci-fi boom and even EON rushed to cash in on its success. Now, James Bond was going into space! After The Spy Who Loved Me, we had been promised For Your Eyes Only, but instead we got Moonrake. Why? Because it has space, sort of, in the title. The original novel was about a Nazi with an ICBM. That was then, ICBMs were old news after Cuba. So, let's launch James Bond in a space shuttle, before Nasa had even done so.The film starts out oddly, with the hijacking of a space shuttle. This requires a bit of suspension of disbelief, as it is unlikely that a space shuttle would be carrying any fuel, while being transported on the back of a 747. So, we turn off our brain and move on to Bond. He seems to be returning home when he is set up to die in a crashing aircraft. What follows is an amazing aerial sequence that includes the return of Richard Kiel's Jaws. As the film moves on, it is mostly in good form, with menace around every corner and more than a bit of mystery. Unfortunately, it starts coming apart at the seams when the comedy takes over. Just as things seem to be building to something big, we get the ridiculous gondola chase through Venice and a double-take from a pigeon. Add to that a turn from menacing to comical for Jaws and you have the makings of a big disappointment. Once things go into space, they never recover.The cast is rather uneven. Michael Lonsdale is excellent is Drax, a cold, ruthless maniac. His assassin Chong is up there with the likes of Oddjob. However, Lois Chiles is totally unconvincing as Dr. Goodhead, a name straight out of a porno. Richard Kiel proved popular as Jaws and returns to early menace; but once a love interest for him is introduced, he never recovers.The film really could have worked if they had stuck with the stronger elements. The scenes in Drax's mansion and testing facilities are great, as are those in the glass museum and the Amazon. The locales of Venice and Rio are used well, and the mystery of the deadly liquid is very intriguing. The space station is another matter, as are the jokes. It would have been more believable that Drax had built the complex with NASA's knowledge, though he hid its true purpose. Perhaps it was intended as a weapons platform, or a lab, ala Skylab. Drax then hides his deathsattelites onboard, ready to rain death upon the land. Drax and his followers would then be isolated in the Amazon, in bunkers, waiting for the virus to finish its job and expire. Instead, we are left to believe that he built this massive complex with neither NASA's or the Russian's knowledge. It makes the volcano lair of SPECTRE look like an average real estate venture.So, despite a promising start, we are left with a battle in space. I suppose it's in keeping with the tradition of ninja commandos attacking a volcano base, or scuba commandos battling beneath the ocean, but it looks far less believable. Then we get the same gag at the end, with Bond's version of coitus interruptus, as we saw in TSWLM. It pretty much signaled that any attempt at a serious film was over, for now. "},{"Title":"James Bond Jumps the Shark","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The end of The Spy Who Loved Me said James Bond will return in For Your Eyes Only. That never happened because of the popularity of Star Wars. So producer Albert Broccoli decided to skip that and go straight to the third novel Moonraker and make it into a movie where James Bond goes into Outer Space. It might have been a good idea financially at the time to cash in on the sci fi craze as Moonraker grossed $210.3 million worldwide and was the highest grossing Bond movie at the time. But looking at it today, sci fi and James Bond don't clash. Let me put this in more simpler terms the story is just a rehash of Stromberg's plan in The Spy Who Loved Me and the villain Hugo Drax is no different than Stromberg except that hes more smug. Jaws returns but is reduced to stupid comic relief and is no longer menacing plus he gets a girlfriend. The story is full of plot holes, defies all logic but still manages to be entertaining depending on your point of view.What can I say about acting. Roger Moore is on auto pilot this time and is going through the motions. Lois Chiles never made much an impression. Richard Kiel is wasted as Jaws and Michael Lonsdale as Drax is very sinister and downright evil. This was also Bernard Lee's last performance as M before he passed away in 1981 and at least it was a good performance. Three times the charm doesn't work for Lewis Gilbert as the movie is the most over the top (Jumped the Shark) and campy of the Bond movies but I blame the decision to cash in on the Star Wars craze.Like Diamonds are Forever, Moonraker has that entertainment value but with the decision to turn the characters into a joke and send Bond into outer space pushed it too far. Thankfully that would be resolved in the next film. "},{"Title":"Most distressing film for true Bond afficionados","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a most disressing film for true Bond afficionados. I have the utmost respect and affection for Roger Moore but particularly in retrospect he was an awful 007. Together with director Lewis Gilbert their partnership in I believe three of the films brought it to a new low of childish humour and cartoon villain buffoonery. Moore was notoriously reticent to take part in any stunts and it puts the steel and realism of Daniel Craig into frightening perspective when you see the parade of stunt men in the Moore films. It took the idea of injecting humour into Bond to silly exremes with Magnifent 7 music in this film and Beach Boys in A View to a Kill. Reading the original Fleming novel was one of the most thrilling experiences for this then teenager but the film bears no resemblance with 007 now portrayed as a weary punster bedhopping around the globe kitted out in a selection of crazy seventies styles. Any in agreement? "},{"Title":"Moonraker -- A Review","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director Lewis Gilbert's Bond film Moonraker was very popular when it first came out; but in retrospect, Gilbert did so much better with his previous Bond film, The Spy who loved me. Admittedly, Moonraker is not a complete disaster. It started out quite well with a fight in mid-air between James Bond (Roger Moore) and Jaws (Richard Kiel). Richard Kiel also provided most, if not all, of the excitement and laughs in the rest of the film. There is also something very appealing about watching James Bond visit exotic places, like Venice, Italy and Brazil.But when Jaws becomes more likable than James Bond, then you know something is very wrong. Far from being charismatic and dynamic (the qualities we admired in Sean Connery), Roger Moore's James Bond has a big problem expressing any kind of real emotion and therefore lacks the appeal to carry this film forward. The Bond girls (like Lois Chiles) are pretty, but are not very interesting. Apparently, back then it was considered sexist for women to have sex appeal and Moonraker was meant to reflect that. But why not have a Bond girl who could show Diana Rigg's initiative in On Her Majesty's Secret Service or the sassy quality of Jill St. John in Diamonds are Forever? In other words, why not have women who can be so much more than just porcelain dolls? Finally, the villain Drax is the dullest of all, which is unfortunate because usually the creators of the James Bonds are very good a creating villains. "},{"Title":"MoonCracker  or The Easy Art of Writing Scripts !","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is a semi-consensus that dear Roger Moore's movies of James Bond were the weakest. Unless the nostalgic feel and its power (seeing them in cinema at their first releases, watching them in TV while you were a kid, renting them once with your love before you get married! Please. SAVE ME THE TROUBLE THIS TIME !).I believe the 1970s wasn't cinematically a very happy decade. And most of Moore's movies as Bond were not smartly made (polite word for perfectly cheesy !). They, the movies so their makers, failed at creating powerful conflicts or solid chimera; to make you watch and enjoy. In this movie for instance, it's like watch and enjoy being stupid ! It was a shock to me when I read that Moonraker was the highest grossing Bond movie up until the release of GoldenEye (1995) ! How is that ?! Is it the effect of Star Wars global mania at the moment ? Is the movie that good and I didn't notice ? Is this piece of info is originally right ???The formula is on, but not working. It's classically episodic but in the wrong way. The plot is idiot; making everything desultory and trivial. The naivety overran everything this time, even the entertainment itself. The hyped action killed the story (if there was any !). And the whole thing ended up as just many action sequences run non-stop like diverse parts of a TV show concerning stunts, not a movie ! I know that THIS IS BOND, but so crumbly and not in its amusing condition. Therefore all the bad points appears nakedly  Moore is a statue of wax (just like Michael Lonsdale as well !), doing nothing but smiling and acting tense in front of obvious back-projections ! The villain wants not to takeover the world but to destroy it for ideal purposes; simply not clearing that act, and its character, well (or frankly AT ALL !) made it one truthful definition for  Absurd ! After Goldfinger the rich evil man got a silent Japanese killer again (this became so silly not to mention boring !). The number of the pretty girls at the evil man's lair, so on the movie's poster, sure gives you some hopes, high hopes, but sorry, they're totally WASTED; don't tell me that this is not disappointing !! Jaws transforms from the beast to prince charming SUDDENLY and I didn't catch on why accurately (Bad Ahmed, I'll never let you watch nonsense again/But that was BAD nonsense !).One of the most provocative points is when the whole thing turns into just consecutive many attempts to assassinate 007, being too various, too complicated, and too goofy also! Review with me  group of killers attack Bond in the canals of Venice (one dressed as a corpse in its coffin !??) OH GOD ! Bond was in front of you dull while immovable cases before ?? So, why the preciosity ?. A sniper comes out of a tree ?? What a crap ! I couldn't believe them, this is turning into caricature more than thrilling action ! The whole Rio's cable-car situation is so fabricated  they want to kill Bond, OK, so they wait till he rides the cable-car then Jaws gnaws the cable by his teeth ?!! This is concoction at its worst ! WHAT ABOUT ONE LOUSY BULLET FOR GOD'S SAKE ?! But hey, that ruins the amusement, isn't it? Though I know that the amusement already collapses when I find the time to ask such a question !We read that With the exception of the title, the character Drax, and a couple other minor elements, this is an original story rather than an adaptation of Fleming's novel. Despite that, while the plot runs so thin and the sets grow so big, the script looks visible. And with being devoted to only how not to kill Bond sequences, it's unoriginal. Especially when it got, more than any time, too many references to another real original movies to the extent of feeling that this is a parody movie or a big budget episode of SNL ! There is (2001 A Space Odyssey)'s famously used classic Also Sprach Zarathustra played by the bugler at the start of the hunt at Drax's villa. (The Magnificent Seven)'s main theme while Bond is reaching M's headquarters in South America. (Close Encounters of the Third Kind)'s hailing tune as the sequence which unlocks Drax's Venice laboratory's door. Not to mention that Tchaikovsky's (Romeo and Juliet) Overture is heard when Jaws meets Dolly. Or how (Star Wars) break out abruptly at the end, with the laser guns and the same sound effects (How pathetic !). So it's not an action anymore, it's close to tourist pamphlet (or rather a colorful calendar !), TV show about action, or a spoofing channel, with a climax that needed only Mr. Darth Vedar and the I'm your father thing to be complete ! (Surprisingly Mike Myers did it, even if unconsciously, in Austin Powers The Spy Who Shagged Me &#x96; 1999 !). This wholly as brittle as cracker goes. Being a hit at its time tells you a lot about the low level of the entertaining movies at the 1970s. I felt really foolish when I finished it, to wonder; why god didn't make me a scriptwriter of Bond movies ? That apparently was so easy, so profitable, job to do !Finally the best about it  Shirley Bassey's Moonraker  just fabulous. (Lois Chiles)'s eyes  the only good thing about her here. And of course Q's wicked line at the last shot&#x85;you'd think that the whole movie was made to say it ! "},{"Title":"Decent book, horrible movie","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anyone who thinks this is the best or even one of the best Bond films is in love with Roger Moore or didn't see the other 20 films. It may have been highly regarded when it came out, but compared to the others in the series it is quite weak. Michael Lonsdale had a lot of potential as Drax. Why does he have a English accent? He is German in the book! They could have at least got that right. I liked Jaws more as a murder machine in TSWLM. I do not like Bond in space at all. Lois Chiles is possibly the most boring Bond girl in the series, and such stiff acting! I put this one lower than the Man With The Golden Gun (Christopher Lee was ten times better as a villain than Lonsdale). In the bottom 5 in the series (not the worst mind you, that belongs to Die Another Day or A View To A Kill). This movie may have been quite good if they had stayed close to the book. I doubt Moore could have played Bond though if that happened. "},{"Title":"Pretty Dull","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Richard Kiel desperately tries to save this film from the opening sequence. He fails and the reels go on. This film appears to have an excess of special effect sequences which are too far fetched. Could it be better? Definitely, & without Kiel it would be much worse.The most inspired sequence is the laser battle in outer space. The worst sequence is the trained dogs who do not eat until commanded too. The sequence is so bad, that it has to be the all time worst one in Bond History. Proves that this film goes to the dogs.The travel budget must have been cut for this one a memorable places do not have a big role in this movie. Even the women are not much though the haunting voice of Shirley Bassey (also sang Goldfinger) is actually pretty good in the theme song. While the song is haunting, it is not the hit material that most Bond themes are. They should have put the entire film crew in the centrifuge & spun them to try & improve this one. "}{"Title":"moonfaker","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1977, was when two hit films were released; star wars and the spy who loved me. And considering star wars was such a hit they thought they could make one using bond. result failed! lets start with the fact that bond never even holds a pistol, I mean well thats what makes bond, bond! so without a gun it was just full of hand to hand combat and not much gun chase scenes, and according to the trailer, those scenes seem to be the 'cool' scenes. I don't know why I wasn't that excited about the special boat chase scene, it just seemed rushed, as though nothing was really happening. Then he got caught by the enemy and it dos en't feel like bond anymore. I thought the space effects would not be to bad, as star wars was released two years earlier. I was wrong they were crap. It turned into star wars in the end with these so called space marines, but I didn't even feel like I was watching star wars, I felt like I was watching a John Peetwee Docter who. ignore the peoples saying this movies good, it is the worst bond film ever! OK so I haven't seen all the twenty bond films yet but I am getting there. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Raking the Moon","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the most over the top Roger Moore 007 entries, an obvious attempt to compete with the previously released Star Wars of 1977, has Bond boldly going where no British agent has gone before space, the final frontier, to stop Hugo Drax from destroying the world and repopulating it with his genetically enhanced specimens. Lois Chiles plays Bond's love interest. Jaws is also back, still trying to take a bite out of Bond.If you like Roger Moore's Bond, you may enjoy this one. Others not so much. There is one scene that is uncharacteristically mean spirited of the Bond franchise in which a woman Bond had sex with, one of Drax's assistant women, is sent into the forest for her betrayal and is brutally eaten by dogs (though we don't see the eating).The title theme is fun to listen to though and we do get a memorable line from Q when they catch him having sans gravity sex with Lois Chiles on the space shuttle I think he's attempting re-entry, sir. You got to love that icy, blissful look in Lois's eyes at the end like she really has had the best sex of her life, that's hard to fake.   "},{"Title":"Bond, Beyond...And WAY Out of his Depth...","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With the phenomenal 1977 success of STAR WARS worldwide, a long untapped audience of science fiction fans was 'discovered'...and Albert Broccoli, long-time James Bond producer, saw what he thought would be a golden opportunity to tap into it. While the follow-up for the successful THE SPY WHO LOVED ME was to be FOR YOUR EYES ONLY, he moved MOONRAKER up, instructing screenwriter Christopher Wood to write a Bond in Space movie.It was NOT one of Broccoli's better ideas...The whole concept of combining fleets of space shuttles, a 1950's style space station, battles between ray-gun wielding spacesuit-clad Marines and baddies...and the sophisticated British spy, in the middle of it all...was so completely far-fetched that it destroyed any shred of old-fashioned adventure left to 007. And, while Bond movies were pure escapism, one of the biggest selling points had always been exotic locales we MIGHT actually visit, someday...and low Earth orbit is NOT a prime travel destination!The novel, by Ian Fleming, did, in fact, feature rockets and a villain named Hugo Drax, but was such a dated story that only Drax would be carried over to the film, in the person of French actor Michael Lonsdale, one of the more listless enemies Bond has faced. The opening pre-title sequence would, however, be one of the best of the series, as Bond, a bad guy, and Jaws (Richard Kiel, back, by popular demand, from THE SPY WHO LOVED ME), are free-falling from an airplane, with only a single parachute between them. The stunt men looked remarkably like the actors, and the scene, requiring dozens of free-falls to film, is astonishing, marred only by the silly finale, as Jaws crashes into a circus tent.The storyline, of a madman launching himself and a select group into space, then releasing a virus to destroy all human life, returning, after the virus was eliminated, to repopulate the planet, was, in some respects, just a variation of THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, using space as the refuge, instead of the ocean. But in general silliness, MOONRAKER had SPY beat, hands down, with scenes of Bond cruising on a tacky motorized gondola through the streets of Venice; on horseback, riding through the Pampas to the strains of The Magnificent Seven; Giant Jaws getting a love interest (an innocent tiny blond nymphet) to the strains of Romeo and Juliet; and Bond effortlessly piloting a space shuttle while inducting Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles) into the THOUSAND Mile High Club...it was as if all the lessons learned from the failure of THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN had been forgotten.While Chiles was merely adequate as Bond's love interest, French star Corinne Clery, as the doomed Corinne Dufour, was radiantly beautiful, and had me wishing the actresses had switched roles!On a sad note, this would be Bernard Lee's last performance as 'M', before his death, in 1981. It would be years before another 'M' (Judi Dench) would show the same kind of charisma and gruff authority.MOONRAKER, while a big moneymaker (thanks, in large part, to a marketing blitz prior to release), was universally panned, with many critics declaring that the Bond franchise had become a joke whose time had passed.The criticism was not lost on Broccoli, who accepted responsibility for the fiasco, and was planning a new direction for the agent, in a move that would NOT please Roger Moore...    "},{"Title":"Less impressive bond","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When seeing Bond films, I judge it on the usual features (Villain, score, and Bond girl) and content. Here is what I thoughtVillain- I can't help but notice that Drax had quite a few similarities with Stromberg in SWLM. They were both incredibly wealthy, they liked beautiful women, and Drax had the same passion for space that Stromberg had for the ocean. They were also perhaps the dullest villains Bond ever faced. Drax was a good megalomaniac, but he just wasn't as intriguing as Dr. No or Blofeld. Jaws came back, but I thought that he was just a big joke this time. in SWLM, it was bad enough, but I think that this time, he was just one big joke.Bond Girl- I didn't really think that Lois Chiles was a good idea for a bond girl. especially when you compared her with Barbara Bach in the previous film. My problem with her was that she just lacked charisma, and didn't convey fear or emotion very well.Score- Shirley Bassey and bond definitely go well with each other. the moonraker song was not as intense as DAF or GF, but I still thought it was a great score.What I liked about MR  ****WARNING, YOU MAY FIND SPOILERS****1. There was a good story hidden behind all those gags, and there were some cool scenes. My favorite was the battle in the Venetian glass between bond and chang.2. Bernard Lee's last performance, and, call me crazy, but probably one of his best. He proved to be Bond's friend in this movie instead of his cranky boss. He was probably the best M there was.What I didn't like about MR1. In this movie, as well as MWTGG, you will see the worst of Roger Moore's ridiculous gags and humor which does not belong in a bond film. Roger was a good bond at times, but when you watch this, you'll sometimes wonder how he replaced Connery.2. Way too Sci-fi. Yes Star Wars was out, and it could have meant big bucks for Cubby Broccoli (which it did, one of the highest grossing bonds of all time) but it just is not bond to be on spaceships shooting laser guns. If you watch the next bond FYEO it is interesting to see the difference. "},{"Title":"The Bond Franchise is sabotaged once again, unfortunately.","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I see alot of good prospects for how Moonraker couldve been a better film. the film couldve been a serious exciting bond adventure.   The market was for juveniles who look for sex, explosions, funny slapstick comedy, & the happiness and welfare of the jaws character.   I read somewhere that a request was made that jaws was brought back for a second appearence because some kids thought he was so cool. Ian Fleming wouldve been turning over in his grave at the sight of jaws having a girlfriend save him from the sky trolley accident.   no other villains had ever been rescued by a blonde in a bond film, But how will they work her into the storyline to make Jaws a Good Guy?.  As I said,  If I knew that I would have to spend this kind of money on a film, I would direct it to a relatively young crowd, include proper product placement to insure monetary satisfaction from subsidiary companies, and not care about Ian Fleming's hardcore storyline.  You would think they would have learned from the Sherriff J. W. Pepper in Live And Let Die how the franchise was going south. "},{"Title":"Very weak Bond film","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not the worst Bond film, but very close indeed.Before Bond heads into outer space, the film is OK at best.  Once Bond is in space, the film becomes more laughable by the moment.  What amazes me is that this film was nominated for an Oscar for its special effects, however, when comparing it to Close Encounters and Star Wars (films released around the time as Moonraker), the special effects are really rather ordinary, so say the least.No logic, no appeal, just big action at the expense of good screenwriting. After two really good appearances as Bond, Moore seems like he just didn't care about this one.  I can see why.  "},{"Title":"James Bond meets Star Wars","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cashing in on the success of Star Wars this Star Wars type of film is the highest budget of all Bond movies; and only one of two which lost money.  The beginning was good, but the film is like a comic book story.  Jaws is in this episode, he was only in two.  I loved the space marines, but my wife found them farfetched, but this film stretches it so much why not.  I would not call this a great Bond film. "},{"Title":"Bad, but not the worst","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In Moonraker, it would seem that Cubby Broccoli and company confused James Bond with Matt Helm.  Certainly, the production values are top notch, but the wretched script probably would have embarrassed ol' Dino in ways that Murderer's Row could not.  Still, for all its faults (and they are too many to count), Moonraker, though the worst official Bond film, is still superior to Never Say Never Again.  Also, John Barry's score is one of his best.  Whenever his melancholy music is missing from a 007 epic (as it so often is these days), the film suffers. "},{"Title":"Bond Reaches New Levels of Ridiculousness","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Riding on the back of the success of Star Wars, production was postponed on For Your Eyes Only and Moonraker was launched straight into production. Although financially successful, the actual film itself is a colossal disaster.With a plot almost identical to that of The Spy Who Loved Me, although this time space is the objective to breed new human life, not the sea. Moonraker sees millionaire Hugo Drax hatch a plot to create a perfect human race in space, whilst creating global destruction below on Earth. It is up to Bond to stop him and the franchise from sinking into the dirt.If you are only here to witness the pre credits sequence you are in luck. This one sees Bond free fall out of a plane and tries to claim a parachute from another man, before he plummets to his death. In all fairness to Moonraker this sequence is truly thrilling. The rest of the film never manages to top this brief five minute sequence. So what went wrong? Some of the classic elements are still in place. An entertaining and mad villain in the form of Hugo Drax played by Michael Lonsdale who practically seems to bounce on the tip of his toes whenever he is shown on screen. Roger Moore looks at home this time and could Sean Connery really work in a film this mindless and absurd?The first signs of trouble appear during the second act. A high speed gondola chase takes place in Venice and Bond's gondola is particularly special. It can even go on land! With a speed equivalent of walking pace. You sigh. You groan. You look at your watch in despair. There's still seventy minutes left and they have not reached outer space yet. The Bond girl is stunning and yet again she poses no real significance to the plot. Still you manage a smirk when you hear her name for the first time; Dr Holly Goodhead.By the final act though the film runs on its own accord and is almost unwatchable. Jaws becomes an anti-hero who helps Bond, another spaceship shoots lasers at Drax's and Bond? Well he becomes the first man to have sex in a spaceship.If it sounds painful to watch that's because it is, with the small compensation that it is not as weary or worn down as The Man with the Golden Gun. Moonraker marks an all-time low in the Bond franchise. It's just lucky that this was not Bond's final mission and by some miracle he still continues to live on to this very day. Nadirs like Moonraker though are not helping. "},{"Title":"What a terrible bond film.","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a big fan of the franchise but this was awful. The chase scene in venice could have come straight out of carry on film. They played then rewound a pigeon glancing to one side to give the effect of a double take. Waiters were pouring beer over guests and bad guys had the intelligence of five year old children.Cannot believe they didn't include the opening few chapters from the book where bond comes up against drax at the card tables. Saying that apart from the character names the film bares no similarities with the book whatsoever, it is utterly different.Looking at other user reviews I seem to be in the minority, people seem to think this was a good bond film. I doubt these people will be inclined to read the book but to get an idea of how good this film could have been i would greatly encourage it.Perhaps one day they will remake this film keeping much closer to the novel. lets hope so. "}{"Title":"Moonker-Last of  the good Moore outings","Date":"15 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Actually this was on of the Bond movies I detested as a child(I even posted a comment expressing my hatred for it). My gripe about Moonraker was what they did to Jaws. I saw it on the DVD shelf in my local videostore and decided I should give it another go. I am truly glad I did because after watching it again I realised what a magnificent Bond movie it is. Moonraker was the last of the great Moore Bond's, FYEO, Octopussy and AVTAK were bland by the numbers outings. The theme tune sung by Shirley Bassey is actually pretty good. The opening sequence which involves a mid air struggle for a parachute was absolutely breathtaking. Moonraker has some truly great scenes, the cable car sequence for instance. I used to loathe Moonaker, now every time I see I love it more and more. "},{"Title":"(*...chortle, chortle...*)","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" WARNING Spoilers ahead. And possibly uncontrollable laughter as well. No, I'm not being sarcastic, just wanted to warn everybody. I'm serious.I'm only just now checking out the James Bond flicks for the first time, and so far find them to be a mixed bag ranging from the fun to the spectacular to the boring to the incredibly stupid. But there was a moment while watching MOONRAKER when I realized that not only was I watching the stupidest of the Bond films, but that I was watching one of the most incredibly stupid scenes ever filmed in movie history I've encountered to date! (And as I am someone who loves to watch a ***lot*** of bad and stupid movies from PLAN 9 all the way through the MYSTERY SCIENCE THEATRE 3000 collection and way, way beyond, that's saying something!)In that one moment which had me laughing hysterically so hard that I swear I fell OUT of my chair and was rolling about on my living room floor clutches my sides because I could have sworn they had just split wide open while I was gasping for air as much as I could manage for fear I would suffocate on the hilarity of it all, the following happens within approximately two or three minutes of screen timeWhile on a gondola through Venice, James Bond suddenly presses a hidden button on it, causing a steering wheel to pop out and a motor to drop down into the water and suddenly the gondola thinks its a speedboat zooming through the canals at top speed, at one point plowing through another gondola consisting of a pair of lovers romantically smooching it up, causing the second struck gondola to be sliced neatly in two separating its passengers from the gondolier, and the gondolier is all frustrated and annoyed as he struggles to keep from sinking while the lovers drift away in their own still-afloat half of the ruined gondola still smooching it up and completely oblivious to everything that has just occurred, and suddenly as it approaches St. Mark's Square James's gondola grows a hovercraft device on the bottom of it and zooms through a crowd of people, and we see everyone around doing double takes and having cartoonish reactions to this ridiculous sight including a pigeon (!!!) doing a double-take and a dog narrowing his eyes in bewilderment...So help me, I SWEAR to you people, I am not making this up. I have a powerful reputation with all those who know and befriend me for being painfully honest about absolutely everything you might care to discuss with me. I would never dream of making this weirdness up. I'm a professional cartoonist, for pete's sake, and even *I* would never dream of creating a sequence like this, certainly not in a 007 flick! I've seen silliness in Bond movies before, but I have never, EVER seen anything THIS ridiculous! And it's all the more funny in that you are actually laughing AT the film as opposed to WITH it as was obviously intended.Well, so much for being the secretive, inconscpictuous, professional top spy.MOONRAKER is a movie in deep, deep trouble. This has, of course, become a notorious addition to the Bond franchise, an embarrassing mass of dunceness that raked in the cash for some weird reason while also simultaneously causing Bond fans everywhere to run gagging from the theatres. Don't ask me why it made as much as I hear it did; your guess is as good as mine. It is so goofy in so many different ways that I'm surprised it didn't kill the franchise off in one fair swoop upon its release! Its acting is terrible, its overall finale plot and effects manage to remind me just a tad too much of THE BLACK HOLE, only worse (and again, that's saying something!), to the point where I was checking the ending credits to see if Maximillian Shell was also playing this villainous character as well as the other one because both villains struck me as being too much the same for their own good. If you thought the black strings on the floating robots in THE BLACK HOLE were sloppy, wait until you see the effects done here in the space scenes! Or heck, even some of the earthbound ones like the rubber snake!Now we all know that James Bond movies on a usual basis have all the believability and depth of your average superhero comic book, but this movie goes beyond comic book level into the realm of the flat out cartoonish. Specifically, Warner Bros. territory. And while Jaws was previously terrifying in THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, here he's just completely daft both in conception and convincingness. By the time you see Jaws survive the cable car crash you'll realize that all those reviews you've read of MOONRAKER comparing him here to Wile E. Coyote were right on target. And any pretense of the movie's having one foot in reality at all, or even just one toe, goes flying madly out the window. The characters persistently do stupid things; the more-intelligent audience thinks of doing obvious alternatives way before anyone in the movie constantly ignores them. For example, at one point while Bond and Miss Goodhead (yes, it's another one of those entendre female monikers for a Bond girl) are in a cable car Jaws bites one of the cables which somehow causes Bond to topple. Which of course poses the obvious question if Jaws thought of biting the cables, why not simply bite a-l-l of them and send the entire cable car with Bond plummeting to its doom as opposed to jumping into another car and racing down after him? The movie is full of stupid things like this. I can't begin to tell you how little sense it makes.One other things I wish to note after seeing him in action against all the other Bonds, I have come to the conclusion with this movie that I simply do not like Roger Moore. I think the guy is simply too old-looking for the role and doesn't have either the personality or pizazz to play Bond. Connery and Bosnan are both so much better that they put this guy to shame.Another interesting note careful examination of the ending credits for THE SPY WHO LOVED ME will prove just how quickly rushed MOONRAKER really is. The announcement for the next movie doesn't say MOONRAKER--instead, it announces FOR YOUR EYES ONLY! Of course, I later learned that FYEO was the originally-planned next installment but that it was decided at the last minute to make MOONRAKER to cash in on the STAR WARS/SCI-FI craze that had just appeared. This explains the sloppy script and effects. I personally would have enjoyed seeing what would have happened if this movie was carefully planned out and had a better Bond actor instead of what we got.All of this and much more has been pointed out by critics, rabid fans and pretty much everybody else who sees it, but that somehow didn't affect MOONRAKER's performance at the box office. But these days, I have to admit it has one interstellar virtue it's sure fun to put on during a party! With the right audience, MOONRAKER is one campy hoot.  "},{"Title":"I decided to up my rating by one point","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK I cant stand this film at all. I tried watching it again and there are some good scenes in it (Opening Scene, Cable Car Scene, Python Scene and when Bond sees that Space station or what ever the hell it is) but there are too many damn flaws in the movie. I will say this Roger Moore is a good Bond but I cant believe he would choose to do this. It has a humorless Script, terrible Bad Guy(Hugo Drax not Jaws), terrible Theme Song, a beautiful but overall a flat Bond girl Holly Goodhead (She doesnt do much for the movie), and the dumbest plot ever.Alright this is Moore's 4th outing as Bond and it is pretty much a worthless piece of junk. Connery's 4th Bond was Thunderball which was really good. I only saw the Second Half of the Spy Who Loved Me (Moore's 3rd outing) but I could tell it was better than this. The Bond girl was beautiful in it and she had a purpose, unlike Holly Goodhead.Overall, 2/10 its has some scenes worth looking at but its still a painful Bond. "},{"Title":"Grow up, 007...","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Arguably the worst of the Bond films, but definitely the most debated one is this empty-headed entry that, like most of the other films, has very little to do with Ian Fleming's novel apart from the title. What starts out promising with a spectacular aerial stunt, the introduction of villain Hugo Drax (the excellent Michael Lonsdale), and an exciting pheasant hunting scene, falls apart after half an hour when Bond goes to Venice...from here the film takes on a Richard Lester feel with totally misplaced humor. The locations, though, are among the most impressive of the series. The space scenes are merely OK, but don't belong in a Bond movie. Also includes some of the worst puns ever... ** "},{"Title":"Barrel scraper (spoilers)","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker aims for the stars and ends up somewhere around your anus. It's a dire Bond film; a Bond film lacking in plot, excitement and interesting characters. Everything feels tired and half-baked &#150; it's the Bond franchise running on empty.Rather predictably for a Moore Bond film, our first glimpse of our hero sees him copping off with some floozy. All is well in Bond-land, you think. But after a couple of amusing double entendres, and an enjoyable action scene that sees Bond steal some hapless lackey's parachute, we're confronted with what's in store, namely lots of lousy attempts at humour. In this case we have Jaws tear the rip cord from his parachute and then fall into a circus tent &#150; it makes you groan to see the worst excesses of The Spy Who Loved Me (Jaws being impervious to any type of accident or injury) played for comedic effect instead of dramatic effect. No longer is Jaws a credible threat &#150; he's a lovable buffoon.Which brings me to Jaws falling in love. I know Jaws was a victim of his own success and as such could no longer really remain a villain, but his romantic scenes are entirely out of place in a Bond film. They make you yearn for the good old days when Sean Connery would slap women on the arse and tell them to get lost while he had a serious chat with one of his colleagues.But Jaws' more 'serious' scenes don't fare much better either. Something that immediately springs to mind is the cable car fight. What should ordinarily be an edge of the seat encounter is rendered unintentionally laughable by the way Jaws jumps from car to car (he doesn't so much jump as float upwards) and the way the fisticuffs turn into a weird variation of a wrestling scaffold match &#150; both men are so high up and have so little room to manoeuvre that they simply grab hold each and pretend to scrap while they try not to plummet to their bloody deaths; the scene has no drama. Plus, even though it's a Bond film, I can't help but wonder why Jaws doesn't pull up alongside Bond, and rather than jump from one car to the other, just pull a gun out and shoot him in the face (this film would drive Scott Evil crazy).But this film must score pretty high in the number of ridiculously convoluted attempts to kill Bond stakes. First of all you've got the pre-titles sequence and then you've got scene in the centrifuge. Yeah, let's spin him to death! Then after that there's a hunting scene. Drax, the head villain, gets Bond to try and shoot some pheasants while a lackey hides in the trees with a rifle. Of course, the underling gets shot, but after disarming our hero, rather than give up and blow him away himself (he's carrying a gun for feck's sake), he lets him go! But the film hasn't finished yet. Later on Drax tries to crush Bond to death with a snake. This doesn't work, but Drax is nothing if not persistent. After telling Bond all his plans, rather than cave his head in, or gut him, or toast him with a flame thrower, or shoot a rocket propelled grenade at his face, he tries to fry him with the boosters on one of his shuttles. Needless to say this requires Drax to leave Bond unsupervised and allow him to figure out a cunning escape. 'Just shoot him' you end up screaming at the screen! Yes, every Bond film relies on ridiculous escapes, but Moonraker takes it to extremes.However, I think Drax's thinking is impaired, mainly because he always has the horn. You don't believe me? Just remember his evil plan &#150; he wants to kill every human being so that he can repopulate it as a bearded Nazi overlord. And what's he going to do in the meantime when everyone on Earth is dead and he's stuck on his galactic stud farm? He's going to be abusing himself rotten and possibly making dirty movies while watching his 'perfect' specimens go at it &#150; he like a cross between Adolf Hitler and Max Hardcore; he's so appalled at his hideous physical state that he has to have our wonderful planet populated entirely by Penthouse models (his space station should have a sign on it reading 'No Munters Allowed').Speaking of the horn, I can't say that Bond is much better in this film. Not only does his appearance feature him getting off, but he nails some naïve French chick a couple of minutes after meeting her (her name is Corinne Dufour &#150; Duphwoar perhaps?), bangs a Brazilian agent a whole two seconds after their first exchange (a case of meeting and then meating) and has zero G relations with Holly Goodhead (it may be a lousy Bond film, and she may be a lousy Bond girl, but what a fabulous name). Rog just can't keep it zipped. (Phallic symbol alert watch the binoculars when Bond spots Goodhead looking at the runway in Rio &#150; the way the long piece of steel pops up is obscene; Rog is cocked and ready to go.) But while the sex provides a couple of laughs, some other scenes do nothing but dismay. The most hideous example is the action scene where a gondola turns into a hovercraft. It's one of the most absurd, poorly thought out, out of place moments in any Bond film, and it's not helped by some of the inserts &#150; the double-taking pigeon made me cringe. It's the suave, deadly superspy as a camp laughing stock. And did I mention that Bond wears a poncho in this film? Or that zero G is simulated by everyone moving very s-l-o-w-l-y? And the less said about the final space battle the better. My oh my, what a wretched film&#133; "},{"Title":"Abysmal","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the success of The Spy Who Loved Me, the franchise took about five steps backward in creating a cheesy entry that competes with The Man With the Golden Gun as the worst in the series.Bond Moore pretty much always did give his all to the role, but he was a limited actor and never able to elevate an already crummy film. This is no exception.The villains Michael Lonsdale plays yet another megalomaniac - this one intent on creating a new super-race of people in outer space. He is surely one of the most boring of the Bond villains. Richard Kiel returns as the intimidating Jaws, but plot developments in the latter act pretty much neuter his character.The women Corinne Clery is lovely in a secondary, short-lived role. Lois Chiles then picks up the slack as an undercover CIA agent. Her line readings have all the excitement value of watching someone read the telephone book.Shirley Bassey returns for the third and final time to croon the weakest of her Bond songs. The film is a mess of cheap laughs, cheesy effects, weak action set pieces and sad attempts to integrate a Star Wars style to a Bond film that never does gel. "},{"Title":"One of the most silly films I have seen!!!","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bond in space!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I thought that it was more then enough when he was on earth. Silly acting and the story is one of the worst I have seen. I am not a very big fan of James Bond so I hate this film and the only thing that saves it from giving it 0/5 is JAWS.RATING1/5  "},{"Title":"Arguably the Worst James Bond Movie","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1979, Roger Moore released his fourth film as James Bond and this film might have the infamous honor of being the worst in franchiseNothing in this film works. To begin with the plot is very weak, James Bond is sent to investigate the hijacking of a space shuttle and discovers that a megalomaniac is planning on eliminating all life on Earth. Secondly, the script is uninspiring. It seems Christopher Wood was attempting to set the record for bad one liners in a James Bond film. Thirdly, the acting was atrocious. Lois Chiles might have the distinction as one of the worst Bond girls as Dr. Goodhead. Her lines are so poorly delivered it's hard not to cringe.However the main reason for the movie's failure all falls on the director, Lewis Gilbert. After participating in previous Bond films you would think he would have more of an understanding to maintain the integrity of the franchise. The interaction between the characters is shockingly awkward. There seems to be no leadership behind the camera. The lines delivered from all actors are contrived and artificial.Also, all the scenes with potential turn into calamities. The opening sequence with Bond jumping out the plane is a great moment but then its ruined with cheesy music and Jaws flapping his arms and landing into a circus tent. By the end of the movie, it just becomes a joke. The story has so many holes and there's a laser fight in space! When did James Bond become a Star Wars movie?! The Force is definitely not with this film. A stain in the James Bond franchise.4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Moonwrecker..!!","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" this review may contain spoilersmoonraker is roger Moore's fourth outing as 007 and the film just happens to use one the titles of Ian Flemings books. the spy who loved me was a great movie and it did pretty good at the box office,but it could of done better if wasn't released during the same period as Star Wars(which made a huge success and took the world by storm).one tradition of the series is that at the end of each film they will announce the title of the next film.at the end of the spy who loved me it said that James bond will return in for your eyes only.but with people going nuts over science fiction,Lewis Gilbert and co.decided to turn to moonraker,a star wars type movie that would see Mr.bond go to space.sounds stupid!!!!!the storyline sees 007 investigate a billionaire industrialist by the name of Hugo Drax,who intends to destroy earth by creating his own world in space.. bond investigates on this matter by going round the world..but by my eye bond seems more interested in obtaining girls instead of evidence of drax's masterplan.There isn't much going on really other than that.the movie had a budget of 34 million dollars,and i can see where most of the money went,spent on good looking and exotic locations such as Venice Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,California,France and on the special effects.moonraker is a huge step down from the spy who loved me.the outer space sequence ruins the entire film.it is utter rubbish,embarrassing,ridiculous,silly and most of all cheap.the film was supposed to compete with the colossal success of Star wars but it just didn't work.OK it had an immediate success when it came out, but it is considered by many as one of the weakest,if not the weakest.Boy..what happened to jaws??instead of being the ruthless killing machine as he once was,he just seems more of clown played more for laughs than anything.they should of got rid of him at beginning during the parachute scene.he was useless through out the movie.seeing him in space was odd and a complete joke. Its a big shame because if space was left out,and the story was concluded on earth,it could of turned out to be a decent movie.For me all the good looking locations were completely over shadowed by the silly and disastrous outer space sequence.i cant recommend this mess of a movie.try avoiding it if you can.You wont miss much.if u want a good time laughing,this movie will guarantee. otherwise skip it and watch for your eyes only.my vote 3/10 "},{"Title":"Lacking imagination, lacking creation and lacking any real sort of bite; Moonraker is a tepid, less involved entry to Moore's Bond tenure.","Date":"17 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There isn't really any other place to begin in regards to one's opinion on the eleventh entry to the Bond franchise other than with the circumstances behind its creation. Dreamt up following the financial success (or, as they'll tell you down at United Artists, the financial and critical success) of 1977's Star Wars, and it's important to get this out of the way, the film exists purely as a cash-in; a buying into the hype; an investment on the behalf of the company in the hope it will pay out; a placing of one's money within an established field with the hope a little extra will be made on top. The sentiment rings painfully true when we observe the promise at the end of the canon's last instalment, the wonderfully taut The Spy Who Loved Me, during which it was inferred that James Bond would return in For Your Eyes Only &#x96; a direction and an adaptation the makers were clearly already thinking ahead toward, only for the monolith that is the race to cinematic space to kick-in and force the producers down an altogether different route. As a stand alone film, Moonraker comes at us as a perfect encapsulating of this thinking an after-thought, or an excursion; a project we clearly weren't going to undertake but might as well do so now.The film begins with that of a mid-flight shuttle-jacking, as it hitches a ride on that of a British jumbo jet. Its theft is reminiscent, in what is one of a number of unsuccessful riffs on the previous entry, to that of The Spy Who Loved Me's opening and its depiction of a submarine thieving; here, two thuggish stowaways falling out of bunks and blasting off acting as a tepid substitute for agonising panic on board a British sub and the pained expression on its captain's face as he sees what is hidden from our view. Distraught, the British government react and decide to investigate the missing of the shuttle; enter Roger Moore for the fourth time as James Bond, whose obligatory introduction that he wins out over all odds arrives in the form of an impressive sky dive sequence, but would you really wear shades as one man does if you were skydiving? Moore sleepwalks his way through the film which, admittedly, provides him with very little to do but go through motions; he is sent to an initial port of call in the form of French shuttle entrepreneur Hugo Drax (Lonsdale), whom resides in California, and it turns out too quickly is guilty of the crime after all. Whilst there, he meets an American space engineer named Holly Goodhead (Chiles) and she verbally matches him; the opening exchanges moderately pleasingly but without the involving causality involving varying parties after a MacGuffin as was apparent before, where the manner in which Bond and Goodhead try to act as one another's foils throughout does not match up to that of Bach and Moore's interplay from last time out. Very quickly, Moonraker settles into a groove devoid of many thrills. After an establishment that Bond is in no way infallible to the space age, outer hemisphere-orientated stuff on show, that being by way of an unpleasant encounter in a G-force machine, the film opens up into a plot of sorts largely consisting of fight scenes and skirmishes; these range from an unfortunate encounter with a funeral barge to that of an, admittedly, well choreographed martial arts sequence in a museum and its attic, but it is exclusively the second unit stuff driving this entry. Bond will charge to places such as Venice and the Brazilian rain forest, gradually putting together clues that allude to something a whole lot more sinister than just a case of a missing rocket, but it sounds more exciting and more roomy than it is &#x96; this being the Bond film in which the hero covers a lot of ground without there actually feeling like an awful lot of ground is being covered. Other highlights include a bunch of inconsequential allusions to other science fiction films, although a cable car fight is rather good, as well as a truly bizarre sequence in which a siren leads Bond into a python's pit surrounded by other glamorous women - an apparent punishment for Bond in what has been a leering attitude towards most up to this point. On the gadgeted side of things, and where a car-turned-submarine rolled out of the sea in a remarkable instance in the last entry, Bond here drives a gondola-turned-automobile through a Venician square, in what is one of the more distressing riffs on the previous effort which in no way carries the majesty of before.Lewis Gilbert is the unfortunate individual ushered in to direct it; a film very much distancing itself from any essence of creative licence or core subscription to the belief of filmmakers coming in and making material their own. Much nearer the end, when the ethic of whether or not a supervillian has room for his often scarred; often freakish henchmen in the bold new order of flawlessness is challenged for what might be the first time in the series, the hulking lackey Jaws, famously played by Richard Kiel, has a change of heart and decides to join Bond and his female accomplice in trying to thwart the dastardly bad guys. Such a happening is the result, not of careful deliberation in reaction to how a specific text or framework might naturally evolve, but of audience demand; because the public liked the character so much, they desired a reason to root for him away from his primary concern of having to kill Bond and his allies. Such a decision veers directing, indeed filmmaking, away from that of films at the hands of auteurs and into a more submissive realm of 'what the audience want, they get; desire for a creative mark or not'. Moonraker? More like box-ticker. "}{"Title":"Bond, Bond, Bond...","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cummon! this movie sucks! i do not know what those people were thinking. When looking for an intelligently plotted movie do not look here! This movie is turkey. It is poorly written ...and...and how can you even hijack spaceship? I mean this guy has enough money to build his own space ship to go into outerspace to hijack a spaceship? This movie just plain sucks. For those bond fans out there, DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE! I can honestly say that this is one of the suckiest movies that i have ever seen. The gadgets however were kinda cool but really all together this is not a movie worth seeing. The acting was OK and some of the punch lines were kinda funny and the actions scenes are pretty cool if you are into that kinda stuff. But i didn't like it at all. I give this piece of crap 2 stars. "},{"Title":"Quick reviews!!","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Probably the worst Bond film until Die Another Day, Bond becomes Superman and Skywalker all in one, going into space to save the planet. Star Wars had just been released, so naturally the Studies felt it was smart to make a sci-fi Secret Agent movie. Too many lasers and jet packs leave fans wondering where Bond would go next. Back in time? Luckily the next film is one of the best.Bond is investigating the disappearance of a space shuttle, and takes expert Holly Goodhead with him. All fingers point at Drax, who it seems, plans to destroy the world and create a new one in space, under his control. There are many good chases here, but it is all spoilt when Bond is fired into orbit. Jaws returns, and is good again, but this falls apart at the end. drax is a good villain, but unfortunately a carbon copy of too many others. Chiles is very good as Goodhead, but there is a lack of other interesting characters. The entire film seems too overblown and lends far too much from other films, meaning that the attempted tongue in cheek nature becomes self-indulgent. However, it is better than people say it is, and does not deserve to be seen as rubbish. There are good points, but they aren't the ones in the spotlight. Q has a brilliant line at the end though.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The weakest of the Bond films.","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Moonraker is the weakest of the James Bond films. That isn't to say that it is a weak film, just the weakest of the collection. Compared to films generally, it probably ranks as an average. Roger Moore plays Bond for the fourth time, but seems less than impressed with the rather loose, Star Wars-inspired script that he is asked to work with. Lois Chiles is a pretty sexy Bond girl, but she is a poor actress (or at least, she is a poor actress in this particular role).Bond is asked to investigate the mid-air theft of a space shuttle. He goes to the lavish Drax corporation in search of answers, and discovers that the ultra wealthy magnate Hugo Drax may have stolen his own shuttle to use in an ambitious plot to launch six shuttles filled with perfect people to a space staion in orbit around Earth, from which he will destroy the lesser folk of the planet with poison-filled probe bombs.The film is silly to the point where it plays more like an out-and-out comedy than an action films with touches of humour. The most embarrasing scene has Jaws (Richard Kiel, from an earlier Bond flick) being kicked in the genitals. We all know that he has notorious metal teeth, but as he is kicked where it should hurt most, there is a loud metal clang, followed by Moore pulling a rather surprised face as he realises that the guy's teeth are not the only thing made of metal! Perhaps this would have made a good gag in a comedy film, but here it undermines the already implausible plot and stretches it to breaking point. Come to think of it, how many would-be fatal accidents does Jaws manage to survive in this film? Certainly too many, including his speed boat surging over a two hundred foot high waterfall, and his cable car smashing into the bay at the bottom at high speed.The title song from Shirley Basset is not too memorable; Michel Lonsdale as the villain is pantomimic; the special effects during the final space battle are somewhat flawed. All things considered, this is definitely the weakest link in the Bond chain. "},{"Title":"George Lucas should've sued","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is absolutely the most outrageously overblown installment in the series (surpassing You Only Live Twice and Die Another Day in sheer scope) and is no doubt the biggest rip-off.  The plot is one part The Spy Who Loved Me, one part CEot3K, and two parts Star Wars.  SPOILERS! I could almost hear Alec Guiness saying That's no moon! It's a space station! during the great revelation.  The effects are ok, but once they get to outer space it looks like a cheapie from the 1950s. Production teams must've known jack squat about actual space and so they make it look like Flash Gordon instead of reality.  The space suits alone were a riot, how much aluminum foil did they use? The final battle, of course, is a rehash of Star Wars.  Complete with lasers, no blood, and excessive explosions.Science and realistic cool takes a back seat to ineffective crowd pleasing in this one, skip it and watch For Your Eyes Only. Moore's best o) "},{"Title":"I hate it!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Might be spoilers, but if you haven't seen this one, I wouldn't recommend it.I have spent this week watching most of the James Bond films, and Moonraker seems to be the worst of them all.  It seems to be almost an exact remake of The Spy Who Loved Me and reminds me of something like Birdman in Space.  Roger Moore is the worst James Bond, and I can't believe they actually let him make seven Bond movies.  His humor is not funny, and his one liners are worse than C-3PO's in the fight scene of Attack of the Clones.  The character Jaws was humorous in The Spy Who Loved Me, but you knew that he wouldn't die in Moonraker, after surviving falling out of a train and an explosion in the undersea city thing in the first.  However, it seemed stupid that he would survive falling off a waterfall as well as an explosion in a space station.The whole space thing was obviously taken from the success of Star Wars, with the Bond films trying to get a bit of success off of that.  The whole story is insanely comicbookish and I was extremely bored through the entire movie. "},{"Title":"Carry On Roger","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This 11th Bond movie continues with the traditional British Carry On style, where a whole host of double entendres make up for any discernible plot. Whether it's 007 kicking Jaws in the crotch to a metallic clang, commenting on the size of Q's balls (Bolas, 007!), meeting Dr. Goodhead or even Q joining in on the act with the infamous I think he's attempting re-entry, then this one covers the market. Even a harmless pigeon is edited to double-take at one of the silly chase set-pieces.Of course, this film set a few precedents for the series. Where the film was intended to utilise an original screenplay (For Your Eyes Only), this was put on hold due to the success of Star Wars, et al, and the works of Ian Fleming were drawn on for a final time. Chronologically, this was the earliest Fleming novel to be reworked as a film, barring Live and Let Die, coming from way back in 1955. Unfortunately, for the film series this follows You Only Live Twice (written 1964), giving the impression to a film audience that Moonraker was the derivative of the two.Commercially, however, none of this really mattered, Moonraker taking $87.7 million gross and becoming the highest-earning Moore. Statistically, though, increased production costs (the movie was rightly Oscar-nominated for its visual effects), mean this was only just over 2.5 times what it cost to make. In comparison, the low-key Dr.No grossed over 22 times it's actual budget.I once bought a cassette of Bond themes. Not chronologically ordered, it is telling which of the themes appear on side two. While the much-loved but execrable Goldfinger tried to rhyme resist with mist - er (and what is a coldfinger anyway?), I actually found the theme to Diamonds Are Forever very pleasing. Moonraker, Shirley Bassey's third and final theme for the series, is arguably the most forgettably bland ballad in existence.Yet for the continuation of Moore in the role I've actually developed a theory that helps make him more palatable. I believe 007 suffered a minor nervous breakdown after the death of his wife in On Her Majesty's Secret Service. This would go some way to explaining Connery's out-of-character turn in Diamonds, and give reason why Roger acts like such an insufferable pratt. The state of his mental health has obviously taken an upturn for this film, as Roger is nowhere near as annoying as he was in the previous two movies. (Though this may be due to the fact that Moonraker gives him some real dialogue, and not just 100% puns). Even so, there are times when that eyebrow of his rises so far on his head that it appears to hover, Saint-like, above him.On the subject of dialogue, the two henchmen roles are filled by the (almost) mute assassins Chang and Jaws. This may add menace in a less jocular film, but isn't this really just a lazy characterisation to give the dialogue writer an easy time? Michael Lonsdale does okay-ish as the chief villain, Drax, though the increased stunts mean he never gets to generate the required gravitas that prior enemies had in abundance.Moonraker is rated as one of the worst Bond movies, and while it IS awful, from the scene irrelevancies to the sloppy science (I still can't believe they shot a scene with 007 increasing his velocity in free-fall), it is by a small margin an improvement on the last two entries. Where Golden Gun and The Spy Who Loved Me had pretence at being greater than the sum of their limited parts, Moonraker is wholly aware that it is shallow, badly-written tripe of the highest order. And on that level, it is entirely enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"James Bond tries too cash-in quickly, after the sudden success of Star Wars.","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's no secret that this movie was made only because to the sudden and unexpected huge success of the science-fiction movie Star Wars Episode IV - A New Hope, that changed the genre for ever. Moonraker wasn't planned as the 'next' Bond movie. In the late '70's the Bond movie and character started to get outdated. In an effort to make the Bond-series popular and more fitting and 'hip' for its time and foremost to also cash-in quickly of course, Moonraker was created. The end result is a mixed bag of memorable Bond moments, set in a incoherent story consisting out of unlikely moments and disjointed sequences.By no means Moonraker is an horrible movie. It still entertains and provides some good and typical Bond moments which we basically all grew up with watching and love so much. It might very well be so that this is the Bond movie with the most memorable sequences in it. The opening sequence is also definitely one of the most memorable Bond ones. However as a whole the movie just isn't quite good enough and falls short. This movie definitely isn't the most consisting one out of the Bond series, mostly because of the reason that the sequences don't always connect with each other. Its basically the one well made sequence after the other, without always making an obvious connection.The premise of the movie sounds good but the story gets more and more ridicules and above all improbable, even for a Bond movie, as the movie progresses. Especially from the moment on when Bond enters space the movie and its story starts to go downhill rapidly. The movie gets highly unconvincing from that moment on, although it definitely still has some good moments after that point. I don't know, I guess its just the fact that the Bond character doesn't work in space that causes the movie to get unlikely and not convincing enough.But like I mentioned before, the movie is still entertaining enough. Show me a Roger Moore Bond movie that isn't entertaining...Roger Moore is my favorite Bond because of the fact that his movies are the most entertaining ones (although they also are far from the best Bond movies) to watch over and over again, which is definitely mainly thanks to Moore's more comical and less serious approach of the Bond character. He had fun playing the character and that must have inspired the rest of the cast and crew because it really shows on screen. The movie itself really does have some great and entertaining moments as well. Most of the action is really good, until the end, when the special effects kick in. It's good enough for 1979 standards, especially when considering the resources the creators at the time had to their disposal but nevertheless it still means that it just isn't convincing enough all. It all adds up to the reasons why at the end this movie falls flat. Don't get me wrong its still good and entertaining enough to watch, after all I think I must have seen this movie a dozen times already but the movie and its story just isn't of very high quality, especially when compared to the other Roger Moore Bond movies.But the movie still also does have more than enough good points to consider this a above average entertaining-flick. The fact that the usual Bond regulars show up again is definitely an huge plus. Bernard Lee makes his last appearance as M and Geoffrey Keen reprises his role of Sir Frederick Gray for the second time. Their roles are probably a bit bigger than they normally are in a Bond movie. Also of course Desmond Llewelyn and Lois Maxwell are also present again, as well as Walter Gotell as General Anatol Gogol. But the biggest plus of the cast is Richard Kiel who reprises his role of the hit-man Jaws, with his metal teeth, after The Spy Who Loved Me. He provides the movie with some of its very best moments. Unfortunately it always was the last Bond movie he ever appeared in. Also the production design and always reliable good John Barry musical score are a big plus. The John Barry scores always provide the Bond movies with a certain extra.There also is little wrong with the important Bond element; the villain. Michael Lonsdale plays an excellent and memorable villain. Perhaps the very best and most memorable of all Bond villains, I kid you not. He and his character deserved to be in a better Bond movie. That way his character would have been an even better and also more memorable and appreciated Bond villain. I just have a weak for Michael Lonsdale, he is a very underrated but above all very underused actor.It has more than enough good elements and sequences to please the fans and the more casual viewer. It's just too bad of the disjointed and improbable story, which causes this movie to be one of the more incoherent and lesser Bond movie.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker is more than deserving of its relatively poor reputation, it's a middling mess of a film, with few redeeming qualities outside of one or two good action scenes, a good score and theme song, and solid special effects.The teaser is the worst out of any Bond film thus far in the series, an extremely silly opening scene involving what is essentially a mid-air pursuit where the participants are a bunch of men (including Bond) flying around, chasing and tugging at each other. It's unquestionably well-shot, but the content is ridiculous. This scene sets the tone perfectly for the movie, and that's not a compliment. Speaking of extremely silly things, why on earth was Christopher Wood ever allowed near a screen writing job for a major franchise? I don't know how or why he got the job for The Spy Who Loved Me, his only previous work being those utterly dreadful Confessions movies, all of which rank among the worst films I've ever seen, but he did a decent job with the previous installment.In Moonraker, he has written some of the worst, silliest, most obvious, and most moronic trash in the history of major franchise films. As if the sex jokes in the Moore era weren't already juvenile enough Wood creates a tremendously annoying character (decently played, though, by Lois Chiles, who really is quite lovely) in Holly Goodhead. Yes, Goodhead. While watching Moonraker, I thought to myself 'why is Bond putting up with this annoying brat?', and answered myself saying 'Well, she must give really good head'. See, I'm already as clever as Christopher Wood! Let ME write the next Bond film! Moonraker goes from bad to worse in the second hour of the film, culminating in some of the worst final scenes in the series. It's a decently made film, but Moore looks bored and unsatisfied with the material, and doesn't help the film at all as a result.Ian Fleming wrote a novel in 1955. It was called Moonraker. It was actually among the best Bond books, a thoroughly entertaining read. What was wrong with turning THAT into a film? Why lift the villain from it and produce this juvenile trash? All I ever expect from Bond films is entertainment. Not only is Moonraker annoying and boring, it's simply an insult to the Bond franchise and to Ian Fleming's legacy.4/10 "},{"Title":"A good Bond despite some poor effects, comedy exaggerations etc the action is mostly very good","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When an American space shuttle, The Moonraker, goes missing whilst in the care of the RAF, Bond is called in to investigate.  His search starts with the space minded Drax corporation and takes him round the world where he begins to find that the theft of the Moonraker is part of a much bigger more sinister plot.This is the most hated Bond of all (next to the unofficial Never Say Never Again).  However I watched it again recently and, while my memories are all of the last 30 minutes &#150; it's not just that.  The majority is a very good, location hopping film with plenty of good action scenes &#150; from the opening scene to various close scrapes.  The problem is two fold really.  First the comedy is higher and involves not just one liners and innuendo but comedy in the action scenes (most notably the use of Jaws), however this is not too bad as the action is still good and Jaws is actually quite funny.  Secondly the stuff in space is not well done and too over the top &#150; in fact some of the stuff is just daft.However it's still Bond for the most part and is enjoyable for anyone who likes Moore's Bond.  He is good here &#150; more comfortable with the more comedy he has available.  Chiles is OK and has the most suggestive name since Pussy Galore &#150; really Goodhead! Not exactly subtle is it?  Lonsdale is a poor man's villain and not very good &#150; but then he's barely in the majority of it.Overall, nearly everyone will admit that the scenes in space at the end are weak, however there is still much to enjoy with Moore on good form, a nice vein of comedy running through the film and plenty of good (if often far-fetched) action scenes. "},{"Title":"The Moonraker Blows","Date":"15 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most agree that the 70s was not kind to 007. It was an age of dramatic change and rebellion, where the auteur and the art-house were fully realised as commodities and the exploitation genre arose from a lack of the social inhibition that the previous decades so delicately cultivated. The Bond films, too civilised to be exploitation and too mainstream to be art-house, had simply lost their audience. That was until 1977's The Spy Who Loved Me, which shocked many by embracing the uniqueness of Bond instead of limply re-contextualising the spy in then popular genres like Blaxploitation and Kung-Fu. It was fresh, it was inventive, it was over-the-top, and it was strangely poignant in regards to the treatment of Roger Moore's lothario Bond. It was, in short, a resurrection, attracting rave reviews and great box office.So producer Albert R. 'Cubby' Broccoli, having made Bond cool again, was faced with the unenviable task of preserving said coolness. So what does he do? He makes the same film&#x85; IN SPACE! Enter 1979's Moonraker. And let me tell you, dear readers, I'm not joking about this being the same film. As a bit of an interesting exercise, try comparing the opening sequences of 'Moonraker' and 'Spy'. Perhaps you may notice a few similarities, like the villain hijacking a vehicle, M asking for 007 and instead getting an innuendo, Bond being lured into a honey trap by villains who want him dead for vaguely defined reasons, and finally Bond in free fall until the last minute when he suddenly has a parachute. Yeah, original.And the similarities don't end there! You also get a billionaire Blofeld surrogate (this one played rather well by Michael Lonsdale) with a plot to destroy the world, Jaws, a rival intelligence agent as Bond girl, and a final scene where Bond embarrasses his superiors by engaging in a round of decidedly un-private fornication. I understand that a franchise as long running as the Bond series cannot avoid repetition, but this is ridiculous!Even where this film does distinguish itself from its predecessor, it is flagrantly ripping off Star Wars. The final thirty minutes of this picture essentially constitute the highlights of that picture with a smug, alcoholic, sex-crazed sociopath thrown into the mix. The special effects are laudable, but you barely notice for all the Megalodon-jumping camp they represent.And speaking of 'jumping the shark', what precisely were the producers thinking when they conceived of a hovercraft gondola? And a midget girlfriend for Jaws? AND A BLOODY DOUBLE-BLOODY-TAKE PIGEON!What I find particularly aggravating about this film, though, is how little it resembles the book it is based on. Ian Fleming's Moonraker was one of the better entries in his iconic espionage series, with a simple yet suspenseful plot and some good, old-fashioned racism against the Germans, and to not see it realised on the big-screen simply because it wasn't 'ambitious enough' for Broccoli's tastes is utterly infuriating.This is not my least favourite Bond film of the official series (because Never Say Never Again doesn't even deserve to be called a Bond film), but it certainly makes the bottom five. Even Roger Moore, who I unashamedly love as Bond, couldn't save it. In fact, his persona is so exaggerated for this installment that he comes dangerously close to being insufferable. The film does have some positive qualities &#x96; the mise-en-scene is lovely and John Barry delivers another superlative score (though his lyrics for the theme song are straight out of a George Lucas movie... how appropriate) &#x96; but in the end the whole product amounts to an utterly horrid piece of self-depreciating camp that revels in the fact it doesn't give a damn anymore about telling a compelling story. "}{"Title":"'Moonraker AKA Bond In Space!' or 'James Bond Jumps the Shark'","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being a Bond fan, I avoided this monstrosity for decades. When I finally gained the courage to watch I was awestruck. The plot is stodgy and in places hard to follow. It is littered with film references (Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Young Frankenstein to name but two), product placement and jokes at the franchise it's self. There are more Bond references in this Bond film than the fantastic French spy spoof OSS117. Worst of all is the films treatment of Jaws. The terrifyingly resilient adversary from the previous film is reduced to stumbling fool for Bond's comic foil, falling both in love and, impossibly, to earth in a shard of broken space station. If you add to this a dirgey script, unfeasible space scenes and poor acting by all but Michael Lonsdale, it is easy to see why this is considered the poorest of the Bond films. Ultimately, James Bond is a spy series, not Sci-Fi.I can only assume that the director , Lewis Gilbert, had grown tired of this series 12 years after his last involvement and was unsurprised to learn that the writer was also responsible for the 'Confessions of...' series. This is a demonstration of lazy studio's using a popular franchise to put any old nonsense on screen knowing it will gross. The film has more comedy than the afore mentioned OSS117 though is immeasurably less entertaining. If you are looking for comedy Bond I'd recommend the two perfectly pitched films from the French OSS117 series, the classic 1967 Casino Royale or even the Austen Powers cannon. Other than that stick to the 'serious' Bonds and leave Moonraker to those with an over inflated sense of irony. "},{"Title":"James Bond goes to space","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker (1979) is the third and final Bond movie directed by Lewis Gilbert. It takes its title and name of the villain from Ian Fleming's third Bond novel, but has nothing else to do with the book. They only chose to use the same title as it suited their new purpose to make a sci-fi Bond movie.A space shuttle Moonraker is hijacked in midair and James Bond is sent to investigate. Bond becomes suspicious of shuttle's owner, a billionaire industrialist Hugo Drax, especially since from the moment they meet Bond is faced with one assassination attempt after another. With a CIA agent Holly Goodhead, Bond starts to unravel Drax's plot that also includes biological weapons.After the blockbuster Star Wars came out in 1977, the producers of Bond films thought they could make good money by launching James Bond into space. That's right, you read me correctly James Bond in space. Ian Fleming must be rolling in his grave. The movie starts out as a pretty ordinary Bond film with Bond investigating a plot and it stays that way for quite a long while, jumping from one location to another, and then at the end takes a completely different turn and goes all sci-fi with laser battles in space.Now to be fair Bond movies always are asking their viewers to sit back, relax and not think too logically on things and I'm okay with that. I can ignore all the problems that villains would face when trying to build their lairs on a Caribbean island (Dr. No), empty volcano (You Only Live Twice) or under water (The Spy Who Loved Me). However, there comes a point when too much is simply too much. I can put my logic off and forgive quite a lot, but asking me to believe that Drax managed to build a space station on Earth's orbit without that anyone noticed, is taking it a bit too far.Roger Moore's head is really not in the game here. He seems to sleepwalk through the movie with a routine, probably because he's as confused as the viewer of all that's happening. Lois Chiles is very beautiful and very forgettable Bond girl. Michael Lonsdale is an okay villain with the most over the top plot ever. Richard Kiel returns as Jaws for this movie, but alas, where in the last film he was genuinely intimidating killing machine, now he too has become a recurring gag. Still, the best scenes of this movie are those with him in them.This is also the last movie to feature Bernard Lee as M, a role he had played in every Bond movie since Dr. No. It is a shame his last Bond film couldn't have been a more dignified one.Unless it wasn't clear before, I am not a fan of this movie. There's a lot of Bond silliness I can overlook but this is where I draw a line. This film is stupid, from beginning to end and I just don't like it. It's my least favorite Bond movie and I can't bring myself to recommend it, except if you just want to be amazed by how silly it can be. "},{"Title":"The Worst James Bond that's actually in the Series","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the worse James Bond that actually counts in the series (Im talking about Sean Connery's remake of Thunderball, Never Say Never Again). It is really a rip off of Star Wars which is a far superior movie to this. The movie has one good scene where Bond is attacked by an anaconda in a pool but that is about one of the only good scenes. Jaws is not bad in the movie. This is the first Roger Moore Bond Movie i have seen and i think Roger Moore was not too good in this movie. Overall, a poor excuse for a Bond Movie, while not being as bad as Never Say Never Again it is a PAINFUL MOVIE to watch. 1/10  "},{"Title":"Not the best Bond, but I wouldn't necessarily call it awful either","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I personally didn't love or hate Moonraker. It has a lot of flaws, but it does have strengths too. What didn't quite work so well is that the plot is unexceptional on the whole, while apart from Sir Hugo Drax's dialogue the script has a lot of ups and downs. Also the film does drag quite badly, and the film goes on for too long I think. However, whether in space, in Venice or in Rio Moonraker is visually striking thanks to the decent special effects and lovely cinematography. John Barry's score is also really good, not his best, but one of his better Bond scores I think. The direction is not too bad really, while the acting is better than it is given credit for. Michael Lonsdale steals the show, while Lois Chiles is good enough as Holly Goodhead and it was nice to see Richard Kiel as Jaws again. Roger Moore has been better but he wasn't awful either, in fact I liked him and feel he was much more convincing than he was in A View to a Kill, where he was starting to show his age. Overall, not the best Bond or the best of the Roger Moore Bonds(personally I think that goes to Spy Who Loved Me) but Moonraker is better than Octopussy and A View to a Kill, again that is my opinion. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The jump from reality to stupidity.","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker is an entertaining film - I won't lie - but it is utterly absurd and one of the lesser James Bond movies (at least from around that time period). It is rather unfortunate because Roger Moore was a capable Bond, and this and Octopussy both tarnished his image - I never thought he was very bad...his tongue-in-cheek humor was a nice alternative; taking over the role right after Sean Connery was always destined to be a mistake. No one can live up to The James Bond.In this film, Bond is sent into outer space (yep, that's right) to investigate into possible plans for mass genocide on the earth below. So basically what Bond assumes is that the space station floating around in orbit by the earth is being run by Damned Commies or whatever the typical villains are in this case - I guess they're more fascist.It is a pretty poor film. It's utterly unrealistic and at times waaay too over-the-top and tongue-in-cheek -- to the point of self-parody and absurdity, which in this particular case is a bad thing.It's easy to see the jump from exaggerated realism (Bond getting the girls, thwarting the baddies) to outright fantasy - orbiting space stations, plans for world domination via laser-induced mass murder...Nevertheless, this film WAS the basis for Doctor Evil's secret evil lair in Austin Powers, so we must credit it for at least providing pop culture with SOME benefit. "},{"Title":"Dated, Phoned-in and Forced, This is Bond at His Worst","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bond goes galactic in this crappy, slappy attempt to capture the 2001 vibe without upsetting his usual audience. Those genres make for an exceptionally awkward match under the very best circumstances, of course, and this attempt is far from graceful. Poor special effects and an absurdly loose grasp on physics and technology kneecap the orbital scenes, while a redundant gauntlet of traps and action sets, plus a dry, repetitive bit of recon work, spoils the Earthbound action. It's a bad spy movie, but a terrible sci-fi movie. Bond has never before felt so formulaic and played-out. It seems like the series has blazed through a dozen boat chases by this point, and they all feel like the same scene set upon a slightly different waterway. The random addition of GI Joe-grade laser weaponry, plus a continuing descent into forced, groan-worthy one liners, makes this installment feel like a particularly pedestrian dose of self satire. It doesn't help that the screen is so thoroughly drenched with blunt, obvious product placement, either. A real sellout moment for the series, ditching its soul in favor of an expired, gimmicky flavor-of-the-month that can't even justify its own existence. Worst of the entire franchise? It's certainly in the running. "},{"Title":"Movie bears no resemblance to the novel it's based on","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can understand the producers wanting to cash in the sudden interest in science fiction at the time this movie was released, but Moonraker was pathetically obvious. It bears no resemblance to the novel it was based on with actors phoning in their performances.The casting of Roger Moore as Bond was a poor choice from the beginning. The producers liked that people would believe his success with women. This would be the only trait Moore would share with Bond. He was too aristocratic for the role. James Bond is basically a streetfighter in a tuxedo and Moore was slow and unconvincing in his fight scenes.Lois Chiles was monotone as an actress and never really in the moment with her character.The only thing I've really been able to appreciate in this movie is John Barry's music. Why put all these other respectable production values into a lousy script and below-par actors? Moonraker deserves to go to the bottom of the Bond film franchise. For the best, look for On Her Majesty's Secret Service. "},{"Title":"Out of this world secret agent 007.","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Bond(Roger Moore) is assigned to locate a skyjacked space shuttle; takes on the aid of a female CIA agent; and is captured by Amazons in his quest to save the world from global genocide. Typical Bond fare and not quite as good as most others. F/X are always a plus. And for beautiful women, that is a given. Supporting cast includesLois Chiles, Corrine Clery, Michael Lonsdale and Richard Kiel as Jaws.  "},{"Title":"What the heck?! Was Roger Moore a huge fan of Star Wars?","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As much as I am happy that I finally got to the introduction of Jaws, I have to admit, I wasn't really into this James Bond flick, it just wasn't as original as the other Bond flicks I have seen so far. James Bond meets outer space and discovers the evil master plan as usual, that Hugo Drax plans to destroy global warming, dun dun dun! Although, I have to admit that Jaws falling in love was just too sweet, it's like freaks have feelings too, you know? D, just kidding! I love Jaws! He's so cool. Over all, this was an OK Bond flick, not my favorite so far, it was just too much of a copy off of Star Wars. But like I said, I'm just too into Jaws, so I have to give points for such a cool villain!5/10 "},{"Title":"At least it is not the worst Bond film,....but it's sure close","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Apart from the terrible VIEW TO A KILL, I think this is the very worst Roger Moore James Bond film. Most of the blame was on the insistence in having Jaws reappear in this film. Although there were many Bond fans who loved him and he was tolerable in THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, he was an embarrassingly stupid character that demeaned the series. I have read all the Bond books and I understand that in most cases the movies only borrow the titles from the original books, but in this case the entire spirit of Bond is gone and the thrust in on gadgets, a stupid villain and sexual innuendos like calling Bond's love interest Dr. Goodhead--wow, what a surprise he actually got some nooky from THIS lady. In general, the movie is like a Bevis and Butthead interpretation of Bond. "}{"Title":"A sci-fi stiff...","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Bond blasts off into the galaxy in order to stop a madman from creating his own 'perfect' world in space and destroying Earth. Roger Moore was very much in command as James Bond for the often eloquent The Spy Who Loved Me in 1977 (it was really Moore's peak as Agent 007, as he exuded both charm and masculine grace). In Moonraker, Moore seems as alien to James Bond as any newcomer to the role would be. He seems to have stepped into the part by chance, and when he outwits his new leading lady (the leaden Lois Chiles) or the bad guys, he's just relying on exteriors--there's nothing of consequence going on underneath. This spy adventure takes place mostly in space (not the fastest moving of scenarios, unless you've got George Lucas as director), and brings back Richard Kiel's wonderful steel-toothed villain Jaws from The Spy Who Loved Me, but it's an enervated story which bears scant resemblance to Ian Fleming's book. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Bond and Space Don't Mix","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Moonraker (1979) ** (out of 4) To date the weakest entry in the James Bond franchise has Roger Moore returning as 007 but his mission this time is a bit too silly for its own good. Bond must investigate an American space shuttle that gets hijacked but thankfully he has assistance from Mrs. Goodhead (Lois Chiles). The two must go up against Hugo Drax (Michael Longdale) and the one and only Jaws (Richard Kiel). There are certain things that even James Bond shouldn't be able to do and space travel is one. I'm going to guess this film tried to capture some of the STAR WARS craze but no matter what the intentions were the final product is just a parody of itself and in the end it's quite boring and silly. What really took me by surprise is how silly everything is and it never really seemed as if the producers or directors were taking the material too serious. I'm all for Jaws returning from the previous film because he was a terrific character but here he's just used as some sort of failed comic relief. Whenever he appeared on film in the previous movie he struck a nerve as being a true beast but here he's just silly comedy that is never funny or fun for that matter. Another problem is some of the stupid dialogue that tries to be clever and you can start with the Goodhead name. This is just childish and whatever comedy they were going after doesn't work here either. The action sequences really aren't all that either with the exception of the first one where Bond is on a private jet and things get out of control by a couple assassins. I found the rest of the action to be either bland or just not all that exciting and especially when you compare it to stuff from the earlier pictures. There's a scene with a large snake that is decent but it really doesn't pack too much suspense. There's all the stuff on the space shuttle, which just came over very cheap and generic to me. Again, I'm not sure how much of an impact STAR WARS had on this entry but it's clear director Gilbert wasn't too comfortable working with the space stuff. Moore isn't nearly as entertaining as Bond and Chiles isn't the best of his countless lovers. Kiel is always entertaining no matter what he does but his Jaws character isn't nearly as memorable here. The rest of the supporting players are decent but nothing more. MOONRAKER never had the highest reputation and it's easy to see why. A bland entry with only a few decent moments scattered around. "},{"Title":"Moonraker","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This not only sees the fourth film for Roger Moore as James Bond, but we also see the return of the tall metal-toothed henchman, Jaws (Richard Kiel). Basically a rocket belonging to Drax Industries called the Moonraker has been stolen by an unknown group, and it is Bond's job to find it before it does something bad. He meets secret CIA agent known first as Dr. Holly Goodhead (Lois Chiles) and she accompanies him in his search. The villain that has stolen this rocket is Hugo Drax (Michael Lonsdale) himself, the main threat is a city in space holding lethal gas holders (this gas by the way does not affect animals or plants) to spread to the Earth. After years of being quiet, Richard Kiel does get a line of dialogue, so look out for that. Also starring Corinne Clery as Corinne Dufour, Geoffrey Keen as Sir Frederick Gray, Desmond Llewelyn as Q, Lois Maxwell as Miss Moneypenny, Toshiro Suga as Chang, Emily Bolton as Manuela and the final appearance of Bernard Lee as M before his death of stomach cancer. One thing to mention, the last film said Bond will return in For Your Eyes Only, but with the hype of Star Wars (out two years earlier), the filmmakers decided to create their own version, or perhaps rip-off to tap into the same target audience, and it did work for making its money. After watching it more closely, I can see why the critics give it two stars. Drax isn't the best villain, the effects are a little tame, and the story could have used a little tweaking, but their are still some good moments, e.g. Bond spinning in that gravity force thing. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Visual Effects. James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, the film was number 20 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for Dame Shirley Bassey's title song (they also mentioned the 70's dance/disco remix), and it was number 61 on The Ultimate Film. Okay! "},{"Title":"Flogging A Dead Horse","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jaws in THE SPY WHO LOVED ME was a brilliant Bond baddie so on paper bringing him back for MOONRAKER must have seemed a good idea . However he should have been killed off in the pre credits sequence because the more he`s used in the film the more and more ludicrous he becomes in very mechanical set pieces which climax in the scene where he opens a bottle of champagne and declares  Here`s to us  . Maybe that `s not really a criticism since MOONRAKER is even for a Bond film so silly and pathetic it goes beyond even childish fantasy. I rate it almost certainly the worst in the series     "}]