[{"Title":"One of the most bizarre films out there","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"76 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like everyone that has reviewed this film before me, I am going to sing it's praises, however, unlike those before me, I'm not quite sure why.  This film did everything it was supposed to do as a horror film.  It scared me in a few areas, it was quite gory in others and it was easily one of the ten most quirky and bizarre films I have ever seen.  I can't tell you why anything transpires the way it does in here, I can't even tell you why people do the things they do, but I don't really think that is the point of the film.  Like David Lynch's Mulholland Drive, this is more of mind altering experience or a dream that just doesn't make any sense.  Perhaps this is a film that is esoteric by design and if that is the case then perhaps I should just watch it over and over again until I do have some sort of puerile grasp of it. Dictionary.com's definition of a phantasm is in Platonic philosophy, objective reality as observed by the five senses.  Another definiton it gives is simply, a notion.  And if you watch this film from beginning to end you will see why this makes all the sense in the world, yet it is still an abstruse concept that is meant to be exactly what it is.The film begins with a funeral of one of Jody (Bill Thornbury) and Reggie's (Reggie Bannister) best friends.  Jody's little brother, Mikey ( A Michael Baldwin) is a precocious kid who can't seem to stay in one place and follows his big brother everywhere he goes.  Hence he is at the funeral but is surreptitiously hiding out in the bushes.  As the funeral ends, he sees the caretaker lift a casket all by himself and put it into his truck.  This is the nascency of the bizaare rituals that encompass the film. Michael decides to investigate the strange looking mansion where the cemetery rests.  Once he breaks into the house, he is chased by some strange Jawa looking creatures and by a sphere that seems to come out of nowhere and drains your head of blood.  He does escape and finally gets his big brother to believe him when he says that things aren't quite right up at the Morningside Cemetery.  Now, up until this point, the film is quite linear.  You have your classic set-up, a spooky looking mansion where the dead are taken and your typical stupid characters that do the traditional scary movie things, like going to investigate a haunted house all by yourself, gratuitous breast shots, some eerie music and dark nights.  But that is where the title typical horror film ends and it crosses over into Rod Serling territory.  From here on out, it just goes weird, but in a goosebump inducing way that keeps you frozen in your seat.Don Coscarelli can take all of the praise and/or blame for this eccentric film.  He wrote, produced, directed, was the DP, the editor and as another reviewer so aptly pointed out, he probably swept the floors at night and fetched coffee for those on the set.  This is his incarnation.  I also happen to agree with other viewers that say that this film has one of the most haunting yet mellifluous scores which is on par with Carpenter's Halloween theme.  Both are intricate pieces to the presence of the film.  Words like haunting, eerie, creepy and forbidding all come to mind when you hear the score.  It is also uncanny to see some of the similarities to A Nightmare On Elm Street and Phantasm.  Nightmare was a little more clear with what it was trying to say but both films have an overtly murky and dream like exploration into realms that many of us have yet to understand.The underlying theme in this film is the unsolved questions that plague many of us when we wonder what happens when you die.  Most of us believe that you go to Heaven or Hell.  But those are just theories.  And if theories are unproven then what is stop you from believing that this movie could really be the answer to those questions?  As the tag line for the film so poignantly points out, If this one doesn't scare you, you're already dead.  What if all of this was true?  What if you could be stolen and made into something that you did not ask to become?  Who is the Tall Man and what is he doing here in our world?  One of the most harrowing yet well done plot pieces is when Mikey goes to the girl's house and finds an old picture of the Tall Man sitting on a horse carriage, looking like it is circa 1776.  This leaves the viewer ripe with questions.Phantasm will leave you with more questions than answers but I will say this about the film.  In a day and age where you get prosaic, banal and myopic efforts like ( take your pick of most of the horror that has graced our screens since the Scream and Blair Witch craze) and you compare them to films like Halloween, Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Phantasm, you quickly realize that the 70's and early 80's was the genesis of the horror film.  I realize horror probably dates back to Nosferatu and it became respected with Psycho, but to look at the films that were born in the 70's and 80's, it's a veritable, indefeasible list of some of the most revered and imitated horror films of all time.  Now that I have seen Phantasm I can easily see the mark it has left on other films.9 out of 10----As I said, I still can't tell you what this film is all about nor can I tell you what it all means or how it all ends, all I can say is that it made me feel something strange with it's disingenuous stroke of the brush.  This is a film that absolutely demands a second and third viewing....which is what I am about to do right now.  BOY!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Phantasm - feel the love","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"61 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm is possibly my favourite film of all time.Why? It's not about the budget or the hype of a film, but mainly about how this film makes me feel. Phantasm director Coscarelli crafted a little gem of a horror movie that has bought me more enjoyment than any major Hollywood film I can remember. I first saw Phantasm as a kid in the 80's and it has stuck with me ever since. It was great to rediscover this film on a beautifully mastered DVD.For me, Phantasm combines a nightmarish quality that few horror movies achieve with a nostalgic trip back in time to the late 70's. The central theme is that of young Mike being abandoned by his brother Jody, and overcoming his fears. The cryptic nature of the Tall Man's presence adds to the tension, and Myrow's eerie soundtrack is the perfect finishing touch.Like a nightmare, there is no explanation or attempt to pander to desires for a logical conclusion.  The little touches such as Jody and Reggie's jam session add to the homely feel of this movie - it's like a well worn pair of jeans. It's crystal clear that no studio executives were in the editing room at the last minute, trying to turn Coscarelli's vision into another mediocre horror film . For the director, this film was clearly a labor of love. Coscarelli is still an outsider from the Hollywood system. I am grateful that he hasn't been sucked into turning out mediocre movies for major studios but has stayed somewhat true to the original spirit of Phantasm.Many of the comments here on IMDB criticize the film for weak FX and poor acting. When viewed in the context of a genre film made by young industry outsiders for $300,000 in 1979, I think the technical values are exceptional. Critics who claim otherwise have no idea of the work involved in the process of creating a movie, especially before the advent of video.I've seen Hollywood blockbusters made for many millions of dollars with great technical values, and yet I can't think of one that I can enjoy time and time again like this film. If you consider yourself a fan of horror movies, you owe it to yourself to own this classic on DVD.10/10  "},{"Title":"In it's own way, a horror classic","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"39 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Two orphaned boys, Mike (Michael Baldwin) and Jody (Bill Thornbury) notice some strange things happening at Morningside Mortuary. Bodies are disappearing from coffins; a lady in lavender has sex with men in the graveyard and then stabs them to death; little midgets in brown cloaks (making sounds like lions) are roaming about and there's a flying silver orb with spikes that embeds itself in people's heads! And then there's the Tall Man (Angus Scrimm) overseeing it all...Soon Mike, Jody and their friend Reggie (Reggie Bannister) are fighting for their lives...The story is pretty thin (and REALLY out of whack at the end), the acting dismal, there's no characterizations or depth and some of the special effects are horrible but...this is STILL a classic horror film. It takes a while to get going (nothing much happens in the first half hour), but when it does there's scarcely a letup. Action leaps into high gear, there's some fairly graphic gore (including the now infamous flying sphere killing), there are plenty of scenes guaranteed to make you jump and the music score is very spooky...right up there with Halloween. Also some of the special effects are impressive (considering there was no budget). Also Bill Thornbury is a VERY attractive man and there's gratuitous male and female nudity. What's even more surprising is Don Coscarelli wrote, produced, directed AND edited this at the age of 24! He's never matched it since and all the sequels really suck...but this stands alone as a classic. A must-see for all horror fans. Also Scrimm is EXCELLENT (and damn scary) as the Tall Man.Trivia This was awarded an X rating FOUR TIMES because of the sphere killing...Coscarelli went all the way to the head of the ratings board who overturned it and gave it an R--a rare occurrence that the ratings board kept in a gore scene! "},{"Title":"Imaginative, Bizarre, And Thoroughly Entertaining.","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm is about a young teenager, Mike, who just recently lost his parents. He is worried about losing his older brother, so he follows him everywhere, including a funeral. While hiding in the bushes during the funeral, Mike sees The Tall Man (played by the creepy Angus Scrimm), the man who runs the funeral home, pick up a casket by himself. Mike begins spying on the man afterwards, fascinated with uncovering the strange events surrounding the funeral home. While investigating, Mike discovers a strange world within the walls of the mortuary, including flying metal spheres with sharp arrows that drain the blood from your head, and many other horrors. Turns out, the Tall Man is from another dimension, and is taking the bodies of the dead and reincarnating them in his world for slaves. Mike teams up with his older brother and the local ice cream man, Reggie, to stop the Tall Man's gruesome work.I remember my mother telling me about how much Phantasm scared her when she was a teenager, and she rented it one day and I watched it along with her (I was about nine or ten at the time), and it was genuinely one of the most bizarre movies I've ever viewed. Written (as well as directed) by Don Coscarelli, Phantasm has become something of a horror classic over the years, and deservedly so. Coscarelli's writing here is so unique that it hurts. Everything in this film is surreal and dreamlike, and the entire plot line is so out there that I can't think of another film that can quite compete in terms of strangeness. But, despite it's strangeness, this movie works, in it's own, weird little way. The script is solid and the characters are believable (there are some real-life situations thrown in as well, so there is some sort of viewer-character connections that can be made), even though about ninety-nine percent of this film is something of pure fantasy. But it's quite a scary fantasy, and that's for sure.There are many elements in this film that have become somewhat legendary, among them being the murderous silver spheres and The Tall Man's Boyyyyy! line. The thing is, among all of the randomness that is Phantasm, this is quite a terrifying movie. A dense feeling of helplessness and foreboding is hiding in every scene, and the cinematography and locations add to this quite a bit. The imagery is bizarre and often very spooky, and the settings are perfect (especially that creepy old funeral home). The viewers themselves are easily caught up in the engrossing story, and the atmosphere is very scary. Michael Baldwin plays our lead hero well, with Reggie Bannister as the ice cream man, and Bill Thornbury as Mike's older brother, Jody. And Angus Scrimm plays his signature role as The Tall Man, and his presence alone makes this film scarier than most of it's genre. And then there's the score to the film, which is equally as effective and just as chilling. The film concludes leaving many questions open-ended and unanswered, but honestly - can you really expect genuine, fulfilling answers when the movie itself is so strange? I think it's good that this film does leave some loose ends, because it goes along with the movie's overall feel.Bottom line - I don't think this movie is for everyone, and it might be just a little bit too weird for some. Honestly, one of the strangest, most out-there films I have ever seen, but in my opinion, that's a good thing. The story is strange but well crafted, and the bizarre imagery and atmosphere make this a painfully unique, scary experience. I can see why Phantasm has become such a classic of the genre. For me, this film remains a nice little piece of spooky and original nostalgia, and I'm glad my mom decided to scare the daylights out of me with it at such a young age, because I grew to love this movie later on. 10/10. "},{"Title":"The Chrome Sphere is 70s classic","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"28 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are two things that stand out in this film. The Tall Man (played   by Angus Scrimm) and the chrome sphere with hook-like blades that stick   out of it. Those are the two main elements when it comes to this horror   series directed by Don Coscarelli.    The Tall Man comes from another dimension where he takes some of the   earth's dead back to his home planet, reincarnates them and turns them   into slaves for his world. He even occasionally murders some earth   people in order to speed things up. Why wait for them to get old and   die natural deaths. That would take too much time, right? And what   better earth profession he can hide his identity behind than that of a   funeral parlor director.     Everything goes smoothly for the Tall Man until Mike Pearson (Michael   Baldwin) witnesses him carting a body away that's supposed to be buried   in the ground. At first his brother Jody (Bill Thornbury) doesn't   believe him, but when Mike shows him a cut-off finger surrounded by   'yellow blood' in a little wooden box he had saved as proof, Jody   starts to believe him.     Excellent scene of the chrome sphere zooming down the funeral parlor   hallway and 'accidentally' digging into the skull one of the Tall Man's   henchmen. A little screw appears out of it and starts to bore a hole   through his skull, ejecting the excess blood out a hole in the back of   the sphere. I wish there was more of the sphere although we'll get to   see a lot more of it again in PHANTASM II (1988).    I also like the portal gateway scene where if you go through the two   chrome poles, you'll get to see the Tall Man's alternative universe   where the slaves are busy carrying caskets down a stone pathway. We   even get to see Ice Cream Man, Reggie Bannister almost get sucked   through it as well.    I won't give away the ending but let's just say the Tall Man is   temporarily disposed of until the next sequel comes out, although the   dream element that's supposed to encompass the whole sequence of events   in the film, is a big negative against it. In fact, it brings it down a   notch, unfortunately.    Even so, I consider PHANTASM to be one of the best horror films of the   1970s. It managed to keep Avco/Embassy in business so they could bring   us later horror stuff like ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK (1980); THE FOG (1980)   and DEAD AND BURIED (1981)    The MGM DVD also has a lot more extras on it than you would expect from   other DVDs released by the same company, including 8mm   behind-the-scenes footage of the making of PHANTASM; a 1979 interview   down in Miami with director Coscarelli and Angus Scrimm; an appearance   at a 1989 Fangoria convention by Scrimm, and movie & TV trailers for   the film.     It's a labor of love by the truest fans of this film.     7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Start . . .","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"32 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm is one of those movies where you have to look beyond the constraints of a non-existent-budget sci-fi/horror flick to see underlying talent. The film suffers from some hammed up acting, classical 1970s character naivety, make-shift and jimmy-rigged special effects that don't quite work, a score that might as well be a series of MIDI files, and a plot that's all but coherent; however, Phantasm maintains a certain original charm and resourcefulness that larger budget films frequently lack.The above paragraph really isn't a complaint (despite how it may sound). On the contrary, I'm impressed with what director Don Coscarelli managed to accomplish with the hand dealt to him. Phantasm could have been an utterly forgettable film on all levels, but instead he managed to leave a number of positive impressions.For one, the frame composition and some key scene transitions transcend budgetary implications (in particular, the Tall Man in the cemetery and the Tall Man slow-motion shot by Reggie's ice cream truck come to mind). Fred Myrow also comes to the forefront with intriguing and memorable synthetic score. My only complaint on the music is the synthesizer it was performed on sounds like an old 80386 game. Still, the notes played transcends the quality of the instrument it's played on. Phantasm's trademark bladed sphere effect, however, did genuinely bother me when they stuck into their victim's skulls. The fact that the soon-to-be-dead have no physical reaction after being slapped in the forehead with a fastball goes beyond my ability to suspend disbelief, and to my dismay the effect has never been amended in later sequels. A simple flinch is all that's needed to sell the effect! Something tells me that the effect, as it stands, is part of the Phantasm trademark, part of the Phantasm charm (for the cult followers anyway), and won't ever get a more realistic edge. Minor silly plot elements aside (Jawa grave robbers, anyone?), my only major gripe deals with the sheer open endedness of the Phantasm universe (vastly exploited in later sequels.) Phantasm is not unlike a comic book, where nothing that happens seems significant since a character can so easily wake up to another reality. Anarchy governs the Phantasm series, no rules apply so reality, fantasy, and parallel universes co-exist in such a fashion that nothing seems to matter anymore. It's like playing a game with Coscarelli in which we must abide by the rules he sets down, and he sets the rules down as he goes when situations apply to him. Why bother playing? Why care?Still, the film has its charms, and there's something fun in the sinister eye-brow raising and growling Tall Man played effectively by Angus Scrimm. I'd caught bits of Phantasm 3 in the past, and came into this film expecting to hate the Tall Man and this entire franchise, yet I found myself grinning at each of his lines. I say if someone can look below a cheap and cheesy surface, Phantasm is full of a pleasant surprises.  "},{"Title":"A Weird and Original Cult Movie","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the death of Tommy (Bill Cone), who was stabbed by a woman at the cemetery, Jody (Bill Thornbury) and his friend Reggie (Reggie Bannister) attend the funeral at the Morningside funeral home. Jody is followed by his teenage brother Mike (Michael Baldwin), who has just lost his parents and is afraid of losing his big brother that intends to travel.Mike snoops around the cemetery and sees the mortician known as The Tall Man (Angus Scrimm) carrying Tommy's coffin alone without any help. Mike breaks in the mortuary to investigate the mystery and discovers weird dwarf creatures with yellow blood and dangerous flying spheres that protect the location. When he is chased by The Tall Man, he cuts his finger and brings it home to show Jody to convince his big brother that there is a dark secret in the mortuary. Jody, Reggie and Mike discover that The Tall Man is from outer space and is transforming dead bodies in dwarfs to work as slave in his world. Now they decide that The Tall Man must be destroyed. Will they succeed in their intent?Phantasm is one of the most weird and original cult movies that I have ever seen. The surrealistic and dreamlike story entwines horror with sci-fi with many twists and bizarre characters and situations. I saw Phantasm for the first time on VHS in the early 80's and I have just seen it again on DVD and surprisingly the film has not aged, only the clothing, the hair style and the special effects. But for fans like me, it is still attractive and entertaining. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Fantasma (Phantasm) "},{"Title":"Another Horror Classic, And With Good Reason","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A teenage boy (Michael Baldwin) stumbles upon a plot by a very tall mortuary worker (Angus Scrimm) to steal dead bodies and turn them into midget slaves for an alien world. With the help of his brother (Bill Thornberry), the boy hopes to cut the tall man down to size.Many years later, Don Coscarelli is now seen as a master of horror and Angus Scrimm somewhat of a horror icon (though to a lesser degree than, say, Robert Englund). While the plot I have outlined above may sound silly, the actual execution of this idea makes it clear why this film has really lodged itself in horror history and spawned numerous sequels (all starring Scrimm).This film captures the feeling of the late 1970s and early 1980s horror with the young boy stumbling upon a plot of large, sinister proportions. Horror geared towards the youth of a generation who have parents who may not believe them (or in this case, an older brother). I really like this theme, much like The Goonies, The Monster Squad and Lost Boys -- a kid's film without being childish.Phantasm has become known for the silver balls, and believe me -- when Angus Scrimm puts one of his balls in your face, you won't be happy about it. A bloody mess is all you will get! I really enjoyed the effect of this (remember, this is 1979 when effects still took some creativity).Now, some things I did not understand. For example, why are the midgets bleeding macaroni and cheese instead of blood? And more importantly, why does the tall man have to transform into a woman to stab people in the cemetery? If he is super strong and has those silver balls, he really does not have to be very sneaky about the whole ordeal, does he?Some of the acting is cheesy -- people deliver their lines in a way that sounds forced, and Jody (the older brother) looks like he belongs behind the wheel of the General Lee. And Michael spends half the film looking like a girl. (I have met the entire cast, and I can assure you that Baldwin grew out of this phase.)But, seriously, check this film out. Roughly in the same time period as Halloween, you are left with a similar feeling. Only this one is more light-hearted and feel good and less the embodiment of evil. I suppose it depends on your personal taste or your mood for the day. Myself, I like a little bit of the unusual thrown in to a movie just to keep me guessing. "},{"Title":"This gives new meaning to the word BOOOYYY!","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1980, Magnetic Video released the full length 90-minutes long version on video, with a difused glow throughout the entire film. In the latter part of the 1980s, the film was issued again on video, but one sequence (which takes place in near complete darkness in The Tall Man's glowing white room) was accidentally edited out by the people supervising the film to video transfer. This version of the film ran 87/ 88 minutes in length. When Phantasm was issued on DVD in the late 1990s the scene was restored, but the colour balance and the soft diffusion was corrected, which I think robbed the film of some of its atmospheric effect. My review is based on Magnetic Video's 1980 release. This haunting, dreamlike hallucination of a movie was written, directed, photographed, produced and edited by Don Coscarelli, it doesn't make much sense but it's still a great bit of fun to watch with the lights turned out. This kid named Mike convinces his older brother Jody that there is something weird going on at the local cemetery. So he and Jody break into the old mausoleum and find out that it's actually some kind of factory where people are killed by a flying metal ball, crushed down to a height of about 3'2, dressed up like little monks and packaged up into round metal garbage cans and shipped off for use as slave labour in some other dimension. A dimension ruled and resided over by the six and a half foot tall mortician (known throughout the entire ordeal as just simply The Tall Man) working at this cemetery. When The Tall Man kills another friend of theirs, they decide to put and end to him, or at least try to.This movie has many different layered meanings, over the years some people have said that it's a reference to corporate America coming in (in the form of The Tall Man) and killing off everyone (by turning everything into a 'business') and some have said that this movie is also about a kid's loss of innocence and fears about everyone around him leaving (or in this case dying) Whatever the hell this movie is about, it's still great fun, followed by a couple of really disappointing (and belated) sequels. "},{"Title":"Hey, you had a dream. Just a nightmare","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm an apparition of a ghostly appearing figure Simply put Phantasm is a visual nightmare transformed into a person's sketchy reality. The emphasis on sleeping and dreams is exactly the message it is getting at. With a perfect score and a quintessentially frighteningly written Horror villain 'The Tall Man' the only downfalls of Phantasm are its lack of quality acting, script, pacing and cheap 1970's horror clichés. In fact the acting and characters become so irritating it is the only element of Phantasm that takes it away from being considered a true Horror classic by most Horror buffs (or maybe it's George Lucas' unauthorized use of Jawa's?).When one scans the Horror elite those films have pretty atrocious acting problems too, so why should Phantasm fail so much? It shouldn't really because Phantasm is just as good as the classics. One of the reason why Phantasm is such a unique film is the well established characters unlike most Horror films; whilst the acting is somewhat absent from the strongly written character it's still enough to redeem the awkwardly delivered lines, odd facial expressions and comical snappy reactions. The films score is also perfect and mesmerizing that fits well by Fred Myrow, it was in fact one of the most powerful elements of the movie that really had me engaged. The stunning visuals and the concept and imagery of The Tall Man (wonderfully portrayed by Angus Scrimm) are authentically creepy, like something one would encounter in a nightmare. (in fact, I had a dream where I was in Hell and I encountered a priest that had been shrunk and dissected by a demon and this was before I saw Phantasm) I know I would be pretty hysterical if The Tall Man was stalking me.It's these points of the film that for me makes Phantasm an atmospheric and creepy horror gem, in fact it brings me back to when I was a five year old child in a video store in the 90's, traumatized by the VHS covers for Hellraiser and The Blob only to eagerly await the day I was old enough to view them. Another reason why Phantasm's atmosphere works so well is the use of white and brightness instead darkness Phantasm's surreal mortuary is a nightmarish treat of white marble walls lined with drawers of the dead, gaping large hallways and The Tall Man's shoes trudging along the tiles that make you feel he's going to jump out of the television screen. From the flying silver balls to the void to another dimension, Phantasm's concept of a ghoulishly eerie tale about a soul keeper is wonderfully mastered and pulled off.No matter how jammed with 1970's horror clichés the use of the shoestring budget and surrealism incorporated into Phantasm makes it a pure Horror gem. It seems all the love goes to over rated films only because they're so talked about and not actually analysed. This movie has creeped me out more than any other Horror classic ever could now and I'm far from the age I was when I used to be scared those films. Phantasm is highly recommended to surrealist, horror and cult fanatics. "}{"Title":"I LOVE this movie!","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember staying up late to watch this movie on TV when I was a kid.  It scared the hell out of me.  Then, for 15 years, I forgot all about it.  Recently, I found a $5 VHS copy in the discount bin of my local drugstore and thought What the hell?  That was the best $5 I ever spent.Phantasm may not make a lot of sense, the story is confusing and seems to have been made up as it went along, but that's kind of the point.  It's like watching someone else's fever dream...and that's exactly what it's supposed to be like, because it IS someone else's fever dream.  Phantasm is a classic nightmare; totally unpredictable, claustrophobic, paranoid and frightening.13 year old Michael Baldwin was perfect as the young protagonist, an amazingly refreshing, un-annoying child actor.  I was totally convinced by his performance as the lonely teen, desperately chasing after his older brother and displaying just the right amounts of anger, confusion and frustration, yet never giving in to panic even as his world spins out of control.  Bill Thornbury as older brother Jody seemed mysteriously detached, yet after repeated viewings, I realized how correct this was in light of the twist ending.  He is, indeed, a ghost that Michael simply refuses to give up.  Reggie Bannister was completely irresistible as the sweet and gentlemanly Reggie the Ice Cream Man, who manages to remain innocent and lovable even as he suggests ramming a stake through the Tall Mans heart.  And the Tall Man, Mr. Angus Scrimm himself...BRRRRR!!!  He doesn't have many lines (other than the now-infamous BOYYYYYYY!) but he doesn't need any.  His very presence is chilling, and the scene where he stops dead in the middle of a suburban sidewalk in the middle of the day and turns, ever so slowly, to face Michael through a mist of frost emanating from Reggie's ice cream truck, is more frightening than any murder scene set in the dead of night.  And need I mention the flying balls?  What an original, ingenious invention!  This is such an amazing blend of sci-fi, horror and fantasy that I really did not care if it didn't make a whole lot of sense.  The flying balls, the dwarves, the yellow blood, and THAT FLY IN THE GARBAGE DISPOSAL!!! Wow.  If nothing else, you simply have to give this film and its makers credit for originality. After watching my $5 discount bin copy enough times to remember what a GREAT little movie this is, I went right out and bought the special edition DVD.  More money very well spent.  "},{"Title":"What has been going on in the last 90 minutes????","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh my God!  Oh my God!  Please someone try to explain to me what sort of crap this is.  Everything in this flick shows its ridiculously low budget and its scarce use of art.  Here are some of my comments on the so-called classic tale of terror- the story is impossible to follow you get people getting killed and reappearing again later, unhurt, while others remain alive throughout and then, toward the end, you get a glimpse of their grave.  Apart from that you get people being here and there, not understanding how they got there, how they got in etc.- the main character, Mike, seems to be in a desperate need of a speech therapist;- no one can really act (except Reggie Bannister)- nothing really makes sense, except those spicy brain-chewing flying balls- the Tall Man with his continuous, ever-monotonous Boy! is more pathetic than scaryOne last note, I did not realise when it was time to start getting frightened - it is all so awfully junky.  If you get scared to death by this one, (the motto says If this doesn't scare you, you're already dead!) you've got serious problems.  If this is as scary as you can get, then normal everyday life is a farce!  "},{"Title":"Why is this a classic?","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I finally saw Phantasm, a film that is regarded as a classic. I could not for the life of me understand how anyone could love this film so much. The acting is terrible, the story makes no sense at all and there seems to be a complete and total disregard for continuity from start to finish. And imagine my disappointment when I learned that the Tall Man (who was the least frightening horror villain ever) as just making people into dwarfs to be slaves on his home planet. That's the dumbest thing I have ever heard. The special effects are decent and the chrome sphere drilling into that one guys forehead was the only worthwhile thing in the entire movie. Michael Baldwin looks like an ugly little girl with a speech problem and everyone around him (especially the character of Jody) shows about as much emotion as a rock. This is an incredibly disappointing film. Many reviews on here say that once you get past the bad acting, worse script, nonsensical parts, lack of scares,lack of continuity, lack of gore (except for one scene as yellow blood is hardly gore) etc. etc., that it is a true classic, but really, once you get past all that, what's left? "},{"Title":"What's so great about this?","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm is a weak excuse for a horror film.  Bad acting, choppy editing, a not so scary meanie and low-grade F/X make this movie a tooth-grinding experience.  I just could not wait for the movie to finish.  I have not seen the sequels, so I am interested in seeing if they are of higher grade that this piece of manure.  Too bad the lead girl (or was that a boy) did not end up on the other side of that weird sphere.  A rating of 4 out of 10 was given. "},{"Title":"My favorite horror film of all time!","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sure, Phantasm is about as low budget as you can get, even for a horror film, but the amazing thing about this movie is that a lack of funds did not hurt it at all. In fact, some of the plot holes that a bigger budget would have filled in actually work in the movie's favor. By not really understanding who the Tall Man is or why he does what he does, Phantasm assumes enigmatic dimensions that practically beg for explanation through further sequels. Coscarelli, who I think is planning yet another sequel in this franchise, has also made a few other films over the years the recent Bubba Ho-tep and the ubiquitous cable favorite The Beastmaster are the most memorable.Reggie, Jody, and Jody's younger brother Mike soon learn strange things are afoot at the Morningside Funeral Home. After a funeral service for a friend of Reggie and Jody, Mike sees the eerie undertaker at the funeral home heave a three hundred pound casket in the back of a hearse all by himself. Intrigued, Mike begins to investigate the funeral home and this puzzling figure, fondly known to fans of the series as the Tall Man, and unearths a whole heap of weirdness. Before long Jody and Reggie get caught up in the madness of the Tall Man's world. What they discover behind the walls of the funeral home is a nightmare of endless dangers twisted, angry little creatures clad in robes, a portal to another dimension, and small flying spheres that seek out human flesh with disastrous and bloody results. As the three attempt to put together the odd pieces of this puzzle, the Tall Man and his minions always lurk in the background ready to do serious bodily injury to the interlopers. What Reggie, Mike, and Jody discover is hardly reassuring the Tall Man is some sort of other dimensional being roaming our world in search of corpses. He then reanimates the bodies and transforms them into stunted little creatures so he can transport them into his dimension. Why does he do this? Who knows, but it is fun watching our three heroes battle the Tall Man in this film and the subsequent sequels.One of the best elements of Phantasm is the characters. You have the Tall Man (Angus Scrimm), a lumbering giant of a man dressed all in black and sporting a perpetual scowl. He delivers his lines, of which there are few in this movie but more in subsequent films, in a growling tone full of dark menace. Scrimm is creepy as the Tall Man, and I think this character may well be one of my favorite horror film bad guys. The actors who play Reggie, Jody, and Mike appear in all of the sequels (with a minor switch in two), an important continuity because it gives the Phantasm franchise a real contained universe feel lacking in most horror series. It was fun for me to watch the original film after seeing the later sequels because the guys are so much younger here. Jody sports a '70's coif that would do Starsky and Hutch proud, and Reggie looks so young that it is almost frightening.Phantasm films always contain elements that make for a great, downbeat atmosphere. The music is absolutely fantastic, and if I had to compare the background beats of Phantasm with the sound of another horror film it would have to be something along the lines of Kubrick's The Shining. The movie sounds creepy, and when matched with the mostly shot at night scenes and the wickedly gory rampages of those metallic spheres, the whole film takes on a most memorable feel. Coscarelli does not rely solely on gripping horror, however, as there are many humorous scenes throughout the film. The scene where Mike and Jody do battle with the severed finger is one of the funniest I have seen in a horror movie. Even the fake looking bug and the gruesome little minions of the Tall Man are amusing in their own right.If you want to buy just one DVD because of the extras, you should get Phantasm if you can track down a copy(it's gone OOP now). I couldn't believe how much stuff they packed on one disc! You get lengthy deleted scenes, a commentary with Coscarelli and the film's actors, a long interview with Coscarelli and Angus Scrimm made years ago with some film professor, a short film of an appearance Angus Scrimm made at a horror convention, trailers, a disco version of the theme song (!), poster and lobby card pictures, a kooky promotional ad made by Angus Scrimm for the Australian market, and a widescreen picture transfer. I especially enjoyed the footage of Scrimm speaking at a horror film convention. Even though it was a bit corny, he quickly ran through all of the lines the Tall Man said in the Phantasm films, and since most of his dialogue in these movies is so memorable it was great to hear him say them in character. Overall, it felt like it took longer to view all of the extras on this disc than it did to watch the film! If you haven't delved into the dark world of Phantasm, start here and rapidly move on to the excellent sequels. "},{"Title":"Just doesn't make any sense","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm had a lot of potential. The premise is scary two kids fighting a wicked mortician and his evil drones. Unfortunately this low-budget horror outing (that spawned, incredibly, two more sequels) is way too confusing to be frightening. I watched as characters disappeared for long stretches before reappearing for no good reason. People die then are miraculously alive again in the next scene. Some characters are evil, then good, then evil again. Not to mention it's all directed so that the action zooms along at a brisk pace, not bothering to explain anything. All in all the movie inspires more headaches than fear. The film focuses on two (uninteresting) kids who investigate weird goings on at the local mortuary, where their deceased friend was just buried. They come upon the Tall Man, an evil fellow who kills people with flying silver spheres and turns corpses into his zombie minions. Most of the film has the Tall Man chasing the younger boy around after the kid learns of his secrets.As low-budget horror movies go, I've seen far worse. Phantasm is imaginative, if nothing else, and has some memorable scenes (the first appearance of the flying orb is great), but in order to scare people you must have coherency. Phantasm plays like the filmmakers know everything that's going on, but they feel like keeping the viewer in the dark.  "},{"Title":"the most proudly incomprehensible film ever made","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie takes the prize for boldly spitting in the face of such old standbys as plot, structure, character development, narrative arc, tone, reason, common sense, temporal cohesiveness, and logic more effectively and with more glee than any other film ever made. the story elements (namely, a funeral home, a tall man, a silver ball with a drill on it, a killer housefly, a musclecar, an ice cream man, killer jawas, and a tuning fork) are not really combined so much as stuffed into 88 minutes, and the scariest thing about the movie is that this stream-of-consciousness approach to horror filmmaking actually works. a creepy location, some genuinely startling imagery (the funeral home interior shots are downright kubrickian), and a lack of any exposition/explanation keep you wondering what in god's name is going on until the last frame. hats off to writer/director don coscarelli for pulling it off -- it's a great time. "},{"Title":"What am I missing?","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Maybe I should have seen this when I was a kid. Perhaps viewing it for the first time in the 21st century just doesn't provide the necessary atmosphere to appreciate what this film is about. But for whatever reason, this movie didn't grab my attention at all. It was full of long, and as far as I can tell, pointless shots of people walking, riding bikes, driving cars, or just plain standing around. They were accompanied by spooky noises or music, but they still dragged on for way too long. Maybe that was the late 70's way of building tension, but by the time 20 minutes had gone by, I was so disenfranchised that there was no way I could be apprehensive. And this while watching it in the dead of night alone with the lights off.I love horror movies, and especially hokey ones like Evil Dead. My wife and friends start groaning whenever I go off on some movie that everyone else thinks is stupid. But this one...it just didn't work for me. "},{"Title":"Threadbare horror opus, with a flimsy-cheap look that has been taken for a new-fangled style...","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 20-year-old Don Coscarelli wrote and directed this low-budget, school kid's idea of a scary story young boy must convince his older brother that the neighborhood funeral parlor is actually a house of horrors, presided over by the Tall Man and guarded by a flying silver sphere. At one point, the sphere boars its way into a man's skull, and the audience gets a dirty laugh as blood shoots out the other end and the victim urinates on the floor. There's no other relief in Phantasm, as much of the acting is amateurish and the rest of the special effects are variable. Coscarelli is actually given more credit from horror fans than he deserves; nine years later he was still doing the same thing, albeit with a bigger budget. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Like taking an acid trip at a graveyard","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don Coscarelli's defining film-making statement is unquestionably one of the trippiest, most inventive and startlingly original horror films of all time. While the plot is often incomprehensible, and the happenings are rarely clearly defined as true events or the product of a nightmare, the sum total of Phantasm is an unforgettable experience that very few films in the genre come close to rivaling.Angus Scrimm's unnamed Tall Man is one of the most iconic figures in horror history, and his imposing presence is enough to generate most of the film's scares on its own. Of course, he gets plenty of help from a horde of hooded dwarfs and a mysterious flying sphere that burrows into the forehead of its unsuspecting victims and spews out their blood and brains like a guignol geyser. If that's not enough, the fact that the bulk of the film is set in a sprawling mausoleum with seemingly endless marble corridors, which houses a gateway to another world no less, should be sufficient for Coscarelli to tap into some source of dread within you.Fans of Dario Argento should notice some obvious admiration on the part of Coscarelli, particularly in some of the camera-work and neo-psychedelic imagery. However, while Coscarelli takes obvious cues from the godfather of giallo, Phantasm's auteur uses these tools for devices entirely his own. Indeed, this film's highly-stylized approach and disorienting cuts seem to invite the viewer to be confused. But this confusion is an unsettling one, and it's more likely that Coscarelli was aiming to make this dark head-trip as jarring and incoherent as it often is. While you may not understand exactly what's going on at any given moment, the film sustains its morbid atmosphere so effectively that you won't be able to take your eyes off of the train wreck.The understated score is one of the best of all time, channeling the minimalism of John Carpenter's superlative music in Halloween through a filter of the avant-garde progressive rock favored by Goblin, Dario Argento's go-to music source. Musical score is a sometimes-overlooked component in many films, but in the horror genre especially, the sounds that frame the images are often as important to the foreboding tone as the visceral horror that accompanies them. You won't find better examples than in this film, where a seemingly benign shot like The Tall Man walking down the street becomes a vortex of grim foreshadowing, indelibly augmented by the music that follows him.The film utilizes very little splatter to serve the horror, but the few bits here are truly memorable and unsettling, such as the afore-mentioned gore-geyser. However, somehow the sight of Scrimm's egg-yolk-yellow blood is far more effective than gallons of the red sauce, so the film manages its fair share of wet-work despite the obvious emphasis on mood and suspense over slice and dice.In keeping with its experimental leanings, it's fitting that Phantasm doesn't come to a logical conclusion, and in many ways, the appearance of the Tall Man at the film's denouement with his infamous bellowed Boy! leads us to believe that this movie ends somewhere in the middle of the story rather than the finale. With so many intriguing ideas here ripe for exploration, it's actually rather strange that Phantasm only spawned three sequels. I must admit, I only saw two of those, and I barely remember them at this point, but I'm fairly certain I don't have answers to all the questions that arose while I revisited this classic original.Perhaps that's the key to Phantasm's chilling aftermath it introduces us to a series of unexplained supernatural occurrences and forces us to accept them without the levity of understanding. The film itself is only a snapshot of the greater horror, so when we invest our imaginations in the happenings at Morningside Cemetery, we have to conclude that there are more malevolent evils at play there than what we have been privy to through the eyes of our characters.Whether or not you will be satisfied by the tantalizing glimpse the film provides, there is no denying the pure power of the film's unique and obtuse approach to horror. There has never been another film like Phantasm, before or since, and for that reason alone it is mandatory viewing for anyone who considers themselves even a casual connoisseur of horror cinema.If you need a reason other than that, I'll offer you a simple one this movie is freaking awesome. "}{"Title":"boy....","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firt of all this is a very unique horror movie that Donald Coscarelli has come up with,, i mean imagine,, what happens to you when you go to the mortuary,, hopefully not what happens in the movie,, I'll tell you that... the special effects are awesome,, that flying sphere is classic,, and the noises that it makes are great too,, the music is great in this movie,, you have A. Micheal Baldwin,, Angus Scrimm, and a host of others, that really make this movie great,, but i guess what really sells this movie is the premise,, pretty much unique to itself, that the guy in charge of the mortuary is stealing bodies,, souls,, and shrinking them,, into dwarfs,, and using them as slaves for the netherworld,,The tall man only has 5 lines in the movie,, 28 words all together,, but he is definitely a man to be reckoned with,, this man will scare the heck out of you time and time again,, this is really just a great horror movie,, with a lot of twists and turns,, and great camera work two i might add, steady cam was just starting out ,, specially on this flick, so yeah it's a little on the raw side,, buy hey it's new for the time period... this movie is a classic ,, and should not be missed. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of the creepy and bizarre","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Towards the end of the 1970s horror was in an interesting trend. A lot of genre films featured a supernatural angle. Films like 'Carrie' and 'Suspiria' took viewers into a world where power was the ultimate dark force. Another one of the best examples of this is Don Coscarelli's 'Phantasm,' a low budget late 70s horror/fantasy film that's impossible to forget once you've seen it. It's one of those films that plays with your imagination rather than shows you blood, guts, and big ugly monsters. It's like one big, long, surreal and terrifying nightmare.Pros A fairly original concept. Good performances from a very likable cast. A somewhat dated, but still very effectively eerie musical score. Some really nightmarish images. The Tall Man is one of the creepiest villains ever thought up. Predictable this film is not. The film has a really sinister feel about it, especially in the night scenes. Well-paced. A great set-up for number 2.Cons Doesn't make a lot of sense. One really cheap effect involving a monster fly.Final thoughts You're brain may hurt a little after watching this strange film, but in this case that's not really a bad thing. It's nice to see some filmmakers try new and interesting things in the genre instead of just churning out the same crap a lot of others are doing. Watch this one alone with the lights off and see if you can sleep afterwards.My rating 5/5 "},{"Title":"Watch out for spheres.","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the weirdest films I have seen. It's an ultimate tale about the Tall Man. An alien figure who's knocking about with his killer spheres, bumping of the locals and shrinking them down into dwarf zombie things with a penchant fro blood and a usage of slavery on the Tall Man's home planet, accessible through a portal found in the Morningside mausoleum. But three people are on his tracks. Reg, Mike and Jody have stumbled upon his corpse robbing antics and aim to put a stop to his deeds. But with a bunch of killer spheres after them and dwarfs galore it's easier said than done. I ain't gonna tell you explicitly what happens, you must find out yourself. It's well worth the enigmatic experience and I suggest even more you buy the box set. The limited edition sphere box set in which you get a super cool sphere box, in which all four films and a fifth special features disc are kept inside. It is a great ornamental piece that makes the whole film experience better. Wonderful. "},{"Title":"Nightmarish dream logic and some powerful, gruesome images make it better than it should be","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This seems to be a case in which the relative paucity of the budget worked for the film instead of against it. The director was forced to keep things pretty lean and focused instead of indulging in a lot of fancy flourishes and details, so he didn't waste any screen time or film with stuff that wouldn't help tell his story. Admittedly, the plot is so thin, and the room the budget leaves the director to work is so spare, that often the movie drags, or simply wastes air time. The body count and SFX occurrences are spread quite thin, as horror movies go, in fact...I remember maybe five deaths and a maximum of three-to-four minutes of actual special effects. But what the movie DOES have going for it is atmosphere. Almost from the beginning, Phantasm does a great job of instilling dread and anxiety into the viewer. The setting of the plot, a small, isolated town, with weird goings on at the local mortuary, is guaranteed to unsettle even the most matter-of-fact, unimaginative viewer after a while. And because the plot and crisis events are so thin, when something awful DOES happen on screen, there is very little to muffle or diminish the impact of what you just saw as the movie goes on. Years after I first saw Phantasm as a young man, four major images still stuck with me the Tall Man leering at the camera, oozing menace from every pore; the Sphere burrowing into the henchman's forehead and spewing his brains out the back; the dismembered finger leaking yellow fluid all over and turning into an insect; and the hellish vision of the alternate dimension beyond the twin pillars which the hero sees before his friend manages to yank him back. That's pretty good shooting for a low budget film from the 70s. If I were the director, I would be proud to be known for this movie. Not for the faint of heart or the squeamish, and not for the SFX junkies who cut their teeth and had their expectations molded by multi-million dollar extravaganzas like the Dark Castle remakes (13 Ghosts, Ghost Ship THe House On Haunted Hill. etc). If you have some patience, and can accept the movie on its own terms, Phantasm will make you squirm. "},{"Title":"Just blabbin' about why this is a meaningful flick to me. Possible spoilers.","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this with my little brother in the early 80's and it scared the hell out of us and we loved it.  Back then, it was some of the effects, which, like the garbage disposaled finger-turned-bumble bee on crack would seem hokey today.  But certainly, as others have pointed out, the flying sphere was the greatest we thought.  And of course there was the brief breast shot we ruined the VCR heads with by rewinding over and over.Seeing Phantasm again as an adult, I pick up on some of the cheesy acting and loop holes and all, including how goofy that muppet-faced little kid looks, but the things that made this movie such a great horror flick to my brother and I 20 years ago still freak the hell out of me now.  I.E. when Jody enters the basement of the funeral home.  There is a hollow, empty and horrific sound as the camera angle shows the dwarf zombie appear to rise out of the darkness...Gulp! right behind Jody.  Just everything about that is A-1 scary.  Just...disturbing.  Especially that synthesized low bass growl that the dwarf emits as it wrestles Jody.  That sound is almost disturbing to the point of being too much to handle.  It just sounds like death. Empty, evil death.And again when the three characters are in that transporter room and the lights go out.  Mikey turns on the flashlight to see one of those dwarves in front of him.  It gets dark again, and you hear that same low bass growl. Two words E-gad!  Now imagine that sound behind you the next time you find yourself alone, in a dark room fumbling for the light switch.  Those chilling effects alone make this a standout in the horror film genre.  All the campy acting and loopholes aside.  It's true.I recently purchased the DVD, and the sound is incredible. Surprisingly, on the DVD I found one gem in the deleted scenes section and another gem I missed the first time I saw the movie because I was too young to appreciate good music. In the deleted footage, there is a scene where Jody goes to a bank it seems, then it cuts to the inside of an office, where a lovely young woman sits on his lap.  Now, I admit she speaks as if she's reading her lines off of Jody's forehead, nevertheless, she is beautiful, enchanting, and Oooof to have those little hands running through your hair must have been nice. (It's obvious why they left out the other deleted footage.  Besides the horrible acting, it mostly came off as porn filler, especially that ridiculous ice cream parlor scene.  Jesus.)The music portion I liked is near the beginning of the film, where Reggie rolls up in his ice cream truck complete with guitar strapped to the outside.  Just then Jody is picking away at his guitar while sitting outside, humming a little tune that I found to be very pleasing on the ears. And in that scene Jody looks and sounds like an older Rick Nelson, say...from the Garden Party years?, minus the hat, of course.  I think so, at least.  Anyway, what a catchy little tune, especially when Reggie joins in.  They should have let those two add something to the soundtrack, if there is one. "},{"Title":"The Personification of Fear.","Date":"9 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Phantasm' has always been close to me, and I don't remember a single week, I lived without it. What make 'Phantasm' different are slow off-the-tone and sometimes absolutely fast nightmarish sequences, that kill the crap out of you. The film is remembered as a cult-classic now, and there is a fairly good reason behind it. After watching this film, you'd feel like you'd just lived a nightmare to the fullest. The 'Tall Man' is one of the most haunting villains one would ever wish to see for real. Don Coscarelli is a great craftsman, who has the ability to get down to the sub-conscious levels and explore the underlying fears of the human mind. It's been more than 30 years now since its release, but it holds a charisma that wouldn't fade with time. This truly is non-degradable.The film begins with Morningside cemetery, where Tommy is busy making love with a vampiric blonde. Moments later, the scantily clad blonde transforms to a vicious looking old man, The Tall Man (Angus Scrimm). The Tall Man kills Tommy and we soon land at his funeral. Jody (Bill Thornbury) and Reggie (Reggie Bannister) are friends, and members of a band. They are here because Tommy was their friend and a band member. Jody's brother Mike (Michael Baldwin) is prejudiced with a thought that Jody would abandon him in near future. Long back, after the demise of their parents, Mike was looked after by Jody. Mike doesn't want to lose Jody but his fears torment him. He sneakingly follows Jody and Reggie at the funeral and notices something strange at the Morningside. He also gets a glimpse of the unholy undertaker of the cemetery. The Tall Man, takes Tommy's dead body back to his hearse after the attendees leave. Mike wants to find cure for his trauma, and seeks help of a local fortune teller, who asks him to give up his fears regarding Jody. Mike is followed by ghoulish dwarfs, who are after him for no apparent reason, or this is what Mike thinks. Jody disregards Mike's strange story about the Tall Man. Agitated by the belief that his fears are not baseless, Mike heads to the cemetery. There he is chased by the Tall Man and his henchmen, satanic spheres and ugly dwarfs. During the fracas, the Tall Man happens to cut his finger that squirts yellow goo instead of blood. Mike takes the finger along and shows it to Jody as evidence. Jody, Reggie and Mike join hands to finish the Tall Man and his minions. They eventually discover that the Tall Man is an inter-dimensional being, who has a portal to his own scorching and hellish world at the Morningside cemetery. The Tall Man harvests townspeople and enslaves them by transforming them into dwarfs. Everything goes on surreptitiously until our men decide to have their final showdown with the Tall Man.'Phantasm' is more like a dream than a movie. You must have dreamed something bizarre at least once in your life, and 'Phantasm' is the same eccentric trip to the unknown depths of metaphysics. Don Coscarelli has made use of heavy symbolism to show the nihilistic worth of a matter or incident. The disappearance of money and magic box, gloomy mortuary set-up, silence prevailing inside the mausoleum, the dwarfs and their journey to other dimension and finally the angel of death in disguise, 'The Tall Man' are all symbolic. Mike is a victim of his own fear, the death itself. He believes Jody would leave him someday, but Jody, as Reggie tells Mike, had already died in a car crash. Was Mike unable to accept Jody's death due to inherent attachment with his brother? Did Jody already die before these bizarre incidents? We can't really know and neither could anyone. This freaky ride is enough to create a long lasting terror as 'Phantasm' is more like a doorway between the two worlds. The first world is our own mundane world, which we can see and perceive, while the other world is located in a different dimension, which has its own laws and regulations, but certainly all the otherworldly incidents and beings can neither be understood nor analyzed with rational eyes. 'Phantasm' has been crafted with a non-noetic expertise and we should remember that it all started in our own world. 'Phantasm' qualifies itself to be a perfect cult flick, with one of the greatest atmospheres and vivid representations of death. The 'Phantasm' sequels were loosely aligned with the main story, where the Tall Man has been depicted as an evil force that misuses the powers solely for diabolic purposes. This film offers a great combination of 'Body (Jody, Reggie, and Mike), Mind (The Tall Man is actually the personification of fear and death), and Soul (the dwarfs, who are condemned to the hell forever). Don't even think about missing this film, because this would sure have a great impact on you and would give you a deeper insight about the real horror that always stalks and ambushes life.......The Death! So.....Your Funeral May Begin Anytime Sir! "},{"Title":"One of the very best horror films ever!  Scary and funny.","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The new 2007 DVD of this film features a 30-minute documentary that is excellent and covers all the major interesting points. It's nicely packaged too, the DVD case inside a color cardboard sleeve with foil accents--classy!Don Coscarelli's Phantasm is a very original and startling horror film from the late 70's. A lot of horror classics were produced in the 70's, but this one in particular stands out because it is the only one that does not hearken back in some way to earlier established archetypes. All the details are more or less original, so you are not looking at a retread of the conventional Frankenstein/Dracula/Zombie stories. The main baddie is an exceptionally tall undertaker from another planet, for starters. His dwarf slaves are essentially zombies (reanimated dead people he has crushed down to half size) but in their behavior and appearance do not really resemble zombies from other myths. This is a movie trying to be as different as possible.Large amounts of surrealism and humor are mixed in, and the film displays a willingness to throw in very off-the-wall ideas and quirky moments. In the opening scenes, we see that spooky shenanigans are going on over at that Morningside Mortuary, including murder, appearances of strange hooded dwarf creatures, and kid-hero Mike (Michael Baldwin) riding his motorcycle around in the cemetery, apparently for kicks. After just a few minutes have elapsed, Phantasm is already a tapestry of weirdness, and it generally gets stranger, scarier and funnier as it goes along. The youthful hero Mike was also a big hit with youngsters when the film came out. He is an unusually energetic character who, to save his older brother and their friend Reggie from the eerie monsters, is ready to jump into the action and fight.Not surprising that it was a big theatrical hit when it came out originally. It was totally unlike any other movie, and audiences could see clearly that this low-budget oddity was bending over backwards to deliver its roller-coaster-style entertainment.This has been available for some years now in stereo/surround format, which sounds great and allows the viewer to better appreciate the very atmospheric musical score by Fred Myrow and Malcolm Seagrave. In addition to stereo manipulation of the sound effects, director Coscarelli also beefed up the sound effects for the famous flying silver sphere scene, adding stereo whoosh effects. I think the new additional sound effects are layered on fairly tastefully and you still get to hear the sphere's signature humming whine. The MGM release also features an original mono soundtrack option for purists. "},{"Title":"A 1979 classic, which the new generation may think dated.","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was 12 back in 1979 and being a horror nut, which continued into the great 80-slasher movie era. My girlfriend and I walked to our local theater to see a double feature. Prophecy, and Phantasm. Very atmospheric, from the chilling graveyard, to the creepy music. From the opening graveyard scene to middle to end this movie will not only spook you out, but also creep you out. (The flying silver ball?) I was so terrified that I had to sleep with my parents for several days. And, cemeteries were out of the question! Still to this day when I walk into a mausoleum I get an eerie feeling. This movie still puts shivers up my spin I highly recommend this classic to all horror fans young and old. You need to give it a chance. Turn down the lights, make some popcorn and sit back and beware of THE TALLMAN "},{"Title":"Hot as Love...","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is classic. The actors are far from the best in the world. And the special effects, while innovative at the time and even still impressive today, now pale in comparison to what most other horror movies have. And while I'm all about senseless killings and gore, an area in which this movie leaves something to be desired, there is so much more to a good horror movie. The plot is one of the best I've ever seen. Some people don't really understand it, or like the way it was filmed, but the closest I can get to describing it would be to say that it is an attempt at filming a nightmare. And I think that this was done very well. The ending was quite a shocker to me as well. This movie is not just a favourite horror movie, but has been, and always will be one of my favourite movies ever.  "},{"Title":"It works. Don't ask me why.","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The critics are right, of course. The acting is abysmal, the dialogue is risible, the plot is incoherent, the theme is yet another Tubular Bells ripoff, the concepts would have been too bizarre and far-fetched for Ed Wood, and the ending is silly.But somehow, Coscarelli manages to overcome all this and make a genuinely effective little horror film. I have no idea why PHANTASM works as well as it does, while other so-called cult classics such as TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE and EVIL DEAD fail.8/10 "}{"Title":"It pays to see it twice","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bought the DVD (an older one, not the one that's been referred to here) of this ages ago, watched it once, got bored and didn't watch it for months. Then I shoved it in my player the other night because I had nothing better to do and I have to say it has improved immeasurably the second time around. This is mainly because I was aware that it had a confusing plot which I'd previously decided made no sense, so I wasn't focussing on that aspect of the film this time around. Instead I noticed the really effective musical score, one of the best I've heard, and the excellent cinematography/lighting which give the film a very tense and quite frightening atmosphere. The acting isn't so good and the dialogue in one mercifully short early scene (where two characters meet before the funeral that sparks the plot off) borders on C-movie-style contrivedness, but overall it's an enjoyable flick with plenty of memorable sequences and a  sense of pace and enthusiasm last seen in The Evil Dead. "},{"Title":"Very odd, but very cool.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a successful director of kid's films, Don Coscarelli felt like moving into horror. But he was out of ideas so he shut himself in a mountain cabin for a few weeks and dreamt up Phantasm. God only knows what he was smoking or drinking in order to conjure up a story like this. I've been watching it for over six years, trying to get my head around it. But like the most complex of David Lynch films, there are still some parts of the puzzle that are too warped to fit.Mike and Jody Pearson are two brothers living in small town California. Their parents have recently died, leaving twenty-something Jody in charge of 13-year-old Mike. But Jody is restless and cannot stay cooped up in such a small town for long. Mike dreads that Jody will dump him with an aunt or uncle and disappear beyond the horizon.But that's the least of his worries for the moment. Jody's friend has mysteriously committed suicide and after his funeral Mike, hiding in the bushes, sees the undertaker, a sinister Tall Man, heave the coffin out of the ground all by himself and dump it back in the Hearse.Knowing something ain't quite right about all this, Mike investigates the funeral home and is attacked by hooded dwarfs, flying killer chrome spheres (inspired by one of Coscarelli's nightmares) and is chased by the Tall Man. He gets away but loses a shoe and hacks off some of the Tall Man's fingers for proof.It's not an ordinary finger, it oozes some kind of yellow puss (embalming fluid perhaps) and still pokes around on it's own. Convinced of supernatural interference, the brothers team up with their Ice Cream vendor pal Reggie to kick the Tall Man's head in. It ain't that easy I'm afraid and the film turns from weirdo horror into positively strange sci-fi as the trio discover more and more inexplicable activity going on at Morningside Cemetery.The film doesn't have many faults. But it is quite frustrating seeing the characters do no more than go to the cemetery and go home, then go to the cemetery and go home for, more or less, the entire running time. Don Coscarelli shot about 3 hours worth of footage and only ended up using half that. There are loads of fun scenes left out that, while not essential to the film's plot, could have kept things more balanced.The total 70s feel is a major plus though. Man, I wish I were a kid back then. The big hair, the flares, the cool cars, the loose women and the funky music are all part of this film. The hip 70s score is also incredibly funky and spooky at the same time. Once you start humming it there's no stop.It's also very different from the typical 70s horror formula. There are no masked killers, no women being chased through the woods and no slasher fodder characters. Mike, Jody and Reggie are bold and decisive and choose to fight instead of running and hiding. The setting of rural California is also a refreshing change from medieval castles, hick villages or haunted houses.Angus Scrimm, who plays the Tall Man, is no doubt the film's best asset. He hardly says a word but he OWNS every scene he's in. His physical presence and menace makes him a damn cool horror villain and he ought to be as iconic as Freddy or Jason.No matter what way you look at it, Phantasm never makes complete sense. You can turn it upside down, inside out and back-to-front and you might be able to work most of it out, but there will always be one thing that sticks out. Don Coscarelli claimed he wanted it to be open-ended and ambiguous as a way of not having to make any sequels. That tactic didn't work. "},{"Title":"Ummm...heh??  =8/","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Um, ok.  Well.  Ok, see, there's this tall guy from another dimension, see, and he steals dead bodies from their graves and squishes them down into tiny, black-robed killer dwarves, who sort of bustle about & attack people, but who really are carted off to a distant planet in another dimention where they are forced to work as slaves(kind of like Disneyland...).  Oh, and also, there's this shiny metal sphere that flies around and drills into people's heads & shoots out all their blood.  And, then tall guy(Angus Scrimm)dies, but he comes back all the time, but sometimes he's a blonde woman in lavender with too much blue eye shadow, and if his fingers get chopped off they spurt yellow goo and turn into large, plastic flies that have to get chummed in the garbage disposal(I do hope yer taking all this down...).  Rytalin-deprived Mikey, who can never just stay in his room, follows his brother Jody everywhere, even though he already died but can still sing cheesy 70's am-style guitar rock, and Mikey drives and works on a car and shoots guns, even though he's only 13, and he's just like the hero in Dune because he has to conquer his fear, according to the mute, all-powerful gypsy who makes black boxes appear and disappear at will. Mikey is upset because his father is dead, even though is casket is empty, and later it turns out that his father is really an ice cream man, who kind of dies, but then really doesn't, and he can sing cheesy 70's am guitar rock just like Jody, who really died in a car wreck & didn't really make the tall guy fall in a square hole & fill it up with styrofoam boulders.  Except, he did, after the tall guy got blown up in a car.  By Mikey.  In a dream.  Sort of.   They're coming to take me away, aren't they??? =8( "},{"Title":"This one is banned in Germany and I know for what STUPIDITY!!!","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is really not a good film. B minus maximum, but I think its more of a C film. The story and the actors are no good. Although the director seems to have seen Star Wars numerous times (or why the hell are the dwarves running around like monks for). Also this is banned in Germany (what for?) there is just a bit of blood and no gore. This really is an enormous piece of crap. One or two laughs though.To people interested in the story (SPOILERS AHEAD) This film is about a graveyard dude who crunches dead people to a height of 3 feet, revives them and then uses them as slaves in some sort of 'other galaxy'. Think that is a great story? Then rent this. (SPOILERS END)4 out of 10(Oh yes did I mention that the effects totally suck (from a 2001 point of view. For 1979 they were great, but as the film is bad, this really makes the film worse. In a good film bad effects do not matter that much.) "},{"Title":"clever, out-of-the-box horror filmmaking with some quixotic, bloody, harrowing elements","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm has a plot, and you can actually follow what the characters Mike and Jody, the brothers who go up against the Tall Man and his Jawa-esque minions, and their ice-cream buddy Reggie are going through. At the same time it's also an incredibly strange and surreal experience just due to what is not necessarily explained, objects like the metallic ball that flies through the air and can basically gush out blood from a man's head once attached between the eyes, or just what those little dwarfs are (we soon find out, but it's not made totally clear how the original versions of the dwarfs are made except... horror movie magic it would seem). And there's other elements involving how the Tall Man does things and finds his way to confront characters and so on. And lest not forget the revelations in the final act.But the joy of this movie is that this is made by someone who is just a real fan of horror Don Coscarelli, who was quite young when he made this movie (not unlike Sam Raimi with Evil Dead, which this feels like a spiritual cousin with in its ultra low-budget, gotta-be-creative-and-go-for-f***ing-broke cinematic grammar). I don't know what all of his influences are exactly (from IMDb trivia the title comes from Poe), and it feels drenched in the flavor of someone who isn't out to do something sleazy and only for the bucks, which was easy to do in the immediate post-Halloween time, but from Gothic horror literature and the more surreal visions of experimental filmmakers.Some of this may not make sense, and some of it may be rough around the edges (any woman here is basically not a good actor, and I'm not sure if it's due to the ultra-low-budget or that Coscarelli was better with Baldwin who plays the determined younger brother Mike), and yet psychologically, in the way it feels, it flows and is always cohesive. And some of it is pretty violent (I didn't know that it got rated X multiple times due to the aforementioned metal-ball-head scene), but it's all in the dark-morbid fun of a horror movie that's out to scare you and at the same time make this world of this Funeral Home-Cum-Temple that is drenched in inter-dimensional possibilities. Also like Raimi's early films, Coscarelli gets a buzz from showing things like severed fingers that turn into other objects and bleed colors that aren't blood.So not only is it terrifying (in certain spots, where certain effects haven't quite dated, which are only a few), it's an extremely funny movie - both extreme and funny in equal measure. You don't expect the laughs to come like they do, and it's not always from laughing at the excessive gore but genuinely creative dialog - it's also just downright amusing to see Jody and Reggie on the front porch playing guitar together, seemingly random but makes these guys immediately much tighter and recognizable as friends who've done this for years - and there's some honest to goodness stakes set up due to... well, what the hell this Tall Man can do to any people in the immediate vicinity!Featuring a star-making turn by Scrimm, music theme that gets repetitive but isn't too tiring, action that has some real spark and verve (I loved the chase scene at night, it's not complex but you feel the danger with all of the shotgun play), and when the filmmaker gets into hinting at the whole other world behind a particular door, all of the possibilities make it a much richer experience. This isn't the cynical sequel baiting we get today, as it works on its own as its own movie (even with a little of the 'huh' bit near the end with Mike), this is more like 'Wow, that was a lot of fun... is there another one going to be made?' "},{"Title":"I like most cult horror classics but not this one.","Date":"12 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm II is a better movie and that was pretty bad. Phantasm III is a better movie. And that was also very bad. Phantasm IV is a better movie and that was pretty bad as well. I can believe a movie the bad had cult few up. Most horror and scenes fiction movies with a cult few up a great films. But not this one. It has an awful story line. It also has an awful ending. Do not see this movie. The Halloween movie are better. The A nightmare on elm street movies are also better. The Alien movie are a lot better. An alien turn people into midget zombies. This movie it not scary. Plan 9 from outer space is scary. This could have been a lot better. It is a lot lower then 6.9. It is overrated do not see. I like most scenes fiction movies. I like most old scenes fiction movie I do not like this at all. "},{"Title":"More Than a Little Disappointing","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A young teenager by the name of Mike (Michael Baldwin) has recently experienced the death of both of his parents. Because of this traumatic event he is terribly afraid to lose his other brother named Jody (Bill Thornbury). As a result he begins to follow his older brother wherever he goes and that includes the funeral home where a friend of theirs was recently buried. In the process of spying on Jody he sees a strange looking man picking up the extremely heavy coffin and putting it inside a hearse all by himself. Following up on this he then discovers all kinds of weird things and eventually relates these events to his brother and a close friend named Reggie (Reggie Bannister). Without realizing the implications these three people decide to find out what is going on once and for all. Now rather than reveal any more of this movie and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this picture has a reputation for being a great horror film. However, after just watching it for the very first time I must say that I was more than a bit disappointed. For starters, I didn't think the horror was nearly as dramatic as I had hoped. Along with that I thought several of the scenes lacked the necessary development required for the overall plot. Some scenes just didn't make sense. In any case, having now watched this movie I must say that I was not at all impressed and have rated it accordingly. Below average. "},{"Title":"Best horror film ever","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For me it's the best horror film ever because it made me think a lot. Phantasm is unique because everyone who watches it can have his own different opinion of what is happening there. And no one is right or wrong. In my opinion in reality there is no The Tall Man. But there is just a local undertaker with a little bit strange appearance as we see him in the scene where he invites Jody and Reggie to the funeral or in the scene near Reggie's truck. But all his supernatural abilities, the dwarfs, the spheres are only in Mike's nightmares. And these nightmares are the reaction to the things that happened earlier(death of his parents) or are happening (Jody's probable departure) in the film. Mike is scared and depressed because of them in reality. And in his dreams The Tall Man comes with all his stuff as the quintessential symbol of all Mike's fears. And we can see that some things to which adults often don't pay much attention (fear of losing parents or close friends, for example) for children can be compared to the awful things that The Tall Man does in Mike's dreams. And the ending of the film speaks for itself. Until Jody was with Mike in reality The Tall Man was close but he could never catch him in his dreams. And once Mike knew Jody left (and left forever - he didn't go as Mike had feared, he was killed in the road accident) The Tall Man caught the boy and dragged him away. All in all Phantasm is a unique horror film. It has great music, unforgettable dreamlike atmosphere. And it has sense. "},{"Title":"You play a good game boy.","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A young boy and his friends face off against a mysterious grave robber known only as the Tall Man, who keeps a mysterious arsenal of terrible weapons with him. Mike, a young teenage boy who has just lost his parents, is afraid to lose his brother. This fear causes him to follow his brother to a funeral, where Mike witnesses the Tall Man lift a coffin on his own. Mike decides to investigate and discovers a horrible world where the Tall Man, along with his flying spheres, shrink to half their normal size and reanimate them as slaves. It is then up to Mike, his brother, and Reggie the ice cream man to stop the Tall man. Roger Ebert wrote I've got another classic to add to my collection of Great Moments in Bad Movies. Michael, the young hero of Phantasm, slams a door on the hand of a sinister figure that is chasing him. Then he slices off the fingers with a knife. The hand spurts bright yellow blood. The plucky youth takes one of the severed fingers home with him and sticks it in a little box. The next morning, the box bounces around because the finger is still alive. Michael explains this to his older brother, Jody, who doesn't believe him. So Jody ever-so-gingerly opens the box. Inside is a severed finger squirming in a pool of yellow blood. OK, says Jody, closing the box. That Jody has a gift of gab. The whole movie is atmospheric, scary and frightening and the ending is superb. The movie has a lot of great memorable quotes. Overall Phantasm is very original horror movie. "},{"Title":"Great low budget effort","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Great movie to watch, I saw it as a 15 year old way back in 1979, I had to see 2 more times. Obviously with low budget movies the viewer has to make allowances for inexperienced actors, but the story and the story telling is superb.The special effects are for its time very good. The key to this Horror is the uniqueness of the plot/story in that it is an Alien from another World who has been in America for well over a Hundred years operating a Mausoleum as a front for the preparation of the dead for slavery on his World.The video print of this film was atrocious, the DVD print better, I am hoping the Bluray version when released will do this film justice. "}{"Title":"surprising for a no-budget horror genre effort","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this curious gem on late night TV back in the early 1980s one night when there was nothing else interesting on the other channels. Note that this was before cable TV reached our area, so there were only the three major networks (ABC, CBS, and NBC) from which to choose. It was uneven in pace, very low budget, absolutely no movie stars to draw interest or even justify watching it. The production values were mediocre, the acting pretty corny, the story very thin. But, still, it had almost a hypnotic effect which locked us in place, just watching and watching without really thinking about it, and generally pretty bored, but not sufficiently motivated to change the channel. My son and I, who are avid movie buffs, normally would make comments throughout a movie, and normally have the ending plotted out well ahead of time. I remember us remarking that this was really an unbelievably lousy movie, all told. Still, we kept watching under its hypnosis and the lack of competing programs of interest on other channels.Then came the shockeroo, which woke us both up with a jolt. It occurs in Mike's outer space bedroom; however, this review will mention no further details, so as not to spoil the surprise for those who have yet to view this curious venture. It was one of those rare events in cinema that makes enduring a really lousy film totally worthwhile in contrast!Angus Scrimm, the actor who portrayed the pivotal character is this story, was strange looking and appropriately unearthly, which added to the story line. I liked the musical jam between Bill Thornberry and Reggie Bannister, which provided a bit of normalcy for a break from this otherwise weird, weird production. Reggie's ice cream truck was also a link to normalcy and brought a bit of lightness to the otherwise fairly heavy atmosphere of the plot. For the most part, the special effects are pretty corny, but they seem to fit right in somehow with the rest of the strangeness which is about all that this movie can offer. Although there were a few sequels to this original story, they were surely produced to milk easy profits from the cult which formed around this movie. But, only this first effort is worth your time or money. Watch it with the lights off and a house full of friends, to get the most enjoyment out of the experience. Don't expect very much, but follow the storyline as best you can. Like I said earlier, the event near but not exactly at the end of the movie justifies the nearly two hours of viewing to arrive at that point, but is well worth the wait! "},{"Title":"I've been sitting here since midnight","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Those looking for coherence might want to give this a miss, but anyone out for a good time should check Phantasm out. Just expect loads of questions and not many answers. Michael and Jody have recently lost their parents. Jody is thinking of heading out of town for good, but Michael's been a bit clingy to say the least. After their friend Tommy commits suicide (that's what they think, as we see Tommy being murdered at the start of the film), things start to turn weird. Michael sees the undertaker lift a coffin all by himself, there seems to be cloaked midgets running around everywhere, and Jody has a narrow escape from the mysterious woman who killed Tommy. Michael sets out for the funeral home to get to the bottom of what's happening, and that's when things truly get strange. He gets attacked by a flying sphere that sprouts blades and drills its way into the brain of one of the bad guys, but can he convince Jody of what's happening? Perhaps that still moving finger he chopped off the undertaker might do the trick&#x85; Phantasm is an extremely atmospheric film that doesn't skimp on the gore, and has an amped up weirdness factor that'll have you scratching your head by the end. What really helps the film is the main characters. The bond between Michael, Jody, and friend Reggie really stands out and makes you care for them as they are driven into an increasingly strange world (literally, at one point) in a film that's part horror and part sci-fi. Folks that like everything to be wrapped up nicely at the end are going to be let down, but for people looking for stand out horror from the seventies, this is quite a unique and inspired film. "},{"Title":"Nothing special, yet very special","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found this movie to be quite unique entry into the horror genre. In many ways it resembles the hundreds of horror movies that came after it, down to its story and overall plot elements, with a creepy cemetery where something strange is going on. The dialog is somewhat clumsy (Boy!, LOL) and the movie appeared to be really oddly cut leaving the feeling that you missed something. It is easy to see it as an average horror flick, but the movie is far from that.For my viewing experience these perceivable problems of the movie actually contributed heavily into creating a surreal feel, and the movie haunted me long after viewing, like a memory of a really creepy and weird dream. I also have to give the movie credit for the use of sound, as it played a big factor in creating this experience, with memorable soundtrack and the eerie voice of the Tall Man.So basically, the movie works as a whole and it makes its flaws work for its favor. If you like surreal horror movies, this is a must see! "},{"Title":"Phantasm If This One Doesn't Scare You, You're Already Dead","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A flying silver sphere that latches onto victims' heads and drills into their skull. Monstrous hooded dwarfs that attack in darkness. A beautiful lady in a lavender dress equipped with a knife. A scowling, menacing middle-aged man that towers over you. These are all classic elements of Don Coscarelli's highly bizarre but wildly creepy 1979 horror film Phantasm. I just recently revisited the movie after a long time, and was easily reminded of how undeniably scary it is.13-year-old Michael Pearson spies on his brother Jody and his best friend Reggie, an ice cream vendor, as they lay their friend Tommy to rest in Morningside Cemetery after he supposedly committed suicide. But Mike sees too much when he catches a glimpse of a tall man in a black suit picking up Tommy's coffin with intimidating super-strength, throwing it in his hearse, and driving away. When things take a turn for the worse, Jody unfortunately doesn't believe his brother. Until he and Reggie become involved in this puzzling and dangerous game of where reality is broken and the dream becomes real. And The Tall Man has insidious plans for our three protagonists.Phantasm is truly a product of its time, a horror flick that was released in the wake of Halloween, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and others. Director Coscarelli found the inspiration to scare the audience in his dreams and his previous drama Kenny and Company. And he manages to scare us immensely by employing a strange and dread-filled atmosphere with surreal and dream-like imagery. Right from the opening sequence, Coscarelli establishes a bleak environment.The film has some goofy effects by today's standards and some bad acting, but deep within its cheesy but inventive execution lies a fear that hits home for all of us fear of dying. Most of us believe in Heaven or Hell. Others believe that when we die, we are nothing. Phantasm comes up with something different, a fate far worse than death. Not much of the movie makes sense, but is it supposed to? Perhaps not. And once the film ends, we are left with food for thought. Is there really a Heaven or Hell? Does The Tall Man represent the Grim Reaper or the Devil? Those who haven't seen Phantasm would laugh at such remarks, but once you watch it, you realize that Coscarelli, who not only directed the movie but also wrote and edited it, focuses on something we can be genuinely afraid of.The Tall Man is easily one of the scariest bogeymen in horror cinema. With only five lines, he is able to effortlessly freak us out through his body language and facial expressions. He almost doesn't have to say anything to scare you.Although the three main characters are mostly well-developed, they are all hammed up by C-grade actors. Sometimes, their delivery of the dialog can even be a little funny. But the performances are forgiven thanks to likable, nicely structured people. Kathy Lester's Lady in Lavender is seductive and creepy enough (even though we all know by now that those are not her real boobs). But the best acting job here goes to Angus Scrimm as The Tall Man. A man Coscarelli had previously worked with, Scrimm fits the role like a glove and does most of his own stunt work. His appearance is unforgettable, and he has made The Tall Man what he is today one scary-as-hell villain.Music is always a trait that could make or break any horror movie, and Fred Myrow and Malcolm Seagrave's combination of cymbals, guitars, and simplistic tunes holds up as one of the best horror movie orchestrations to date. It serves the movie well and adds a whole new layer to the already existent horror.Phantasm may not be perfectly made, but a flawlessly characterized antagonist, eerie camera-work, surrealism, a bang-up finale and its ability to stand on its own cause it to remain a cult classic. It cannot be classified into a certain subgenre of horror, which may be the main reason why it works so damn well. And who could miss out on a movie with such a knockout tagline on its poster? If this one doesn't scare you, you're already dead! "},{"Title":"A 80's horror that won't die for a long time yet","Date":"2 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the better eighties movies, it's story original as hell, if intriguing, as is it's slogan, on it's cover which had me as a teenager, pondering what it meant exactly. The Never Dead is one of those better 80's horrors, one of those well put together flicks, despite some cheesy moments, slipping in, hey that made the eighties what they were. The setting takes place around a mortuary, where at the start, a beloved young friend is taken by a demon force, the wrong girl, he happened to have sex with. At least he died doing something he loved, having intercourse and groping titties. Two things. As being part of a rock trio, one of his friends does his own investigating, while baby brother, who likes to ride his bike anywhere-including funeral grounds, follows him in the shadows. The usual stereotypical brotherly love angle Big brother doesn't want little brother to get hurt. Afterall, parentless, all they have is each other. What has got the boy spooked is this tall man (caretaker of the cemetery) where the kid is witness to him partaking in some strange happenings. When he sneaks into the mausoleum, he's confronted by this killer brass ball, he has some close calls with, another guy not so lucky, in a small nifty horror treat of some blood gushing violence, which doesn't run excessive in this well put together film, of more story. Another interesting story touch I liked was the boy confiding in an old woman fortune teller and her daughter who he knows well, worried big brother's gonna leave him. This added more spook to the horror. As for the acting, it's passable, most of them around the 53 percent mark, though none of them should hold out for an Oscar nomination, although Angus Scrimm as the caretaker, rocked, who will forever haunt me. Known also as Phantasm (The Never Dead sounds better) if trawling through a lot of unseen horrors of (here we again the eighties-they were just great times for me, okay) include this in his gathering. You will be impressed, while also, some of you may never look the same way at a brass ball again. "},{"Title":"A World We Know Nothing About PHANTASM","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don Coscarelli's PHANTASM is one of those films that stick with you, in this tale of the unknown. It feels as if we are sliding down a water slide of unreality's. This film has atmospheric score of the unimaginable. Phantasm delivers us an onslaught of a very lonely world where we see a family that has been dealing with their parents death.Then we set our sights upon the TALL MAN we know nothing of this character except for the fact that he is very strong and conniving, he seems to be a reflection of the so called Grimm Reaper, but not from this planet, he uses the dead for his own purposes, and to this day we don't know why, he seems to have super powers that are to the most extreme.Phantasm gives us a glimpse of a reality we are unsure of, even when we have it all figured out, the ending still leaves us questioning our logic. This film is a cult classic for a reason. My point being is the fact that it makes us feel alone, the characters are believable, and the score is haunting. This film makes me feel unsure of my surroundings every time I watch it, of what is real and what is not real.I enjoy this film every time I put it in my DVD player and never get tired of it. Phantasm seems to be timeless, even though some of the effects look cheap in certain points of the film, but overall I highly recommend this film to any fan of sci-fi or of the horror genre.PHANTASM is a masterpiece of scifi-horror, and deserves every star that I gave it, 9/10 for me. "},{"Title":"The greatest  movie ever made!","Date":"9 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a huge Phan of the series. Phantasm is my favorite movie out of the series. It has great and terrific performances. Angus Scrimm as The Tall Man. Reggie Banister as Reggie. Michael Baldwin as Mike and a bunch of other great actors and performances. Angus Scrimm gives a perfect and very scary performance as The Tall Man. Reggie Banister gives a heroic and very likable performance. Michael Baldwin gives a good and heroic performance. The movie is scary and frightening. The ending is very good and very scary. There are Silver Spheres,and Dwarfs. The music is spooky and fits the movie perfectly. The movie has also very memorable quotes. Phantasm is very original. It is smart and very well made. This is perfect movie. The movie is incredible. "},{"Title":"Phantasm is Terrific!","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie scared the hell out of me the first time I watched it. Phantasm also still holds up in the Horror Genre still to this day. I am very proud to say the special features on the disc were equally amazing. This film is definitely worth a watch or two... or three. The film has everything a horror movie should have. For an example Scares, Laughs, a great pacing, a phantastic score, and some action and gore! This movie definitely represents the 70's horror genre at its best. Unfortunately the sequels are terrible, and never seem to wrap the story up. One thing I have never understood though was, who was the tall man, and why was he doing what he was doing? Is it another dimension? Was it all imaginary? Was it planetary? What the heck is going on? Never the less, this movie is amazing! "},{"Title":"Not many films are as unique as this one","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Say what you like about Phantasm but you cannot say that it isn't a very original entry in the horror genre. There are so many disparate ideas woven into the narrative of this film that it's entirely understandable that this is now considered a cult movie. What have we got? Well, there's a super-strong, ominous tall undertaker who works at a funeral home. There are dwarfs with yellow blood. We encounter fingers that turn into giant bugs. There's a mysterious femme fatale who lures men into graveyards to kill them in the middle of sex. There are aliens from a far off world with heavy gravity. There's a deadly flying orb that impales itself into victims craniums. There's a strange mystic old granny in shades. There's a guitar playing ice cream man with a bald head / pony-tail combo. There's a young boy with an even worse haircut. Yeah&#x85; It's a movie completely out of synch with the trends of its day. Or any day since come to think of it. It's equally silly and inspired. There's not really a lot more you can say. Such originality in a movie is rare; Phantasm should be given credit for being so insanely different to everything else. "},{"Title":"Unpredictable and under-rated cult classic suspense movie.","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you want your suspense/horror movies to be by the numbers and have everything neatly explained, you might not appreciate this film as much as I did. It really keeps you on the edge of your seat from beginning to end and there are some laughs along the way as well! If you get a chance to see this on a large movie screen, I strongly recommend it. I do not believe they play it in too many places any more except at horror film festivals. My rating for this movie at the theater improves to 9 because the larger screen is better for the many suspense scenes and especially the silver sphere scenes. You also get the reactions of the other viewers and that made it special the first time I viewed it. It was shown as a double feature with Attack of the Killer Tomatoes. Those were the days! Thankfully with the large flat screen TV's, it makes for better home viewing on DVD than back in the 80's and 90's.Director Don Coscarelli has a great knack for timing throughout this movie. He throws a lot at you, too. Some of it seems to make sense and some does not. That is what makes it so special. Angus Scrimm as a tall sinister funeral director is fantastic. Reggie Bannister adds great comic relief as an ice cream truck salesman. He has some of the funniest dialog in the movie. If you are the type that think there should be zero humor in a suspense movie, downgrade this to a 7, but I disagree.The main protagonist is a thirteen year old child named Jody played by Michael Baldwin and he does a great job. His older brother is always trying to keep him out of mischief and the scenes between them are great.Finally, there are supernatural and special effects features that are fascinating and well done considering it was 1979. They enhance the plot rather than overwhelm it.The music soundtrack is excellent and appropriately spooky, too! "}{"Title":"No warning shots; warning shots are bullsh*t A+","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the strangest movies I've ever seen, that's for sure; A mix of horror, fantasy and even doses of science-fiction. I've read reviews comparing this film to David Lynch's Mulholland Drive and I suppose to a degree that comparison is feasible. Directed (as well as written and produced) by Don Coscarelli, the film is a triumph on many levels, one of them being its originality. Secondly, it's a superbly written story. It starts off as a seemingly by-the-book horror film, and then it begins to take on a mystery tone right before delving into something much odder and more esoteric than you expected you were in for. There are many chilling yet awesome visuals thru out, adding to the eeriness of it all.Another big plus is a very well acted cast. Michael Baldwin is just plain awesome and Bill Thornburg is great as well. Reggie Banister is also damn good, everyone creating very human characters and making the story that much more potent. Angus Scrimm is priceless as the Tall Man most definitely. One of its greatest aspects is its score by Fred Myrow and Malcolm Seagrave. It really adds to the dream-like aura of the film. I recommend viewing it more than once to really make it sink in, but let it be known this is one of my all time favorites. "},{"Title":"Weird, But Creepy Horror Flick!","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A. Michael Baldwin, Bill Thornbury, Reggie Bannister and Angus Scrimm star in this 1979 horror film. After his older brother, Tommy (Bill Cone) mysteriously dies at a cemetery, Mike (Baldwin) decides to investigate. He discovers that an evil mortician (Scrimm) is a grave robber who enslaves dead people turning them into evil dwarfs and transports them to a mysterious netherworld. He also has deadly flying spheres to attack. Mike warns his other brother, Jody (Thornbury) and ice cream man pal, Reggie (Bannister) about what's going on and convinces them to help him stop him. Soon, Mike wonders if it's all real or just a nightmare. This is a weird, but creepy horror flick with a decent cast & eerie score I recommend. "},{"Title":"BOYYYYY! This Movie is Great.","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When writer/director/producer/editor Don Coscarelli made a little film by the name of Phantasm in the late '70s, little did he realize that he was creating a cult-classic, let alone one that would spawn a series which would endure for multiple decades. Somehow, with a minimal budget of $300,000, Coscarelli managed to make the wildly imaginative film stand out from other films at the time while at the same time holding up over the years. The film is a true testament to the power of independent horror films and what happens when a creative mind is allowed to run free. Studio executives who don't know how to bank on anything other than remakes and sequels should really watch the film and take notes.Mike and his older brother Jody are left to fend for themselves in the wake of their parents' passing, which puts a particular strain on Mike who has a nagging fear of separation. His instincts are correct, as Jody plans on sending him away to live with his aunt so he can perhaps have more time to play guitar on his porch with the local ice cream man, Reggie. Such fears are cast aside quickly, however, when it is discovered that the mysterious Tall Man at the local cemetery is repurposing dead bodies as dwarf slaves in an effort to take over the world. Huh? You may say. Huh? is right.While it certainly isn't a film for everyone, Phantasm gets by with enough bizarre visuals, jarring violence and broad concepts to reel in even the most cynical of horror fans. It also helps that the film is packed with lovable characters brought to life by charming actors. Michael Baldwin (of no relation to 30 Rock's Alec Baldwin) plays the young Mike Pearson, while Reggie Bannister (who could pass as a doppelganger for 30 Rock's Scott Adsit) plays Reggie the ice cream man. Likewise, Bill Thornbury (Sorry, 30 Rock reference not found, please try again later) brings big brother Jody to life with a likable quality that almost makes you forget you're watching characters in a movie. Then of course there's the great Angus Scrimm as the Tall Man. This single bit of casting almost serves as the linchpin of the whole film. Scrimm's stage presence combined with his uber-creepy vibe is a big part of what makes Phantasm work.Like something straight out of a dream journal, Phantasm is completely out of this world and off-the-wall. Despite its lofty ambitions, the film works. Not only is it as creepy as anything you'll see, it's also gruesome and genuinely tense. This is of course balanced well with its characters who you will certainly want to follow in the adventures of the next three films (here's hoping for a Phantasm V while everyone's still young). It's a film that works on multiple levels and as time goes on, it seems to be holding up even better than before. Phantasm isn't a nightmare so much as it is a dream come true. "},{"Title":"A young boy is plagued by the nightmarish presence of the mysterious Tall Man after the death of one of his brothers","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When you want to name the most memorable classic 70's horror films your first mentions are most likely Halloween, The Exorcist, Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Dawn of the Dead; so notorious have these films become since their release.What isn't so often named are the intended classics that weren't as gruesome or shocking but are classed as B-Movies nonetheless. Phantasm is one such classic that was neither recognised by the mainstream nor accepted as a B-Movie because it was simply too well made to really be loved as a cheap and tacky horror.Young director Don Coscarelli directed this family affair of a small but well made and enjoyable horror aimed at the ghosts and ghouls genre made so memorable by the Hammer House Of Horror label in the 60's, this time based in leafy green small town America.Mikey is just a lonely kid with no other boys to play with. Saddened by the loss of his parents, he lives with his older brother Jody, who is conflicted by his need to leave town and find his own peace. So Mikey spends his time drifting around town, following his young curiosity wherever it leads him.When one of his older brothers is found dead, he comes across the ancient and undead looking mortician after the funeral and witnesses something he shouldn't. As Jody and his friend Reggie go about their lives, Mikey finds his curiosity getting the better of him again and finds himself not only pursued by The Tall Man, but by the creatures of the night under his very command. It isn't long before Jody and Reggie are drawn into the strange goings on and discover that the whole town is in danger of becoming premature residents of the local mausoleum.What works so well in this film is what I call the Goonies Factor! The typical childhood adventure in quiet and what most city dwellers would call idyllic small town America, fraught with danger and all the inventive ways kids will create to get out of trouble. It's all here. Mikey's got his own motorbike already, his brother's a loner musician who drives a black Plymouth Hemi-Cuda. Then Reggie's a guitarist/ice cream man whose reaction to everything is either absurdly dim or just comical. You can't not like or even love the characters.The Tall Man, played by Angus Scrimm who became a legend for this role although he's a well respected classical actor, is one of the freakiest horror film villains to never need a mask of any sort. Referring to Hammer Horror again, he has that unique charm and gift for character acting the same Christopher Lee has. It's refreshing even now to see an American film pull off an English formula successfully and few horrors have followed in Phantasm's success as a perfect all round horror. hell, not even the sequels until number four pulled that off.Fred Myrow created an amazing theme tune for Phantasm that resonated chimes of Mike Oldfield's Tubular Bells and gave the film more of an anthem than just a theme. The music's success alone went on to influence others such as John Carpenter and even death metal outfit Entombed recreated it as a song of their own titled The Left Hand Path.Other than the typical achievements of the film's production such as first time actors being able to act, the film counted on good old fashioned special effects tricks you can laugh at and then some that seemed revolutionary such as the flying silver spheres that drill holes in your skull and blend your brains and squirt them out all over the floor.If you want a classic horror film night for Halloween or just a regular Saturday night at home, get this and settle down for one of the more enjoyable rather than disturbing horrors! "},{"Title":"Pretty scare","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Written, directed, photographed, produced and edited by Don Coscarelli, this doesn't make much sense but it's still a great bit of fun to watch with the lights turned out. This kid named Mike convinces his older brother Jody that there is something weird going on at the local cemetery. So he and Jody break into the old mausoleum and find out that it's actually some kind of factory where people are killer by a flying metal ball, crushed down to a height of about 3'2, dressed up like little monks and packaged up into round metal garbage cans and shipped off for use as slave labour in some other dimension. A dimension ruled and resided over by the mortician (known throughout the entire ordeal as just simply The Tall Man) working at this cemetery. Then The Tall Man kills another friend of theirs, and they decide to put and end to him, or at least try to.This movie has many different layered meanings, over the years some people have said that it's a reference to corporate America coming in (in the form of The Tall Man) and killing off everyone (by turning everything into a 'business') and some have said that this movie is also about a kid's loss of innocence and fears about everyone around him leaving (or in this case dying) Whatever the hell this movie is about it's still great fun followed by a couple of really disappointing (and belated) sequels.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A Low Budget Winner","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this movie on HBO back in 1980 and was taken in by its imaginative story line. I saw that it was going to be on TV again on Holloween in 1984 and rediscovered it. Watched in awe at the creepiness of the Tall Man.Michael is your typical teenager who wants to explore the strange going ons at the towns mortuary after he witnesses a 600 pound casket being lifted up by one man. His older brother does not believe him at first but eventually comes around. Along with a good friend who drives an ice cream truck they discover the mortuary has a more sinister purpose. It is taking the dead and reanimating them. Then using a portal to another dimension making them slaves.There are many scenes that gave me the chills and that is what a horror film is suppose to do. It is low budget but the film team does a lot with a little.I must admit seeing and hearing the Barricuda made me want to own one.The film moves along at a good pace and never bogs down. It has been said the music will make a scene even more intense and the music in this film has that effect. The ending caught me totally off guard and I loved it.There is a few missteps in editing but that can be forgiven as the movie has become one of my must see films every Holloween. "},{"Title":"Phantasm","Date":"14 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm has it all when it comes to a good old fashioned horror film. It has great core actors with great dialogue and acting. The scenes can get laughable to some but I find every minute entertaining. The music is uplifting but also depressing at the same time which can really swing a mood. The Tall Man is an underrated creepy horror villain that is the perfect antagonist to Mike, Jody and Reggie. All the characters are fabulous that bring their own flavor. The atmosphere is solid and the pacing is done nicely. The sequences can get confusing at times but remember what Phantasm is an allusion of a disordered mind. Look for Phantasm on the shelf or online because this is a fantastic movie that is a definite horror classic. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the genre","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After his brother's disappearance, a young kid teams with his best friend to find out what happened and learns of a strange cemetery worker controlling beings from another dimension helping him recruit dead bodies into an army to take over the world.One of the most unjustly-overlooked classics in the genre, this is one of the best Horror films in the genre. Most of this is due to the film centering on one of the most original, engaging and thrilling villains ever, as the Tall Man here is creepy, unique and wholly intimidating figure that makes some of the most banal scenes, like the casket-removal after the funeral or most of the chasing scenes in the second-half, utterly interesting and fascinating as well building up a pretty good mystery about his true origin. Coupled together with a fascinating mythology about the otherworldly beings, truly enjoyable action scenes as the minions try to overcome the group in everything from car chases to assaults on hideouts and much more, which is really well-explored here and it all manages to make for some rather interesting and enjoyable scenes. Of course, the most famous aspect of this is the fatal Flying Silver Spheres, as nasty a weapon ever devised for cinema and providing enough awe and terror, as well as bloodshed, to make this a winning entry just by themselves. Aside from the action, the dream-like nature of it all when it plays out is just captivating and really makes these scenes all the more thrilling, as it seems to play like the events are in a dream-reality due to the freaky occurrences of what's going on, yet the fact that they're not is just really fun and enjoyable which tends to make them all the better. While the low-budget may hamper some night-time scenes and make it too dark or impossible-to-make-out, this is still one of the best horror films out there.Rated R Graphic Violence, Adult Language, Nudity and a sex scene "},{"Title":"Boyyyyyy!","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am fascinated and frightened by the American way of death...how a corpse is spirited away by the mortician to some place we are not allowed to go, refabricated by the embalmer, and grandly interred. I knew the subject would make a great horror movie. - Don Coscarelli Directed, written (in an isolated mountain cabin in an intense three weeks), photographed and edited on a modest $300,000 budget by Don Coscarelli, who was only 24 at the time, and starring Michael Baldwin, Bill Thornbury, Reggie Bannister, and Angus Scrimm, Phantasm ranks high on my list of camp classic horror films.Jody Pearson (Thornbury) is 24 and doing his best to raise his 13-year-old brother Mike (Baldwin) in their small hometown after the deaths of their parents. As a result, Mike exhibits separation anxiety issues, and follows his older brother practically everywhere he goes, including a funeral. After the funeral Mike sees the mortician, a creepy-looking old tall man (Scrimm) easily pick up the coffin under one arm and steal it, including its contents.This of course triggers his already active curiosity, and along with his brother and their ice-cream vendor and musician friend Reggie (Bannister) he becomes involved in trying to stop the Tall Man, who in addition to his superhuman strength shows a talent for flinging whizzing lethal silver spiked spheres at people's heads. The Tall Man ploddingly pursues Mike while darkly calling out to him, BOYYYY! (the most-quoted line in the film, and with good reason).The bodies pile up (and disappear) as the Tall Man reanimates them to be dwarf slaves in some alternate world...still with me? As ridiculous as this all sounds (and is), combined with the great soundtrack, sometimes unintentionally hilarious dialogue and visuals, and bizarre scenes that don't have any relevance whatsoever to the already convoluted storyline (such as Reggie suddenly whipping out his guitar for an impromptu jam with Jody), and some truly campy and gory special effects (the film was originally rated X for the sphere scenes), it somehow all works, because all this and more make Phantasm a prime example of the Camp Horror Classic genre. If you enjoy this genre and have never seen this film, you're in for a treat! "},{"Title":"still effective","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've always enjoyed this on the rare occasion I get to watch it, mainly because just about every scene is meaningful and freaky as well, for lack of a better word. Let's face it, the real star of Phantasm is Angus Scrimm's Tall Man, and he's practically great in every scene he's in. The mortuary is quite the atmospheric relic and has a mighty presence during most of the film; the opening music(long horn)is quite creepy as well. The acting was as wooden as ever, especially by Bill Thornbury, but it was still fun and campy; Mike and Reggie the ice cream man were decent enough and were to root for, especially Reggie. There's no need to get into the plot, but this film doesn't take itself too seriously, but it became a cult hit and spawned many(probably bad)sequels. As it turns out, the whole film just ends up as Michael's bad dream, but as were left mulling that over, the Tall Man actually does appear at the end, as Michael is pulled through the mirror as the film quickly ends. I would recommend Phantasm, and inform those interested to take off their thinking caps and enjoy the ride. "}{"Title":"A Creepy Little Dream... Or Is It?","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every decade or so, the horror genre gets re-defined by an iconic movie. In the 30s, it was Universal with their classics. In the 50s, it was giant animals and atomic-age monsters. In 1960, it was PSYCHO. In 1968, it was NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD. in the 70s, audiences witnessed the rise of wild and unhinged directors with equally unhinged movies Texas Chainsaw Massacre, HALLOWEEN, DAWN OF THE DEAD, SUSPIRIA and ZOMBIE all terrorized audiences in their own ways. Near the end of the 70s, along came this little movie made on a shoestring budget about two brothers dealing with a mysterious mortuary. At the very beginning of the movie, we're given what appears to be a gratuitous sex scene. But at the end of it, we realize something more sinister is going on. From that point on, anything could happen, and a lot does. The plot makes virtually no sense (as other critics have noted) and that's kind of the point. Just look at the title PHANTASM means dream or nightmare. And the best way to view this movie is through the logic of a nightmare. Sure it makes sense while you're asleep. But upon waking up, it seems absurd. The appearance of the Tall Man is a truly unsettling moment, as are numerous others. The most famous of which involves a flying silver ball. Imagination brims all over the place, which is one of the benefits of a small independent production It dares to risk trying new things. Watch this movie and be prepared for a thrill ride through a nightmare world! "},{"Title":"A Cult Favorite","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not much can be said about Phantasm to encourage a person who hasn't seen it to search out a copy and give it a watch. Phantasm is simply one of those movies you either love or hate, and there's no other opinion of it. People who respect 1970's horror flicks and b-movies typically respect Phantasm and what it has to offer, but people unfamiliar with the genre or can't appreciate films before their time will not understand the appeal behind the film.Phantasm isn't a movie that can be summed up in a simple plot synopsis. The story leaves the viewer with more questions than answers, and it flows almost like the typical nightmare would. It starts off as a fairly normal film, but unravels into one of the most obscure American horror films. Questions are given but aren't answered, new side plots are started but aren't ended, the movies lacks continuity, and the atmosphere is surreal. Before the movie ends, the viewer will give up any and all hope of following the story. Many will be frustrated by this, but others will appreciate the dream-like quality and nightmarish atmosphere that movies like this should strive for. It's almost as if the movie is trying to imitate an Italian film from Dario Argento or Lucio Fulci.The atmosphere of the film is put out by the qualities that blend together like the spices in a Mexican burrito. The music is haunting, unique, and catchy. The visuals, the pace, the scares, and the location are all unique in their own right. Even though we've seen all of these in other films, none were ever presented in this fashion. The scares in Phantasm are driven by visuals, as the visuals are enough to be unsettling. The film is loaded with your typical jump scares, but these come off as more effective since you can almost see them coming in advance.The small town location has been attempted many times, but in Phantasm it's done extremely well as the town appears deserted throughout the film. There are never extras filling the sidewalks, cars driving by, or even a bird chirping in the background. It's this quietness that separates the quality of the first Phantasm from its sequels. Sure, the score may be turned up all the way, there might be gunfights, and there might even be a gore scene or two, but it never feels like an over-the-top action movie. This is where the sequels missed the mark, and it's almost disappointing. Of course the sequels had remarkably higher budgets than Phantasm 1, giving Phantasm 1 the grainy, quiet look of most low budget movies of the time.Of course no one can forget the Tall Man. One of the most unique villains portrayed by Angus Scrimm perfectly. Once again, the Tall Man is a quiet character. He never runs, he never kills anyone on screen, but you still understand that he's a dangerous character. This doesn't mean that the movie is lacking in action. Everyone remembers the famous flying sphere sequence that almost earned Phantasm an X-rating.The negatives of the film come with the positives. A surreal, nightmarish story will confuse a lot of viewers, leaving them dissatisfied with the film. Phantasm was also made with a low budget, implying the amateurish look and feel that can sometimes glares through the talent. Phantasm is one of those films that you have to decide for yourself if you will like it or not. If you think you'll like it, then you probably will. If you aren't too sure, then you probably won't care for it that much.Phantasm stands as a landmark b-movie from the 1970s. It started one of the most popular cult franchises of all time, as well as holding onto its own status as a cult favorite. It's Director Don Coscareli's best film, although Bubba-Ho-Tep gives it a run for its money.I recommend searching out the film and buying a copy for yourself. If you're interesting in films like the Beyond, Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1973), or Halloween (1978) then you might enjoy it. Phantasm is a unique movie that demands multiple viewings. Fans of 1970's cult horror classics should enjoy it, but fans of newer horror films and people who prefer a solid story may not see the appeal. "},{"Title":"A rare film","Date":"18 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm, quite possibly the most original horror flicks known to man or at least The Tall Man. Don Coscarelli who wrote, directed, over saw editing, and also produced these films is one of the most influential directors to others mainly because of his surreal quality that binds these films together in a continuing series. Each one different from one another yet somehow works in a cohesion that causes the characters to wander town to town to find the Tall Man. And upon finding him they realize that their efforts are completely useless, because of the fact the Tall Man knows how it is going to end. Only he has seen every outcome that the Dimensional Forks can provide, which is why Mike, Jody, Even Reggie has absolutely no stake in. To be pawns in a game that Only the Tall Man initiated, and to be the only one left standing so to speak. Yet every character has a part to play, trying to fight or stop the Tall Man from accomplishing his goal of dominating the known Dimensions. Still to see the fight was wonderful, especially seeing those incredible flying Spheres that can slice, dice and julienne at the same time. The creator of this Sphere is also the Tall Man using brain tissue from dwarfed human beings after they are dead, only to become slaves for off world colonization. The effects in these films were quite staggering, and in 1979 those Spheres were the eye candy of audiences all over the world making these films the most original ever created. No other film has come close albeit one other called Hell raiser. But that film used puzzle cubes to bring the user to another dimension for final judgement. Those films are in a class all by themselves, but well worth the watch. Yet for Phantasm, the films will remain as the most mysterious because of how dreams and reality can collide in such a way, that the characters don't know if they are asleep or awake. Possibly a side effect from the Dimensional Forks the Tall Man created himself. Excellent genre, I recommend anyone to see these films, I hope more are in the works, because no one can replace the Tall Man,... BOYYYYYYY! "},{"Title":"30 years later and still rockin'","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, I saw this movie in 1979. I was 13 at the time, just like Mike in the movie. Well, I liked it a lot. I found it superb, flawless, scary, and I could go on and on. But I was 13 years old. I never saw Phantasm again, not even a segment on TV, never. Today, 30 years later, I watched it again with my wife. Scared? Sure I was scared. Scared to discover that the perfect movie that I still remembered from my skate and moped days was - in reality - a very mediocre film, with low budget, bad acting and embarrassing special effects. I was wrong. Definitely wrong. I liked it again, and this time I appreciated things that I couldn't notice when I first saw it, like the ingenious use of light, cut scenes and flashbacks (or forward?). The acting is not superb, but it doesn't matter. Effects are a little too-low budget, but again it doesn't matter. What's really important is the atmosphere that Coscarelli creates, full of dark forebodings yet very normal. Fantastic. It was a pleasure to hear the first notes of its Carpenterish score, and to see the Tall Man again. As the movie went on, I remembered every scene, it was just like tasting a cake little by little.They don't make movies like this anymore. My advice? Highly recommendable!!! "},{"Title":"A fantastically original horror film","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This really is one of the most original horror films out there, possessing a great story some truly memorable characters and a dreamlike, ethereal feel to it that really draws you in.First of, the setting of a mausoleum/funeral parlour adds a lot to the chilling feel of this film, with shoes squeaking on marble floors adding to the tension. Secondly, the haunting synthesiser score adds a good deal to the tension in much the same way that John Carpenters excellent scores did to his works. On top of all this, Reggie Bannister (as himself) is one of the great 'anti-heros' in modern horror - up there with Bruce Campbell in the 'Evil Dead' films. As for 'The Tall man', the eponymous villain of the film well, what can be said that hasn't been said before? A classic horror film villain with many a trick up his sleeve.When I first watched this film I did not pick up on the subtle (and downright confusing) ending and therefore came away with the strong feeling that I had missed something, a feeling which somewhat spoiled the enjoyment of the film. Thanks to a repeat viewing and a bit of scrutiny of the message boards on this site I feel that I now understand the 'dream' part of the ending and must conclude that this really is a rare gem of a film, entertaining enough for cheap scare fans, gory enough for gore hounds and intriguing enough for those who like deeper meanings in their films. In short a classic of the horror genre in its own right - highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Crazy drug-addict B-shlock horror classic mania.","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a much-revered horror classic, and it's easy to see why. It's supernatural, it's edgy and it's also very dark and grainy, both in picture quality and mood! What they don't tell you is how this movie basically comes off as a long, elaborate crack fantasy, filled with bright lights, magic and...well, yellow mustard blood. But it is pretty creepy at times, with decent performances from all the actors for their respective genre and some very good atmospheric moments, like pretty much every time you see the Tall Man.And speaking of Angus Scrimm, he is damned creepy here. Seriously, you would be running and screaming too if you saw this guy running after you. That's right, running. He puts the typical laughable horror stereotype of walking serial killers catching their sprinting victims down with ease. Great performance.Phantasm doesn't make much sense, and it is pretty thin at times in terms of plot, but it is a fun watch, and essential if you're a B-horror fan. Get this one this Halloween, and make sure to keep the lights on... "},{"Title":"Horror had its heyday...","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The '70s were a great time to be a fright film fan. The entire decade was chock full of notable nightmares- from THE HOUSE OF DARK SHADOWS (based on the television series that most of us ran home from school every weekday to watch) to BLACULA (the trailer, seen late one night on television, showed the female cabbie, fangs bared, come screaming down the hall toward the camera- and the viewer- in slow motion; my brother and I were startled by someone walking into the room and literally jumped into each other's arms; in a manly but frightened kind of way) to THE EXORCIST (which kept me and my brother wide awake the entire night after we saw it) to... Well, suffice it to say that it was a great decade. Toward the end of the '70s, we saw some truly outstanding low budget masterpieces hit the big screen there was HALLOWEEN (which had me checking behind doors when I got home, the night I saw it), DAWN OF THE DEAD (which I saw while suffering from pneumonia, and which literally made me hallucinate)... and PHANTASM. If there was one thing that made PHANTASM such a standout, it was the sheer imagination of the filmmaker. Like EQUINOX back in 1971, PHANTASM dealt (albeit much differently) with another dimension and the horrors therefrom. Despite its obvious low budget, PHANTASM was endlessly inventive- and no one who saw the ominous flying spheres would soon forget them. Along with HALLOWEEN and DAWN OF THE DEAD, PHANTASM helped make the late '70s a great time to be a fright film fan. There are movies that endure simply because they're great fun. Add PHANTASM to that list. "},{"Title":"The Music sets the 70's mood...","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What an incredible feat for a few kids right out of high school. Don C. was just 20 years old when he wrote and directed this rivalry to other cult horror greats in the late 70's. For those who lived and waited for the possibility that the Soviet Union would be confused in some sort of war game and drop the  on us, these movies did just as Stephen King said in Danse Macabre. It performed catharsis in us at the time that we needed it. The layering of sublime funeral music was so sweeping that it became, in my opinion a fundamental aspect of the film. I went to one filming location of this film, Julian California, and was always surprised to find some of the plank boardwalks the Tallman walks on still there...lets not forget the incredible '70 Cuda eh!!I hope you enjoy the film... "},{"Title":"Premier 70's Horror","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The premise of this movie surrounds the strange occurrences that Mike, a young man, starts to witness at a local mortuary. As Mike comes closer to discovering the truth about the goings-on at the Morningside Mortuary, his life is suddenly thrust into a nightmarish sequences of horrific events.This film is full of genuine scares, because the special effects are amazing considering the budget and year of release.The editing is intentionally fast paced and choppy, which almost makes this movie hard to keep up with at times. The musical score as amazingly haunting; it is a major component to this movie's success.I WOULD NOT recommend that people other than horror fans view this movie. The extreme violence and plot holes will turn off people that aren't true horror aficionados. · Editing is an integral component for Phantasm, as Coscarelli has flashbacks, flashes forwards, and dream/ nightmare sequences interwoven throughout the entire film. In fact many critics of the Phantasm film series argue that Coscarelli's screenplay causes confusion at times due to his editing techniques (Coscarelli is listed as the Editor for this film)· Indeed there is a purpose to the dream sequences and the flashes to and fro. The dream sequences show us the impending danger Mike is in and contain some of the major scares in the film. The flashes, to and fro, may cause confusion for the viewer not entirely tuned into the picture. But the flashes provide us with a sense of uncomfortably, fear, and a type of dreamy drug-like trance that transcends the picture effectively· The flashes and dreams provide critical plot details that help us piece together the Tall Man's intentions· Coscarelli also moves from one scene to the next with fast paced cuts. The fast cuts are also used in scenes to promote terror and provide excitement· The Tall Man, played by Scrimm, is filmed from lower angles. In reality Scrimm is 6 feet five inches tall, but we are given the feeling that he is about 7 feet tall· This film was a fairly low budget production that used nightmares, flashbacks, flash forwards, fast paced cuts and emotionally charged camera angles to provide fear and horror, without CGI. "},{"Title":"Creepy And Bizarre Cult Horror","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don Coscarelli's Phantasm of 1979 is a creepy, bizarre and very original cult flick, that no lover of the Horror genre can afford to miss. Then only 25-year-old writer/director Coscarelli created a very imaginative film that delivers genuine creepiness and suspense, morbid humor, a very cool score and many new ideas. Phantasm has so far been followed by 3 sequels, a fourth sequel is announced for 2008. The sequels differ in quality (Phantasm II is immensely entertaining while the others are quite poor) but none of them comes near the original in atmosphere, suspense and greatness.I don't want to give too much of the plot away, but I assure that those who haven't seen Phantasm yet can prepare for one of the creepiest villains ever, the 'Tall Man', brilliantly played by Angus Scrimm. This extremely scary Tall Man, a mysterious supernatural corpse snatcher, alone would be reason enough to see this movie, but Phantasm has so much more to offer. The film is full of highly bizarre creatures, constantly suspenseful and often delivers a downright nightmarish atmosphere. Apart from Angus Scrimm, who, as I mentioned above, delivers a brilliant performance in the role of the Tall Man, Reggie Bannister is also great as the pony-tailed Reggie. A. Michael Baldwin is also good in the lead, the other performances aren't bad, but not particularly worth mentioning either. The film is also quite violent and gory, the main theme is a highly memorable and great piece of Horror movie score and the suspense is constant. The film also has a few minor flaws, but these are by far overwhelmed by the film's qualities. All said, Phantasm is a creepy and bizarre film that deserves its cult-status, and a must-see for any lover of Horror. 8/10 "}{"Title":"what the hell is going on?","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now here's the RIGHT way to be juvenile and incoherent. I got fairly obsessive about this movie in high school, and while it's doesn't transport me the way it once did, it still looks and sounds just great, and keeps knocking you off your stride with unexpected bizarre flourishes. The gape-mouthed fascination with naked girls is hilariously pubescent, the tacky musical interlude is actually kind of cute, and what's up with Mabel? But its dream-within-a-dream-within-a-dream hallucinatory quality is best captured by the sequence where the kid slams a door on the legendary Tall Man's hand, cuts off his fingers so that they ooze yellow blood, puts one in a box and takes it home, watches it turn into a giant fanged insect, helps his brother wrap it in a shirt and jam it into the garburetor, and then welcomes their friend the ice cream salesman who speaks for all of us when he sticks his tongue out and inquires, What the hell is going on? "},{"Title":"Whoa","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You play a good game, boy...but the game is finished. Now you die! Sports the #2 scariest ending ever. Terrible acting, an original story, great lines, superb music, and some really messed up other stuff like evil dwarfs, an insanely tall mortician, a flying metal ball that performs lobotomies, and a huge fly make this an 8/10 for me. Sometimes I find myself laughing (mainly at the lead's acting and its dated look), and sometimes I find myself genuinely creeped out. It's also totally original and inventive. Loved it. I wish there were more movies like this. Recommended. ) "},{"Title":"Fun But Ultimately Disappointing","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don Coscarelli's third film, Phantasm (1979), is a fairly freaky, often startling but ultimately disappointing horror outing that has managed to accrue quite a cult following over the years. It tells the story of the Pearson brothers, Jody and Michael, and the very strange goings-on at their local Victorian-style mausoleum, presided over by a character only referred to as The Tall Man. As personified by Angus Scrimm (great name, that!), The Tall Man makes for one memorable character indeed, despite his speaking (as Scrimm reveals in one of this DVD's many extras) only five lines of dialogue, totalling 28 words. Coscarelli throws a lot into his film to keep the viewer surprised and unsettled. Thus, the mysterious cowled dwarfs, a dismembered finger turning into a monstrous flying insect, the homicidal Lady in Lavender, a gateway to another dimension (?), and, of course, the flying metal orbs that suck the blood out of their victims' skulls. The movie is a nonstop roller coaster of sorts, with likable characters, an effectively creepy score and adequate FX. It could have been a minor masterpiece of the horror genre. Sadly, however, not a single one of the bizarre happenings is ever solidly explained, and by the film's head scratcher of a finale, I was left thinking, What the hell was THAT about? Is The Tall Man an alien or an immortal or a dead person? Is that Red Land another planet or another dimension or what? Was the entire movie a dream? Either Coscarelli couldn't be bothered to supply us with answers or he decided to leave those answers for this film's three belated sequels. But after this letdown of a movie, I'm not overly motivated to check out Phantasm II to find out.... "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever!!","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was one of the first horror films I ever saw; I was 9 when I saw it, and it has been my favorite film ever since. Angus Scrimm is outstanding as the evil Tall Man, and I remember seeing the scene where he is walking down the street past Reg's truck and inhaling the dry ice and thinking That, is evil. Love the 70's feel, the music, the 'cuda, etc. The scene with Kat Lester and Bill Thornbury in the graveyard is my fave. I recently met Angus Scrimm and he was more that gracious. Classic film, and part 2 is well done, too, even having James Le Gros reprising Mike. Great seeing Michael Baldwin come back in the third installment along with Thornbury. A must-have for fans of the 70's horror genre. "},{"Title":"An disjointed but an bizarre enjoyable mix of horror, science-fiction and black comedy.","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 13 year old Michael Pearson (A. Michael Baldwin) always thought the morningside cemetery was a little eerie. Until the day, that Michael witness an odd looking mysterious tall man (Angus Scrimm) could lift an 500 pound coffin by himself and bringing it to his Hearst. Since his older brother (Bill Thornbury) doesn't believing in his brother's odd-ball stories. When Michael decides to investigate at the morningside cemetery for any proof, he could find. But instead he finds himself encountering an inexplicable flying metal sphere, a horde of clocked mini monsters and an creepy tall man. Which this tall man is controlling it all.Written and Directed by Don Coscarelli (The Beastmaster, Bubba Ho-Tep, Kenny and Company) made an strange but fascinating mix of tongue in cheek humour, horror and science fiction in this disjointed but quite successful imaginative low budget shocker. Phantasm has become an major cult classic for almost thirty years and it spawned three sequels. Which it's been all been written and directed by Coscarelli with some of the same cast & crew members, who worked on the original film.The Original DVD from MGM, DVD has an fine non-anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an good digitally remastered Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound (The original 2 Channel mono sound is included as well). DVD also included an running commentary track by the director and cast membersBaldwin, Thornbury & Scrimm, Deleted Scenes, an vintage two-part interview with Coscarelli & Scrimm and more DVD extras.The new DVD from Anchor Bay, DVD has an brand new anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and also for the first time in DTS 5.1 Surround Sound (Also in Dolby Digital 5.1 and Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound as well) are terrific. The DVD has most of the original DVD features from MGM like Commentary, Deleted Scenes and two-part interview featurette. Anchor Bay DVD has new features like Half-hour featurette, an vintage behind the scenes featurette with commentary by the director and actorReggie Bannister (Who's been in every Phantasm movie), a brief new featurette and more. Some viewers will be confused by the distant feel of the story and the uncommon conclusion. But the most memorable moments of the movie is Coscarelli's visual's style, Scrimm's strong presence, bizarre moments of comedy and an eerie unusual music score by the late Fred Myrow and Malcolm Seagrave. Coscarelli pays tribute to Frank Herbert's novel Dune in some plot points of the movie. The story doesn't always make sense but the premise pulls the viewer into the movie and it has some scary moments as well. Don't miss it. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Cult classic","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I rated this movie a 7 out of 10. I would have rated it lower if it was made more recently but considering the time period this film is very decent. The acting is not very good and sometimes actually quite poor, but it is a low budget film and can be expected to have sub par actors and directing. There are a few good scenes and a few scenes that leave you shaking your head. On the plus side the story is pretty good with only a few flaws that could even go unnoticed. The sphere scene is probably the most entertaining point in the film. Pretty decent gore here nothing over the top but once again you have to remember that its a film that was made in the 70's and they actually do a good job considering. This is the best movie of the series so if you decide to check out any this is the one. Its one of those movies I hate to love. "},{"Title":"À fine example of classical horror","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a very enjoyable, more classical-style horror movie. The acting was of high caliber, with all of the main characters ably acted. However, more praise should go out to Angus Scrimm, who played the Tall Man. With barely saying 10 words, he projected terror and a presence throughout the entire movie. And when he did speak, it was scary, especially his first words.I mentioned that Phantasm was a classical horror movie. I say this because it is very reminiscent of the older horror movies, with it's lack of blood, Goblin-esquire music, and slower storyline. This was great, after watching so much gory stuff, sometimes you can forget about movies that don't rely on crutches like gore and shockjump horror.The lighting and sets were very intriguing. The whole movie starts off looking normal enough, although as Mike goes deeper into the enigma of the Tall Man's plans, the colours and lighting become more stark, because the lighting and sets are either extremely bright, or extremely dark. This added to the surrealness towards the end.One niggle however, was with the ending, because it was1. Clichéd 2. Lacking in senseThe ending wasn't bad, just the two above points sort of lessened it's impact.Nevertheless, Phantasm is still a good movie, bordering on great, if it weren't for the ending. "},{"Title":"A warm glow of late 70's nostalgia","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh its completely insane I'll give it that if slow moving a times, but when you get right down to it phantasm is an unforgettable experience. The only real problem you'd find with it would be the quality of the picture and sound on any version you watch. Picture and sound is terrible, the film however is not. The acting and directing style are unique yet different. With various flashbacks and flashes of scenes that you don't whether they're real or not. A blend of zombie creepiness crossed with mysterious phantasical weirdness. The plot is as original as you can get, thats one area that Don Coscarelli has really excelled in. Its strange, scary and hard to understand and for that I love it. "},{"Title":"Got to see this movie","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the best horror movie ever !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I just love this movie. The very first time that I ever saw this movie, I just feel in love with it. It really had me scared, and I love horror movies. That silver ball. Phantasm is my all time favorite of horror movies. This is definitely a movie you must buy it. The Tall Man, is a great actor, with his line BOY!!!!!!!! On a scale of 1-10, i rate this movie a 10+. I recommend this movies to all my friends. You have got to but this movie. As well as the sequels to it. Buy this movie. Watch it. Collect this one and the sequels. Savor them. They don't make horror movies today like these anymore. "},{"Title":"i thought this movie was great","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this movie was great in my book especially for the time and the budget they was on the only thing i didn't really like was the ending then i had to wait ten years for the sequel but it kinda left u in surprise which is my kinda movie number 2 was basically filler because it didn't have Michael Baldwin in it or bill Throneberry which in my mind kinda took away from the movie but they returned with phantasm 3 which was a pretty great movie in my mind there was a lot more action in the third title than in the second then phantasm 4 came and i love that title like i said its a very suspenseful movie which i like and i really hope they come out with a third one before Angus dies cause u know poor old Angus can't live forever hes already 77 and plus he makes the movie happen in my mind but the phantasm series definitely has to be one of the greatest and more morbid horrors type films in the world "}{"Title":"The Roosters Review Phantasm","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm is one of the greatest films around, it is unique, it is well acted and the script is well written.You get a brilliant blend of fantasy and horror in this movie, and some truly weird and creepy scenes out of this roller coaster ride! The plot is probably one of the most original i've seen and heard of(I mean who's gonna think up this?). The one flaw is in the start of the film I found Mike to be a little annoying the way he practically stalked his brother, but in the end I ended up liking Mike and had no problems with the character development. Now if you want a creepy boogeyman you've found one with the Tall Man he has no dought changed the meaning of he word BOOOOYYYYY in my mind! So pretty much what I'm trying to say is you can't go wrong with phantasm it is a great film! "},{"Title":"I must not fear, fear is the mind killer...","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The above lines are not (only) uttered by young Michael at the beginning of Don Coscarelli's masterpiece PHANTASM, but by young Paul Atriedes at the onset of Frank Herbert's epic and much-emulated sci-fi novel DUNE. The protagonist of each story puts his hand inside a mysterious box (in Dune, the Gom Jabaar) containing excruciating pain. The purpose of such a test is to train the mind to overcome pain, refusal to succumb to the concomitant fear. Coscarelli must have been a fan of the book, for there are numerous references throughout---the local bar is called the Dunes and it's swinging wooden sign features the same type print as the front of the novel Dune. Phantasm doesn't have quite the scope of Dune, but it is the quaint charm of certain 'small' genre productions from the late 70's that endear them so greatly to our hearts (think HALOWEEN- the title songs of these two features are very similar as well).I was not yet alive in 1977 when AvcoEmbassies saturated the country with advertisements promoting a quirky horror film essential to their own survival. By account of the special features on my DVD copy, midnight sneak previews were hosted by Angus Scrimm- appearing by surprise and in character! I speculate that much of the cult adoration surrounding this title is owed to the successful marketing of the studio. Hell, it certainly would have worked on me!Acquantances at video stores and film festivals had spoken extremely highly of PHANTASM and it took me a while to secure a copy of the DVD (why is it out of print!?) so when I finally sat down to enjoy it, it faced very high expectations. I was instantly taken by the careful lighting and camera-work, not to mention the terrific score. The acting is spotty---some of the players here probably aren't professionals---but after second and third watches this type of honesty becomes a virtue. That is, if you like the film, of course.Which I do, immensely. The plot here is ridiculous, and there are numerous flaws throughout, but as far as pure storytelling is concerned, PHANTASM is immaculate. The last half hour of the film goes way over the top, and Michael drinks and drives and carries a gun even though he is 13, but it evinces a place and a time. Ah, the late 70's, when it was OK for kids to drink beer before puberty (BAD NEWS BEARS, anyone?) and every cool teenager had a motorcycle! A time when movies didn't need a believable, or compelling, or 'good' plot to excel.I think I'll swagger down to the 'Dunes' bar for a few beers. I'll bet I'll get change back from a five....9/10* There are many reasons to take stars away from this movie, but who's counting? "},{"Title":"Bizarre, but nonetheless inventive","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A young boy who has lost his parents is now afraid of being left alone if his brother should die. Then one day, while in a graveyard, he notices a tall man, dressed in all black, single-handedly life a casket and load it into an ominous looking hearse. A strange series of events ensues...Part visceral horror, part psychological horror, part atmospheric horror and even part family drama, this is strange film, but will undoubtedly be appreciated by open-minded fans of the horror genre. It doesn't really break new ground, but rather is a new mixture of older elements and it is quite a mixture. That makes it unlike many things that you have seen before. Also, it may be difficult to connect just what the heck is going on to what it all means, but I guess that is the point right up to the very end where a surprising kicker tops the film off.The film was obviously limited by production values, but nonetheless is worth checking out. 7/10Rated R for some gory violence "},{"Title":"A very imaginative movie with some disturbing images and characters","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm was a very effective horror movie that was made on a shoestring budget. Don Cascarelli, who wrote, directed, and produced the movie used a lot of camera angles, eerie scenes, and moody atmosphere to make even the worst special effects seem scary. The movie also contains one of the best musical scores for a horror movie, and this makes the movie even more disturbing than what it already was.Young Mike Pearson (Michael Baldwin) watches a funeral from a distance involving his brother's friend. His brother Jody (Bill Thornberry) had decided that it probably was best for Mike to stay home since he thinks it would be too much for his young brother to witness. After all, their parents had died recently, and Jody just thought that seeing another funeral so soon after their parents deaths might just put his brother over the edge.Long after the funeral is over, little Mike stays to witness something unnatural involving the caretaker (Angus Scrimm) who is soon dubbed only the Tall Man. He decides that something just isn't right about the caretaker or the cemetery, so he decides to investigate, and becomes involved in something completely sinister and out of the ordinary. He soon find himself haunted by little trolls in robes as well as the spooky Tall Man who soon becomes a part of his life.Not long after he manages to get his brother involved as well as their other friend Reggie (Reggie Bannister). Together they make a startling discovery about the Tall Man and what he is doing with the recently deceased that proves to be horrifying and surreal at the same time.Cleverly made and filled with disturbing images which include flying silver spheres that do very nasty things to the human skull, Phantasm proved to be imaginative and spooky on many levels. It is known as a classic by many, but I can't quite put it there. The movie, as good as it is, still includes some very bad dialogue. It doesn't help that its two leads aren't very good actors either. Still Phantasm is a clever film and definitely a labor of love for its director. It may not be quite up there with horror movie classics like Halloween, Alien, Jaws and Psycho, but it is definitely worth your while if you enjoy horror movies.I almost forgot to mention that the Phantasm story is no ordinary horror movie cliché. It has a moral which involves losing loved ones and not being able to let go. It also involves fighting your fears and never giving in. "},{"Title":"It's just the wind","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently purchased the Anchor Bay 'Phantasm' boxset for 30 quid, and have just sat through the four films, commentaries and all.Me and the original 'Phantasm' go way back. Like a lot of people posting here, I saw it as a kid, and images from it have stayed with me ever since.Viewing it now (and I have seen it numerous times throughout the intervening years, but not for a while), I'm struck by the extraordinary eccentricity of the film. It plays like a melancholy children's film interrupted by moments of goofy silliness and grisly surrealism worthy of Bunuel. It's extremely well made with excellent photography and editing (all done by writer/director Coscarelli), and a beautifully textured musical/sound effects track. Commentators here have complained about poor acting and shoddy special effects, but I can't agree. I find the performances to be effectively low-key, especially Michael Baldwin as the child protagonist, who is pretty much perfect. The visual ideas are so inventive and odd that the budgetary limitations imposed on their execution have minimal detraction.The print of 'Phantasm' presented here is superb, and matted at 1851 (169). The sound is also very impressive, with 2.0 stereo and 5.1 mixes. There are some great extras, most notably a 100 minute 'making of' documentary, called 'Phantasmagoria', which tells you pretty much everything you could wish to know about the film and it's sequels. At one point there is even a shot of the invoice presented to the producers by the manufacturer of the silver sphere!The documentary also reveals that a rough cut of the film ran for nearly three hours. 'Phantasm' has always looked like a film that had pieces missing, which only adds to it's mystery. A lot of the footage that was removed involved character detail and back story, and samples can be found in both the 'deleted scenes' section of the disc, and as interpolations during 'Oblivion', the third sequel. I enjoyed this stuff immensely, and whilst it's removal was correct, I would very much like to see Coscarelli's original cut.The 'hanging tree' sequence, which involves a suspended tall man whispering exhortations to Mike to cut him down, is particularly brilliant. It's wonderfully atmospheric, and feels like something from a Grimm's fairy tale. It can be seen in 'Oblivion'. In fact, I would recommend the fourth film purely on the basis of the 1979 footage. It is cleverly used, with the final shot of Mike and Reggie in the ice cream truck being extremely effective.The original 'Phantasm' works because of it's almost total ambiguity. For me, it's best read the most obvious way - as the dream within a dream of a child attempting to comprehend the enormity of death. Sure, there are moments that don't work, but there are also sequences of great power. Mike's initial night-time exploration of the mortuary is shot and edited with pristine elegance. Whilst I enjoy the three sequels to varying degrees, I find them to be basically inessential. Visual tropes and action sequences are repeated ad nauseam throughout (flipped and exploding cars appear to be a recurrent obsession), and the slapstick gore style of the 'Evil Dead' films seems (unfortunately) to have been a major influence. There is, though, an engaging dopeyness to their approach if you enter into the spirit of the proceedings, and Coscarelli always knows how to frame and cut his action. "},{"Title":"Typical of late 70s horror","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm reminded me of a lot of late 70s early 80s horror in that there was a lot of unnecessary footage that, on the surface, had the appearance of being there to build tension. While at times I appreciated the subtle nuances of this movie there was a large tendency to drag scenes out waaaaaaaaaaaayyyyyyyyyyyyyyy to much. Initially I withheld from fast forwarding through the repeated shots of cars driving or the Mike/Jodie walking somewhere. I figured that the director was trying to build some kind of prolonged tension. Eventually I just had to hit the button as most of this footage did nothing for the movie at all. In a word slow. I was also surprised with the gore at certain points as the rest of the movie didn't seem to suggest the levels that there were of it. Bottom line if you have some time on your hands by all means rent the movie but I'd be prepared to do something else while you watch it. "},{"Title":"A Classic Horror","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm is one of the top horror movies of all time. Even though it is old it delivers plenty of scares. The special effects are pretty good and the story is excellent. The acting is superb especially by Angus Scrimm. There is some blood and gore for people who like that. I highly recommend Phantasm. I'm sure you will enjoy it. It is one of those movies that is old and might not have the same effects of todays movies, but is still great. Next time your in the movie rental store I would suggest checking this movie out. If you've already seen phantasm there are a few great sequels that I also recommend. I enjoyed Phantasm and I know you will too. "},{"Title":"Surreal *Spoilers*","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ah, the late 70s and early 80s were a great time for horror cinema and many greats were produced during this period and Phantasm is one of them.Phantasm centers around a boy who sees the Tall Man (local curator of the cemetery) take a body that has yet to be buried back into his house on the cemetery grounds.The movie is a classic and does achieve some truly chilling scenes and ideas, but the film is also quite surreal and the viewer is constantly curious as to what is real and what isn't real.  Phantasm takes the route that later movies such as A Nightmare on Elm Street will take by having seemingly impossible things happen, unlike the more reality grounded, at least in their dealings with horror and narrative, Friday the 13ths and Halloweens.For the modern movie viewer Phantasm has aged quite a bit since it came out in 1979, but is still worth tracking down if you enjoy the surreal horror. The DVD is recomended for those who want to learn more about this title. "},{"Title":"Don Coscarelli delivers a visual nightmare with a rapid pulse!","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a young kid I remember this being one of the scariest films I had ever seen.  Not too long ago I viewed the film again, and though I was not scared by it in anyway I have to give credit for the visual nightmarish sequences that made this film ahead of it's time.   The Tall Man is still to this day one of the more imitating villains in all of serial horror.  Though he speaks very seldom, his image alone casts a creepy feel over the viewer.   The remarkable thing about this film is the ability to make the horror genre, more stylish.  The fact that Don Coscarelli does not try to scare you with cheap startles, but rather to amuse you with his unique details of the Nightmare world.  Deadly silver balls, the Tall Man, The large funeral parlor, severed crawling fingers, giant bugs, and midgets from hell make this film's entertainment level through the roof.Phantasm  9 crows cremated out of 10! "},{"Title":"Strange movie.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like this movie, but it is kind of strange.  What I like most is that it is one of those movies about a town where strange things occur.  I love those types of movies.  Here graves are being robbed and all this other weird stuff is happening and a group of guys investigate this undertaker known as The Tall Man.  Investigating him, they run into many strange happenings as well as supernatural stuff and science fiction stuff as well.  This is the best of the series for me.  The later editions just try to explain too much...I always thought it was best to leave it unexplained and mysterious.  This movie definitely is both of those things...though the plot is a little hard to follow at times. "}{"Title":"A true classic.","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this movie! Its a classic although I have to say my favorite character is the Cuda' Thats a bad car. Anyway. I give this a 9/10. I can watch this movie over and over. It has a very complicated and twisting plot that runs through the series. (which is still not over.) And seems to tell you everything in the beginnning. But half way through the movie throws you a curve that shows you know nothing. Don knows what he's doing in this movie and I recommend it to anyone interested in the horror genre "},{"Title":"Tall Man deaths Part 1","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm is about a couple of brothers looking for answers when their brother gets killed.  There they find out that there is a mortician named the Tall Man.  He turns the dead into midgets.  But there's that other weapon--the flying silver sphere.  I liked this one simply because of the Tall Man's evil antics.  And the sphere is relentless in finding victims and drilling the word death into their heads.  A scary ride with a scary ending.  Good job, Tall Man.  ****stars.  (Nelson/Embassy) "},{"Title":"Classic that has stood the test of time","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don Coscarelli's original PHANTASM is one of the best horror/sci-fi movies of all time. I'm not going to just reiterate the story like every other post out there has done. All I'm going to say is, if you have any imagination at all you're going to love this film! This is the one that introduced the killer spheres from which the other films in the series have elaborated upon. PHANTASM is an atmospheric thriller that will make you jump, laugh and possibly scream. The music is excellent as well. If you've only seen an old, crappy video rental and dismissed this as some lame 70s flick then you have not experienced the glory that isPHANTASM. Check out the special edition LD or DVD, then maybe you'll learn to appreciate PHANTASM and give it the respect it deserves. 10 out of 10 - perfect!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Ed Wood lives!","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From the 'Plan 9' school of film-making comes Phantasm - a landmark in horror/sci-fi from the late seventies. Not sure that landmark is quite the right word to use...An unfathomable plot involving a killer sphere, a tall undertaker and psycho dwarves. Decidedly ropey acting. Glaring continuity errors. Laughably bad special effects. All of these can somehow be overlooked because, in the spirit of Ed Wood, the crew responsible are obviously trying so hard to entertain on a shoestring budget that you just can't help but enjoy the experience.My advice? Try a few beers or, better still, a couple of joints, slip the brain into neutral and laugh until you spot your y-fronts. As the tagline (almost) says 'If this doesn't amuse you, you're already dead'. "},{"Title":"Skip it...","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'll cut right to the chase.  If you're looking for killer-jawas, horrible acting, a non-existent story and bad special effects, you'd be hard-pressed to find a better way to fill that void than watching Phantasm. The lone positive aspect of this movie for me was the tall man character. He's not the most imposing villain to be found but there was something creepy about him anyway. So to the films credit, they at least got that part right.The films biggest flaw for me was that I honestly didn't care what happened to any of the main characters throughout the duration of the movie. Our hero for example spends the first half of the movie trying to repress his inner Peeping Tom and the latter half trying to figure out the weak plot like the rest of us.Don't get me wrong here, I adore old-school and even obscure horror movies. I'll watch just about everything from tongue-in-cheek'ers like Killer clowns from outer space to classics like Psycho. Unfortunately, the only reaction this movie got out of me were laughs due to some of the poor edits, effects and those aforementioned evil Jawas.It's a skipper.   "},{"Title":"LATE NIGHT CHILLS","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i remember watching this as a kid one night on hbo back when hbo was not 24 hrs a day and around midnight they would show their last movie and back in 1980 they would show this.it was like watching a strange and eerie dream.this movie is part horror,and part fantasy.angus scrimm as the tall man is clearly the star of the show even though he  has so few lines.that is what makes the movie work. the rest of the cast does an ample job but the director showcases THE TALL MAN so well that he doesn't need to say much at all.the movie is creepy and spooky but is also interjected with some humorous moments as well.some people think that the script is full of more holes than a bad slice of swiss cheese because they think that things are not explained well enough or there is still some  questions that need to be answered, but there in lays the beauty of this film. some things are not to be understood and everything is not cohesive.i just think that the director did a great job on a tiny budget around 300,000and got a great return .by the way the dvd special edition that is out absolutely SMOKES.the sound and picture have been restored excellently and there are so many extra features and deleted footage and trailers that i have to give it up to the people at MGM who did not fall asleep at the wheel when they put this together. "},{"Title":"Horror and sci-fi combo at the best","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm is a little known horror franchise unless you're a film geek lik me. The film features one of horror cineams little known icons The Tall Man and those damn flying balls. The film realy doesn't have a big cast but it does deliver in the chill departement. "},{"Title":"Phantasm has a new Phan","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A few years ago a friend and I rented Phantasm during our annual Halloween Horror movie night.  By the end of the film both of us were quite confused by the movie.  Due to our experience with the first movie we didn't bother renting any of the sequels.  Now, years later, I rented Phantasm II and really enjoyed it, and having viewed that film I had a better understanding of the original.  I decided to view Phantasm again so I bought it on DVD and I'm glad that I did.  This is a very good independent horror movie.  At times the acting is a bit thin (but not terrible) and the story still has some holes in it (ie questions that could use answering) but what it does have going for it is a creepy atmosphere and a director that knows how to use suspense.Too many horror movies today, especially low budget ones, rely heavily on gore.  Gore is good for shock value but it is rarely scary, just gross.  Don Coscarelli provides one of the few times that gore is also scary with his flying silver orbs.  But most of the time he relies on suspense to create his scares.  This fact has quickly placed Phantasm I and II near the top on my favourite horror movies list.If you have seen Phantasm and didn't like it I recommend watching Phantasm II then giving the original another try (mind you if you didn't like the first one you probably aren't reading this review).  Phantasm I and II are fun, creepy, scary movies, I now hope that parts 3 to 5 are just as good.  I give Phantasm a strong 7 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"** 1/2 (out of ****)","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Two brothers stumble upon the secret of The Tall Man, a caretaker at the local cemetery who is in reality an alien from another dimension, sent to Earth to capture humans and send them back to his home planet as dwarf slaves. Ridiculously convulted, this very ambitious low-budget horror-fantasy has surprisingly good special effects (including one wicked brain-drilling silver sphere) but suffers from slack pacing and too many logic loopholes.Recommended, but for very serious horror fans only. "},{"Title":"A classic!","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie dose not focus on sex/nudity,there is very minor,for an instsnt at most.They did a great job,the acting was nothing special,of course I don't really comment on acting.They knew what they were doing here.The TAll man is an intimidating charicter,the balls are somewhat intimidating,and the dwarfs make you never want to die(like you would antway).The ending can be somewhat a dissapointment if you think this is the one and only,get this,and maybe two,but avoid 3,and make your own ending! "}{"Title":"A seminal horror flick","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm is a film that defined a generation of horror films to come.  Don Coscarelli's vision, while implemented in a low-budget and thus low-key fashion, has proven to be a major influence on horror films of the '80s and '90s.  The plot is original, the acting acceptable, the special effects teetering on the cheesy, yet still utterly entertaining, this film is a must-see for any true horror movie fan.  The Spheres of Phantasm are one of the most memorable icons of the genre, and the Tall Man one of its most intriguing characters.  The underappreciated sequel, Phantasm II, as well as numbers III and IV serve to flesh out this masterpiece of horror.  Phantasm is a B-movie classic, in the real of flicks such as the original Nightmare on Elm Street and the first Friday the 13th. "},{"Title":"Interesting . . .","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What do demented trolls, flying silver spheres, bloodthirsty aliens and an unusually tall caretaker have in common? PHANTASM, that's what! Though considered a cult classic by many, this low-budget, everything-but-the-kitchen-sink horror/sci-fi thriller is mediocre at best. There are a few awesome scenes, such as the big debut of the brain-drilling sphere, but as a whole the film suffers from dull leads, a sloppy script and some really lame special effects (the fly creature deserves a special mention) . . . . Not to mention the fact that the Tall Man's minions resemble cute little Jawas! Overall, a fairly fun flick with an imaginative premise . . . . Too bad the writer just didn't know where to go from there.  "},{"Title":"A classic horror movie that stands up well today!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie when it came out in 1979 (ironically at the same drive-in theater I managed in 1990) and it scared the daylights out of me then, and it still creeps me out today!  The plot is simple, the tall man is robbing graves, and making dwarf slaves out of the bodies, and it's up to Mike, Jody, and Reggie to stop him!  This is the best installment of the series, and there isn't too much gore in this one. The possible exception is when the ball kills the care taker, but that is pretty mild by today's standards, so I wouldn't recommend it to little kids, or the faint of heart.  The tall man ranks as a true classic horror character, along with Dracula, and Freddie Kruger. Angus Scrimm is the modern day Bela Lugosi in the respect we will remember him for scaring the pants off of us by playing a true horror villain!!  "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever Made","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a teacher of English, I regularly use the Phantasm movie series as a teaching tool in my classroom.  The life lessons that can be learned from the adventures of Jody, Reg, and the Tall Man apply to almost every aspect of the language arts.  Don't trip, go rent this movie today. "},{"Title":"An OK movie","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can see how this can be a classic, but not if your a horror fan whose into blood and gore. And if you are (like me), there is a great death in the middle, almost the only death. It has plenty of blood. This is one of those classic horrors were you can accidentally fall asleep. I do think this is a classic, but only for its time period. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films ever made.","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time i saw this movie was on cinemax 2 days before halloween. It has the best score and the filming is excellent. The plot keeps on going and never stops. Their is not one part in the whole film that is boring. I must say that since the first time i saw it I have bought it on tape and when I got a dvd player i bought it for that too. so if you are a true fan of horror you must see this film! "},{"Title":"Be the ball...","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ahhhhh, Phantasm! Quite a scary flick...I was first exposed to this little horror about 15 years ago by my Pop. I doubt that I will ever give a horror movie a 10, but this is as close as I have ever gotten. Tall Man is absolutely frightening and the ball is as fearsome an accessory as ever has appeared on screen. 10 times the fear factor of any hockey mask, hatchet or claw!You could argue for days about why this film is scary; the acting is mediocre at best, the scenes can be confusing and the resolution isn't exactly spectacular--however, this movie gets under your skin! Although never heavy-handed, it forces your head back and twists it's way deep into your psyche, sure to rear it's ugly mug after the lights go out. The inexplicable appeal is probably somewhere to be found within the setting (funeral home), spooky music (gruesome sound-effects) and style. It's subtle eerie-ness is totally unnerving and the fact that your imagination is given just enough information to be dangerous doesn't help.I spent weeks of my childhood, alone in bed, writhing beneath the blade of it's cold imagery. This is one that stays with you...whether you want it to or not. It's actually better on a second or third viewing, but I wouldn't recommend watching it very often. 9/10 for provoking my imagination in a way no other horror film ever has... "},{"Title":"Energetic horror fantasy.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Directed masterfully by Don Coscarelli, who also wrote and produced this off-the-wall nightmare. Two parentless brothers discover strange goings on at the Morningside Cemetery and with the help of a group of friends go about investigating. An undertaker with superhuman strength is witnessed robbing a grave. The creepy funeral home is visited by the boys and they have encounters with cloaked mini-monsters, a speedy brain devouring chrome ball and the infamous Tall Man(Angus Scrimm). This low budget project is now a cult classic spawning a couple of sequels. This hallucinatory horror fantasy  stuns the senses and turns your knuckles white. Cast members includeA. Michael Baldwin, Reggie Bannister, Kathy Lester, Bill Thornbury and Kenneth V. Jones. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Scary","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie on the Sci-Fi channel when I was 11. Despite commercial breaks and edits it scared me and gave me nightmares. Dreams in which the big Tall Man is waiting to grab me. After seeing the two sequels which at the time I rented instantly on sight and even anxiously waiting for the 4th installment I didn't understand why I was so scared, not to say this is a bad series infact a great one it just lost its touch with each sequel I felt. Still being an avid fan of the series I heard about the rerelease of the 1st with 2 new scenes. Although this wasn't big news to me but I had to check it out. There I relived the nightmare and the haunting of the Tall Man. The movie despite its sequels regained its touch on me and still succeeded in scaring me. The music beautifully well done something like Goblin would compose. The scenes acting all well done. Also having the feeling like i've seen it for the 1st time and not revisiting.The storyling also well done is about a young boy living in a small quiet town where mysterious deaths are happening. The boy then finds a strange tall man doing weird experiments in the towns funreal home. I would like to explain more but I would be spoiling it. The blood and gore even tho not alot are well done the drilling scene was as hilarious as well as it was creepy.Overall this is a true gem in the horror genre, and I can't wait to get the DVD with tons of features for a small price of $10. "},{"Title":"A worthy cult film","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This clever little low-budget film has justly attained cult status. What it lacks in big-budget effects, sets, and props is more than compensated for by an enthusiastic cast, imaginative use of expedients, and an imaginative story.Even though some old tricks are used (such as the hand reaching in from off camera), these tricks come off as if they were new -- and the audience falls for them each time they are used. The horror of the movie is well-balanced by humor which is, in turn, effectively used as a foil to produce some of genuine shudders.I must mention the person who steals the show -- Angus Scrim as the Tall Man. By day, a mild-mannered, refined expert in classical music, but when he gets in front of a camera, Angus makes the Tall Man seem so malevolent, so menacing, that you actually buy in to the rest of the movie. He is, after all, the very personification of the Boogie Man, the Grim Reaper, and Satan all rolled up into one dandy of a villain. His line, BOY! has become a hallmark in horror films.The new DVD version gives us a sharp, clean print with stereo sound and music along with interesting commentaries by the creator of the film along with castmembers. The film itself begins with an amusing introduction by the Tall Man himself -- or is it Angus Scrim? "}{"Title":"The best horror movie ever","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm is by far the coolest horror movie ever. I just bought the special edition first Phantasm and it was worth buying. It has never before scenes and if you have the special edition first Phantasm, when the movie is over and shows the end credits don't turn the tape off just fast foward it threw the end credits because after the end credits it has 4 mintues of never before scenes. they are cool, the first never before scene it shows is Michael going in a room and thinking he heres Reggie's voice coming from a coffin and he goes to open it then Reggie comes through a door then Reggie and Mike hurray up and relock the coffin then Mike tells Reggie that he has to go find his brother and tells Reggie to go and try to destory that doorway to the Tall Man's planet. the second never before scene shows Mike and Jody walking in the Masoleum together then all of sudden they stop and standing a few feet from them is the Tall Man, Jody Starts firing the shot gun at him but it has no effect on the Tall Man, then the Tall Man walks over to them pushes Mike out of the way and hoists Jody up in the air by the throat and says You think when you die you go to heaven, you go to us then Mike remembers that day when the Tall Man was walking down Main Street in town and when Reggie opened the door to his freezer on his truck the Tall Man stoped and felt the cold breeze and didn't like it Mike remembers the Tall Man hates the cold. then Mike grabs a fire extinguisher and starts spraying the Tall Man with it and saves Jody's life and the Tall Man screams in pain then he explodes. like I said earlier this is a cool movie. After you get threw with this one I recomend Phantasm II, Phantasm III Lord Of The Dead, and Phantasm IV Oblivion. "},{"Title":"Cool Film!","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When you watch this film, remember it was made in 1979, before Nightmare on Elm Street and all the other films of that genre.  When I first saw Phantasm, it was on cable in a friends dorm room.  Some of the scenes were so blasted startling that I literally fell over backwards in my chair!  This is a creepy film.  It's got some honest to goodness shocking moments.  But Coscarelli (the director) uses surrealism as an effective tool.  Nah, this isn't going to ever rate as one of the best films ever made, but it is a classic in its own right.  It tells a good story, with decent acting and superb special effects (for the day).  As horror films go this one is pretty darned good.  Rent it or buy it and watch it with the lights off while you are alone - it WILL scare you.  I promise! "},{"Title":"A classic horror film that has strong definitions of horror!","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm is a strong definition of the horror genre, and it makes little sense, but maybe the series is all just a dream. The plot is very macabre and gripping for any horror fan, and the infamous Tall-Man is one creepy camper. One of the things I love so much about these movies is the rabid-Jaws. The TallMan transforms often dug-up human corpses into these critters that might make the Stormtroopers have 2nd thoughts about blasting these little spudnicks. They really are some funny characters. "},{"Title":"Pretty 70's","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to say, I liked the late 70's vibe going on in this movie.  It added something.  The sci-fi bit at the end didn't make a whole lot of sense but it was interesting.  Thismovie was accidentaly in the Phantoms box so I didn't know I was going to see it until it started playing. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While this movie isn't a masterpiece, it's a fairly entertaining movie to watch when you're in the mood for a horror film. Has some creepy and cool atmospheric moments. Kind of a cheesy movie but a decent film to watch on a rainy night. "},{"Title":"One of the finest films ever made.","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While it cannot be denied that the premise of Phantasm, and most of its acting, is the ultimate in cheese, it is what is absent from this film that makes it brilliant all told, the film contains less than ten minutes of dialogue, and it lets its story be told in a chiaroscuro wash that leaves much to the imagination. Like the best horror films fo the black and white era, half the jumps that come from Phantasm are from shadows and inventive camera work; did you _really_ see those little brown-robed guys out of the corner of your eye? Phantasm holds a very high place on my hundred-best-of-the-century list, and deservedly so. "},{"Title":"A scary adventure into a world of horror make-believe.","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, so it's not The Exocist, but what movie is? Phantasm is a cult classic that was a lot scarier when it was first released back in 1979. By today standards, it wouldn't scare little Johnny Jeckle down the street. I liked it back in 1979 when I first saw it and had nightmares of someone pulling me through the closest door mirror. Phantasm II was actually better and it seems each movie ended with a chance for there to be a sequel. Even the incredibly lame and awful Phantasm IV Oblivion left it open for a Phantasm V. Yes, the movie is cheesy and the special effects aren't anything great, but the whole story is so unique and creepy, that you have to love it. The acting is terrible of course, but that's what your going to get with a B style horror flick with unknown actors. The movie is still worth seeing at least once. Definitely watch with all the lights off and a girlfriend.Ace "},{"Title":"Best horror movie of all time","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film virtually defines horror.  It embodies the horror with ridiculous laughable events.  Everyone should see this movie.  However the proper way to view the movie is in a group setting in the wee hours of the morning. That is when the full effect is felt.  Be sure to visit www.phantasm.com to get a good picture of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Great, Super, Suspenseful, Frightening","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one movie series that i cant get enuff of, each one i've seen was super cool, super gory, super everything. The tall man is nothing less than a brilliant character, he seems like a normal man, just very tall. But he also has a dark look, with his menacing stare and all. And another thing that was cool was that each movie put a good bit of nudity on the roll, which is never bad ) SO, i urge each of you to go RIGHT NOW, and rent all these movies you're movie store has (i still havent been able to obtain Phantasm OblIVion). I rate this ****1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"I don't use narcotics, but If I did....","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...I'd probably hallucinate something of this caliber. This movie is all over the place! There's a weird looking guy having sex with a weird looking gal in a graveyard, and she turns into a weird looking old guy! Then there's four-wheelin' and guitar jammin' and weird looking psychic grandmas and weird looking dwarf zombies and metallic, gardener-splattering spheres and a weird looking severed finger that turns into a weird looking bug and a hero who doubles as an ice cream man!!The movie is highly entertaining and keeps moving, and there's the classic moment when the older brother is hit in the leg with the hammer by the kid brother (Maybe it was that retarded kid down the street). I loved it! But it IS weird looking.... "}{"Title":"Dream like movie","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Basically, Phantasm isn't dissimilar from the later Nightmare on Elm Street stuff.  Much of the movie has the same dreamlike quality.  One suspects that Wes Craven borrowed a lot from here.  The main bad guy oozes some weird not-blood substance (yellow instead of Freddy's green), characters tend to get killed that you don't suspect, and there are a lot of Am I awake stuff.  It's a creepy little low-budget flick that you really have to watch a couple of times to understand.  And look for the deliberate Dune references scattered throughout the flick. "},{"Title":"Very Cool Horror Movie","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After watching it a few times and buying the re-released version on MGM video (which has footage cut from the movie at the end of the video) I have come to love this movie.Now I see why it's a cult classic.The special effects are pretty good for a low budget horror movie, especially the sphere!Angus Scrimm as the Tall Man just rules, the movie is an eerie, dark, visual and mind bending experience. Any horror movie fan should give Phantasm a try. "},{"Title":"When I was 13 this movie freaked me out.","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had to convince my mother to take me to see this (it was on a double bill with City on FIre) when I was 13. I'm sure she wondered just what the Hell she had done during the opening sex in the cemetery scene.One of the great moments of my teen-age years. Nudity, gore, a hemi Cuda and the coolest movie soundtrack ever created. Later I saw it again when it was re-released on a double billed with The Fog. Still just as good.I think this will remain my favorite horror movie. "},{"Title":"For a horrible movie, it's really good.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie contains the following  horrendous acting, terrible camera cuts/edits, and atrocious special effects.  But you know what, it is one of the creepiest movies ever made.  Angus Scrimm is flat out eerie and the music (which is nearly as tone-setting as the Halloween soundtrack, although nothing will ever come close to Carpenter's masterpiece of a score) is creepier than he is.  You'll definitely be buggin' after you see this movie. And the sequel is pretty good, too.  Not to be redundant, but to put it simply, this movie will give you the creeps.  Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"A low budget Masterpiece","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great film, full of action and horror that join together for a terrifying sci-fi Masterpiece.  Although filmed on a low budget (and you can tell!), Phantasm set new ground for horror movies.  A very strange and twisted vision from the mind of its creator, this movie was made for people who enjoy the fantasy of horror stories, not just hacking and slashing. Phantasm introduced characters that would live on through three more sequels (2 was good as well), but never live up to the weirdness of the first one. The Tall Man is a truly remarkable villain, as well as his flying silver spheres that drill into your head and excrete blood and brain matter.  Not bad for a 70's movie, in fact, pretty damn good! "},{"Title":"creepy, odd, sensational","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I haven't seen this movie for over eight years and it's still good. Phantasm is a tremendously original movie and it's odd without being too odd.  The characters couldn't have been better, and that Tall Man is one of the best horror characters there is.  He doesn't say much, but just looking at him is creepy enough.  And when that silver sphere attacks that guy in one of Morningside's halls, it's so gruesome.  Plus, the ending of the movie was not to be expected.  It's a very cool movie, and I recommend it to any fan of horror flicks. "},{"Title":"Truly Inspired Strangeness","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was a teenager, I watched this movie a few times; I'd liked weird/cult/horror movies like The Toxic Avenger and the Evil Dead, and Phantasm was advertised in Fangoria as a cult horror classic (I was also around when Phantasm II came out, and believe me it was a BIG DEAL -- they all but plastered San Francisco with ads for it). I rented Phantasm and while it was interesting with its nostalgic 70's feel and iconic Tall Man, it was also boring. It didn't have a lot of special effects (cheap or otherwise), and with all the emphasis on the relationship between the two brothers, it almost seemed like a dark soap opera. Now, watching this movie again for the first time in years, there's a LOT going on here that I never noticed before. It's a sincere, weird, and effective film that gets its power from the poignant story of a boy who needs someone to raise him, emotional trauma and sleep-deprivation-induced hallucinations, vaguely occult initiation rituals, and clever scriptwriting that never makes it fully clear whether the weird stuff going on is real or not. I think this movie, at its core, is about a teenage boy unable to come to terms with the trauma of losing both his parents and his big brother. He can't get his head around it -- it's just too horrible. So he distances himself from it with imaginative delusions about some awful Death Figure (the Tall Man), and an exciting fantasy where his older brother and him Fight The Bizarre and Terrifying Forces of Death, all of which is just a projection of the real-life deaths which Mike cannot accept.And the movie ends with the Tall Man STILL after the boy, which just shows that Mike is going to be dealing with the terrible trauma of losing his immediate family for a long time; the Tall Man is just the reality of those deaths asserting itself to him. It's very sad, but in a good way because that's just how things work out sometimes, without sugarcoating. I had some friends who lost close family members and there's no happy ending for them either, they've felt the pain ever since. In the words of Mikey, there's somethin' else. At the risk of sounding like a nut, the movie strongly hints that the Tall Man also represents some parasitic, discarnate entity that was drawn to Mike because of his vulnerable state. Say what you want about ghosts and whatever, but I do think that there are harmful sentient impulses out there that look to feed off and exploit the weak, the wounded, and drug addicts/alcoholics.So that's why I think this movie is a classic. It's an unfiltered nightmare inspired by a great loss. This bottom layer was ripped away from all the sequels in favor of the imaginative mythology that grows out of it (the Tall Man, the killer spheres, living-dead slaves, etc.), and that works too, but that's why they also don't have much of the eerie power of the first.Also, the music is PERFECT. Right at the beginning there's that long, alien wail, wavering in and out of pitch, like the cry of a madman deep inside an asylum. "},{"Title":"Top notch 70s horror!","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I simply love this film and have probably watched it six or seven times since its original release. It has such wonderful ambiance and mystery. Like many 70s horror flicks-- The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, The Little Girl Who Lives Down the Lane, Last House on the Left-- it looks and feels like some creepy, half-finished documentary. It feels real in a way that few horror films do. I especially appreciate the desolation of this film's setting. It's as if the town's population has been decimated, and the brothers, whose parents have recently died, are just now noticing. Except for the incredible Angus Scrimm, the actors here do not perform the way A-list actors usually do. Their actions and dialogue often seem awkward. Still, this very awkwardness serves the documentary feel of the film. A. Michael Baldwin and Bill Thornbury seem like real brothers in this movie, brothers who sometimes bond and sometimes grate on each other's nerves. Their relationship is the heart of the movie and it is threatened with death and loss in almost every scene. I just can't rave enough about this movie it is full of powerful scares, creepy images, believable characters, a strong sense of melancholy, and probably the most compelling group of faces ever assembled for a horror film. If you like 70s horror, you need to see it. You will never stop thinking about it. "},{"Title":"The Tall Man Cometh!","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm 12/26/2009Two classic icons of horror came out of this movie made by Don Coscarelli in 1979, The Tall Man and the Silver Sphere. These two elements helped spawn three sequels, all of which were directed by Coscarelli. This is a fun scary ride of a movie that can be extremely weird at times. This first installment was filmed on a shoestring budget but all of the effects, story, and acting don't seem to suffer much from it.Like Carriers the last movie I reviewed, the story follows the relationship of two brothers. Jody is the older of the two and is now stuck raising his 13 year old brother Mike after their parents' death. I've got to say that Mike is quite possibly the coolest bad ass kid ever. If I was a little older in the early 80's he would be the kid you would dream of imitating. He owns a dirt bike; has a big knife strapped to his ankle, wears a jean jacket and has quite the dirty mouth. Not to mention the chrome .45 he wields towards the end. Mike is tough kid but also fears of being abandon by his brother. The one thing that keeps them together is their love for Jody's muscle car.At the funeral of one of Jody's friends we are introduced to the mortician simply known as the Tall Man played brilliantly by Angus Scrim (who also appears in the sequels). He is the creepy embodiment of death and as Mike finds out there is something not right with him. We then meet Jody's other friend Reggie, an ice cream truck drive and aspiring musician. I know it's quite the combo. Reggie always to just be along for the ride, but is a very necessary character. Mike is always following his brother to make sure he doesn't leave him. Jody then hooks up with this bar skank and they go into the cemetery to make out. While Mike is looking on in the woods he is attacked by a dwarf in a brown robe. Rumor has it that George Lucas stole this idea for his design of the Jawa's. Mike runs away screaming and Jody follows him. Mike tells him what he saw in the woods and about the Tall Man, but Jody doesn't believe him.Mike wanders off to the mortuary and breaks in through a basement window. After he is found out, he is pursued by a flying metal sphere. It ejects blades that hooks on to your face and drills through your skull. The sphere and the dwarfs make this movie so WTF it makes it really fun to watch. There are a bunch of cheesy scenes with a lot of bad dialogue but the creative story line makes up for it. Jody finally comes around to believing Mike and they go together to the mortuary too face the Tall Man and his minions of evil. There is a big twist ending that I won't give away, that really makes the story make sense in a crazy sort of way. A new DVD edition of the movie was released in 2007 and includes a bunch of special features that are all quite good. This movie is quite an accomplishment in the fact that you would never believe its was made on such a small budget, all of the money is definitely up on the screen and not the actors pockets. "},{"Title":"I'm amazed this one is only 6.6 at IMDb! It deserves much better.","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a Phan I will concede some things that most phans won't. For one Coscarelli copied and pasted elements of just about every Horror, and SF movie and book pre 1978. He claims that the black robed dwarfs similarity to the Jawas in Star Wars was unintentional and pure coincidence. However if you look at the sphere it is fairly obvious that this was borrowed from Star Wars as well (the light saber trainer, and the torture ball in the interrogation scene between Vader and Princess Leia). He also borrows quite heavily from 1976's Burnt Offerings which not only used the same creepy mansion (The Dunsmuir Mansion) and even had a tall gaunt man who drove a hearse. Add to that some references from Frank Herbert's Dune, Plan 9 From Outer Space, Invaders From Mars, The Exorcist, Salems Lot and Suspiria. Still this movie works, and in some cases works better than those Coscarelli borrowed from.Yes you have to overlook some plot holes, bad (but well meaning) acting, and the borrowed elements of the story. What most people are forgetting is that this is essentially a movie about relationships. The bond between two brothers, the younger brother's fears of abandonment after already losing his parents a few years before, and his older brothers need to see the world why he is still young. It also touches on our fear of the unknown - especially death and what comes after.Mike is a thirteen year old in a small rural California town, who lives with his twenty something brother Jody. When one of Jody's friends is murdered (it's ruled a suicide which gets the weirdness going early), he is forbidden by his brother to go to the funeral after he had what is hinted at a breakdown after his parents death (more on this later). Being a typical thirteen year old who is told the word no by an adult, Mike does what any thirteen year old would do - he sneaks out to see the funeral. While this could be seen as a typical case of teenage rebellion, there is also Mike's problems with abandonment. As you find out later Mike follows Jody everywhere, not just to make sure he doesn't leave, but also in Mike's thinking as Jody's protector.After the funeral Mike witnesses mortician aka the Tall Man lift the coffin from the gravesite back into the hearse by himself and drive off. He realizes he sees something that is impossible and knows something strange and probably evil is going on at the mortuary, and sets out to convince his brother. His brother of course chalks it up to an overactive imagination, and dismissses it. Finally after a series of nightmares and strange encounters with the Tall Man, Mike sets out to prove once and for all that his fears are justified, which he finds out quickly are quite justified.. The rest you should see for yourself if you haven't already.SPOILERS One of the things I liked at the end was how not only Mike was considerably older looking at the very end of the movie (check the scene where he wakes up, then look at how he looks barely thirteen through the rest of the movie). He looks like he is about fifteen in the last five minutes. Another thing you notice upon returning to his room, that his room is completely different - the last few minutes are a different house entirely. He also reaches for a bottle of meds which gives you the impression the kid has had a pretty tough ride over the past year or so. It's a great setup for what comes next - the infamous ending which makes you question what was actually a dream, and what wasn't. "}{"Title":"almost phantastic","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don Coscarelli's Phantasm is a unique and original horror film that would have been great were it not for two problems; bad acting and a rather lousy ending. Everything else here is exceptional; the music, the story, the scares, and best of all, the villain. Angus Scrimm plays the 'Tallman', a human from a world in another dimension who has come to Earth, and works in a cemetery where he steals bodies to take back to his home planet for reasons that the protagonists have to figure out and fast. Scrimm plays the character perfectly, he manages to be frightening without over doing it. The protagonist is an adolescent named Michael who lives under the care of his older brother, the two of them are orphans. One day, Mike sees the Tallman stealing a coffin in the cemetery where his parents were buried and from there, his journey to find and stop this alien man becomes intense. He is a cute face, but not necessarily a protagonist that the audience will fall in love with.Phantasm as a whole, works pretty well for a horror film, it falls apart at the very end but not completely, it leaves the story open for a great horror franchise. "},{"Title":"Booooooyyyyyy!","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If the sound of that sonorous, ball-rattling growl wasn't enough to make you wet yourself, you needed to check your pulse to see if it was still there. Or as the poster and the previews so aptly put it If THIS doesn't scare you, YOU'RE ALREADY DEAD!!!At the time that movies like THE EXORCIST, HALLOWEEN and THE FURY had already bolted from the gate in the Kentucky Derby of scaring up boo and bling at the Box Office, there were some nifty little gems that wormed their way between the cracks to scoop up some crumbs and some die-hard fans who became fiercely loyal to them and the franchises they eventually spawned. Of those films that surfaced at the time, the most imaginative and out- and-out frightening of them all was PHANTASM.Mike (A. Michael Baldwin), the youngest brother of Jody (Bill Thornbury) is always underfoot, always shadowing his big brother. Younger bros have a way of doing that to begin with, but Mike has some abandonment issues and it's not a surprise their parents were both killed in a car accident, and Jody is not only Mike's legal guardian, but he's all the family the kid has. Well, not counting Jody's best bud Reggie (Reggie Bannister), a ponytailed, laid-back Sixties holdover who drives an ice-cream truck for a living.PHANTASM begins with the mysterious death of a mutual friend of Jody and Reggie's. Forbidden to attend the funeral, Mike sneaks off to Morningside Cemetery anyway to watch the service through binoculars. But the event that kicks this scarefest into high gear is not the funeral, but what happens AFTERWARDS.The moment the mourners are gone, a hearse arrives and a seven-foot tall, gaunt vision of terror dressed in the usual funeral director's outfit, picks up the casket WITH HIS BARE HANDS and dumps it into the back of the hearse like a grocery sack. Mike has just had his first encounter with the ghoul known only as The Tall Man, but it definitely won't be the last. He manages to get brother Jody and their friend Reggie roped into believing what he's seen, and trying to find out what The Tall Man is up to, and then how to stop him. The rest of the movie is catapulted into a world where dream states and reality exist almost as one, and you have no idea from moment to terrifying moment what the hell is going to happen next. Using every trick in the book that could be created before the benefits of CGI, director Don Coscarelli blends horror, sci-fi, comedy, fantasy and everything in between to keep the audience laughing and screaming, sometimes all at once. Referencing Mike Oldfield's haunting theme to THE EXORCIST, composers Fred Myrow and Malcolm Seagrave came up with a superb score that's just as haunting and memorable in its own right, underscoring the visuals perfectly. And if the acting is not top drawer from a then no-name cast, at least the performances are somewhat natural and not over-acted. The key scene-stealer is Bannister, a great instinctive Cheech-and-Chong-type comic, whose priceless expressions and timing would be enlisted for a whole slew of PHANTASM sequels.But the acting awards overall have to go to Angus Scrimm as The Tall Man. A former schoolteacher, Scrimm, with very little help from the makeup department, cut such a formidable figure of fright, that it would be impossible to imagine any sequels without him. (Indeed; he's in all of them.) And the spare special effects budget is used wisely on briefly glimpsed but highly effective set-pieces based on gore and intense action, especially the mainstay of the PHANTASM series the ominous and terrifying Silver Spheres. If (Gawd forbid!) any talk of a remake actually leads to an upcoming movie, (and there HAS been talk), I would only hope that Don Coscarelli is hired to do it justice. No other director could bring to it the sparks of originality that spawned the series in the first place.A little on the dated side, but for anyone who considers themselves a true fan of the genre, this is REQUIRED viewing! "},{"Title":"'Boy, I have such sights to show you'","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" At the dangerously young age of 24, one Don Coscarelli directed, produced, wrote and edited his debut film - and what a debut it was. Fairly low budget, clearly a genre film, but boasting creativity and daring few mainstream productions can afford. Attempting to describe PHANTASM's plot is an exercise in futility, putting it into words only makes it appear more convoluted, nonsensical and lacking even the internal logic that links one scene to the next. Were the events that transpired during the film's duration the ramblings of a feverish dream or the byproducts of an overactive imagination? Is the Tall Man's appearance in the end meant to provide some sort of closure or is it merely the commonly used gimmick of announcing a sequel? Does it matter? Out of a filmic universe where genre horror, fantasy, dream, 'unreality' and a semblance of 'reality' coexist even as they constantly overlap, Coscarelli orchestrates a convoluted tale that involves the mysterious owner of the local funeral parlor, hooded, murderous dwarfs, a parallel dimension or alien planet, a severed finger transforming into some kind of flying bug, a flying chromo sphere that seems fond of cranium trepanation and a mise-en-scene that will leave you scratching your head in disbelief in several occasions.Coscarelli wisely underuses the most impactful images he has prepared - he gives you a small taste then leaves you begging for more. The chromo sphere for example is used only once, in the bloodiest kill of a not particularly bloody film, but that scene is immediately etched in the memory of anyone who watches it. The glimpse we get of the Tall Man's dimension, a vast desert under a red sky with a procession of dwarfs crossing the landscape like medieval penitents of some bizarre order or fugitives from an alien catastrophe, is equally superb - and it works because the image is left vague and unexplained and only shown once. You wanna know more about this place but PHANTASM has few answers to give, on this or any other matter it raises.On the other hand, in the final 15 minutes the movie becomes mind-boggingly random - it seems like Coscarelli didn't really know how to end the nightmare he created. It's hard for me to care for a world where anything is possible, where it's impossible to determine what is to be expected and therefore what is extraordinary, nightmarish or surreal. By removing all logic, PHANTASM hovers confused above the chaos it has conjured. It's still a great example of unconventional 70's horror that all fans of the bizarre ought to check out for themselves. "},{"Title":"Eerie and bizarre!","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm is a way to go to end the 70's era. Before Jason Voorhes, before Freddy Kreuger, or even the Candyman, there's The Tall Man(Angus Scrimm), a hauntingly tower of terror who uses a the deadliest arsenals of all The Flying Silver Spheres! The fun fact is the Plymouth HemiCuda is a rad car back then, and still is now. A young man meets this sinister man and sees how he handled the coffins. His older brother one time makes out with this mysterious blonde and he freak when he sees one of the Tall Man's minions running around the graveyard. Then there's the scene where he was is the coffin and he blows out the left rear tire from inside. If he shot the middle he would have been blown sky high. Fighting the Tall Man is challenging, knowing his weakness is even more challenging. Reggie(Reggie Banister) remembered that the Tall Man can't stand cold. He worked as a Ice Cream salesman, and he's also a warrior at heart. Great horror movie, I like it! 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"second greatest movie ever","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is without a doubt the second greatest movie ever right after frank Capra's Mr. smith goes to Washington its the best highly recommended if you have not seen it buy it great movie awesome scary awesome adventurous cool love this movie great acting great plot great movie buy this movie for real got to buy dis movie for real it is cool love it is awesome highly recommended a don cascara classic everything you want in a movie is right here a horror classics better than all Hitchcock movies better than everything (except Mr. smith goes to Washington)it is a great movie cant explain until you see it a must see great movie "},{"Title":"Disappointing to say the least.","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a proud child of the 1980s and I love the nostalgia that comes from all the great horror movies of the 70s throughout the 80s.I had seen bits and pieces of Phantasm on TV for Halloween, on Sunday afternoons and so one. I found what I saw to be both cheesy and interesting, so I decided to pick up the special edition DVD.I'll get right to the point. This movie is LAME....Big Time. I understand that the budget was low and it was not yet the prime of modern horror, but Phantasm offers little to nothing as a so called classic film.Aside from the darkly lit nights and the 70's hairstyles, the movie offers minimum 1970s nostalgia. As for the movie itself, the story just seems undecided and filled with gaps. How a group of filmmakers got together and decided to make a movie based on this script is very surprising.In the end, nothing really happens in this movie. There's a few cool scenes with a Tall Man, one gory scene with a flying orb, and little dwarfs running amok from another dimension. All these elements could make for one hell of a gory/cheesy/nostalgic midnight movie, but they just don't. The most offensive part is the confusing and nonlinear ending. The movie makes you realize that you pretty much wasted your time right before the ending credits roll.A very disappointing 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror genre movies ever","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you want a movie that isn't based on killing virgins naked in the shower, and is still scary.... this is a must see.The plot, the acting, everything about it is so well done that you wouldn't believe it is a low budget film. I had dreams about this movie years after watching it.It has to do with an alien that wants our dead to become slaves in another dimension. The tall man is a most disconcerting villain. And the way they do the slomo with him is really impressive. Is it a dream or is it real? Just remember to tell yourself after you have watched this film, it is just a movie, it is just a movie!!!! Good night, Boyyyyyy!!!! ROFLOL "},{"Title":"Surreal, Strange and Superb!","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I heard about this film some time ago when some friends were talking about 'That film with the flying killer ball', and Phantasm was that film. I found the idea of a film about an alien grave robber and his killer spheres quite disturbing and wasn't sure I'd like it...but after hearing of the release of all 4 films I began to be more and more intrigued. I'm glad I've seen the film - its an excellent mix of horror and Sci-Fi with its fair share of moments to make you jump (for example the part where Jody is snooping round the Mausoleum and the Tall Man's hand clamps down on his shoulder). The killer sphere scene resulted in the film getting an X rating in the UK originally, but it seems a bit tame by todays standards to be honest, though its still a good scene. Another eerily effective scene is when Mike falls through the Tall Mans space gate and sees the line of dwarfs walking off into the distance - especially when you hear the sound effects of their low growls as well. The film is remarkable when you think that it was made on a small budget over a relatively long period - about two years filming at weekends only. The acting is OK, with Angus Scrimm the standout as the Tall Man. I would say this is the best of the Phantasm series, though they are all excellent, with Phantasm III possibly the weaker of the saga. "},{"Title":"A Horror Classic","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm is a horror classic. Don Coscarelli crafted an atmospheric, creepy, and very entertaining movie dealing with all kinds of unexplained terrors of the unknown. Made on a shoestring budget, the film has a few flaws, but is definitely worth watching at least once.The musical score, which many horror movie lovers know very well, fits the film perfectly. You'll probably find yourself whistling or humming it long after you've seen the movie. This single theme creates a creepy sense of dread that stays with you the entire movie.The cast is excellent. Michael Baldwin plays Mike to a tee. He can be a bit annoying at times, but he delivers a genuinely great performance. Bill Thornbury as Jody is good as well, playing his part with skepticism at first, and then once he believes Mike, he goes through the rest of the movie with caution and a shotgun. Reggie Bannister as Reggie the ice cream man supplies a bit of comic relief, which some people find unneeded, but I enjoyed it. The best performance is by Angus Scrimm, who plays the extremely creepy Tall Man. Due to this fantastic performance, The Tall Man has become a horror movie icon, just like Jason, Freddy, and Michael.The special effects are top-notch for 1979, especially on such a small budget of $300,000. A few of the props look fake, like The Tall Man's severed finger and the giant mutated fly that it becomes. But these are only minor annoyances, with everything else looking great, most notably the flying metal spheres. These things fly around, impale the victim in the forehead, then drill a hole right between their eyes. Ouch! The actual setting for the film is also very ominous. Inside the marble halls of Morningside, there is no movement, no noise, nothing. It produces a particularly unsettling result.The ending of the film is very interesting. Most people shrug it off because they don't understand it, but I found it to be a very unique way to end it. It not only made way for a sequel (three, to be exact), it stuck to the horror movie rule that not all endings should end happily.The Bottom Line Phantasm had stood the test of time and is still to this day a shocking, creepy, and extremely entertaining horror classic. "},{"Title":"Hey! I loved it!","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hey! What's all this then about this movie having no logic and being real stupid? I found it to actually be quite intelligent and creative. My reasons? Well-I don't think I have to explain the creative genius behind this movie. A chrome ball that attaches to your head and drills into your brain? A little planet where little monsters dwell, living as slaves-their portal being a sterile white room? Yellow blood and disgusting insects? Oh yeah-and the Tall Man? I think it's safe to say that this is great stuff we're dealing with here. It's an intelligent film because, alright-yeah-it has two sex scenes and all that-but it's not some little slasher movie filled with dopey (literally) teens, and c'mon! Where else have you seen a movie dealing with this kind of plot? And there IS a plot! How can there not be a plot? A boy, his brother, and his friend come across a sinister cemetery and it's ghostly inhabitants, and must fight for their lives to save themselves and the town of Morningside from being shrunk into mini-cloaked slaves by an evil Tall Man. Yeah-ok-the acting on Jody's part isn't the greatest-but he had some great scenes with little brother Mike, and c'mon! Reggie is just plain awesome! As a plus-the music is absolutely marvelous...with a slight tinkly sound to it which I believe adds to the cool, eerie horror. All in all delightful. "}{"Title":"It grows on you...","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very rarely do I completely change my mind on a movie, but that is the case with Phantasm. I wrote my very first IMDb review on this movie, and at the time, I hated it. I had never seen anything quite like it before, and I was put off the weirdness. But the thing is, it's inspired weirdness, and now that I think about it, a movie where the ending twist involves people being sucked into another dimension through a giant guitar tuner deserves some kind of AFI award just for being so damn creative. I think the movie's genius is that it plays on a somewhat childish fear that many people have, but hate to admit funeral homes. This movie is intended for everyone who feels an uncomfortable, ominous atmosphere in funeral homes and cemeteries, and serves as a terrifying (and hopefully fictional) expose of just what goes on back there after dark. Yes, the movie is full of incoherent nonsense involving flying metal spheres and little demonic creatures, and some of it is unintentionally hilarious (I still think the scene with the giant fly is one of the funniest things I've ever seen), but it is a Phantasm, after all it's not supposed to make sense. It's supposed to confuse you, shock you, and unnerve you, and it sure delivers. The fact that I just can't forget this movie, even after hating it the first time I saw it, is proof of how unique it is. Out of all the hundreds of horror movies out there, this one is more memorable--and downright cool--than most.7/10 stars, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Boy!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the best films of the genre, but what genre do you put it in? Don Coscarelli has created a science-fiction, horror, and fantasy epic all wrapped up in a bizarre package. Phantasm is a surreal tale of a young boy who discovers a nightmare landscape of a cemetery after dark (and all the creatures who inhabit it). The entire cast have become major horror icons, and for the most part haven't left the boundaries of the series. I can't say enough about Reggie Bannister and Angus Scrimm in particular. Reggie's character (aptly named Reggie) ends up becoming Bruce Campbellesque as the series goes on. The musical score is one of the most haunting aspects of the movie. Along with the score, the Tall Man (with his dialogue consisting of only five lines) is one of the most awesome villains in cinematic history. The flying sentinels are also quite amazing; they make the film unforgettable. This movie has a creep factor of ten and I recommend seeing the sequels as well. Phantasm has become a great saga and I can't wait to witness the next installment. "},{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm is the story of a pair of brothers and a good friend battling hoards of the undead led by The Tall Man.  Phantasm is a horror classic made in 1979 that stills stands alone today.  A very entertaining and amusing horror/fantasy gem.  It has some cheesy moments due to a low budget, but its cheese and who doesn't love a little cheese? In despite of a low budget it manages to be atmospheric and creepy, but never seems to take itself seriously.  Cool characters, a cool villain, and plenty of fun.  Phantasm is a must see for all horror fans.   "},{"Title":"Creativity does not necessarily make a good movie...","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I rented this finally, I thought I would be seeing an Evil Dead or Texas Chain Saw Massacre, but instead I got a  REALLY camp 70's horror. The idea is interesting, but the plot makes no sense, and the acting is really, I think, the worst I have ever seen. The movie is o.k, but it definitely should be held up high  like the previous movies aforementioned. Creativity does not necessarily equal a good  "},{"Title":"Excellent Horror","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first saw Phantasm, I hated it. Was annoyed by it all. Now today, I really love this film. It's one of the many great horror films of the 1970s. The DVD is amazing and made me appreciate this underrated flick more than ever. Sure, the acting is stilted and the set-up are sometimes obvious but the whole nightmarish quality is near perfect. It's obvious Wes Craven was inspired by Phantasm when he came up with A Nightmare on Elm Street (which is a crude combination of Halloween and Phantasm). But Phantasm is so much better than NOES because it remains scary and edgy up to the very end. A Nightmare started with a bang but ended on a flat note.What I find really funny about Phantasm is that it follows the strange trend of the 1970s, where a lot young filmmakers who really didn't know that much about horror, created one classic scare flick, and then were unable to come up with a better film with their unveven career. For example, Tobe Hooper and Texas Chainsaw Massacre; Carpenter and Halloween; Romero and Dawn of the dead; Friedkin and Exorcist, etc. And like these directors and their great horror movies, Don Coscarelli has been unable to repeat or top the coolness and greatness of Phantasm with his terrible film career (avoid the Phantasm sequels). Very odd.The story is good and the relationship between the brothers is original and all too rare in movies, and makes a lot of sense, in a Jungian way. The cinematography is excellent, the music is as memorable as Halloween's score. The effects are actually good and the film is creepy, even when it's silly (that bug scene). Everything about Phantasm works, including the truly frightening, fatalistic ending, which was ripped-off unsuccessfully in A Nightmare's ending. Phantasm is a surreal, nightmarish odyssey. I highly recommend it. And the DVD is A+. "},{"Title":"I'm an idiot.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I sat down and watched all four of the Phantasm films the other day, just because I'm an idiot.This first one was allright--it's almost completely incomprehensible in terms of plot or story or character(I mean, exactly what happens at the end anyways?)But in terms of it's central concept, I think it's quite strong. All the bizarre Tall-Man, flying balls, shrunken dwarves can all be rarefied down into one basic fear the fear of death, and what happens to us after death, and how we have no control over what may be done to us after we die. That gets at you on a pretty basic level. Unfortunately, the rest of it just is hard to follow.But at least it's unique. In a world full of movies that are completely pre-packaged, this movie comes not form left field, but from the junkyard outside the fence thirty yards BEHIND left field.Oi.Check it out, and see if you don't start thinking about cremation. Or wondering if your dead grandparents are screaming in hell somewhere.I sat down and watched all four of the Phantasm films the other day, just because I'm an idiot. "},{"Title":"Sometimes interesting, sometimes awful","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm is a must-see for any horror fan.  Notice that I said horror fan, not movie fan.  Anyway the movie has its share of bright spots, such as Angus Scrimm's great role as the Tall Man and Reggie Banister as, well, an ice cream man fighting supernatural forces. These qualities make for a campy horror film.  However the film's potential is crushed when dwarves and extra-dimensional worlds are thrown into the mix.  It would have been better as a contemporary gothic thriller.  However it still is an interesting movie if you love horror.    "},{"Title":"One of the GREATEST HORROR FILMS EVER!!!!","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know what it is about this movie, but I can't get enough of it. This is probably my #1 favorite horror film of all time. That's right OF ALL TIME!! In my opinion, the Phantasm series is right up there with Sam Raimi's Evil Dead trilogy. You have to see it to understand why it's so great, and if you don't think you liked it the first time, see it again! It only gets better!! This is a great one to watch with your friends. If you don't have friends, watch it alone! It really doesn't matter that much, so don't feel bad. Anyway, very few movies are this much fun to watch. And I'm not just talking horror films, either. This one is the best! ! "},{"Title":"One of the most original horror films ever!","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm is a bizarre, charming film that I watch frequently.  It has a campy quality where virtually anything is allowed to happen.  Among my favorite weird occurrences in this movie are the giant fly (the fly rules, too bad it doesn't appear again in any of the sequels!), Mike's bike accident and the Tall Man growling BOY!.  The soundtrack complements the visuals very nicely, though they should have varied the music more as one composition in particular gets overused.  The plot may or may not be just a bad dream from one of the characters, and it is not particularly coherent. However, the lack of coherence may actually be appropriate as dream sequences often just skip abruptly instead of flowing logically from one to the next.  This quirk of incoherence may generate confusion and require having to watch the movie twice to fully appreciate it.  Nevertheless, Phantasm has a wonderful chemistry mixing humor with horror, and despite its late '70's look, the movie transcends time! "},{"Title":"By far the best movie i,ve ever seen","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm is by far the best movie I've ever seen. It has laughs and screams at exactly the right moment. And even though the film was released in 1979 even today it still has an impact in the lives of many fans and it will keep you guessing until the end. Note You have to check out the awesome phantasm DVD filled with lots of great extras. And after you see the first phantasm you might want to check out the other three sequels and one of phantasms creator Don Coscarelli,s latest film Bubba Ho Tep and check out other MGM releases. Note If this comment is helpful to you you might want to see how i rate other great films and TV shows. "}{"Title":"Classic Horror Phantasm!","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm (1979) was one of the classic horror films that came out during the genre's rebirth during the late 80's. Fueled by the success of Halloween, Don Coscerelli created his own low budget horror with similar results. A nearby cemetery has some strange happenings going on. A young kid (A. Michael Baldwin) witnesses some creepy stuff and a mysterious figure he dubs The Tall Man walking around the yards. After a few scares and having to convince thoses around him about what he's just witnesses, his brother and an ice cream man buddy Reggie (Reggie Bannister) finally become aware of the new evil that has entered their neighborhood. Future trips to the cemetery brings them closer to horror that none of them could have ever realize.Produced on a shoe string budget, Don Coscerelli made one of the most frightening and influential horror films ever made. Nobody knew how successful this movie would have been. It was such a hit that they made three more films. but the movie was plagued by problems with the M.P.A.A. and many of the gory scenes had to be toned down and re-shot. Still, this movie is very effective and one of my favorites. If you love smart and intelligent horror films, look no further.A "},{"Title":"Very unique and original must have seen horror movie!","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm is one of my all time favorite horror movies! It is amazingly original and therefore has a number of unique aspects!Unfortunately Phantasm was done as a low budget movie, it could have been probably more, because the sphere scene in the graveyard seems very dumb to me.Although it has what a horror movie needs an incredibly frightening and unique bad guy the tall man (Angus Scrimm) and friendly heroes who fight him!The movie is about a boy named Mike who discovers on the cemetery - he is there because a friend of his brother died (killed by the tall man) - that the undertaker takes the buried coffins out of the earth after the burring! He investigates and finds out that the tall man shrinks the bodies to create dwarfs which are his servants.Later he also finds out that the dwarfs are some kind of army that the tall man passes into another dimension - a gloomy red kind of planet in the movie, unfortunately just a few seconds to watch - and later use them to rule the earth.Mike manages to get into the graveyard but gets spotted and hunted by the tall man. He also manages to convince his brother - another amazingly original part of the movie - and their friend Reggie to help him finish up with the tall man.They get into the graveyard and open the doors to the dimension and get to know the horrendous plan of the tall man. They manage to defeat him but wasn't it all a dream? No it was not! Strange ending though!As Phantasm is only the first part of this series covering 5 parts, I would say that it is by far the best part of the series! Part 2 is only about hunting the tall man and contains really silly pseudo-erotic scenes. Part 3 is absolutely unnecessary! Whereas Part 4 becomes interesting because it tells us more about the tall man and his origins. My opinion is that part 4 should have been part 2. Let's hope that part 5 (Phantasm's End) will be a perfect ending!Phantasm gets 8.7 from 10 Points!  "},{"Title":"Wow, this one doesn't stand the test of time","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had fond memories of this film from my childhood. However, 25 years later, Phantasm turns out to be a complete disappointment. Much of the score is ripped from the Exorcist, the acting is on par with your local dinner theatre, and the script is atrocious. The pace of the movie would generously be described as languid... many scenes linger on even when there's nothing left to see.What was with the girl and her grandmother? And how about the girls from the antique shop? If more time was spent developing those characters and their relationship with our 'heroes', it would've been much more interesting. Instead, we're treated to more of the kid running.I appreciate the attempts at surrealism. The sphere was inspired, although there wasn't enough of it. Perhaps some of the ideas were fleshed out better in the sequels.A lot has changed in the horror genre in 2 1/2 decades. Some say they don't make 'em like they used to. In the case of Phantasm, that's a good thing.  "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's a great movie. The film is filled with surreal offbeat images - the killer sphere that drills into victims' heads and sprays the entire contents of their brains out behind it; the sinister figure of the Tall Man who is always shot striding along in slow-motion to the accompaniment of huge booming drumbeats; his finger that still wiggles after being amputated and then mutates into a malevolent insect; hands exploding out of walls and graves to grab people and so on.An example of the wonders you can achieve on a low budget, Phantasm was scripted (and edited, and shot) by its young director, Don Coscarelli, who wasn't afraid to give his imagination free rein in the story department. Starting off in the time honoured manner of many horror films, with its youthful protagonist trying and failing to convince anyone, but especially his older brother, that evil is present in their small town, it works itself up into a relentless series of bizarre setpieces, without bothering to pay much attention to having it all make sense.Coscarelli sets a wonderful atmosphere in Phantasm. What scarier place can one conceive of other than a mortuary and its cemetery.  "},{"Title":"Stylish direction and images conceal a scant plot.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Overall, this film bears no logic, no plausible storylines, no good acting, nothing that makes a movie good.But director Don Coscarelli invests this low-budget cult success with enough potently stylish imagery to hold the viewer in.  Just don't think about it too much.*1/2 out of ****.MPAA Rated R for some graphic violence, nudity, and language. "},{"Title":"Plan 9 1/2 from Outer Space","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wonderful, excellent, delightful, for an utter piece of crap. Utilizing much the same story, budget and Z-movie trimmings as Ed Wood's best-known film, PHANTASM is eminently watchable trash. It is as delicious for its awfulness as much as for its willingness to do all kinds of absurd things, like turning corpses into Jawas and storing them in an ice cream truck. Complete with screamingly bad acting and ridiculous, unnecessary, illogical plot contrivances, this movie also features a gateway to another dimension, an abandoned mineshaft, a flying ball-bearing, some severed fingers, a couple of unmotivated sex scenes, a giant housefly on wires, a few shotgunned dwarfs, a bald guy with a ponytail and a 1970 Barracuda. Plus Angus Scrimm as Tor Johnson.It says something about the acid generation that while PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE was a dismal box office failure in 1959, twenty years later PHANTASM was popular enough to achieve international release, spawn at least four sequels, and launch the career of questionable auteur Don Coscarelli. Thanks, Timothy Leary. "},{"Title":"Marijuana????","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a piece of crap and total waste of time. Can't believe the comments some people made about this movie. Are you all on drugs? This is just one of the most (if not the most) idiotic movies I've seen in my entire life. The script is bad and the acting is worst. There is just nothing good about it. PHANTASM is not even watchable trash.Some comments made hereA 1979 classic, which the new generation may think dated.... I'm 39 and still don't find this to be a classic.It grows on you......Yeah! I just could not wait for it to end.Surreal, Strange and Superb!...????? Marijuana????WARNING!! WARNING!!! CRAP ALERT!!! If you are thinking about watching this movie, JUST DON'T!!! Find something better to do with your time. "},{"Title":"A Classic Among Horrors","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This has to be one of the greatest cult classic horror films around. It's weird, bizarre, surreal, chilling and ultimately scary. It has one of the most original and most iconic murder weapons on it and whilst talking about original, this story is as different to anything you would have seen before. It never deals B-Grade in terms of quality. Everything is high octane and well revised for a delivery of great suspense and thrills. A great if not fantastic horror film. It's second only to that of the Evil Dead trilogy. Cult classics are great and this one is one of those greats. Hopefully this hidden gem surfaces for a big number 5 film which any fan of the series will be ecstatically waiting for. "},{"Title":"A very cool horror movie with old school flavor and a great villain despite some flaws","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm qualifies as one of those cult films where the movie doesn't provide much when it comes to some aspects like acting and editing, but it makes it up by delivering a worthy movie with plenty of charm and creepy atmosphere.Good I really like the old school atmosphere the movie has. It has the creepy houses, the fog, and the cemetery. It certainly loves the classic horror tropes and it uses it effectively. The story is very interesting with a nice viewpoint on death and mourning with a great villain in the Tall Man portrayed brilliantly by Angus Scrimm. Add some goofy yet cool moments like the Tall Man's henchmen and those cool killer steel balls that provide some cool gore and you have some fun here. The music is fantastic as well.Bad Unfortunately, it does have some problems when it comes to the basics. The acting for the most part ranges from flat to stiff from the protagonists with Scrimm being the only one doing good despite his limited screen time. The editing is also pretty wonky as it jumps around a bit during important scenes.Overall, it is certainly a good horror movie that mixes some creepiness, atmosphere, and cheese with tact although the acting and editing takes it down a notch. "},{"Title":"A very tall man, metal balls of death, and a lot of fun.","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (69%) One of the better late seventies/early eighties horror flicks that is filled to the brim with ideas (some great, a couple good, and one or two not so hot). This is the type of film that took pride of place alongside the likes of The evil dead, Hellraiser, and A nightmare on Elm street in the horror section in almost every video shop in the land; with almost everyone who rented it getting their money's worth from this fun, quite well made, and more than a little odd film. This truth be told isn't all that gory, there's the scene with the metal ball of death doing what it does, but overall this is more of an interestingly creepy and slightly funny film than violent or disturbing. Anyone who likes this era of horror should without doubt give this a look. "}{"Title":"It's fun","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The plot is wafer thin and repetitive, not to mention amateurish. But there are original elements in the film and the film radiates genuine joy of filmmaking. It reminds me of a time when filmmaking was fun and original, not a cynical business of remaking and rebooting that Hollywood has become.So, what is this film about? It's about a weird kid that is being chased by a tall, creepy guy and a bunch of horror-style Jawas. That's about it. Scene after scene he runs into these guys and somehow gets away. Then a couple of other guys join in and now they too keep running into the creeps and somehow managing to get away.Of course, the tall man cannot be killed, and he has an endless supply of evil Jawas, so there is room for endless encounters with them. In fact, the director thought one film was not nearly enough, so he made three sequels, all of which have virtually no plot and consist of little more than creepy encounters with the tall man and his minions.There is, however, one cool thing a floating silver ball that buries itself into a guy's head and drills into it. It remains an icon of horror films Final verdict 5/10 "},{"Title":"4/4 stars; A True Horror Classic )","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm is one of the best horror films there is, and quite possibly may be my most favorite horror film of all time ) Beautiful, haunting, surreal and almost dream like in its story- telling, this little gem of a film directed by Don Coscarelli certainly deserves to be remembered; Angus Scrimm delivers one of the best performances in the film as the Tall Man, a villain who definitely deserves to be included in the ranks of other memorable antagonists; Michael, Freddy, Jason and others, but to me what makes the Tall Man so creepy and terrifying is that we don't really know what his true motives are; Also, in my own opinion, the character to me represents the ultimate and inescapable nature of Death itself; a bridge between Mike's dreams and reality (Mike wishes to escape into his dream world to avoid the troubles and heartache of reality, but no matter where he goes, the Tall Man will always be there, reminding him (and by extension, the audience), that Death is the only reality we cannot escape from. One of the many reasons why I love this little gem; it allows the viewer to decide how they wish to interpret the film, a rare thing which not many films nowadays do. The sequels are awesome as well, but to me, the original Phantasm will always be the best, and with the new film Ravager fast approaching, it's time for this little, almost forgotten classic to see the light of day in a better fashion. 4 stars out of 4 BOYYYYYYYY! "},{"Title":"Weird, twisted and very watchable","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I do like films that are 'so bad they're good.' And recently I watched The House By the Cemetery (by the same writer/director Don Coscarelli) and I hated it. So perhaps I lowered my expectations with this one. Either way, I was pleasantly surprised.It started with a young boy. Now, this can be a problem, as kids in horror movies (especially ones from the seventies and eighties) are notoriously annoying. However, despite his old fashioned haircut, he was actually pretty watchable. The same could be said for his older brother, who he goes to for help when he starts watching a suspicious undertaker in a local funeral home.What transpires is the brothers and their friends investigating some pretty dark and nasty goings on. Yes, it's a bit dated, but fun nonetheless. Could you really pass up the opportunity to watch cloaked dwarfs, angry mutant flies with super-strength and, of course, that scene with the miniature Death Star (watch it, you'll know what I'm referring to).Rather than just being a straight slasher film, Phantasm actually tries to be a little different, not just with the plot, but also with the way it's put together. Some people have described it has having a similar feel to David Lynch's films. In some ways they're not wrong.All in all, if you're a horror buff, then you really should watch this. It may look a little dated, but it's different enough to be regarded as an important part of the horror genre. "},{"Title":"Original & Bizarre.","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Strange but effective horror film about a young boy, after recently losing his parents, who discovers that the mortuary they are entombed at is run by a sinister tall man(Angus Scrimm, most menacing!) who uses dwarfs and flying spheres as part of a secret plan against the human race, and enlists his older brother and his friend to stop him, though he isn't that easy to kill...Good direction and original approach to a disturbing premise make this eerie film memorable; despite some graphic violence there is a great deal of imagination at work. A surprise box-office success that led to three sequels(so far!) "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time, and that's saying something!","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The reader of this review may just want to hop on down to the third paragraph. This second one is pretty much just about me and will tell you nothing about the film. And... I'm just curious. How does One write a decent review WITHOUT revealing spoilers? Hmmm...I've been putting this off for a long time. I'm not sure I will enlighten anyone on this film more that the 244 reviews before me; so, I'm pretty sure I'm doing this for ME. Let me just preface this (for those of you who haven't visited my profile) by telling you I have a DVD problem (much like women and shoes. Take it sexist if you will but we all have one buying problem or another.) I own over 4,000 DVD's. Not as large as some (just search movie collections on tube sites) but much more than your average collection. So when I choose Phantasm as my favorite movie it's got some weight behind it. And I say MY favorite film because it's completely my opinion. I'm not here to make it yours. I used to manage a video store in Las Vegas. The last two questions I wanted to hear from a customer were, Is this SUPPOSED to be good? and, What do you recommend? To the first I would usually reply, I guess; the reviews are good. To the second I would always reply, Nothing. I tend to like B(ad)-Movies. Who wants to recommend a movie where the customer will come back angry? Hopefully no one. I would tell people that my opinion is most probably not theirs'. This said...The first time I saw Phantasm was in the summer of '79 at an outdoor theater in Oshkosh, Wisconsin when I was 13 1/2 years old. (Ewww, it's a math problem...) I'm just saying I was very impressionable. I'd have to say it was my first horror movie. I could not have been introduced better. Friday The 13th was still a summer away. I may have also seen Tourist Trap in '79. Good times. I thought Phantasm was a foreign film. In my mind this movie could not have come out of the U.S. And time did nothing but confirm this belief. In the following years I was to see many, many Italian horror movies. For me Phantasm fit perfectly into that way of film making. Its richly colorful palate and its barely understandable storyline, not to mention the score, placed it squarely, for me, into foreign-film brackets. And just look at the last name of the director. How Italian can you get? I used to watch their lips very closely to see if there was an English overdub. None of this is true, of course. Although Don Coscarelli was born in Libya with obviously Italian heritage. Who would guess he grew up in Long Beach, California?So what do we have here? A (foreign-looking) horror-science-fiction-mystery. One of very few, I'm sure. I dislike not understanding a storyline in a film. In fact, I'm usually the guy that figures out, very early on, how the movie is going to end. A lot of the time the way I see an ending is better than the way it usually does. So I watched Phantasm over and over and over... Until I was fairly sure I got it. I also watched the sequels many times in hopes that this would help me further understand. Keep in mind Don C. just wanted the movie to be fun. Stanley Kubrick once said, A film can be real or entertaining, it's very difficult to be both. And entertaining it is! It's one of those movies you just let flow over you the first couple of times before you start picking at it. It's glossy, fast paced, and ever-so 70's. It, like many things to come in the 80's, didn't have to make sense. It just had to be cotton candy for the senses. Now I know there are a lot of you reading this and saying (probably out-loud) How did he not get this? I was 13 people! I'd (probably) seen my first R-rated film (let alone a horror movie.) My parents didn't own a VCR until 1981. And... I didn't own a copy of it until 1987. So all I had to go on was an outdoor theater experience... twice maybe. Eight years after that I was playing catch-up.My interpretation? You don't want or need that from me. Read the other 244 reviews. I'm sure they're full of interpretations and opinions. Besides, you know how I feel about recommendations. Just know that I watch Phantasm and its three sequels at least once a year. They are precious pieces of time for me. They certainly started a rather large ball rolling where my film collecting is concerned. I will give you one opinion on my way out. 75% of my favorite HORROR movies came out between '77 and '80. I'll say it again, Good Times! "},{"Title":"You gotta love the 80's!","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is obviously a low budget production, with amateur actors and crew, but it has that feel of the 70-80's when everything was possible and people had fun when making and viewing a movie.I won't waste your time with the plot. It doesn't make sense much of the time, but the atmosphere and music and actors are actually making the film delightfully creepy. Also the creative freedom of the time was awesome kids driving, shooting guns and drinking (without them being socially uncouth), gratuitous boob scenes, psychic old women that make things appear and disappear and that have no connection whatsoever with the plot but rip off from Dune, yellow blood, parallel dimensions... They knew how to mix it up back then.Bottom line not much of a horror based on the scariness factor, but a fun film with low production values. It is the first of four films which I intend to see. I hear the second one is a lot better, so I can't wait. "},{"Title":"Cool but a little bit cheesy.","Date":"8 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie deserves its 7 rating that its averaging at. Its a cool concept. The tall man is a great villain. The characters are cool. The plot is very cool. Some of the concepts ( gates to the other world, shrinking of human corpses for slaves, the killing sphere) are other worldy and surreal.This movie succeeded in satisfying my hunger for a cool and entertaining science fiction film. With that said, I have to warn you that there are some cheesy parts to this movie. One scene was laughable because of the over-the-top outlandish special effect and the over the top acting required to attempt to pull it off. There were also one or two scenes that will require you to suspend your capacity to reason in order to further the plot. These few things kind of cheapened the movie. But still a good movie. Better than a lot of the cheese-ball stuff thats out there. I think this movie respectably should linger from a 6-7 in the review ratings. I give it a seven. "},{"Title":"Silver bells, silver bells","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I mean, silver balls.... Yes, the ball is back. This film is so unusual that it could have only come from a dream, which is exactly where the director got the idea. Sometimes that's where the best ideas come from. This film has a few things going for it, which I'll mention before I harp on it.Angus Scrimm created a horror icon in the Tall Man. I prefer his character in Phantasm II to this film, but he still does a creepy fine job. Reggie Bannister as, well, Reggie, was lame in this movie, but he seemed much improved for the sequel. Still, I liked the character of Reggie in the movie, even if most of his lines were bad and weren't delivered well at all. The sweeping runs through the mortuary corridors were great, reminding me of One Dark Night(though Phantasm makes that film look like a school film class project). The silver ball had limited screen time, and one wishes the red POV would have gotten a little more presence in the film. I think the best thing about the movie is the plot. It's so different from anything else up to that point, you can't help but have some admiration for it and also wonder how the director sold the idea of this picture to get the funds. A possibly indestructible alien(?) and a league of undead dwarfs run a funeral home with a secret gateway inside that leads to another planet and possibly another dimension. The music was great. I think it owed a lot to some Italian horror soundtracks of the time, and is just as creepy as any tracks John Carpenter ever wrote. A very memorable theme.The ending of the film is the worst. It is slipshod and feels like it was tacked on. I know the original idea for the film had a runtime of close to 3 hours, but certainly more could have been done with the ending. Jody's fate seemed like an afterthought, and how much of the film was supposed to be real up until the ending? And, ewww, did both Tommy and Jody make out with the Tall Man and did Tommy have sex with him in the guise of that nasty beast of a girl with the horrid robin's-egg-blue eye shadow? Now, that is scary. Also, I hated the repeated shots of the funeral home exterior from the exact same angle in several shots. I'm not sure if they just kept recycling the footage of that shot or what, but it was annoying.The DVD includes a few deleted scenes, the best of which should have been left in the film. Within the mortuary, Mike and Jody encountered the Tall Man, with Jody unloading his pump shotgun into the weirdo, but having no effect, Jody and Mike get slapped around a bit. Mike remembered the Tall Man's aversion to cold and sprays him with the fire extinguisher with gooey results. That could have been left in the movie and still used the same ending to maintain the Tall Man's indestructible nature.I'm not a huge fan of the Phantasm series as a whole, I think III and IV are not that great. I love part II, which was actually the first of the series I ever saw(I can still remember seeing the great trailers on TV). The original is still pretty good, if you can overlook the bad editing, the often rancid acting and dialogue, and the insipid finale. You'll be hard-pressed to find much more original fare in terms of old horror. Maybe a remake would be better than a part V. "},{"Title":"Awesomly Bad!","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I LOVED this music in this movie. All analog 1970s sythesizers and all sorts of crazy stuff going on.The main character kid in this movie looked very adrogenous, and looked kind of like a young Jodi Foster. Weird.His older brother is a real doofus. Of course he is supposed to be Mr. Cool.Did I mention the music was awesome? However, all in all this movie is produced well, the acting is OK. As weird as the plot is, at least there is one and its internally consistent which most horror movies can't even say that. "},{"Title":"Boy","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie starts out great because nothing gets the viewers attention than lust in the cemetery. Of course that doesn't last very long for him and soon after the movie gets creepy. Especially when there is some coffin robbing going on with the tall man. The movie does have a lot of creepy parts to it and some parts I don't understand. I don't understand why there was a flying ball with razors and a drill on it. I also don't know why the dead were shrunk down. Besides that I just enjoyed it and thought that it was pretty scary. I enjoyed the music the most of all. What a great soundtrack for such a strange movie. This movie is like being asleep and having the worst nightmare in your head. It's a scary nightmare but it doesn't make very much sense. "}{"Title":"Vastly overrated","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those horror movies that takes on some sort of legendary status among some horror fans.After you watch it you'll wonder why.I watched this thing not too long after it came out but couldn't remember much about it so I rented it again.Now I remember why I didn't remember anything about it...it wasn't memorable.A young boy,living with his older brother,stumbles upon some weird occurrences down at the mortuary.After finally convincing his older brother that they are in danger,the two try to figure out what to do.It seems that the mortician is stealing bodies and making them into 3 foot midgets.They are brought back to life and used as slaves.You'll have to see this thing to find out who the mortician is and why he wants slaves.But it still won't make much sense to you.So yeah you get this Tall Man,the mortician,who if you'll notice isn't really that tall he just wears some big ass-ed boots,who creeps around the graveyard and of course you got the famous flying steel ball that protects the mortuary and you got the mean little re-animated dwarfs but it all sounds better than it is.The script is really lame.The plot is convoluted and disjointed and doesn't make a lick of sense.The acting is really ,really bad.Mike Baldwin,who plays the young boy,is as bad an actor as I've seen.But really everyone pretty much sucked as actors in this thing.The gore was pretty sparse and sets were terribly cheesy.Some quick mammary shots but nothing to write home about.Perhaps the best thing about this DVD was watching the extras after I watched the movie.There you get to see the director and producers and others who worked on this movie sit around and discuss this thing so seriously like they had made The Godfather or Citizen Kane.That was a hoot.They talked about important points in the life of the cheese master who made this thing like he was Frank Capra or some director of consequence.I first thought it was maybe a spoof but NO! they were serious about it! It is hilarious to me to see how self-important some guys become after cranking out two or three movies that are total wastes of time.This movie is vastly overrated.After you see it you'll wonder just how much validity you can give some of the reviewers at this website who all seem to praise this mess.At the time of this review this movie was rated a 6.6 in here.Unbelievable!Certainly you can find a lot worse horror movies to watch but you probably won't find one in which so much praise has been heaped on so much of nothing. "},{"Title":"Encounters with a Tall Man.","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plot A young boy unexpectedly witnesses a bizarre event at the town's cemetery. The boy convinces his older brother to investigate the abnormalities in the graveyard. So, with the help of his brother and Reggie, they investigate the morgue. They encounter strange dwarfs, an incredibly strong, tall man and a few extraordinary weapons.View The directing is strong considering that it's a low budget film. Overall it's well directed. The acting is terrible. And the script is filled with major flaws, which is accompanied by slow paced action. I think the film could have concentrated more on what the tall man was actually trying to accomplish and what his world really was. Instead, the film takes us back and forth the mortuary and the brother's house. I think Reggie is abducted from his house on three different occasions. I realize this was all a dream, but it has so many inconsistencies. The only thing I liked about the movie was the extremely cool weapon that glides through the morgue, trying to kill anything in its path. The scene portraying the accidental death of one of the inn keepers is well executed. I think the movie would have been more successful with the inclusions of more of weapons similar to the flying metal death dish.Vote 4/10. Just below an average film. Not worth watching unless you have a special connection with the film. "},{"Title":"I loved it.  Just wish Eli Roth starred in it and got killed!","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jody (Bill Thornbury) and Reggie (Reggie Bannister) attend the funeral of their friend Tommy, who apparently took his own life. Jody's teenage brother Mike (Michael Baldwin), who Jody looks after, isn't invited, because after the funeral of his parents he had nightmares for weeks. Nevertheless, Mike is secretly spying on the events at the Morningside Funeral Home from his hiding place in the bushes, and is surprised to see that after the mourners leave, a tall man (Angus Scrimm) picks up the heavy coffin on his own and pushes it into the back of his hearse. Couple that sight with the nagging feeling that he is being watched by something unseen, and Mike suffers a growing dread about what is really happening in the mausoleum...An example of the wonders you can achieve on a low budget, Phantasm was scripted (and edited, and shot) by its young director, Don Coscarelli, who wasn't afraid to give his imagination free rein in the story department. Starting off in the time honoured manner of many horror films, with its youthful protagonist trying and failing to convince anyone, but especially his older brother, that evil is present in their small town, it works itself up into a relentless series of bizarre setpieces, without bothering to pay much attention to having it all make sense.After nobody listens to him, Mike decides to collect evidence of the supernatural goings-on on his own, by breaking into the funeral home. Wandering the shadowy store rooms and grey corridors, he is suddenly chased by a flying silver sphere, which, in the film's most famous scene, pursues him until it is embedded in the head of a caretaker at the home, drills through the hapless man's skull, and drains his blood from a hole in the opposite side. And that's not all, as Mike is pursued by the Tall Man, trapping his fingers in a heavy door, then cutting them off, sticking one of the still-moving digits in his pocket, and escaping out of the window, narrowly avoiding being grabbed by cowled dwarfs.Despite being set around a cemetery, Phantasm doesn't fall victim to the clichés of past crypt-based chillers by adding in vampires, zombies or ghosts. Sure, it has its fair share of coffins, and gravestones do erupt from the ground at one point, but there's a macabre, science fiction twist to who the Tall Man is and what he is up to. As far as I can work out, he hails from another dimension and is harvesting the dead to transform them into wicked, diminutive slaves - sort of Jawas gone bad. Presumably to push the numbers up, the Tall Man also turns into a woman and seduces unwary men in the graveyard, only to kill them at the crucial moment, which is what happened to Tommy.By only following plot logic as far as it takes each scene into the next, the film could be needlessly confusing, but the accumulation of weirdness mainly for effect is an unexpected bonus to the production. The more strange things happen, the more Phantasm becomes like a nightmare, even if there are clunky bits of business as when the panicked Jody is confronted with his own car driving up to him (after a long pause it's revealed Mike is behind the wheel). It features more imagination than many, more expensive films, and in spite of its amateurish quality it rightly became a cult success. Followed by three sequels, which are more or less variations on the same theme. Music by Fred Myrow and Malcolm Seagrave. "},{"Title":"Fun little flick with a few scare scenes.","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An ugly kid with no parents named Mike Pearson (A. Michael Baldwin) notices a Tall Man (Angus Scrimm) lift an incredibly heavy coffin with no trouble at all. He's also worried about his brother (Bill Thornbury), who plans to leave him. When he goes to investigate the Tall Man, he witnesses something awful and now him, his brother, and an ice cream man (Reggie Bannister) to save the day.The first thing I must point out is the special effects. Top-notch, Grade A. It's wonderfully scary when it wants to be, and cheesy when it wants to be.The idea of the film is way out there this is no doubt a strange little film. The pacing was strange, but had a nice dreamy flow to it.The acting was okay, although sometimes Baldwin ruined the scene, but that's always the trouble with little kid actors (Even though he was 16).The directing is great and the cinematography is even better! Thumbs up to Mr. Coscarelli.So, pop some pop corn, grab a coke and sit down with your friends for...PHANTASM! "},{"Title":"Ground Breaking","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off, let me start off by saying that computers have done a lot of good in the field of communication. Unfortunately they also give a forum for cynical bitter (choose your own expletive)'s! One must take into consideration the circumstances behind the production being reviewed, like budget, age of director, means of distribution. etc (the intangibles are endless). So with that disclaimer out of the way, here we go.....Phantasm is without a doubt, one of the most original horror, sci-fi,drama,comedy films of all time. (Did not realize that was a genre of film until now, how ingenious.Don't forget,made in 1979!) It is about a small town under siege by an other worldly, sinister, mortician. The story takes so many twists and turns, it is better watched then described. There IS plenty of character development, that is what made Phantasm so appealing. Even after witnessing something outlandish, because of the sense of family established throughout the film, you sort of entertain the thought that it could happen in Small Town, USA. You do care what happens to the brother's,and/or their friends. At it's foundation, Phantasm is about the loss of loved one's,and the impossibility of escaping death. Another innovative move on Don Coscarelli's part was making the hero , a young, innocent boy,who must confront evil in of all places, a creepy mausoleum.So all you nay sayers, next time you pass judgment, make sure you peel back all the layer's before you criticize the core.This movie has stood the test of time, over 25 years. "},{"Title":"Dreamy, surreal horror gem","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm, known as The Never Dead in some markets (to avoid association with Richard Franklin's softcore Fantasm and Fantasm Comes Again) is a creepy, dreamy, surreal horror gem. A young boy (Michael Baldwin) experiences nightmares after his parents are killed in an auto crash. He turns to his brother Jody (Bill Thornbury) for comfort, but no man can halt the visions Michael has of being stalked by The Tall Man, an evil, intimidating undertaker (Angus Scrimm). The vague plot involves Michael's investigation into the theft of corpses from a mausoleum, but it is really an excuse to show scary, erotic and bloody set pieces. The score by Fred Myrow and Malcolm Seagrave is one of the best horror scores ever and the sound design is mighty impressive. Director Coscarelli demonstrates a flair for surreal imagery, but his dramatic, non-horror scenes are flat. Awful sequels followed. "},{"Title":"Six-Plus Feet Under","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There may be stranger films, and there are definitely many better films, but Phantasm has got to be one of the best strange films of all time. Adhering only to nightmare logic, the plot careens about the screen like a drunken celebrity chased by a pack of paparazzi.The story revolves around two brothers' attempts to discover the sinister secrets lurking in the town's cemetery, Morningside, after the deaths of their parents and a friend of the older brother, Jody. Opposing their efforts are the amazingly menacing Tall Man, a small horde of robed dwarfs, and a lethal, flying silver ball. Michael, the younger brother, is the more motivated of the two, stumbling upon signs that something evil is afoot while hanging around the cemetery in the wake of the friend's funeral (which Jody forbids him to attend because he's afraid that, after having just dealt with his folks' deaths, attending another funeral might just send Mikey over the edge). They gradually uncover a plot to turn the recently-deceased into a renewable resource for the Tall Man's home planet/dimension/whatever, and with the help of their scene-stealing ice cream vendor friend, Reggie, manage to foil the Tall Man's cheap labor scheme. Or do they? By the end of the film, we discover that nothing is as it seems, and the threat more subtle and pervasive than we have been led to believe.Alas, the film is not without its flaws; most notably, there are two gaping holes in the final confrontation at Morningside, where money apparently ran out for filming. Trick editing and exposition attempt to fill the gaps, but really only serve to draw attention to them. And our lead actors are fairly stiff and lifeless, but fortunately, in this case, the supporting cast, especially Reggie Bannister as Reggie and Angus Scrimm as the Tall Man, more than make up for it.The main strength of Phantasm, however, is in the atmosphere it creates. Menace lurks around every corner, and the imagery of death is everywhere. All in all, Phantasm is a film that will haunt you long after the final credits roll. "},{"Title":"Perfect horror movie, but...","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In all seriousness, PHANTASM is a terrible film. It is, however, probably the coolest horror movie ever made.Ya' just gotta pretend you're 14 in 1979 and realize the shocks PHANTASM offers weren't a dime a dozen in those days.Cable was new, so there were still only several channels and a theater that offered more than 2 features at a time was a big deal.I think Coscarelli may have been inspired by some Italian horror films in terms of visuals and atmosphere.I think the concept that PHANTASM embodies is really powerful stuff.Open your mind, excuse the amateur production and enjoy this wild ride. "},{"Title":"A must see movie if you enjoy classic horror films.","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I believe the film was great for its time the movie is great and though a lot of people say the dwarfs in the movie aren't scary or frightening at all but I believe their scary as hell. It could just be i'm scared of dwarfs but the way they run is creepy and the  Tall Man  is great doesn't say much but actions speak louder than words. This movie is great and I believe the story is a half ass decent one. I rated it a seven because the story does get a bit weird at the end but its still great film. Go rent it! Trust me your enjoy it. Since the movie was made in 1979 they did the best they could with what they had and I must say the flying ball with knives and such on it was a great ideal its really the simple things in life that are so great. "},{"Title":"very original","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this film is like no other. Yes, at times it can be predictable but your afraid for it to happen. I do think this movie matches up to Halloween, and A Nightmare on Elm st. because its different. A mad man throwing blood-sucking spheres! He was also really creepy. He wasn't dead, and he didn't wear a mask he was a simple character. I also found the special affects really good for this movie since it was made so long ago. If you like the horror movies of the 70's and 80's you have to check this flick out. The acting was above average, there are many fright scenes, the music was frightening, and it is definitely worth buying and also a movie you can watch over and over again.10/10* "}{"Title":"A very creepy,and imaginative horror film","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm is one of the most creative horror films from the late 70's/80's.From the imagination of Don Coscarelli,it doesn't play like a slasher film,it's a lot more clever.The setting of the horror is a Funeral home/Cemetery.A smart move,people fear funeral homes/graveyards because they associate them with death.I'd say it a cemetery is a smart place to set a horror film,because we fear it to begin with.The plot is about a boy named Mike,who lives with his brother Jody,they have a friend named Reggie who is an ice cream driver.Mike/Jody/Reggie are the main characters of the film.Their friend is killed in the cemetery.They bury him in the cemetery.Mike hides in the bushes,and sees the funeral home director known as The Tall Man,take the casket.He suspects something is wrong.Mike doesn't hesitate to investigate the cemetery.He sneaks into the mausoleum,where a flying sphere nearly kills him.The Tall Man attacks him,and he cuts off The Tall Man's fingers.Yet the finger still moves,he locks it in a box,and shows it to Jody.Jody decides that they have to investigate.They encounter dwarf slaves,they look like Jawas on film,but I'll forgive Don,because of the low budget.These Dwarf slaves are actually the corpses of the dead of the town.They bring Reggie in on it,and decide they have to find and kill The Tall Man.Phantasm is a great horror movie.It is fun,and a lot more clever than others.Don Coscarelli is a gifted film maker,he makes great horror films on low budgets.I checked Phantasm out because of his recent Bubba Ho-Tep which was great,and because a teacher at school who I talk to about horror films loved it.I'm glad I did see Phantasm,it was a great horror movie. "},{"Title":"Freedom Of Expression?","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like the Phantasm movies and wish 2 & 3 were available on dvd as well! I am also ready for the next movie if there will ever be one!  I hope the next one will be good as the rest!  The Phantasms have been closer to the plot than most films even years afterwards! "},{"Title":"Good little horror movie that deserves seeing","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A few years ago I tryed to waatch PHANTASM 2 without having seen PHANTASM. PHANTASM 2 starts rolling immediatly with the cannibalistic troll slaves running amock and scareing the hell outta you. Too weird for words almost. I didnt get very far through that viewing. Last night I finally saw PHANTASM and was pleasantly surprised. What a great little horror movie. A little slow moving at first as the story builds but when it scares it really delivers. This was a movie I watched in the dark and not only did I leap a few times, I laughed out loud a few times too. A young boy sticks around after a funeral and sees strange things going on, mostly concerning The Tall Man, the local mortician. Of course no one believes him (He lives with an older brother, the rest of the family has died recently) and he,all 75 lbs of him is going to break into the funeral home and prove that something strange is afoot. Is it ever! Three foot tall trolls in hooded attire come after him, a menacing flying sphere with Swiss-Army-knifelike gadgets comes after him, and best of all, The Tall Man comes after him. BOYYYYYY! and You play a good game BOYYYYY! But now the game is over!!!!! brrrrr. I get a chill just thinkin about it. When this movie started I looked at Angus Scrimm (the villain) and thought Oh big deal. show me your worst,Old Man and as the picture progressed he did indeed show me that he is a great horror villain I wont soon forget. Now I am looking foward to seeing part 2 and maybe even 3. PHANTASM is now on my list of Halloween favorites! "},{"Title":"A different kind of horror film","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From beginning to end, Coscarelli has crafted a really cool horror film with &#145;Phantasm'. Consisting of really good special effects throughout (especially with the low budget) which give the film a professional feel, it has maintained a status of a top-rate horror film throughout the years. Coscarelli also did a great job casting, as nobody drags the story down or is even slightly unbearable to watch. The idea of having the story focus on what's left of a family was genius, adding an entire dynamic to the film that is non-existent in any of the teen-splatter films of the 80's. The audience really wants these characters to triumph, making this story connect on a sentimental level that's as deep as any horror film I've ever seen. Don't worry though, to balance all the emotion involved, we're treated with some blood, death, and a few good scares. &#145;Phantasm' is definitely a film worth renting, or catching at a midnight show. Of course there are a few fallacies of logic throughout, but they are nitpicky and easily overlooked in the scheme of things. Rating 32/40 "},{"Title":"Could have been Great, but it is good","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw this movie for the first time, and while I was impressed, I felt this movie could have been so much more.  It had all of the makings of a classic.  Even though it is apparently low budget, the acting isn't that bad.  The A. Michael Baldwin kid was very good, the older brother wasn't bad.  This movie has enough suspense that I actually found myself grinding my teeth at one point.  One thing that really impressed me, especially for a low-budget 80's horror flick, is that they don't rely on cheap scares like most of todays films do.  No cats jumping out and scaring the character, etc.  The scares come from suspense, and the very creepy looking Tall Man and his minions who are kind of like evil Jawas.  The soundtrack also adds to the scary feel of the film, it's kind of like the Halloween theme, only jazzed up a bit.  The only flaw in this film is the storytelling.  I often found myself asking, what just happened?  There are times when it feels like they are just telling you to swallow this explanation, just because they said so.  And the plot really doesn't develop until one scene near the end when you find out what the Tall Man is up to, and then it is just explained in one line, then it's back to the running around.  And don't even get me started on the ending.  It's not that you won't understand it, but you'll just be asking yourself, Why?  It's a cult classic, and I know many people love it, I liked it myself, but the story is pretty flawed. "},{"Title":"Would have been a bad movie if not for the Tall Man and his spheres","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie would have totally sucked if not for the idea of the Tall Man and his flying spheres(which were actually barely seen throughout the film. I actually hoped to see more of those infamous balls' mighty killing power, but..... )The story was not too cliched for its time, I guess, but I really have to admit that it wasn't very scary of a movie, beyond the menacing image of the Tall Dude. The film seems to rely on loud and annoying noises to scare the hell out of you. It failed for me, because I turned down the volume in disgust frequently. Above all, while not exactly a horror classic, the idea of a mystical figure with metallic killing weapons and surrounded by an army of Stars-War dwarves would be interesting enough for some.  "},{"Title":"Spectacularly hypnotic and cool!","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the beginning till the end this movie never loses it's cool, an awesome fantasy of horror-filled spookiness. The Tallman is apart of the horror villain pantheon and for good reason, this movie is recognized as a horror classic, and it is. The sets, atmosphere, sound effects, action, all completely rad, Phantasm delivers the goods for the genre.  "},{"Title":"Excellent! 5 Stars!","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The reason a lot of people hate this film is simple They don't know what the word 'cerebral' means.CEREBRAL A plot that requires you to use your brain!Yes, my friend, the grey matter in your skull, between your jaw and your scalp. This movie, about a tall undertaker who is digging up bodies for his own unholy deeds, is also a touching story about a brothers love and devotion. This is a very creepy film, but you have to USE YOUR BRAIN in order to appreciate the depth to it!Angus Scrimm gives an electrifying performance as the Tall Man; a demon from another reality.If you liked this movie, I'd also suggest A Nightmare on Elm Street Poltergeist Stephen Kings IT Jason X The Exorcist III Legion The Silence of the Lambs "},{"Title":"Always heard it was a classic- but turned out not to be","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just some quick thoughts on Phantasm, which I saw for the first time recently. It is extremely `dated' and low budget by today's standards.  All it would hope to have in its favor is an extremely captivating concept (i.e. Rosemary's Baby, the Omen, the Exorcist).  Instead, the plot, which starts of interesting enough, trails off until you are `fast forwarding' just to finish.  The end is, in my opinion, a cop out.  I left this one feeling ripped off.  I had always heard about the phenomena that was Phantasm.  I was hoping to count it among the `classic horror films' but it is just a poor film.  Back in '79 it was probably entertaining, but is hokey and not classic material.  This makes it a B-type film in out current age.  My opinion- fun to laugh at but not if you want to be scared. "},{"Title":"One of the most entertainingly stupid things I have ever seen!","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILER Sinister things are happening at a funeral home. Strange little Jawa-like things are running around and chopped-off fingers turn into giant bugs. not to mention people having sex in a graveyard of all places. A man and his little brother decide to investigate these matters further, and discover that the dwarves are actually shrunk-down corpses brought back to life and given mustard for blood, and somehow they are also aliens that enter to this world through some kind of gateway. Later we find out that the whole thing was a dream, the kid's older brother is actually dead, and we're more confused by the end of the film than we were before we sat down. The best (funniest? dumbest?) scene is when a little flying orb with knives attached to it flies straight into some guy's head, drills a hole in it, and shoots blood all over like a firehose and he just stands there and screams, making no attempt to pull it off. If you're a fan of Mystery Science Theater 3000 and like movies that are so stupid they're funny, rent this, but don't expect it to make any sense or be at all good. "}{"Title":"Aweful.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, I am usually one of the first to defend a crappy horror movie.  I went to see Halloween 8 with Busta Rhymes.  I downloaded Jason X with great anticipation.  I considered Rawhead Rex a classic!  I even bought Killer Clowns from Outer Space for $9.99 but would have gladly spent an extra ten bucks for it the other night at Best Buy.  However, this movie seriously sucks and is a waste of time.  The idea of this movie was a good one, though - an evil man that digs up bodies and a bunch of wierd crap happening in a creepy funeral home.  Well, thats about as good as it gets.  This director must have been high with the screenplay and storyline of this movie.  You have this kid that hangs out and spies on a graveyard (who does that?!) and gets his older brother and his friend to help him figure out whats goin on. I'll tell you right now whats goin on...a horrible plot in progress.  You have a creepy guy (almost as creepy as the guy from poltergeist) that stands 7 feet tall with a lame character name called The Tall Man.  that right there should tell you that this movie lacks credability - The Tall Man?! what kind of crap is that?!  at least call him The Tall Mortician or something!  throughout the movie, friends are dying or pressumed dead, then coming back to life with no explanation.  you have one scene where one minute the screen is completely black and the main character is in grips with this troll, then next minute he is outside in the middle of a field yelling for his brother!  you ask yourself, what the heck just happened!? from the first scene to the very last scene, you ask yourself, what the heck just happened?!  to give this movie anymore than 2 stars is insane. they did a good job leaving it open for a sequel, but don't expect the sequel to provide anymore information.  yep, this movie is crap.  "},{"Title":"Blandtasm","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I suppose I just need to watch this film one of two more times...I only just saw this over the weekend, and was very confused.  I have read praise after praise on this film.  I just don't get it...I tried to take the approach that most do with the film Suspiria.  Now that is a beautiful dark paranormal horror film.  I was taking the same tone with this one...but couldn't...I just didn't understand it!  I intend on watching the others in the series to maybe better understand it...I did like some of the film, and didn't totally hate the whole thing...I just felt like a huge hunk was missing...from what I had researched...Alot was filmed, but removed to avoid and X rating in 1979!  I hope the DVD shows alot more, and will piece this together better.....It was spooky in some places, ridiculous in many others...what of the dwarfs?  Is the Tall Man god of his dimension?  I'm confused....oh, well....5 out of 10 (for now) "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films to come out of the 70's","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What an odd film. But does that mean I don't like it? Of course not. Next to Halloween and The Exorcist, Phantasm has to be one of the best 70's horror flicks i've ever watched. I'm also glad that sequels were made(Although I don't really care for Oblivion too much)and i'm hoping this fifth film gets made soon.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!A young boy watches as a strange man working on a cemetary takes bodies out of their coffins and into his funeral home. Everyone he tells thinks he's crazy until other strange and awful things happen. Little monsters lurk in the dark, people dissapear, and a tall man stalks the boy and his friends.Exciting, suspenseful, great story, acting, and music score. ***** out of *****. "},{"Title":" Just doesn't hit the high mark on my movies.","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Phantasm wasn't as good as I expected. It had lots of twists and turns, which doesn't appeal to me. The movie had a strange plot. The story outline wasn't that great, and I just didn't enjoy it. The film had some things about it that I didn't like. I don't reccomend this movie, unless your a sci-fi fan, but I say I'd have to give this film a C+   "},{"Title":"A strange trip indeed!","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm is definitely a strange trip. I remember watching it when I was a child and thinking, This is cool as hell! Now after a second viewing of the special feature loaded DVD at the age of 21, I sat thinking the whole time, What the hell is this?!? WHAT I LIKED ABOUT THIS MOVIE Some redeeming factors for the movie are the Tall Man, who does manage to be pretty scary throughout. Also the Tall Man's evil motivations (which I won't divulge for those who haven't seen the movie) are pretty interesting and refreshingly original. When Mike goes through the dimensional portal, I was very impressed with the visual of the alien surface and slaves. And of course the Orb killing scene takes the cake as by far and away the coolest scene in the movie and well worth watching at least once! The film also creates a nice horror ambience when inside the very scary mortuary halls.WHAT I DIDN'T LIKE ABOUT THIS MOVIE       Amazingly horrendous acting...I'm usually pretty forgiving of actors but these actors were just plain bad. Poorly scripted (not to mention unbelievable) build-up to main action; I didn't understand why/what was going on half the time. The decisions the actors made were senseless (e.g. why did Jody keep leaving Mike alone when every time he was left alone Jody either needed Mike's help or had to go save him). FINAL RATING 6/10 - The very original, novel, and promising plot idea is nearly destroyed by a poor script, poor presentation, and poor acting. However, it is still a somewhat classic horror film worth watching at least once. Hardcore fans of the horror genre should enjoy. The overall strangeness of the movie also makes it interesting.    "},{"Title":"An excellent representation of the genre.","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember when my friend had Channel 100 (now known more widely as HBO) and Phantasm was on when I was sleeping over one night. I can recall vividly watching this movie without a light on in the house, just being blown away at how incredible the movie was. Then in the mid 80s I saw it for sale for ten bucks, I bought it, what the hell. Now while it still didn't scare me as much as the first time I saw it, I was still impressed with the style of it all. Sure the dialouge is laughable sometimes. Is it incoherent Yes. But for a film that had almost no budget, it carries alot of weight, and is better than most horror flix that come out today. The well worn copy I bought some fifteen years ago still remains in my collection, and I still watch it from time to time. An eerie soundtrack also adds to quite an effective little shocker. "},{"Title":"BOOOOOYYYYYYY!!!!!","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With a good number of horror films you really need to suspend disbelief, relax, and let your mind go.  Phantasm is one of those movies where if you do the above 3 things you will be richly rewarded.  My first memories of this film are fuzzy late night viewings on network! TV.  Even with a substancial portion deleted for TV the point was driven home.  The grainy images of flying spheres, twitching fingers,a tall man in all kind of nightmarish stances stick with me 15 years later. Now I am inspired to purchase the DVD version with all the groovy little extras. This is the first time I am treated to the uncut version and I was not disappointed.  The mood is dark 70's horror at it's finest.  The soundtrack makes Halloween's seem hokey.  Phatasm is filled with suspense.  Something that has since disappeared from horror movies almost altogether.  The one critisism I'd have to make of this movie is that the plot jumps almost as many times as you do watching it.  The relationship between Mike and Jody was an honest attempt to make you care for the characters and elevate the movie above the typical slash and dash genre that was on the horizon at the time it was made. Trouble was that we never devled too deeply into the Mike/Jody thing.  It was almost like the story wanted to paint a deeper picture about relationships and friendships in the town that never made it to screen.  But that aside Phantasm is a fear trip.  Turn down the lights, fire up some candles, lock the doors and put this one on play.  And tell me honestly  when you lay in your bed at night you won't have some of this films images playing through your head. "},{"Title":"Amazing, keeps you thinking what is in the closest....","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First let me start off by stating that I am a huge horror buff, and I have seen the best of them, Evil dead trilogy, the exorcist movies, omen,  aliens, haunting.....I guess I am that way to get a good scare, and so far only one movie has come close.  Those others were amusing, but the one that frighten me the most is Phantasm, and I mean FRIGHTEN.  I discovered this little gem late one night while up cramming for a test, on my little college B&W TV.  For the next week I was afraid to open closet doors, or look in mirrors after midnight (spooky).  I definitely rank this #1 on my top ten horror films.On a side note, I never expected a video game to give me the creeps, but if you are into survival horror, and you need a chill, Silent Hill (1999) (VG), for the playstation is quite insane.  Whether watching Phantasm, or playing silent hill, make sure you a alone in the dark.  And don't drink any fluids if you are prone to wetting your pants. "},{"Title":"Good, yet strange, late night horror fun","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm's originality mainly comes from it complete bizarreness. If you're going to watch it again because you didn't get, don't worry, it's not you're fault. Phantasm is not a movie you're supposed to understand, in fact, the word 'Phantasm' means something weird, I forget, but a lot of people have it written down in their comments. Phantasm is the story of a young boy who witnesses a strange, tall man stealing the coffin of a man who recently died near the town mortuary. This strange event, along with a few more incite the boy, along with his brother and their ice-cream man friend to find out what's happening at the morgue. Phantasm was the debut feature and was written, directed and produced by Don A. Coscarelli, who was in his 20's when he made it. It is pretty impressive, and it's a movie that could have been a disaster, but the movie's so neat you forget about how absurd the going-ons are, and with a creepy music score, great art direction, lots of suspense, and a couple of good jump scenes, and a lot of cool gadgets (including a killing metal ball for which the movie's partly well known for), Phantasm is a nifty, fun, and scary horror movie that makes good, late night fun. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Don't Fear","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember the effect that Phantasm had on me as a kid, and it really scared the hell out of me. Having recently watched the deluxe DVD that was issued for the film, it seemed that all of the film's mystery had faded after years of familiarity. What I noticed most was how bad the script is, and how amateurish the actors are.Maybe Phantasm is best kept in the realm of 1130pm on a Friday night as a 12 year old kid, staying up late to catch it on TV. Back then the severed fingers didn't look so fake. Neither did the plastic fly, and I never really noticed how much the boulders at the end of the film looked like styrofoam.Since the movie is about a kid anyway, it makes sense that these ideas would translate well to a kid, particularly a young boy. As it stands, the movie still works pretty well as a nightmarish allegory about the passage into adulthood.The problem that Coscarelli faced was his actors, with the exception of Angus Scrimm. The bonus footage on the DVD really underscores the lack of screen presence that they generate, particularly an excruciating sequence in which the characters make an ice cream sundae out of the drunken Mikey. It also features embarrassing footage of Scrimm at a horror/sci-fi convention hamming it up, reciting the Tall Man's few lines in the film to a wildly applauding audience.While the inventiveness of Coscarelli's strange ideas often overcomes the script's weaknesses, it's only when the film relies almost totally on visuals to tell the tale that it truly succeeds. Watch the film again and you'll notice it, if you haven't already--the best (and scariest) sequences take place with almost no dialogue. Apparently there were some editing problems when the film was coverted to home video originally, and it makes for a weird experience. At times the narrative seems to screech to a halt, then start again from some new perspective, for instance the climactic confrontation at the mortuary. The characters find the source of the inter-dimensional travel, manage to stop the vibrations, and cause a vaccuum that sucks the entire building away. Then they are suddenly all outside together, seemingly from nowhere. Then they are back at their house, exchanging dialogue that makes it seem like no time has passed.The horrible sequels that were made after this one really drove the point home for me that Phantasm was best seen and not heard. The more that was explained, the worse it got, particularly the awkward backtrack that occurs at the beginning of Phantasm II. "}{"Title":"Weird, but I like it.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know, there is nothing I like more than little creepy dwarfs in brown robes and a tall man that bleeds yellow, and this film has both!  But the really cool part is the ice cream man, Reggie Banister.  This guy is great, and gets better in the sequels.  I say anyone who likes really weird horror should check this one out.  It is a classic. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not very well written, hard to follow, cheesy lines but it has boobs, a Dodge Charger, killer Jawas, an ice cream truck, a house decorated by a 70's pot-head, an interdimensional rift, Reggie and The Tall Man. Some how it works beautifully.I don't know if anyone else would agree with but the scene where the Tall Man walks down the street, scowls at the BOY!!! while being engulfed in ice cream truck steam is one of the best shots ever placed on celluloid.  "},{"Title":"The One Decent Film Of An Awful Series","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  **   out of  ****Don Coscarelli got lucky with this offbeat cult classic that has gained a curious reputation and is only average at best.The Tall Man as played by Angus Scrimm is suitably ominous and scary, and I have always liked the metal sphere with a mind of its own. Those wonderful corridors in the mortuary are really exciting, and the overall look of the movie reminds me of a stylish European horror film.Having unloaded all the praise I can find, PHANTASM's downfall is in the muddled way it is written and executed...exactly what the heck is supposed to be happening in this film????Though short on logic, there are enough decent horrific elements to make this a passable chiller. Unfortunately, it was so successful that it inspired several unwatchable sequels.... "},{"Title":"You think you go to heaven- YOU GO TO US!!","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw this film (just in 1999) I was really freaked out and astonished, but I felt it would have been much more enjoyable if I'd seen it before I knew the secret of the dwarves. I read about it at www.houseofhorrors.com and it gave away the horrifying secret to what they are. I watched it again with a friend who didn't know the secret and when the secret of the dwarves was revealed he was so shocked it was amazing. Nobody was expecting the dwarves to be what they are. I kknow consider it the most horrifying movie experience of my life (and I've seen about 1000 horror films). The haunting music definitely sets the perfect mood for the film.  Seeing the dwarve chase after Mike in the bushes, the sphere scene, the shocking revelation, and the ending will scare you. If they don't scare you, you are already dead. The Tall Man is death. An omnipresence. You cannot escape him. The best way to see this film is knowing very little of the plot. None of the sequels are as scary, but all have better effects and action. I think the original's darkness of the dwarves makes them much scarier. They show them more in part 2 and that makes them less scary. And part 4's attempt at explanations really ruins the story (so avoid part 4) . See phantasm, BOY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Campy, dated but funny horror movie.","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm from cult director Don Cosacrelli is a cheerfully inchorent mess. Trying to deconstruct the plot is virtually futile. The basic premsise from what I can dechipher is two brothers named Jody ( Bill Thornbury) and Mike ( Michael Baldwin) whose friend has just died investigate strange proceedings at the local Morningside Cemetary when they bury their friend Tommy. Mike witness' the caretaker known  as the Tall Man (Angus Scrimm) pick up a coffin single handedly. As the story progresses Mike, Jody and their friend Reggie (Reggie Bannister) an intrepid Ice Cream vendor, uncover a plot in which the Tall Man exumes bodies from the Cemetary and has them reanimated, crushed down into dwarf creatures and sent back to another dimension ( are you following this?). A lot of interesting concepts and special effects, including a deadly flying sphere that drills holes into the heads of people. What does the film in though, is the silly dialogue, logic loopholes and kistchy approach. Not a cinematic masterpiece but fun as escapism from the Golden Age of campy horror. Also has a memorably creepy score from the period that is as affective as John Carpenters score for Halloween or the Goblins soundtrack to Dawn of the Dead. "},{"Title":"Wildly effective and risky horror classic!","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the creme de la creme of horror films, with what might even be the best score even in one. The score is so famous, that several top hip hop artists have sampled it to make hit records (DMX and Doug E. Fresh). The atmosphere is excellent, the around-the-way, average joe characters make the film very believable. I've always thought this was a great film, but I recently found new respect for it after seeing the director's commentary on DVD, where I see how seriously the filmmakers took this project when they made it, and that is wasn't no joke to them. This was not a great film made by default, they meant to make it great. Fellas, want to get a pretty girl to jump into your lap late at night, make sure she's never seen Phantasm and put this bad boy on with all the lights out. The tall man will appear before the film is over! "},{"Title":"Check out the DVD","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great movie and an excellent DVD.  The directors commentary track on the DVD is wonderful, plus tons of extra stuff along with a Dolby 5.1 soundtrack.  This is a must-have for all Horror Fans as it truly is a classic.   "},{"Title":"it doesn't always make complete sense, but that's not the point...","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  while i personally prefer the second film in this series (same story, bigger budget,better characters) this films place in horror history is deserved.i have interviews with the director that the original cut of this film was just over 3 hours. he had to cut it down to a reasonable length and then had to make further cuts to avoid an X-rating. that probably explains the film's incoherence and why characters who were dead in a previous scene all of a sudden are alive again without any explanation.that said, the point of this movie though was to scare the pants off the viewer and it does that for the most part. the flying spheres are one of the best designs since the creature in the Aliens films.the second film is my favorite of the series, but the first is very good in it's own right.rating7 "},{"Title":"If this one didn't scare you your already dead!","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  13-year-old Mike Pearson(Michael Baldwin)Seemed to have always thought that the.Morningside cemetery was a litte strange,but when he witnesses a body being taken away from a grave by an undertaker with superhuman strength,he decides to investigate.What he encounters in morningside's white-marbled halls include a grisly muder.By a flying metal sphere with a perchant for blood.A horde of cloaked mini-monsters,and the evil tall man,(Angus Scrimm).Experience the ultimate nightmarePhantasm is by far one of the best horror flims of all time.  Any one who disagrees is obvisly, one of those people who looks at. The flims major budget, and actors.Thats why there are flims like, Halloween and phantasm. ***1/2!       "},{"Title":"Phan-tastic!","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is, without a doubt, one of the scarier low-budget films ever made (okay, not counting Night of the Living Dead).It plunges head-first into fears that we all have the dark, death, mausoleums, whispered legends, small things that move faster than you ever will and tall men who don't talk much but enjoy a periodic rush of cold air from a freezer truck.Phantasm has it all... balls, too.  Big metal balls with spikes and drills in them.  But it also has a sense of humor, something important when you're talking about the undead and the gateway to Hell that works kind of like a tuning fork.  There are times when you'll be grateful for the brief periods of humor (the almost endless round of shells coming out of a rifle, the scurrying bat-thing, the guy's physical reaction JUST after he collapses with that ball-thing in his head.); they'll give you a brief respite from having the bejesus scared out of you so often.But don't be fooled.  There are shocks herein.  Big shocks, shocks so bad that they'll unnerve you the rest of your life.  If you can see this one and still honestly not be afraid to pass by a cemetery at night or be just a little suspicious on any weird-looking tall guys in dress clothes, like the ad says, you're already dead.And if that be the case, you'd probably like Phantasm all the more.Eight stars.  Effective scares, balls flying all over the place and that Lady in Lavender.  Now THERE'S a spirit for you.... "}{"Title":"Corny acting, gratuitous gore/nudity, and stupid story, but man it's fun!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a great movie, that was filled with laughs and scares, and was very entertaining, although the acting was bad, the dialogue was dumb, and sex/gore was gratuitous. But man, this was so much fun!!! 9 out of 10! Rated R for violence/gore, some nudity, and brief language. "},{"Title":"A very odd underrated film","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film when I was running movie theatres for a living.  While it is more gory than Halloween it contains the same edge of your seat suspense. It's one of the few movies in the past 20 years that frankly gives you the creeps.  I remember that the press book for the film noted that the man who invented the flying silver death ball had died shortly after the film was completed and so now no one would ever know how it worked...if you believe that I'll sell you the Brooklyn Bridge.  I do know that at the time the film had to be edited to avoid an X rating because of the violence.  Its only drawback is the outer space science fiction sub-plot.  That aside, watch the film but keep the lights on.  By the way, you'll never think of a funeral home the same way again. "},{"Title":"incredible, very scary, one of the most original films ever made","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie in 1979 and it scared the hell out of me....andit still does!!!! "},{"Title":"The most unique of the series","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie really is under-rated like the other people said, and it deserves more credit than it has gotten. Sure, it's got some cheesy effects and music at some points, but what do you expect from a movie that was made in 1979 for a budget of $600,000.? If you ask me, this movie has pushed through all of the **** that is shown today, to be one of the most unique and extraorinary movie of all time, with three sucessful sequels behind it.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the most underrated horror films of the past twenty years, Phantasm still never fails to deliver.  If only one word could describe it, I would use unpredictable.  It constantly keeps you guessing, watching, and wondering.  It breaks certain horror molds that have been established.  I cannot describe it full in this small summary it has to be seen to be appreciated.  The Tall Man in the film is one of the most horrifying characters in recent years.  The plot is different from other horror films. The characters are lifelike and believable.  A must for anyone who loves the genre! "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"5 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this film is excellent and it doesn't get the attention it deserves. This film gives you that weird feeling whenever you go to a cemetery or when you see a hurse drive by. When I first saw it, I was all alone in my house that's just a few blocks away from a cemetery. After I saw it, I didn 't want to look out my window because I was afraid that The Tall Man would be right there (hey, I was just a kid). I give this film three thumbs up (if I had a third thumb). "},{"Title":"Does NOT stand up to the test of time  -(","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although, I do think the film to be a classic, I first saw this film in 1979 and it scared the bejesus out of me. It was one of my favorite horror films due to its originality and Sci-Fi twists.However, nearly 25 years later, the film is often crude and, after viewing it with a friend, I found it to be quite tedious. Many films, including Night of the Living Dead, The Omen, The Exorcist, Halloween and even Friday the 13th, hold onto their oomph factor. Sadly to say, while Phantasm still holds a fond memory for me, this recent viewing left the film a bit weak in my opinion.Also, as I remember ... PT II kinda bit; the only greatly remembered aspect was 'ball's-eye-view.' And I do remember the series got better with PT III and IV. All the Phantasm features played lightly on current film trends and I sorta recommend the original if you want to follow the story as a PT V may be on the horizon. "},{"Title":"No stars out of four.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Young kid runs across a conspiracy involving a funeral home worker who steals corpses for his own sinster purposes. He enlist the help of his brother and friend to find out exactly what is happening and how to put an end to it all. Plenty of boo and jump scenes, but little else. Poorly made film with a nearly incoherent story and little logic.  "},{"Title":"SO bad all around","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" so i just finished this horribly acted terribly scored pointless, um THING. I don't know why i watched the whole movie, i kept waiting for something to happen because the reviews that i had read before viewing the film were complementary to say the least, in fact a lot of people really liked it. i am not one of those people. In fact i really disliked it. the music made me want to stab myself in the ear holes so i never have to hear such pointless synth noise (trying to make something about the movie scary, fail fail fail) there is nothing about this movie i liked and i recommend this to no one. seriously this movie was so unintelligent and boring i cant believe they made another 3 of them. on the other hand. nightbreed (cabal cut) is awesome and interesting and worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Phan-tastic.","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If mainstream Hollywood/America had 1/10 of the imagination that Don Coscarelli had then the world of cinema would be a very different landscape indeed. But would it be an embarrassment of riches? Perhaps, judging by this movie (and it's sequels), and perhaps we only need one spoonful of sugar every now and again to counteract the bitter taste of . . . . . . well . . blandness that often permeates our cinemas.People are often dismissed when they describe movies as being like rollercoasters, especially when describing the appeal of horror genre movies in particular. However, that really is the case here. If not a roller-coaster then writer/director Coscarelli certainly provides us with the cinematic equivalent of a Ghost Train ride.Young Michael Pearson (played by A. Michael Baldwin) sees a figure we come to know as The Tall Man (played by Angus Scrimm, now forever burdened thanks to his portrayal of an icon of evil) getting up to no good at a local funeral parlour. He lifts a loaded coffin with one hand and takes it away from the hole in the ground it definitely should be planted in. Michael is also unnerved by the small, hooded figures scampering around the graveyard and generally acting like Jawas with insomnia. He enlists the help of his brother Jody (Bill Thornbury) and his brother's mate, Reggie (Reggie Bannister). Something evil is afoot and it's up to our plucky lads to save the day.Many people hold this movie, and the entire series, in high regard. It's one of the better examples of a movie that seems genuinely made BY a fan FOR the fans. I myself have fond memories of seeing the trailer for this film at a young age and, of course, being forbidden to see it. Which just increased my curiosity. And what featured so heavily in those trailers (well, more in the sequel trailers than the trailer for the original, to be honest)? Oh yes, the flying metal spheres of doom. Round, shiny orbs that flew through the air and spiked themselves onto their victims foreheads before draining them of all blood. The perfect spectacle for 80s (yes, the movie was released in 1979 but it was the home video market I remember allowing the franchise to thrive) horror fans craving something a little bit out of the ordinary.And it's this consistent creativity and imagination that raises Coscarelli's works above many other, technically superior, movies from the time period. The effects veer between the good, the bad and the ugly but they're always supporting some wildly entertaining moments, be they from killer dwarfs, killer spheres, killer . . . . fingers or anything else that is thrown in to threaten our heroes. And, of course, towering over the movie is Angus Scrimm's brilliant portrayal of The Tall Man, a performance that just oozes evil in all the right ways and is more than a match for Coscarelli's impressive vision.See this if you like Bubba Ho-tep, Dead & Buried, Halloween III Season Of The Witch. "}{"Title":"you've heard of a B movie, this one is a D.","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have just finished watching this movie on DVD. I bought it because it was rated highly on IMDb and it has spawned a number of sequels, (although when you think of Jason and Freddy that's not such a recommendation) and it seems to be regarded as a cult classic. I thought the one line concept was good - alien takes reanimated shrunken corpses to another planet to work as slaves - but the movie was a shocker without a single redeeming feature. The acting was bad, bad, bad. The script was nonsensical and the continuity, editing and special effects truly awful. The DVD says the runtime is 88 mins, seemed more like 120+ as it goes on and on and virtually nothing happens. I wasted my time so you don't have to waste yours. "},{"Title":"Way overrated","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why this so-called horror flick was such a big hit--I don't have a clue!!  I only got a few thrills and definitely didn't get any scares.  Not to mention the acting is atrocious!  I didn't care for these bland characters at all!  Angus Scrimm, who plays the Tall Man, is the only actor of any merit despite the fact that his part is small and he has few lines of dialogue.  I found it hilarious that the director kept on raving about the actors' performances throughout the DVD commentary.  Scrimm obviously had theater training, while the rest are obviously non-actors.  It's no wonder that I checked the actors' filmographies and their only credits were in direct-to-video schlock flicks and the Phantasm sequels--some of which probably fall into that category.  The film looks highly dated, from the bellbottom jeans to the nauseatingly bad hairstyles.  I enjoy the theme song, which actually does sound creepy, but the rest of the score is pretty awful.  The plot didn't hold my interest for one second, and ends with a huge cop-out.  Phantasm is definitely not a horror classic!My score  3 (out of 10)     "},{"Title":"finally checked this out","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a huge fan of horror movies, basically it's all I watch. For some odd reason I never got around to seeing this and after reading about how great it was in every magazine I picked up, every horror fan I talked to and every message board.. I finally rented it. Thank god I didn't buy it, although I wouldn't mind having it for my collection even though I would probably never watch it again. I know I'm a huge minority here when I say that not only did I not like this film, but I really kind of hated it and felt p*ssed off after I had watched it. I can't for the life of me understand the appeal this has to people, other than sentimental reasons maybe. I thought it was boring, very slow, the story was just... I don't even have words. I was kind of mad at myself for not liking it when it's considered a huge classic in the horror genre, but whatever. "},{"Title":"Overrated, unfortunately.","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The story itself is interesting -- the characters are pretty likable, and there are enough fantastic elements that it's a pretty surreal experience.However, the execution left me wondering who decided to take what would have been the most interesting parts of the film and either leave them out of the script or drop them on the cutting room floor.This movie could have been excellent -- however, major plot points are explained very poorly (when they're explained at all), apparently in favor of a few more scenes of ahhh, midgets, get my shotgun! Everything that DID make the movie could certainly have stayed, but two more hours of actual character development would have clinched this as one of my favorite movies.I wanted to enjoy this movie; unfortunately, I can't find enough redeeming value here to watch it again, let alone recommend it to others. "},{"Title":"BORING.........Yawn-Yawn","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had heard a lot of good things about this movie, and since I had never seen it, I rented it. The movie takes sooooo long to get going, and is dreadfully hard to follow.  Some of the scenes in this make no sense at all, like the brother and the ice-cream man playing guitar????????  And the cut off finger turning into a rabid over sized fly with gigantic teeth????  I mean, come on.  And, who in the hell would take a woman into a graveyard and have sex with her on top of a tombstone?  I have to admit, this movie is sh*t!!!  I love old horror movies, and have sit through some really weak ones, but this is one I had to fast forward to get through.  The acting, by the way, was dreadful also.  The only creepy thing in this movie was The Tall Man, who morphs back and forth between a blonde woman who loves to have sex in a graveyard.  Silly!!  I would have been more entertained with Muppets Take Manhattan. "},{"Title":"Over-rated","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Vastly over-rated Sci-fi horror which is notable only because it was shot on such a small budget. Tightly edited and interesting for the first third but it then falls apart. The Tall Man is about as scary as a flower and the celebrated flying silver sphere is in it for about 2 minutes. Don't waste your time watching this. "},{"Title":"Nothing but trash...","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes you decide to watch a movie because it's become so popular, you've read a lot a bout it, there's even people who buys merchandising from it, etc. That's why I watched Phantasm, they always mention that movie in articles about horror cinema so I thought it might be an entertaining product. Now I wonder why is Phantasm so popular? Dis I miss something? 'Causa as far as I can see it's totally boring, there aren't even any usual easy frights. Everyghing looks so forced and ridiculous in Phantasm. After the first 15 minutes you're already loo0king forward to take the DVD out of the player... AND THEY DARE TO MAKE SOME SEQUELS!!! Jeeeeesus! Pure trash. Don't waste neither your time nor your money on this.*My rate 0/10 "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst Horror ever","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have only seen 1 film that was worse than this and that was Shark Attack 3. Anyway, I know its an old film, and that these days its never going to be as scary as it once was, but this was really disappointing. I watched it with 2 friends who both fell asleep half way through it, which kind of says it all. Maybe the reason it didn't enter the mainstream was more to do with the fact that it wasn't a good film. Generally there's a reason why poor films tend to get almost forgotten about.For a gold old skool horror, stick to something like Halloween, Friday 13th, Dawn of the Dead (or even better, the new version!) "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Young man comes across a weird conspiracy involving an old, tall man (Angus Scrimm) who is stealing corpses and has a flying ball with razors that kills anybody that snoops around too much. Film features some of the most terrifying moments in horror cinema history and a creepy performance by Scrimm. However, it is too weird and incoherent at times for its own good.Rated R; Graphic Violence, Nudity, Profanity, and Sexual Situations. "},{"Title":"Not an easy story to enact, but it came out perfect!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They just don't make 'em like this anymore.  Possibly the most creative and imaginative horror flicks of all time, this movie remains un-cheesy after 23 years.  Where did they come up with this stuff?  An immortal mortician who comes from another dimension, attempting to take over the world with his army of re-animated midget corpses, protected by flying brain-sucking metal spheres, and only two men are capable of stopping him.  Silly premise indeed, but it is executed so carefully and beautifully that anyone who doesn't enjoy this film must have something against horror movies as a whole.     "}{"Title":"...little and brown and low to the ground!","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Often overlooked as a major influence on the Evil Dead series just watch that fly-in-the-shirt sequence side by side with the Give-me-back-my-hand! sequence in Evil Dead II and you'll see what I mean. This movie is just great. Cheesey dialogue to repeat with your friendsIt was little and brown and low to the ground!, a plot that makes no sense, and of course, the Tall AMan all make for (somehow) a rather creepy atmo-sphere (sorry, lame joke...) "},{"Title":"One of the Best Philms of All Time","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An amazing story combined with an unforgettable cast makes Phantasm the single best low budget indie film to date. This is a landmark movie in so many ways. It was both terrifying and intellectual. This was one of the few movies to date where the conclusion wasn't clear until the very end, and even then it wasn't cut and dry. Phantasm combines horror and fantasy with mystery and character development in a way that no other film has since. This is one of the best movies ever created. Don Coscarelli really made a name for himself with this 1979 masterpiece. See this movie at all costs!  "},{"Title":"excellent a masterpiece","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  yip,this film 2 me is one of them classic horror movies,I personally think don coscarelli is a very unique director,he knows how 2 deliver a movie that is totally original,thats what I find very impressive about this movie and all phantams films,they are full of originallity,and 2 me thats wot makes a real film. The music is also very good I just love the music in this film,and the way the music fits along with the images in the film,makes this film quite enjoyable 2 me. I know probably no one will agree with me when I say I actually think phantasm and phantasm 2 are the greatest horror movies ever made.thats how much I like them. Also there are dwarves in it 2 which look uncannilly like the jawas in star wars,but on the directors comentary he says they were in his movie b 4 they were in star wars,so there u go originality. I think it must b hard 2 make an original type movie,I mean don coscarelli directed beastmaster as well,that 2 was not copying anything else thats about,not that i know of anyway,if u like something thats different,phantasms 4 u. But bear in mind if u want something that has a believable storyline ,its not.But thats wot i like,something u dont see every day phantasy,and 2 me thats the whole point of watching movies. "},{"Title":"Random events.","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has no point, no plot, and is just one giant random chain of events.  Maybe that is the point, maybe not.  I personally don't see how this movie got made, nor do I really understand how sequals were made to it.  The way to see this film is with a large group of people that are all drinking and having a good time.  As far as seeing a quality horror movie, watch something else. "},{"Title":"Different strokes for different folks, but completely overrated!","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is the proof that no matter what kind of crap you may produce, there will always be a bunch of people who will find your crap marvelous! It's similar to why people would think that George W. Bush was a good president or give their money to churches, thinking it's a wonderful thing to do, for example.Bad acting, childish story, not scary... and it's a cult film?!? Only if it was a parody, comedy, but for that it's not even funny!I just decided I'm going to make a film. For one and a half hours it will have only one scene a pile of sh*t. I'm sure it will become cult.This line is only to complete the minimum of ten. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the hype!","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was truly atrocious, one of the worst I have ever seen. The plot (if you can call it that) falls short of any aspiration other than to confuse and annoy the viewers. Also, I saw the extended edition--it didn't add to my appreciation of this movie at all. I have read some reviews hailing this as a horror masterpiece. No, the horror masterpiece of 1979 was Alien. Phantasm was merely a lame attempt to provide cheap thrills with a bizarre plot, unnecessary nudity, and one scene of fake gore. My brothers and I sat down to watch this, having heard that it was one of the best older horror movies ever. Instead, we found a film so horrible that we couldn't even laugh at it. Pretentious, confusing, and a downright waste of 92 minutes of my life I can never get back, my caution to you is STAY AWAY from Phantasm. "},{"Title":"Most awful film of my life.","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is definitely one of the worst films I've seen in my life. The acting, if you can call it that, is horrendous. The plot, once discovered, is laughably weak. Even the villains in this movie fail to be frightening. The dwarfs actually caused those around me to laugh out loud and the little sphere that is supposed to frighten does nothing even close to that. There is nothing I can find in this movies that is even slightly redeeming, and the fact that it's a cult classic makes me wonder what people are thinking to turn this piece of utter trash into any kind of classic. Honestly, after watching this movie, I was angry that I had wasted two hours of my life, and the person who picked the movie promptly received a verbal thrashing from all who had watched Phantasm. Please, don't watch this horrible excuse for a film. The only thing even that is scary is the fact that people actually made this film. What was anyone involved in this film thinking?!?! So, if anyone around ever suggest watching Phantasm, run far far away. "},{"Title":"Tripe","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has the distinction of being so bad you can't even laugh at it. Some really bad horror movies have some comedic value, but this is utter tripe. The only funny part is the horrible guitar playing that randomly shows up out of nowhere. Save yourself the 87 minutes and just say no. OH! But the sequels could be great! Maybe I should check those out too! "},{"Title":"Plumbing the depths of supernatural terror; cult classic","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" PHANTASM (1979) *** Filmmaker Don Coscarelli concocts a devious blend of the supernatural, terror and sci-fi in this cult-classic from back in the day where a small town is suddenly inundated with mysterious goings on at the local cemetery/funeral parlor no thank to the equally nefarious TALL MAN (Angus Scrimm making somnambulism hip before Robert Englund's Freddy Krueger) and his jawa-like minions (!) Low-budget in every department (wooden acting, cheap f/x, dense script etc.) but totally scores in originality on the 'old dark house' spookshow. Perfect rental for a midnite Halloween party ...or preferably all by your loneseome! "},{"Title":"low budget, but unique & entertaining horror classic","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" after watching phantasm, i can say there is no other movie quite like it in the horror or any other genre.i really enjoyed it.it wasn't scary per Se but it did have some suspense.the acting was good and i actually cared about the characters, which is rare in most movies.the tall manwas(and still is)a very unique and creative character.angus scrimm plays the tall man and makes him very menacing, yet also humorous at times, as evidenced by some of his one liners.it's refreshing to see an actor really get into his/her character and enjoy themselves.this is by no means an academy award calibre movie,but it doesn't aspire to be.the director knew what he wanted,and didn't try to make it more than it is.this is what makes this movie successful and enjoyable.and of course there a few quasi-gory scenes for those that enjoy that sort of thing.all in all a fun movie which stands the test of time.so sit back and enjoy "}{"Title":"The weakest of the series but it is still good.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  a lot of people will disagree with me about my comments on this movie but they are true comments. the first in the series and i will give it 7/10 the rest of the phantasm movies will get 9/10. there is some thing about it that doesn`t appeal to me as much as the rest of the sequels do.that`s not to say it`s rubbish it`s not it is good just not great. "},{"Title":"One of the most imaginative and original movies of the 70s/80s horror boom.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Phantasm' is one of the most imaginative and original movies of the 70s/80s horror boom. While it has a strong fan following it has never really crossed over into the mainstream in the way say 'Halloween' or 'Evil Dead' have. Maybe it's because it doesn't fit into an obvious category like a slasher or a zombie movie like most of the best known horror films of the period. But hey, that's the reason I love it so much. It's a real one off, and quite unlike anything else. Writer/director Don Coscarelli had previously made non-horror movies focusing on young characters. Many American horror movies focus on teenagers, generally horny teenagers, but 'Phantasm' is told from the point of view of a young boy, something which gives it an interesting feel. The kid actor (Michael Baldwin) is very good, and I liked the relationship he had with his older brother (Jody Pearson). It was believable and not Disneyfied. The character of The Tall Man played by Angus Scrimm has become a horror icon, and add the flying brain sucking spheres and the corpses turned into midgets and you've got yourself one very weird and creepy experience! I also get a kick out of the boys ice cream truck driving friend, the oddball Reggie (Reggie Bannister). He's a pony tailed, guitar picking doofus, and the inclusion of his character is just one of many touches which makes 'Phantasm' such a treat. The DVD of 'Phantasm' is one of the best I've ever seen, featuring commentaries, deleted scenes, TV spots, behind the scenes footage, and even a disco version of the theme song! If only other horror movies were given such a thoughtful treatment! I thoroughly recommend 'Phantasm' both as a movie and as a DVD. Every horror fan MUST see this one!  "},{"Title":"great ideas with indie execution","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jody Pearson is burying his friend Tommy in Morningside Cementary but refuses to allow his little brother Mike to attend since the trauma of their parents' funeral. Mike sneaks in and sees the mortician The Tall Man use his superhuman strength. Mike witnesses small reanimated creatures attacking people. He is eventually able to convince Jody and their ice cream man friend Reggie. The Tall Man, his deadly flying spheres and his dwarfs are just the beginning. There is also a white room with a gateway to another world.It's a messy disjointed story. The acting is amateurish. The directions are low grade. The production is weak. It's not scary but it has a lot of great ideas. Angus Scrimm looks creepy as The Tall Man. The flying spheres are beautiful instruments of death. These are great concepts that are executed amateurishly. "},{"Title":"Okay Average horror","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I Have seen this once before, I do remember that wasn't to keen on it, as could not really get into the movie then,I got to say I had the same feeling after watching it again this morning.There were some decent creepy parts in this movie, that enjoyed then the last I saw it! and I thought bloody moments was better then I rememberedI did not like how plot came to the end and I did not like how the movie ended.I thought it was Okay Average horror movie 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Sci-fi horror fantasy movie!","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a small town where it seems normal, the Morningside Funeral home may seem like a quiet resting place for the dead until a sinister Tall-Man (Angus Scrimm) arrives as he's not like any funeral parlor worker. An adolescent boy named Mike (Michael Baldwin) spies on him over there, he's beginning to notice something strange that he just can't put his finger on as he even witnesses small hooded zombie dwarfs walking around at times around the cemetery. His older brother Jody (Bill Thornberry) doesn't believe in his stories neither does a good friend of the family named Reggie (Reggie Bannister) but he must prove that the Tall-Man is doing all this as it ends up to be big trouble. The mortician is actually a being from another dimension with superhuman strength and has deadly flying silver spheres that can drill your brains out and his plan is to have all the dead bodies so he can make an undead army that can destroy all towns as it's up to the brothers and Reggie to stop his plan.A very original and spellbinding Sci-fi horror fantasy shocker from debut writer-director Don Coscarelli is one of the most beloved cult movies of all time. The film is a fascinating HP Lovecraft-esquire tale on a low-budget that took two and a half years to make yet the director succeeds even at the box-office and the film has retained a huge following to this day as one of the best horror and Sci-fi movies of all time. Angus Scrimm became a horror icon with his Tallman character and the film has an interesting concept about evil dreams long before Wes Craven's A Nightmare on Elm Street came to the screen, the film is quite bloody but not merely gory as the film relies on storyline and atmosphere unlike most slasher movies of the time. "},{"Title":"A horror classic!","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" PHANTASM is a very imaginative piece of work, it is filled with what could be described as bizarre, almost surreal like nightmare/dream imagery, such as a flying silver sphere that drills into it's victims head & shoots their ground up brains out behind it. A sinister, creepy looking cemetery caretaker, known only as The Tall Man (a terrifying turn by actor ANGUS SCRIMM) a ghoulishly eerie, dark cemetery, moving severed fingers spewing yellow blood, that have been cut from said villain & the inhuman cries he makes with the finger later mutating into a demonic fly, that is super strong, that the boys cannot pin down & throws them all around the room, when they try to dispose of it. Corpses smashing through the ground & out the walls of a mausoleum, to grab their intended victims. The villainous Tall Man morphing into a blonde lady in lavender, to lure his intended male victims to their death. By taking them to the cemetery to kill them & then morphing back. Dwarfs emerging from the darkness at their intended victims. Coscarelli is clearly a fan of DUNE, since there are a couple of references to that film, such as a scene where the younger brother gets his hand trapped in a box & a bar known as Dunes Cantina Coscarelli adds an almost hazy, dream like quality look to the picture, which almost seemingly blurs fantasy & reality, creating an almost distorted version of what is reality & what is not. The town appears almost deserted save for the lead characters, the bartender, people at a funeral & the best friend who visits Jody & the plot offers very little information as to what is going on & why, such as why people are being killed & resurrected & then shrunk down to the size of dwarfs & then transported to a high gravity dimension in slavery? At one point the boys friend Reggie touches the dimension forks that lead to the other world, which causes a supernatural wind to suck whatever is in the room into it's world & causes a supernatural wind to emerge outside & cause the entire Morningside Morturary to disappear in a smouldering light. The title itself PHANTASM is referred to as a figment of the imagination, a delusion. A ghost. The entire film is like watching a dream unfold right before you're very eyes & that goes double for the ending, where it is revealed that the events in the film were all a dream conjured up by the youngest brother. Only for the Tall Man to show up for real! Signifying that the boy is indeed psychic & has dreamt of things to come. The score for the film is absolutely perfect, eerie & haunting & is easily one of the best scores to ever grace a horror film. The film is plenty atmospheric & has plenty of jump scares that come seemingly from out of nowhere. The entire film is very eerie, very suspenseful. Most of the acting (at least from the leads) is fairly good here. Ironically enough, the film even manages to have an emotional pull to the core of it's story, wherein the film could also be looked at as a Horror/Drama. the Story of the two parent-less brothers, who have just lost their parents & now their friend & the younger brother who feels alone in the world & having to deal with the fact that the last anchor he has to keep him going, his older brother, may just get up & leave him alone one day. DON COSCARELLI does a fantastic job behind the camera as well, surprisingly so, since he was in his early twenties at the time. He never loses track of his story & manages to make a pretty terrifying film. PHANTASM also delves into psychic phenomenon, where Mike visits a creepy elderly lady about his worries. The gore is pretty gruesome as well, with the highlight being a henchmen of The Tall Man's having his brains drilled out by the flying silver sphere, that shoots his brains all over the floor & urine emerging from his afflicted body once he collapses. The body count is extremely low (two by the films end). Most horror films would have collapsed due to this, but PHANTASM is just eerily weird enough & creepy, with good character development & a far more interesting story than most, that you don't notice it until it's over. The film never does answer the question though of just who or what is The Tall Man? is he an alien from another planet? is he a demon? a ghost? a resurrected corpse with supernatural powers? or is he something that Mike was able to bring into the world through his mind? Things get get even more eerie when Mike discovers a picture taken of the Tall Man during the Victorian era in an old shop. A must have in any horror fans horror film collection. Since no dedicated horror fans collection would be complete without a copy. Followed by three sequels, beginning with the much bigger budgeted, PHANTASM II.**** stars "},{"Title":"Short, Brown, and Low to the Ground","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie, whether it made much sense to me or not, made me jump out of my seat more than once to be sure.  And isn't that really what a good horror picture is suppose to do?  It sure doesn't deal too much with logic, and it asks you to suspend belief - and lots of it - to enjoy it.  The acting is so-so, and the script is weak, but what it lacks in those areas it more than makes up with its direction and style.  Director Don Coscarelli gives us a picture that is pure visual artistry.  Scene after memorable scene are played out before us, and one shock follows another.  The story roughly deals with a funeral home at Morningside Cemetery being a link to another planet, and the dead the eventual slaves of that planet.  Nevermind all that.  What is important is the way the story unfolds.  There are so many great scenes and bits of direction in this film.  The camera shot through a pair of binoculars is stunning, as is the scene with the Tall Man refreshing himself with the frosty air of an ice cream truck.  And let's not forget Angus Scrimm....what a chilling presence he has on film.  Some parts of the film are very bloody, but don't let that keep you from watching a unique, interesting, and creative horror film. "},{"Title":"Stop harping on this one-It's a classic!","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm is easily one of the best horror films around.**SPOILERS**Gathering to attend a funeral, two long time friends, Jody, (Bill Thornbury) and Reggie, (Reggie Bannister) express a desire to re-form their old gang. Jody is now a lone rider and Reggie an ice cream salesman. While no long-term plan was made, they do decide to catch up. Also attending is Jody's son, Mike, (Michael Baldwin), who witnesses the gathering through a special spot in the woods nearby. After the ceremony, Mike notices a funeral parlor worker, The Tall Man, (Angus Schrim) lift up the five hundred pound casket and haul it away in a car by himself. Suspecting something fishy, he decides to investigate the strange cemetery, and unearths a deadly secret. When it's discovered what's going on, The Tall Man begins a relentless assault on Mike to keep his secret. After a series of close encounters, Jody believes him, and after reluctantly dragging Reggie into the group, the rag-tag trio head back to put an end to The Tall Man once and for all.The Good News Unlike many horror films of today that rely on a mass body count to induce shocks, Phantasm instead goes for the jugular and scenes that by now have become passé in a horror movie. Phantasm doesn't have a very high body count, but is instead filled with some imaginative sequences. The famous floating spheres that attach themselves to your head and drain your blood are only seen in two scenes, but are responsible for only one really gruesome scene. I think this scene is slightly better than the scene in part two, as this one includes the added detail of showing the bloody mass that erupts forth when it burrows into your skull, something missing in all subsequent outings. I still have a deadly fear of graveyards from this movie, particularly whenever we are in the cemetery. There are several scenes in the movie to capitalize on this. The best one is with Baldwin spying on his friends and a small creature attaching Baldwin. It's pretty creepy and gives out a big jump. I also must give special props for its startling ending, which I can't reveal here for the uninitiated. All sequels utilized this one's formula, with the heroes thinking The Tall Man is dead, only to provide the film's biggest scare. Also, Phantasm has the creepiest theme except for 'Halloween' and may as well be the most recognizable to fans. For a film from the seventies, the characters give solid performances and utter believable dialog for the circumstances. The film gets off to a bang quickly. It shows a spooky cemetery house and is perhaps one of the creepiest houses ever built. It's got an authentic atmosphere surrounding it, and it's all the better for it. What happens afterward is pretty great, and is easily startling.The Bad News Fans of modern day slashers will find this one a little tedious because of the low body count. There are only five deaths in the film, and only two are shown on screen. Since this is the seventies, so one must also deal with the styles of the time (Baldwin has an afro in certain scenes, both he and Thornbury wear bell-bottoms). Also, as there is several attractive ladies in here, but there is only brief nudity. True, it is in two scenes, but both were in a dark graveyard, and I have seen several versions where the print was so bad that the breasts were never seen. That's a big problem with the film; most of the scenes are at night, resulting in very dark images that ruin key parts of the film. Making it dark for suspense is one thing, but to do it in scenes that should be lit is a big gripe.The Final Verdict Aside from several small and useless grips, this film is an unquestionable classic that deserves to viewed late at night and by every horror movie fan around. Guaranteed not to disappoint. I don't understand why this film has such a bad rap. This is really recommended to all slasher fans and 70s horror aficionado.Rated R Graphic Violence, Adult language, nudity, and a sex scene "},{"Title":"Cult Classic Works Overtime to Earn Its Weird Card","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can see the appeal of this cult classic, but I was mostly resistant to its charms.A boy and his older brother begin to investigate some strange goings on at a forbidding funeral parlor and uncover a bizarre plot being masterminded by aliens (I guess) to send dead humans into another dimension to be used as food by a race of red-robed dwarfs. How's that for a plot summary? And watching the film is about as weird as reading what it's about. It's a shame the movie isn't more competent in the directing and acting departments, because the raw material of a really good dark comedy is there. But the movie feels shoddy and slap dash, and it's never really scary, though it's occasionally a little creepy.A twist ending does manage to leave an impression even if it's a little cliché (though maybe back in 1979 it hadn't yet been used to death), while a twist to the twist ending leaves the audience with a final shock but doesn't make a whole lot of sense in the context of the movie.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"|Spoilers| A strange low budget, Horror film,but enjoyable nonetheless.","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm isn't quite the standout Horror film that many have claimed it to be,but I did enjoy it quite a bit when all was said and done. The film knows it's limits more or less,it also knows it's limited budget as well. The Tall Man himself is one of the more underrated Horror Villains of our time. He walks creepily,he's dressed in a creepy black tuxedo,along with a creepy menacing stare to boot. Despite the film's amateurish type acting,it succeeded in giving us some likable characters,there enthusiasm managed to overcome all of the weak acting,in my opinion. The film felt like more of a fantasy type dream,then a Horror film at times,I mean the ending itself,every time I watch it,manages to confuse me,was Jody really dead or not? was it all just a hallucinatory type dream?. For it's budget,it manages to have quite the impact on the viewer,especially some of the creepy cemetery scenes,they put in the film. I also love the flying little sphere they used. It's so odd,yet so very effective at the same time. Phantasm is a classic of the Horror Genre for sure. While I didn't find it to be as revolutionary as some have claimed,I still find it to be a very enjoyable film.Performances. A. Michael Baldwin is a geeky,yet likable kid. His acting could use some work,but I dug his enthusiasm and likability for the most part. Bill Thornbury is charismatic,that I can definitely say. His chemistry with Baldwin,was also on the money. Reggie Bannister is a bad actor,no doubt about that. His charisma is completely undeniable though,he's a Horror genre Icon. Angus Scrimm is just plain creepy. The way he walks,the way he talks,it's all so unique and terrifying. The Tall Man is one of the creepiest Horror Villains,that have ever walked.Bottom Line. Phantasm is all about creativity and surrealistic imagery. It works though for the most part,I suppose it's somewhat revolutionary for the Horror Genre. I don't consider it a classic,but I do enjoy it every time I watch it,and that's all that counts for me. Recommended in general,and a must for Horror fanatics.7/10 "}{"Title":"Watch Out for Flying Objects.","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Odd-ball horror flick that has a young A. Michael Baldwin discovering a sinister would-be mortician (Angus Scrimm) that is not at all what he seems. Naturally we come up with another anti-establishment horror icon with Scrimm here (aka The Tall Man). Baldwin, brother Bill Thornbury and a few others try to stop Scrimm's deviant existence and dodge those pesky flying spheres. Pure junk here once again. The actors just have no talent and the film-makers would rather treat the audience to cheap thrills than creating a cohesive tale of would-be terror. A few more special effects than usual allow Phantasm to fail not only as a horror flick, but also a science fiction one. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"For Phans Only","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Granted, I was only phive when Phantasm was released&#x85;but it equally took me phive times to finally see this mess of a movie.I've heard so much about this, and even saw Phantasm II first, when it was released 9 years later. (They like to say 10, but who's counting.) But every time I tried to watch the original, the opening not only failed to grab me, it literally bored me. Weirded me out. And it was probably only partially due to it being sooo dated.So, quite frankly, I'm not joking when I say it did take me phive, er, five times to finally force myself through this. I'm not happy I did.Some might consider this a classic or true horror and I say phooey! Wow. That one actually worked.Despite the few advantages the film had, such as creating a menacing funeral director and his stress ball or the fairly effective score, the low-budget movie was just all over the place. It was as if they invented it as they filmed it. I could hear them say Let's throw in goblins! and Oh, that's cool&#x85;but&#x85;what about a killer flying-sphere? (Though you'll have to wait for part III to learn more about the ball, their initial explanation, at least to themselves, probably went Oh, if we haven't lost the audience by now, they'll simply be amazed at the FX! Look, it's killing, drilling, draining and no strings! Awesome, dude!)After a funeral of a family member, the younger brother, Mike (Baldwin) observes a tall man, named appropriately, The Tall Man (Scrimm) lift a casket he couldn't possibly. Oh, and then there's some little (Star Wars) Jawas scrambling about.Naturally &#x96; and that's where the realism ends &#x96; this disturbs Mike. Nevertheless, he still follows around big brother, Jody (Thornbury) in fear he'll leave him much like his parents, who died previously.I'm just gonna fast-forward here, because the movie really is a trip, as in drug-induced experience. Mike has to convince brother and Ice Cream Man Reggie (Bannister) &#x96; yeah, an ice cream man who's more interested in saving a young boy than&#x85;never mind &#x96; that something's up at the mortuary and he does. After a little investigating, the evil thugs, that comes in all shapes and spheres, attack at will, whenever, wherever.This should be labeled as the first live-action Mike in Wonderland movie because whoever made this was seriously tripping. And if one were to follow it coherently and agree it's a well made film, is equally using. Eh, to each his or his own, and I have no problem with horror flicks that make up their own sense of reality and rules, but when you consistently break them, make new ones, and fade in/out of the real world&#x85;I just find it uneven and sloppy writing.And don't get me started on the unanswered, incoherent and literal out-of-this-world revolution in the finale. Simply put they wrote themselves into a corner and felt this was the only way to explain everything, as if apologizing for writing something that even Stephen King, on his most strung out day of old, would say WTF!? "},{"Title":"Mortician-Lord of the Dead.","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don Coscarelli's Phantasm is regarded as a classic.However it sometimes fails to live up to its reputation.The script is original and the special effects are extremely effective.There is a fair amount of blood and gore to satisfy splatter fans.The acting is passable-especially Angus Scrimm is wonderfully creepy as The Tall Man.The ending is pretty weak to me.The plot is as followsA young boy Mike(Michael Baldwin)notices strange actions perpetrated by The Tall Man(Angus Scrimm),the mortician at the local cemetery.The people who are taken to Morningside Cemetery for interment don't always end up where they are supposed to be.Mike and his brother then set out to stop him,with the help of Reggie(Reggie Bannister). "},{"Title":"Bizarre, but entertaining.","Date":"16 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't go looking for a coherent narrative in Don Coscarelli's Phantasm, 'cos there isn't one the film develops in a seemingly random and totally illogical manner. Although some will regard this erratic, disjointed style as shoddiness on the director's part, I found that it makes for a uniquely enjoyable viewing experience, lending the whole affair a decidedly unsettling, otherworldly quality&#x97;quite literally, the stuff of dreams and nightmares.It is this air of eerie unpredictability that has earned Phantasm a loyal following with the cult movie crowd, who are able to look past the film's obvious technical shortcomings and simply enjoy its surreal majesty. Amongst the stranger sights on offer a severed finger oozing yellow goop that transforms into an over-sized bug; an old woman and her grand-daughter, both bearing star-shaped marks on their face, perform supernatural trickery in front of an unfazed Mike; two women are attacked and abducted by dwarfs in Jawa outfits; an inter-dimensional gate to a world where shrunken reanimated corpses are used as slaves; a flying silver sphere latches onto a man's head, drills through his cranium, and pumps the blood out of his body (Jeez, what was Coscarelli smoking when he wrote this and where can I get some?).NB.&#x97;Perhaps one of the most interesting things about Phantasm is that it undoubtedly influenced Wes Craven when making A Nightmare On Elm Street, several moments in Craven's film bearing more than a passing similarity to certain scenes in Coscarelli's film Nancy becoming mired in goo whilst fleeing from Freddy mimics Mike's sprint through a muddy bog whilst pursued by The Tall Man; Marge Thompson being pulled through the door at the end of Elm Street mirrors (pun intended) Mike's fate in Phantasm; and, rather strangely, Mr. Krueger's transformation into a hot nurse in Dream Warriors is very similar to The Tall Man's habit of turning into a big breasted blonde babe to seduce unsuspecting male victims (I'm not sure what to make of that!!!). "},{"Title":"Over-rated classic with a very scary Scrimm","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A horror movie beloved by many that isn't really all that fun to watch. It's rather dull and takes quite a while to get going. A teenager discovers shady goings on at a mortuary and is soon being pursued by creep mortician Angus Scrimm. Scrimm is really the whole show...he's one of the scariest characters to hit the screen in a long time. It's unfortunate that the movie around him is so boring. Writer/director Don Coscarelli inserts the occasional effective touch (like Scrimm carrying an impossibly heavy coffin and a very resourceful flying drill-ball), but they're few and far between. The 88 minute running time seems an awful lot longer. It's a real surprise that this has spawned so many sequels. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever. . . Seriously","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before actually seeing the movie, my good friend, and reliable source when it comes to cult horror movies told me that this movie was awesome. So i decided to purchase it on VHS since it was cheap.One day I decided to pop it in and have a gander. It was very clear from the opening scene, to the final scene that this movie was actually worse than the movie gili. For that matter, id actually rather eat ten tubes of tooth paste then immedatley after chug a liter of Listerine. If I had to choose between watching this movie and paying my taxes, id deffinatley rather pay my taxes. To quite simply put it, this movie is to the cult horror movie industry, what the video game E.T. is to the atari. No blood, no action, no nothing. If your a fan of 3 seconds of full frontal nudity and no action in your horror movies, then go right ahead and watch this. But I highly advise you to avoid watching this movie at all costs. I'm serious. "},{"Title":"The only thing more unintentionally hilarious than this movie is the positive reviews.","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I realize the idea of taking Star Wars, interbreeding it with one of Dario Argento's cheese-films, and putting an intoxicated spin on the whole thing may sound like a pretty cool idea. In 2009, the weirder the idea, the greater the appeal to the open-minded emo kids. In 1979, I'm the idea also appealed to the acid-induced free-spirited 10-year-old hippie boys. My point is, no matter what generation you grew up in, there has always been and always will be those who think that they can be nonconformists by throwing out every rule and making their own rules . . . thus, paradoxically, conforming. I can't help but relate this attitude to Phantasm. It tries so hard to be different from the rest, but in the end, it's just another bucket of horror clichés. Maybe the bucket is painted a different color&#151;yellow blood, perhaps&#151;but the contents are exactly the same as all the other generic horror films from the 70s.A concept that few people really understand When weird is the norm, it isn't weird anymore.That concept is the problem that I always have with movies like Phantasm. The fans and the modern critics always site them as coming up with original ideas, when in reality, they're just cliché ideas presented in a weird light. Every single weird occurrence in Phantasm was unabashedly copy/pasted from Star Wars, Argento movies, 40s horror movies, and classic sci-fi novels. There wasn't a single weird scene in this movie that I haven't seen in entertainment before '79. For example, the silver sphere IS unarguably the lightsaber training bot in the original Star Wars. The hooded midgets in the end are also unarguably the Jawas from the original Star Wars. The fly was used before in various Stephen King short stories and various 40s movies. Etc., Etc. It would take me pages to list every single instance Phantasm ripped-off other movies/books, but it pretty much amounts to the entire movie. Anyone who tries to argue otherwise is a fanboy, blinded by his nostalgic first viewing of this film as an adolescent, then growing up thinking Those were the good old' days , when horror . . . for no other reason than it was his first exposure to horror. Anyone who enjoys horror films that are actually scary, aren't overflowing with cheese, and actually have some sort intelligence, this is the last place to look.Despite what the old men who grew up with this film will tell you, it is not scary, gory, or weird. It's just another generic paint-by-the-numbers horror film. The acting is pathetic. The special effects are pure cheese&#151;fugitively and literally (referencing the yellow blood). The story is done with go-anywhere-do-anything surrealism&#151;which has recently been popularized by the author Neil Gaiman&#151;which works in children's movies, but here is just unintentionally ludicrous. People have complained Phantasm makes no sense, but they fail to realize that's the immature point behind the movie. It's meant to be nothing more than a bunch of pseudo -weird scenes that it ripped-off from other (superior) movies. It's ironic, maybe even hypocritical, that older horror fans claim Phantasm as part of the good days of horror, when there was a story, not just gore and nudity. Phantasm has no story. In its time, it was just an acid trip, and a vehicle to display what was considered over-the-top gore/nudity in the '70s. In its generation, it was far more mindless than what is claimed as mindless today.Some cite the music as great it's really just okay. It is atmospheric like the music in Suspiria and Halloween, but it can't stand up to either, really. Also, the acting, like everything else, is laughable. Another problem is the lack of entertainment value. I fell asleep four times.I'm not sure what my overall thoughts on Phantasm were, because as soon as I write the last sentence of this review I'll forgot entirely about it. It's just a generic horror film with weird aspects copy/pasted from other films. And it cannot be defended by saying that it's intended to be cheesy, because that is not the intention of the film. If that's what we classify as original, intelligent horror that is deserving of a fond place in our hearts . . . there's no hope for us as horror fans. And even less hope of the genre progressing any further in the future.(1) Cheese oozing out of severed fingers, and fugitively out of the plot line. Or, (2) A genuinely scary, original horror movie that you can talk to the outside world about without feeling immature and stupid.It's your choice.2/10 "},{"Title":"Bizarre horror highlight","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"11 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm and its sequels is a popular horror-series, but not as big as the obvious franchises such as Nightmare on Elm street, Halloween or Friday the 13th. And that's a good thing because you can't really compare this ingenious muddle with mainstream slashers. Phantasm is a complete one-man Don Coscarelli project with a good share of morbidity, humor and extravagance&#133;all brought together in one major cool looking packing. The plot simply has to be to be believed. The Tall Man (terrific charismatic performance by Agnus Schrimm) is some sort of nightmarish grave robber. Immensely strong and ghoulish as he turns corpses into ugly little dwarfs, before shipping them out as intergalactic slaves! How does this rate on your originality scale?!? Phantasm contains other (already legendary) elements such as the deadly flying spheres that plant themselves into the victim's forehead and then perpetrates the brain. A pretty violent thing to see, but even more appealing when you're a horror fan. Regretfully, Phantasm also suffers from a few overwhelming negative aspects. Like the uninteresting main characters of the boy and his older brother. The stress isn't laid on The Tall Man in this first episode yet, and the ultra-cool Reggie (an ice-cream vending guitar player with a ponytail) hasn't got that much screen time, neither. The finale is a big letdown and a bit too confusing for a late 70's horror film. So far, 4 sequels have been produced. The first one (released in 1988) is a highly recommended film with an overload of macabre splattering and black humor. At times, this first sequel was even funnier to look at than the original. All the other sequels can easily be skipped.   "},{"Title":"Such a mess to watch.","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Can't really understand why this movie is being such a popular and much appreciated one. I couldn't even understand what was all going on in this movie or what the point of it all was.This movie really comes across as a random one. Things happen in this movie but I had difficulties understanding why and what the purpose of it all was. Still really don't know what the 'villain's' motivation was and the movie really should had put some more effort into its story. The movie just explains far too little, which does not add up to the movie its mystery but to its messy and annoying aspects instead. The story just comes across as so very messy, in which random stuff happens and also characters seem to pop up randomly. The movie reaches a point pretty early on, to which I simply stopped caring about anything that was happening in this movie.It was a really cheaply made movie, so that might explain for some part as to why the movie feels incoherent. But I can't really say that I think this movie would had been a better one with a multi-million dollar budget. The entire idea behind the movie its concept is just far too weak for that.I really love the horror genre and can often appreciate a good cheap and old looking movie but I just couldn't really find any enjoyable or redeeming aspects about this movie. I therefore also really don't see how this movie could appeal to any other horror genre lovers but the movie is yet still a popular one, so it must do something right for some people. To me it still just seems like one pointless mess though.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Some Great Atmosphere","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm (1979) ** (out of 4) Mildly effective horror film has a young man (A. Michael Baldwin) and his older brother (Bill Thornbury) investigating some strange events at the Morningside Mortuary where a bizarre Tall Man (Angus Scrimm) appears to be doing more than just burying the bodies. This is without a doubt a classic horror film but that comment might leave some scratching their heads. How could I call a two-star movie a classic? Because as bad as some of this film and as highly flawed as some of it is, there's no doubt that it also contains some great atmosphere and a couple very effective scenes. It's a real shame that this film is so uneven because it really could have been something terrific had only some of the errors been fixed. The screenplay is very limited in terms of story direction and character development and I think this is a problem. I never could really find much of a story going on and I think too many things happen without being explained. I also think both brothers are rather underwritten and this is a problem that pops up throughout the film. What Coscarelli seems more interesting in is building up the atmosphere and suspense, which he does quite well. The low budget nature of the film is the greatest strength because this adds a very dark and gloomy atmosphere that the viewer can really gets wrapped up in. The scene where the younger brother first breaks into the mortuary is extremely effective and manages to be quite creepy but after this things start to go downhill. The lack of a real story really kills the 88-minute film, which starts to feel dragged out by the hour mark. The performances are decent, although there are a few moments where some are so over the top you can't help but giggle. Scrimm is very effective as the Tall Man and is another reason to watch the film. "}{"Title":"So, this is the famous Phantasm?","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the scary movie Phantasm? Was I even supposed to be scared? Because I wasn't. This movie wasn't unique. I didn't even get the plot. All I know is that there is a tall man out there who has yellow blood? I'm sorry. It's pathetic. 3/10 "}]