[{"Title":"a documentary?","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is in no way a documentary, but the filming style and plot line lend to its feeling so.  Sally Field's acting in this movie is impeccable.  She becomes Norma Rae.  We see her fear, her disgust, her anger at the mill's treatment of its employees, and the passion she has for what she believes in.  Although the best known scene from the movie is her standing at the mill with the Union sign, I believe the most memorable scene is towards the end when she talks to her children, telling them what to expect.  The movie tends to turn away from her children, but this scene focuses in on her relationship with them.  Beau Bridges is great, and the character of the Union leader (can't remember his name) is terrific.  The sexual tension between Norma Rae and he is palpable.  I strongly recommend this film to any Sally Field fans, or anyone interested in social issue films. "},{"Title":"More than one actress's tour-de-force, an indelible and moving human story","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In trying to get the textile mill she and her family work for unionized, Sally Field's Norma Rae Webster also tries to earn self-respect at any cost. She's been leading a dead-end existence a single mother, still living with her family, sleeping with married men who abuse her. But after being inspired by a union-organizer (Ron Liebman, in an Oscar-worthy supporting performance), Norma Rae is awakened to the possibilities of life, and, what's more, everything that is wrong with the mill that seems to suck the energy and hope from those who stand there day after day trying to earn an honest dollar. There are problems with the picture Beau Bridges' role as new husband Sonny is treated in a trivial manner (he's supposed to be a voice of reason, but he's too smooth, maybe condescending, and it's an unconvincing character); Oscar-winner Field's fiestiness occasionally feels overdrawn and/or one-note, but in many of the scenes outside the factory she does indeed excel, seeming vibrantly natural and exuberant. Martin Ritt's direction is focused and firmly rooted (he never sugarcoats Norma Rae's character, and sometimes she's not that likable) and the script manages to sidestep preachiness to get its points across entertainingly. The art direction is really the second star of the film vivid, palpably hot and sweaty, with bits of cotton floating about in the air. The mill in question becomes very familiar to us, as do the people who work there. Norma Rae is involved and long, yet it is memorably bittersweet, and with a simple, haunting finish. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Ordinary Story, Extraordinary Results.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Typical under-dog story that is so well-made that its success makes for a very memorable cinematic experience. The titled character (Sally Field in a super Oscar-winning part) tries to get her fellow textile workers to unionize in her small town, but there are consequences abound. A good supporting cast which includes Ron Leibman, Pat Hingle and Beau Bridges all add to Field's show-stopping performance. Field proved that she could handle delicate material and carry a film to cinematic history. 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Unions A Timely Film ****","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sally Field's first Oscar came way via Norma Rae.The factory where she and her dad work does not know or want to know about unions. Workers are routinely abused and there is no way out for these hard-working laborers.Along comes Jewish Ron Leibman, from the north, with the idea of forming a union. He meets up with much hostility. We see the southern hatred of unions in general and there is an underlining feeling of anti-Jewishness here as Jews have always been in the forefront of labor issues in America.Pat Hingle's fatal coronary spurs daughter Norma to action. Her stopping work and turning around with the sign union is memorable.This picture is timely due to the rash attacks on the labor movement from the federal government on down to management. Made at a time when President Reagan destroyed the Air Traffic Controller's Union, the film is most appropriate. "},{"Title":"Legendary blue collar mom starts textile union","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a dramatic and moving film that rests on the wonderful Oscar winning portrayal by Sally Field of a Southern textile worker, Norma Rae. The famous scene in which Norma Rae stands on a table holding up a union sign, as her coworkers turn off their machines one by one, has gone down in cinematic history.At the outset, Norma Rae is an Alabama small town textile mill worker and single mother of three, living with her parents. She has had in the past a series of relationships with men, sometimes married, who have mistreated her; then as the story progresses, she meets and marries Sonny (Beau Bridges). Her life is quite ordinary until Reuben (Ron Leibman), a union worker from New York, comes to her mill and tries to unionize its labor force. He persuades Norma Rae to head up the cause at her mill, resulting in severe conflict with management and potential conflict in her own relationship with husband, Sonny.The movie effectively portrays the plight of the mill workers where everyday working conditions involve a hot, noisy, and crowded environment, unfeeling bosses, and a regimented day. Given our present situation, it is difficult for us to picture factory life without the protections offered by unions. They are taken for granted nowadays.I disagree with those who seem to pick up on all this sexual tension between Norma Rae and Reuben. I think one of the points to be made is that while they are definitely aware of each other's sexuality, she is loyal to Sonny, for once a man who treats her decently, though Reuben brings out leadership qualities in her that she hasn't hitherto realized. They also share a certain camaraderie and bond with regard to their union struggles, leaving Sonny rather on the outside. Eventually, as he grows secure in her love, her husband becomes more able to accept this relationship with Reuben. When Norma Rae declares regarding Reuben 'He's in my head', I don't think she's referring to sex or romance, but the union struggle and her leadership role within it that he is encouraging.For me, the most touching scene in the movie is definitely the one following Norma Rae's arrest, in which she returns exhaustedly home from prison at night, awakens her three sleeping kids, informs them that their 'Mama's a jailbird' and that they're going to be hearing all kinds of stories about her. She admits she's made mistakes, tells each child who his or her father is, and gives each a photo of their dad which she's had tucked away. All parents must face that at some point their children will come to realize their mom or dad isn't perfect, and nowhere is this more dramatically shown than in this particular scene from Norma Rae.This is a memorable movie...a vivid depiction of the struggles of blue collar life, the story of union development (fictional but historically based), and especially one woman's sympathetically captured personal tale and her unlikely role as leader of this union struggle at her own mill. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sally Field's stellar performance is the highlight of this terrific movie, but Ron Leibman was just as effective in my opinion.  In fact, the whole cast does a fine job, so if you're looking for superb acting, then look no further.  The film is good from start to finish, but a few wonderful moments towards the end make it seem even better than it already is.  Perhaps slightly overlong, but overall a great movie. "},{"Title":"Really hits home!!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Norma Rae is without a doubt one of my favorite movies of all time. I grew up in a blue collar working class family so this movie really hits home for me.An outstanding performance by Sally Field and a very powerful storyline of Unionizing a textile mill in the south make Norma Rae a movie watcher's experience rather than pure entertainment. "},{"Title":"The Film Stereotyped an Industry, But Broke the Stereotype of an Actress","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although based on real events and a real person, Norma Rae's tale of corporate greed versus oppressed workers has been fictionalized for reasons of privacy. However, fictionalized or not, Norma Rae's power and influence continue since the U.S. textile industry has forever been branded in the minds of Americans as an outmoded industrial complex, whose windowless mills are filled with the deafening noise of hand-tended machines that are layered with cotton fibers and whose workers breathe in and permanently damage their lungs with stale air that is filled with cotton dust. Although those conditions certainly did exist, they no longer occur in that industry today. However, despite the modernization of textile manufacturing in the U.S. over the past couple decades, the image of the noisy, dusty mill that is depicted in the film remains as the general perception of a textile operation. Unfortunately, while modern textile mills are free of cotton dust and the noise levels have been reduced to the low hum of computers, textile workers like Norma Rae and the others portrayed in this film have also been replaced with robotics, lasers, and a few highly skilled technicians to monitor the computerized operations. While the unionization depicted in the film successfully raised wages and increased benefits, eventually those higher costs led to efforts to cut expenses through mechanization.However, despite the demonizing of an industry, the film retains its power, and the story of Norma Rae's personal growth as a woman is probably even more memorable than the efforts to unionize one Southern textile mill. Sally Field inhabits the role of an unwed Southern mill worker with two children, and, as the film progresses, she slowly evolves from an aimless girl, who is used and abused by men, whether they be lovers or employers, into a mature woman who finds a depth and strength that helps her take control of her life and find the confidence to lead. Television viewers who only knew Field as the Flying Nun were surprised at her range and depth, although those who had taken the time to watch the television movie Sybil already suspected the breadth of her talent.While Sally Field finally shed her Gidget and Flying Nun image with this film and certainly is the emotional core of the movie, she is well supported by a cast of pros, especially the two most important men in her life. Unfortunately, because Field is so outstanding, viewers will likely need a second viewing to appreciate just how good both Ron Leibman and Beau Bridges are in Norma Rae. Ron Leibman as the assertive union organizer from New York is the man who awakens Norma's intellect and propels her into uncharted territory as a woman. Meanwhile, Beau Bridges as Norma Rae's gentle, understanding husband stands by his woman despite his not completely comprehending or appreciating the changes that are underway in his wife's character.Norma Rae is an outstanding film, well directed by Martin Ritt, beautifully written by Frank and Ravetch, and performed with heart by Field, Leibman, and Bridges. Although the movie has probably stained the image of the U.S. textile industry for good, Norma Rae also established Sally Field as an actress of the first order and remains an engrossing human story of a woman's growth into maturity and her discovery of previously unrealized potential within herself. "},{"Title":"Great American movie","Date":"20 August 1998","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I own a copy of this movie and I watch it at least twice a year. An intelligent story, without cookie-cutter characters.  It still amazes and thrills me each time I see it.  The  fact that there was no forced romance thrust upon us, is also worth noting.  Sally Field created a woman who is now part of movie history.   "},{"Title":"Very Good Historical Time Capsule","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Let me begin by informing you that I am a management labor lawyer and my practice is to thwart union organizing drives.Let me continue by saying that Norma Rae is an excellent snapshot at what all union's faced in the mid-1970s in attempting to organize textile mills in the Baptist South (the story is fictional but based on an amalgamation of union drives and a union heroine). Further, Liebman's character Reuben Warshawky the union organizer was excellent because he acted as a protagonist for Norma Rae to react to and blossom as a woman, mother, worker and leader in a manner that it quite ahead of its times.I had two favorite scenes in the movie. The first is where Norma asks the Church Minister if she can hold a union meeting at the local church with both white/black workers to see whether the Church believed in social justice. My second favorite is when Warshawky stands up for Norma when her morality (i.e., the fact she had an illegitimate child, dated many men and made a porno movie) is challenged by non-union supporters and by the executive of the textile union.Unfortunately for Norma Rae and the American Textile industry, unionized industries are rapidly disappearing to cheaper off-shore markets such as China. However, Norma Rea will always retain its place in American trade union history as a fictional (although doc style movie) on unions in the deep south. "}{"Title":"An American classic","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The first time I saw this film was at an advance screening when I was a film student, and director Martin Ritt was there to speak and answer questions. I remember that he seemed like a very down-to-earth, nice guy. He patiently answered the students' questions and explained why the story attracted him. Maybe some of the affection I have for the film is because of that original positive experience, but I've probably seen it at least a dozen times and it hasn't worn thin.Some people may find some of the characters and situations lacking in depth, but for me the movie is chiefly about Norma Rae's transformation as she becomes passionately devoted to unionizing the mill workers and, secondly, her interesting friendship with Reuben. It succeeds brilliantly on both counts, largely because of Sally Field's amazing performance. The scene where she stands on the table with the union sign is a classic, and it's Field's raw emotion that draws you in. Her fear and anger, and the power she feels when her coworkers show their support, are so apparent and so real that I'm always deeply moved. "},{"Title":"The leading role is especially nice because its about  a woman. The movie is based on a true story.","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Norma Rae Sally Fields (Gidget, The Flying Nun, Forest Gump) is a   woman who worked at the O.P.H. Hentley Textile Mill. The role is   especially nice because it is a true story about a woman who took a   stand against her employers who violated labor law regulations. The   manufacturers were so flagrant in their violations that Norma Rae's   father had arm pain, and asked for a break. He was made to wait.   Actually the pain in the arm was a heart attack that killed him. Sad!   The noise in the factory was so bad that everybody had to yell and wear   ear protection. I am so glad I don't have to work in such a noisy   place. I would lose my mind. I find that silence inspires me! Norma Rae   joined the union and got the company to unionize by challenging the   audience to fight for what they believe it is right. She did such a   wonderful job that it won her an Oscar. Norma Rae was a single parent   who marries Beau Bridges (The Fabulous Baker Boys). Ruben, Ron   Leibman (Night Falls on Manhattan, Friends) the man behind the   organization of the unionization of the mill, and Norma had a great   relationship in the movie. She appeared to be falling for him, as she   stated he is in my head. But nothing really happened between the two   of them besides the hard work of the unionization of the mill. The   story is a very good and believable. I watched the movie when it came   out and watched it again on television a couple of days ago. Her   employers made her pay dearly for her standing for what she believes   in. I identify with the character very much. I have been in similar   situations many times, not because I am a whistle blower but because I   tend to be altruistic. The music is great and also won an Oscar. I   recommend this movie! Favorite Scenes Norma skinny dipping with Ruben.   Norma telling her kids about her past. Norma holding up the sign   Union, and all the employees turning their machines off one by one.   That is fabulous! Made me cheer! When Ruben forces the employer to put   signs which states the rights of the employees at the eye level so that   workers could read them.    Favorite quotes Ruben  If you were in the State Department we would   be in a war. Somewhere between law and charity flows a shadow. When   Norma says good bye to Ruben, she blurts out  I think you like me!   Maybe Sally was quoting the movie when she received her Oscar and said    I think you like me. You really, really like me! "},{"Title":"Norma and Ron.","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a rather nice movie, more gentle than disturbing, despite the social conflict involved. Ron Liebman, a union representative, comes down to a textile mill in the South and tries to organize the workers. He runs into indifference from the good folk of Shinbone or Monkey Junction or whatever it is, and hostility from the management of the plant. His first convert is Norma Rae, Sally Field, and she gradually develops an all-consuming enthusiasm, a moral calling, to get the union established. It costs her a good deal. Management attempts to buy her off by promoting her to a position in which she must check her father's work. Humiliating for him. He dies. She neglects her family -- her four kids of varying legitimacy and the guy she's living with, Beau Bridges. She was never exactly a flower of Southern womanhood but now she's become a mover and shaker and it naturally upsets people. But under Liebman's patient and humane guidance she recruits just about everyone and the union wins.Written and directed by the team that brought us Hud and Hombre, it's remarkable as much for what doesn't happen as for what does.First, though, this cleared the path through the woods for any number of later films featuring declasse floozies who fight injustice -- Erin Brokovich being an example. This is an original and gets bonus points for it.As for what it leaves out, there is a set up for an affair between the charming Liebman and the frustrated Field -- but it doesn't happen, not even when the two are swimming alone, bare-assed, in a muddy river and talking about their private lives. What a temptation THAT must have been for the writers and if they had less in the way of resolution, it would have happened.The writers also managed to neatly sidestep the temptation to turn the mill's management into a horde of rotten, filthy, violent lawbreakers. They're hostile, yes, and careless about the welfare of their employees. (The women can't leave their posts, even when they're having their periods.) However, they are not evil thugs skulking in the shadows and they don't put the nocuous Liebman in the hospital. Management violates the law only in small ways. Liebman -- who is very law-savvy -- has a legal right to post his recruiting letters on the company bulletin board but management posts them so high up that only Wilt Chamberlain on stilts could read them. The only violence, and it's brief, is when some white workers clobber a black employee under the impression that African-Americans are banding together to lead the union so they can order the white folks around.The script isn't flawless. Ron Liebman is the sophisticated Jewish New Yorker who brings enlightenment to this benighted Southern outpost of civilization. He's a paragon of normality with no weaknesses. He introduces Field to Dylan Thomas. He teaches her Yiddishisms. A stereotype. I wish we'd been able to see him in some devalued activity. Maybe he could have a collection of panties in his dresser drawer or something.And the bravura scene in which Norma Rae is fired and about to be thrown out of the deafeningly noisy mill. She leaps to a table top and holds up a printed sign reading UNION. The employees stare at her without expression. Eons seem to pass while she slowly rotates so that everyone can read the sign. Then one woman turns off her machine. Slowly, one by one, the others follow suit until finally the mill is completely and shockingly silent. A great movie moment but it jars with its lack of logic. When the final vote is taken, almost half the employees vote AGAINST the union. So where were these right-to-work people when the machines were being shut down? I've singled out these two flaws because they are buried under the multitude of virtues in the rest of the script. The story is pretty moving, and I applaud it for sticking as closely as it does to reality. When they part after their joint success, Liebman and Field don't even kiss good-bye. It's hard to imagine. "},{"Title":"Good acting in a movie good not because of the story but the characters...","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Recap Norma Rae is a single mother of two, living with her two parents in a small town in the south of USA. The textile industry is the major employer and entire families work there. But the pay is bad, the workplace unsafe and work long and hard. Then directly from New York comes Reuben, an union-organizer, to unite the workers and start a union. Neither the workers nor the managers want him there though and Reuben has little progress. But finally, with the aid of Norma Rae, now married again with Sonny, they have some luck. But the opposition is still very strong and management have some tricks up their sleeve.Comments A interesting story, not really about the start of a union, but about a strong woman that breaks most rules and norms. She does not do like women were supposed to do, she has affairs, she speaks her mind and she does certainly not put the meal on the table when her husband comes home. She is instead making a place for herself, and in the process, she fights for the rights of the workers. But being the one that spearheads a new way of living is not easy, and Norma has to fight for every step she takes. She has the support of her husband (although her marriage is not without friction) and the aid of Reuben. But their relationship is not simple. Reuben has a completely different background than Norma, and that leads to small collisions sometimes at the same time it is a base of interest and attraction. This is movie to watch for solely on the development of Norma and her relationships.The movie won two Oscars. One went to Sally Field for her portrayal of Norma Rae, the other was for Best Music, Original Song. The first one I can understand. Sally Field does do a really good job with her character Norma Rae. She couldn't have done it without the supporting cast, but their performances are really good too. The other one, I can't understand. It is almost the only song in the movie, played at the beginning and the end, and I find it scary. It makes me think of Hitchcock rather than Sally Field...6/10 "},{"Title":"Run of the Mill","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Norma Rae is something of an oddity in that the technical quality of the film-making and acting is beyond reproach but the story itself, while based on true events, seems to skim the surface of key events in a situation that is treated with deep significance but never manages to distinguish itself. No doubt it was significant to the real-life characters involved, but, for me, the story just came across as a run-of-the-mill 'little (wo)man against the system' tale.Sally Field gives a bright and forceful performance as Norma Rae, a cotton mill worker and single mother living with her parents, who also work at the mill. In fact, the mill is the town's main employer and, as such, sees fit to run roughshod over the rights of its employees. The film does a good job of capturing the feel of the unpleasant environment in which these people work machines clatter incessantly and are densely packed into the prison-like factory, creating a hot and noisy hell from which there are few opportunities to escape. And yet the film never really delves too deeply into the conflict between the workers and the management - which should have formed the core of the story - other than in a strictly conventional good guys vs. bad guys manner. All the management are depicted as mean-spirited and unsmiling, with no redeeming features, who stoop to phone tapping and incitement of racial hatred to try and foil the plans of Union representative Reuben Warshawsky (a sharp and edgy Ron Leibman) to win the work force over. Maybe it really happened like that, but the impression lingers that the makers deliberately depersonalised the management figures &#150; who are all peripheral &#150; in order to enhance the heroic status of their lead character.Warshawsky, with the help of Norma Rae, finds it tough going to convert the workers, attracting a group of only seventeen out of 800. Presumably this is because of the worker's fears of repercussions from the management, but again this is never really made clear, and there is little feeling of the awakening of a sleeping giant as the call for an organised union grows one minute there are just a handful of recruits, the next the whole workforce is downing tools as Norma is hauled off to prison. This is in keeping with the jarring compression of the time scale in which the story takes place. How long exactly does Sonny, Norma Rae's love interest, court her? The sequence of events is that Warshawsky arrives in town, Sonny takes Norma out on their first date, then Sonny proposes and they get married while poor old Warshawsky is still trying to drum up interest in his union. Either Sonny and Norma enjoyed the briskest of whirlwind romances or Warschawsky was the most stubborn man in the South and would still be canvassing the mill's workforce to this day had he not met with success.I don't know whether such inconsistencies are down to laziness or simply the demands put upon the screenplay by the true turn of events but, either way, it irritates throughout. By trying to touch all bases &#150; the union story, the domestic strife, the father (Pat Hingle) and daughter relationship, the friendship between Norma and Warshawsky, Norma's growth as a person, etc &#150; the film devotes too little time to each and suffers badly as a result; it all looks pretty shallow by the final credits and, in my book, must go down as a missed opportunity on the part of Martin Ritt and the writers. "},{"Title":"Late Seventies union propaganda","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A good acting vehicle for Sally Field, who did show her chops. She only occasionally overdoes the Southern accent. The plot is about union organizing in a Southern textile mill. Surprisingly they do not go too far in depicting management recalcitrance, not even portraying violence from them. Less surprisingly, they also ignore union violence and intimidation, a standard tactic. Well, the textile industry did unionize in the Seventies and Eighties, and it died in the Nineties. All those jobs are now in Guatemala and Bangladesh. Interestingly, the only real energy left in the union movement is in government workers, as they have no competition to hold back union excesses. "},{"Title":"Slice of Bygone Americana","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Norma Rae is an entertaining film. It is also interesting and enlightening because it depicts the beginning of the end of the textile and garment manufacturing industry in this country. The portrayals are excellent representations of folks with good intentions that, once implemented, will have unintended horrible consequences. Sally Field is excellent as the bumpkin who is taken in by the slick New York union organizer (excellently played by Ron Liebman). Will she then manage to get the rest of her co-workers to go along? This is a real slice of Americana, and there is an element of pathos, too, when one realizes that these good people were unwittingly sowing the seeds of destruction for their industry. "},{"Title":"My 318th Review Simply brilliant and a very courageous film","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Norma Rae is a wonderful film and even an important one about right and wrong at work. It not only redefined what a female lead could do, it had the courage to do so during the late eighties, when such things as unions were seen as almost working against the free market. Norma Rae reminds us that work should benefit all (And 85% if the private workforce are not managers or bosses after all).Yet, it remains one of the most inspirational and morally upright films; but it avoids preaching, and instead shows real heart and simple folk just trying to get on with living.Based on true events around the Alabama textile industry and the incredibly hard working conditions that are like something out of 19th Century Britain, Norma Rae hits home run after home run with scene after scene that are still today as real as they were in 1989.Above all, this is a human story; it doesn't sell politics or make out that unions are the answer to everything; instead it shows through a great story arc and first class acting that one person's moral compass can make a difference...It really deserved its Oscar, just wish they would make more films like this a tale of real courage, determination, and human will. "},{"Title":"From working on the show...","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In my 17 plus years working in (and out of) Hollywood in the picture business, Norma Rae was probably the best assignment I ever had-- at least in most of the ways I can think of... I was the second assistant director, and I got onto the show after doing a couple of pilots at 20th Century Fox. I almost literally ran into Jack Terry, the UPM, on the steps of the Fox Commissary. I have no idea why he was on the lot, but we knew each other from a TV pilot I had worked on in Georgia, so we got to chatting. He rather casually mentioned he was working on this show called Norma Rae, and told me he needed a 2nd A.D. and asked if I would be interested. Since I knew and respected Jack, I was elated and took the job without hesitation. As it turned out, the executive in charge of production at the studio at the time was also someone I knew from TV days -- a true gentleman by the name of Herb Wallerstein. I knew then that I was in good shape politically speaking because I already knew and liked my two main bosses (on a feature film, the second A.D. does all of the paperwork, and provides eyes and ears on the set -- even if inadvertently -- for the studio and production company. It is understood that you, as a key second A.D., answer to several bosses, not just the First A.D.&#151;the studio being the ultimate boss). Unlike in television, where the first A.D. has a lot of authority or -- rather -- the studio exercises a lot of its authority THROUGH the first A.D., the director generally picks the first A.D. for feature films, as Mart Ritt did in this picture, and the first answers, more or less, to the director.. I Marty he had some serious doubts about his decision later on, but that is a different story. Marty Ritt was a fabulous -- if gruff -- director. He was always fair and straightforward with the people under him. I can't say enough good about him. But we DID have our moments! I had the great honor to be given a wonderful trainee assistant director, Paul Moen, to help me on the show. Paul would go on to be a much bigger success in the industry than I ever was&#151;and it was well deserved! After a brief prep period at Fox I arrived, along with most of the rest of the crew, on location in Opelika. It must have been early summer, because it wasn't particularly hot when we got there. But it GOT hot quickly and just as quickly evolved into the hot, sticky, occasionally relieved by summer rain so common in Southern Alabama and Georgia. One of the first things that became apparent was that the factory would involve some pretty awful working conditions. The place was a real, working cotton mill (Opelika Manufacturing) and it was noisy, dirty and the floors actually bounced up and down from the looms running in the factory, making shooting conditions difficult at best. MOST of the extras in the mill, by the way, were not only the people who worked there, but they had actually gone through the unionization process themselves fairly recently (the importance of unions and unionization was, of course, a major theme in the film). Every crew member had to be fitted with earplugs to protect their ears from noise (just like the ones Sally uses in the film). Because setting lights was difficult at best the gaffer, Earl Gilbert (called The Indian, but I don't know why), went through the factory and replaced all of the florescent lights with lights that had a color temperature conducent for filming. In order to communicate with each other, we used the standard studio Motorola walkie talkies attached to headphones they use at airports for use on the tarmac. But the most important piece of equipment on that set was, by far, the cinematographer himself&#151;John Alonzo. John was built like a fireplug and steady as a rock, and could handhold just about any shot WITHOUT the then new invention of a Steadicam! Although we had an excellent camera operator, John did a lot of the operating himself and, as I recall, a lot of the shots inside the factory were filmed by John hand-holding the camera. Oh, and we were also encouraged to wear dusk masks while working there. The air was filled with tiny cotton filaments which had over the years, I am sure, contributed to the brown lung disease common among cotton mill workers. But I said it was a good show to work on, and it was. Though the assistant director and UPM typically schedule a days shooting on a feature film, Marty Ritt did his own scheduling and would invariably show up with a slightly different plan&#151;and a shorter day &#150; than was planned by the production office. But, since Marty pre-edited everything in his head before filming, he only shot what he needed and we were, therefore, ALWAYS ahead of schedule! It was disconcerting to almost daily tell the crew of the changed in plans but, somehow, it almost always worked out. Marty, Sally, Ron and, I believe, the producers and writers all lived in separate quarters from the rest of us. Up near a lake somewhere, while we were all in that darned Holiday Inn with the lousy food (I would eventually move out with my trainee, Paul, and rent a seedy mobile home trailer and save the difference in cash from the per diem&#151;all perfectly legal back then). Well, there's lots more to tell about this show, but I think I'm running out of room for this comment and I need to wrap it up. But, assuming IMDb will allow me, I'll add some more later. "},{"Title":"Thoughts on Norma Rae","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I find it interesting to discover so many comments on a 26-year-old film. I guess it's a sign of a quality production if it's still touching people. From here in the heart of the disappearing textile industry, Norma Rae rings truer than true. The first time I saw the movie, it was like looking out the window of my three-room mill house and seeing my neighbors. When Normae Rae is in the bar discussing her husband's death, she was a carbon copy of one of my friends -- swigging beer and having sex to forget about the problems of life. The reaction of people to the union was so typical. Most people didn't and still don't want to hear anything about it, afraid it would lead to a shut-down.Finally, a commentary on the 2004 review by jslack. For the most part, I agree with it. But not about Ron Leibman being either miscast or unattractive. I'm curious to know if jslack is a man or a woman. Of course, Leibman of 1979 is not classically handsome, but he has a bearing and charisma that is almost breathtaking. I can't imagine anyone else in the role. The point is his difference, that he's not the same as all the cookie-cutter good old boys. This is not an affair of bodies or even hearts. It's an affair of the minds. "}{"Title":"A decent film but an excellent performance","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For such a highly acclaimed film, I found it remarkably unmoving. The audience is never fully engaged in the character of Norma Rae, her relationships, or the situation of the workers in the mill. The story of the Southern mill workers hardships and struggle to unionize seems perfect for a emotionally stirring drama; however, this potential was completely unrealized by the film's inability to connect with it's audience on any real emotional level. It is easy to see why Sally Field won Best Actress, but the film never really found its niche; rather, it glossed over many aspects of the story giving highlights of each, but leaving me to wonder what the whole story might actually have been. "},{"Title":"Growth Through Struggle","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" That booming factory floor projects all the deafening sounds of a WWI artillery barrage. Why all the workers aren't deaf amounts to a puzzler. Gutsy movie. I like the main theme. The drive to unionize not only benefits the community but brings out Norma Rae's otherwise hidden potential, not only as a person but as a leader. Revealingly, it's the Jewish outsider and organizer who triggers that potential. Otherwise, the 31-year old is caught up in drifting aimlessly through life, a human cog in the mill's inhuman machinery. Men hit on her producing three illegitimate kids, while she lives at home with her parents. But what the heck, she's just blending in with the prevailing company town. Of course, all that alters once she stops being a passive vessel and begins to think about why things have to be the way they are. I'm really surprised the screenplay makes the trouble-making organizer a New York Jew since that directs attention onto certain stereotypes. Still, it's a gutsy move and provides good banter as Norma Rae's southern rural seeks commonality with Reuben's eastern urban. I also like the way the screenplay refuses to vilify the company officers. That would be too easy and cheap. After all, they're cogs too, only at a higher and better-paid level. Actually, the movie and its themes remind me of the classic labor movie Salt of the Earth (1953). Unfortunately, that McCarthy-era film was withheld for years because of its supposed subversive content. Nonetheless, the theme of the individual growing through labor betterment is quite similar to Norma Rae's. And if anyone can find material that goes beyond reformist liberalism in either film, I'd like to see it.Anyway, Field proves she's a lot more than a singing nun or a frolicking beach bunny. I'm glad they cast someone petite like her and refused any hint of glamor. Seeing her small, plain frame stand up to the hulking men shows the power of personal conviction, whether male or female. All in all, the movie's a fine effort at showing the historical dynamic behind a laboring class pushing upwards to the proverbial middle. And if, as a result, manufacture looks for replacement through offshoring or mechanizing, then deeper questions than the worthy Norma Rae need raising. "},{"Title":"Sally Field brilliant","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's the summer of 1978. Norma Rae (Sally Field) works in a textile mill with her whole family. Her mother is going deaf from the noisy factory. Her father Vernon (Pat Hingle) threatens union organizer Reuben Warshowsky (Ron Leibman) who comes knocking on their door. She's a single mom and she ends her affair with a married man. She marries fellow worker Sonny (Beau Bridges). She starts helping Reuben causing tension in her relationships.Sally Field is brilliant as an ordinary woman. She is eminently likable. The movie is a straight forward union story. It has a good sense of realism. It helps to have the noisy mill going. It's a great movie. "},{"Title":"Complex and dark, beneath its veneer of heroic optimism.","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's only after talking through the movie's perplexing character arcs and symbols with a friend that I realized it offered, potentially at least, a much deeper reading that suggested a murky darkness lurking behind human goals, as we strive to make sense of our positions, be they static or transient.On the surface, Norma Rae is a delicate story about empowerment and heroic triumph, that trumpets the self evident values of Union-organizing in poverty stricken rural America. Feels good, right? But then, we can peel the layers of the onion and we see emerging a fatalistic portrait of the savior myth, amid a hopelessly static universe where the protagonists perform a dance, each their own, from which they will never escape.The film is complex indeed, and with great stealth, managed to lay its message dormant through many years, awards and praises, and many layers of American denial and self imposed censorship of its own dissenting views.There's a very symbolic shot in a deserted church, early on in the film, when Reuben Warshowsky, a union organizer newly arrived from New York, sits alone with his back against the wall and we can clearly see that the art department has staged the casting of the shadow of the cross next to him. If we assume for a moment that nothing at the movies is really an accident (nothing like this anyway), we might infer that on a symbolic level, Warshowsky who is a Jew, an outsider, represents the savior archetype that Norma Rae, the eponymous protagonist has been yearning for.She lives a hopeless life from which she has never ventured out, and never will, but the arrival of Warshowsky seems to focus her pain and help articulate both a definition of a problem and its cure, as in any archetypal cult experience. And indeed, once we look past the veneer of apparent pro-Union propaganda which the film uses to masquerade its way into mainstream acceptability, it is easy to distinguish that Union-organizing is portrayed much like the tedious seduction of cult members, from one box into another box, as they abdicate self-interest in support of a greater force. The film makers never inscribe a larger context from which we can comprehend the ills of Capitalism, or the need to escape the inherent slavery of menial factory work, but instead, they insidiously move their characters around the chess board as if to show that they need one another to continue their compulsive dance. One passes through towns, ministering the good word, building concepts, printing leaflets, the other fuels dreams of transgression, of faraway exotic places, and finally of marriage offers that keep her safely fastened to her neurosis. Neither factory nor Union proposes to rescue the sinking human heart from its ghostly, zombified inertia, or from its constant uprooting, as the case may be, but the characters in this play use one another to express their personal drama and their attachment to it. They meet at a crossroad, and ultimately at cross purposes. One second, Norma Rae gleefully boasts Rueben, I think you like me, but moments and a handshake later, she may realize that she never for her moment found her footing.Midway through the film, at a worker's meeting, a woman played by a younger Grace Zabriskie laments that her husband has died and offers for the congregation to take some of his clothes off her hands; the plea is delicate and tender. A second later, Warchowsky, in a blunt edit, sighs I'm not getting my message across! He has no care for the heart of these people; he is ministering, and he will pass through these parts when he has handed over his burden to an heir. But once he's gone, what will remain of the spirit, the cause, and the Holy Grail? What myth will sustain to remind the town of its passing savior?Will we stand at the end of the road, stunned at the gaping hole he left behind once he took away the names of our ills and the jars containing the cure? "},{"Title":"Sally Field","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Martin Ritt directed Sally Field to a best actress Academy Award in this biography of southern factory textile worker Norma Rae who meets Union organizer Reuben(played by Ron Leibman) who enlists her to help him organize her factory. Though reluctant, an incident with her father(played by Pat Hingle) who also works at the factory, inspires her to help, leading to hatred from management, which only escalates until she stands up with a Union sign...Beau Bridges plays her sympathetic husband Sonny.One the one hand, this is an expertly made and acted drama, with Field unforgettable in the lead. On the other, it must be acknowledged that this is lopsided dramatic storytelling bordering on propaganda, since no(and I mean zero!) attempt is made to show management POV, or indeed to humanize them, which weakens this film a bit, though its central message of course is well taken, and film can still be appreciated as long as viewer is aware of this narrative bias. "},{"Title":"All it takes is one voice to raise ...","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Norma Rae lives in a small Southern town in her parents' home with two kids from different fathers. She's a good Christian (with a lapse or two as would say the priest) who goes regularly to the church and sings in the choir. Like her parents, like most of the townspeople, she works on the cotton mill, and she wouldn't be surprised if her children followed the same path. As the song says it goes like it goes and this is how things go for Norma Rae.Martin Ritt directs every scene in the kind of documentary-like minimalism that was slowly fading from the screens in the late 70's, the New Hollywood parenthesis was soon to be closed for more commercial movies, and those like Norma Rae represented a last breath of freshness before the age of prefabricated entertainment. The realism of Norma Rae is constant, following a straight-to-the-point screenplay. As a result, it never loses its track by creating some glimpses of romances or sentimentality, as if it deliberately embodied the common attitude of the factory workers, real no-nonsense people who talk like they think and try not to think too much. The film opens with pictures of a little girl; we recognize the eyes and smile of Sally Field. The point is to show that this little girl could have been any little girl, except that her background immediately conditioned her life. That's why she accepts it, and that's why most people accept it. It's not fatality but a form of wisdom, of acceptation that life is mostly made of struggle and effort, and that some places in the country are so modest the sun-rays of the American Dream can't touch them. The town epitomizes the darkest aspects of capitalism less the minimum wages, the layoffs or the hellish conditions of work than the workers' submission to a modern form of slavery, and their reluctance to form a union.The situation is unbelievable and intolerable, for us. But that's the crisis-stricken America of the 70's and people were no different from their elders of the Great Depression. And as I mentioned before, people didn't think too much, it obviously took some knowledge to speak about people's rights, and when education was lacking, silence was still a better option. Norma Rae chronicles the evolution of a woman who was no more or no less brave, intelligent or capable than her co-workers,but she was the first to follow an intruding union organizer from New York Ron Leibman as Reuben Warshowsky, because at least, she was the first to have faith in his fight.And this faith doesn't come from nowhere. The film starts with Norma Rae's mother (Barbara Baxley) temporarily losing her audition because of all the machinery's noises, later, it's made clear that her father (Pat Hingle) has a heart condition. Norma Rae paid too much a price for the factory and Reuben's arrival coincided with a time where she couldn't take it anymore, before the power, she had the anger and that was enough. As for Reuben, he crystallizes everything Norma Rae is not, he's from the city, educated, street-smart, politically engaged, and even his Jewish background accentuates his status as a 'foreigner' and awakens a latent form of Anti-Semitism. But Norma Rae is fascinated by these differences because anything different from her world can't be that bad. A total metamorphosis would have damaged the film's credibility, but Norma Rae changes without ever changing. It's impossible to review the film without applauding Sally Fields' performance that swept off all the main acting awards that year. With her nasal voice, short temper, and frail silhouette that contrast with the goons surrounding her, Norma Rae is the perfect incarnation of the 'little people', there's a fire burning inside her, but she's constantly underestimated and patronized. And with the help of Reuben, she'll learn how to raise her voice enough to be heard. The film tactfully avoids some clichs like having a romance, or turning her new husband, played by Beau Bridges, into a jealous and bitter man, it keeps focused on Norma Rae, her personal evolution and America's average working conditions in factories.The evolution reaches a pinnacle during the film's most iconic moment, that elevated Norma Rae to one of American Cinema's greatest heroines. Forced to leave the factory, as a last resort, she writes UNION in a piece of cardboard and turns it to every worker. One by one, they stop their machine. At the end, the factory is silent but this time, it's an eloquent silence that exudes what has been restrained during so many years. It's a silence that resonates as the loud sound of solidarity. After the incident, Norma is put in jail, and finally breakdowns in Reuben's car, in what I thought, was the most powerful moment of the film, because true to life. Because that's how a real woman would have felt, no matter what Reuben had to endure, she was still the daughter of these American little towns where people have two names.The following scene might be too sentimental but it's crucial because it illustrates the deep changes in Norma Rae's personality, she tells her children about her past, her present so that they wouldn't learn it from strangers. They listen, nod, and go to sleep, then she's joined by her husband and become again the loving housewife she is. Everything will be different from there, but her conscience is clear and she knows no one would ever judge her, because at least, she stood up for her beliefs.And if Norma Rae is about anything, it's precisely the courage to stand up against injustice, even when we're alone, or especially when we're alone, because an injustice is only the sum of individual ones, and if they can't raise their voice, one must show the example. It goes like it goes but this is the only way it goes to victory ... "},{"Title":"Norma Rae does it her way","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For members of the audience who remember Sally Field from her performances in Mrs Doubtfire and Forest Gump, this film should come as a surprise. As the star of 'Gidget', playing a Californian surfer girl who had never heard of Charles Manson or Sharon Tate, Field was indelibly sweet and her persona seemed oblivious to the upheavals that the United States were undergoing in the late sixties. Field found herself in another television series called 'The Flying Nun', which was largely held in derision, even if it won the ratings. Let's just say that Sally Field was someone who put in a great deal of effort to sustain her credibility in the most arduous of circumstances. She was Burt Reynold's girlfriend for a time (although we shouldn't hold that against her,) and then won the part of Norma Rae; she promptly and surprisingly won an Oscar as Best Actress in a leading role for her troubles since no one had ever suspected that she could actually act. Her Oscar was a triumph, and nobody could begrudge her for it. Now, for the movie! Set in an industrial town in the South, where the only employment available is in a large woollen mills, Field plays a young woman with two children on the road to nowhere, working beside her mother in the mills after her father's retirement. Her mother is becoming deaf from a lifetime of drudgery and Field has a proposal from a man with his own children that she decides to accept because she simply has no other choice than to take him up on his offer. The mills have a bad name for not allowing its workers to join a union, and trouble arrives in the person of a dedicated union man from the North (played by Ron Liebmann) determined to take the issue up with management and have union benefits in place for the workers. Needless to say, the management is not vaguely interested; he befriends Norma Rae at a motel with one of her dates and she gradually becomes a committed union activist and an outspoken critic of the poor working conditions her and fellow workers are expected to endure.Directed by Martin Ritt with a distinctive Southern flavour and an eye for character and local detail, this is a pretty good film with an excellent leading performance from Field who I think deserved her Oscar. Her character starts off as none too bright, but she wins the audience over with the slow recognition that her life and the lives of others around her could, and deserve to be, much better. Ron Liebmann and Beau Bridges who plays Norma's husband provide good support and Field displays a wonderfully tough side to her character that audiences had not previously been aware of. She is cute, but also has spine, which is a very appealing combination.The movie doesn't patronise its audience; the subject of trade unionism is not often brought up in Hollywood movies, much less an entire movie being devoted to it. Finally trapped by the management and forced to serve a (short) time in jail, and almost losing her husband in the process, Norma Rae sticks to her guns and the film ends on an upbeat note as the union is voted into existence by the Norma's fellow workers. Liebmann returns to New York, providing closure to one of those rare relationships between a man and a woman in a Hollywood movie that is mostly one of friendship and regard.'Norma Rae' is one of those films with its heart in the right place, and it also delivers as entertainment with a leaning towards the left-liberal wing of politics. It works as an effective antithesis to the claptrap disguised as entertainment that promotes violence and militarism and is financed by Hollywood, meant to promote an agenda supporting blind adherence to authority and politically reactionary issues. "},{"Title":"A true depiction of real life","Date":"8 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Norma Rae is definitely one of the most interesting films about the trade union movement, that I have encountered so far. The film is equally fascinating for people, who want to know more about poor labor conditions, or manufacturing and production in general. It was made in 1978, and describes the installation of trade union representatives in a rural USA textile factory. We must credit the USA film makers, since surprisingly I do not know of comparable modern films from West-Germany or France. I like the many shots of the atmosphere at the weaving-looms, since it portrays an industry that was once vital for the early development of our economies. Clothing remains a primary need - but we in the west have lost touch with its production. In the Netherlands, most of the factories were closed in the seventies and eighties, due to the fierce Asian competition. Indeed it is mostly unskilled labor. In fact the film looks like a documentary, and social realism is used in the narrative. The acting of Sally Field (as the working woman Norma Rae) and Ron Leibman (as the organizer Reuben) is convincing, and the dialogs are credible. Obviously the textile factory in the film is a poor representative of its kind. The management is not malicious, but simply primitive, stupid and insensitive. When the father of Norma Rae suffers a stroke of paralysis during work, the overseer orders him to continue until the forthcoming break. A few minutes later the man drops dead in a cart filled with yarn. The noise in the building is ear-splitting, and there are actually some earcaps, but nobody sees to their usage. At a certain moment, it causes the temporary loss of the communicativeness by the mother of Norma Rae. The remaining question to be answered is whether the script writers and the director have done their research with respect to the approach of the trade unions. I think they did, which is quite an achievement, since it concerns a complicated social phenomenon. It is essential to appreciate, that trade unions are meeting-places for the egoism of workers, and not bastions of solidarity. Norma Rae is a textile worker, who becomes engaged in union agitation. She claims, that she acts on behalf of a better future for her children, but in doing so she leaves their care to her husband (I predict that the marriage will not last). The character sketch suggests a strong selfishness. Finally she gets fired, but this may subconsciously be intended, since a better carrier as a union representative looms at the horizon. In addition she is not qualified for unionist agitation whereas professional unionists normally act their anger and emotions, Norma Rae explodes in fits of rage - although she seems to have an instinct for quitting at the right time. Now and then her feeling of justice is twisted. Temporarily she even accepts a promotion as workplace inspector (I need the extra money). Her rise as a union representative seems hardly beneficial for the reputation of the union. In fact, she is visited by two union administrators, who want to depose her. This is prevented by Reuben, the local union organizer. Reuben is a strong advocate of the bottom-up approach, and the mentor of Norma Rae. As a matter of fact, such types exist in trade-unions, think about the justice-for-janitors movement. But actually they are quite rare, because unions are central organizations, which puts such organizers in a perpetual war with their bureaucracy. Therefore in most cases the organizers are hired on temporary contracts. Their conviction and belief in the just cause are unshakable - which is of course partly a facade. Reuben will not stop when Norma Rae must face to be laid off, or when a pregnant picketer is beat up. In the end we see him horse riding to the setting sun, on his way to defeat the next injustice. In conclusion, the film is a true depiction of real life. Nevertheless, the events in the film are also exceptional and provide the myth, that trade-unions need to justify their existence. The film makers seem to have grasped, that stupidity is everywhere and not restricted to entrepreneurs. "},{"Title":"Breakthrough Oscar winning performance by the Lady formerly known as GIDGET & THE FLYING NUN! And to think that petite beauty is 4 days younger than me! (Woo,woo,woo,woo!)","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" WHAT an unusual film! NORMA RAE (20th Century-Fox, 1979) is a totally studio created and produced movie! Even then, in 1979, this production is an anachronism in Tinsel Town where more, and more, the big studios became partners to independent producers and landlords to those same small production companies; who become willing tenants for the large studio sound stages, sets and back lots.IT has been said that we have 3 social classes in the United States of America; being The Upper Middle Class, the Middle Class and The Lower Middle Class. These terms are, of course euphemisms or rather Code Words; for after all, no American wants to admit that he is a member of any old Working Class!! I mean, that's just so 'Proletariat'APPARRENTLY 20th Century-Fox wasn't fearful of doing an American Working Class film; for they did so; not just once, but in two movies released very close to each other and later booked as a double bill. The other title is BREAKING AWAY (20th Century-Fox, 1979); which of course was about the four young friends, a year after high school, meandering through life aimlessly, doing nothing. (Yeah, Schultz, it's the movie with the bicycle race!) ORGANIZED Labor and the attempt to bring union representation to a textile company in the Southern U.S. is the story here. It brings us into contact with the lovely Miss Sally Field, portraying the heroine/protagonist, Norma Rae (Herself). Through several on the job incidents, such as the heart attack and death of her Father, Vernon (Pat Hingle); who is refused permission to leave the line when he experiences stroke/heart seizure type symptoms.WELL call me a softy, but that sure seems like a good reason to take up arms on behalf of having a union in a company.REPRESENTING the international union is organizer (often called 'agitator'), Reuben (Ron Leibman); who, being an outsider, has trouble getting locals to support or even consider the notion of having a representation election in the plant. When Norma starts her protest, he at last has an ally.THE story also deals with the attitudes of the local townspeople toward Miss Norma as the company's union busting campaign machinery gets rolling. Whereas Norma has a couple of kids, previous to her marriage to the loyal and most patient, ,Sonny (Jeff Bridges), she also has one who is illegitimate. Norma forewarns her children and tells them to be prepared to hear more lies. There was even, in the story, mention made of a rumor that Norma had made a Stag Movie with a Cop! (This we found to be most amusing and the biggest laugh in the roughly 2 hours on screen.) OTHER than the personal story of a young woman (Based on a real person involved in the long lasting J.P. Stevens Company's struggle to keep unions out of its domain. Unbelievable as it may sound, at one point J.P. Stevens Company was paying $1,000,000.00 per DAY in fines rather than even begin to allow a representation election.IN a general sense, NORMA RAE is all about the working class people in the U.S.A. and how they (us?) are viewed by the Liberal Press and by the Motion Picture Industry and the related Entertainment Industry. This brings us to what is most important to me in writing about the picture.NORMA is a member of that very Working Class and is not a very refined Lady. She has been around the block several times with regard to her relationship with men. (She was a woman who didn't have an enemy in the world; or as we used to say, She's just like a door knob. Everyone gets a turn! ALL of that considered people in the Working or Blue Collar stratum in our country and world deserve decent treatment and should not be referred to as Trailer Trash and the like. It is indeed a study in hypocrisy that those same elitists would not dare call any Blacks of the same socio-economic rung of the ladder by any derogatory terms, yet express such contempt of people who are classified as being White.NOTE * Speaking of Awards, we wonder why no recording of the Oscar winning original song It Goes Like It Goes was ever released. For that matter, there was no NORMA RAE original soundtrack album, either. (And the score also claimed an Oscar for David Shire and Norma Gimbel. Hey 20th Century-Fox boss, Rupert Murdoch, it's not too late! POODLE SCHNITZ!! . ' "},{"Title":"Even the opening credits are remarkable!","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had not seen Norma Rae for several years, but when it was on cable this weekend I tuned in. I was so drawn in from the opening credits. The song  It goes as as it flows over the scenes inside the factory - the cotton spinning off the reels - is visual poetry. I agree with what others have said about the performances and direction.I have often wished there was an award for credits - whether in the Academy Awards, MTV, or others. So many have really set the mood for what is coming.Seven, Monty Python and the Holy Grail, To kill a Mockingbird, Conspiracy Theory, Panic Room, Out of Africa, Amadeus, and so many others. Whoever does credits for films should get the recognition they deserve. "}{"Title":"Very social and clever movie!!!","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Very social and clever movie about ordinary girl who tries to awake her sleepy town in order that to fight for their rights. I became interested this film because recently saw remarkable drama Rosa with Bette Midler. I learned that she was nominated on Oscar, but winner became Sally Field with Norma Rae and I'm urgently became search its. Norma Rae is very absorbing and dramatic story, I'm really very strongly worried for characters of this film and I'm deeply imbued their troubles, because similar problems are very actually today and touching many ordinary people in all the World. This film makes you wonder about many important for us things and I strongly recommend its for watching to everyone. Maybe this film will be unite us, maybe no, but some important and right things in your hearts will remain exactly. . "},{"Title":"Transplendant","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You know...looking over Sally's credits...well they're a lil' spotty.  She followed up Norma Rae with Beyond The Poseidon Adventure, Smokey & The Bandit 2 & Backroads.  But when she's good she totally rocks. I loves me some Sally Field! I cry every time I watch this movie. The end where she says, I think you like me just gets me every time.  "},{"Title":"a realistic setting boosted by Field's powerful acting","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Martin Ritt's kitchen-sink drama NORMA RAE is my fourth entry of his filmography, it won Sally Field her first Oscar, and is reckoned as a shining specimen perfectly designed to gratify Awards recognition, aka Norma Rae moment for its actors, usually adapted from real events.The movies takes place in a small town in North Carolina, based on the true story of Crystal Lee Sutton (1940-2009), our heroine Norma Rae (Field) is a single mother of two kids (one from the wedlock and the other is an illegitimate son borne out of a casual fling), now her husband is long dead, and she trysts with a married man but often got beaten due to the rife male chauvinism among the hillbillies, should audience judge her too? Is she a dimwit slut or a liberal-minded feminist?Norma Rae, and her parents (Hingle and Baxley), all work in their local cotton mill factory, receive minimum-wage and their poor working conditions are ignored by the management, life could be that for her, keeping working until her health deteriorates under the awful condition and kicks the bucket, then hopefully her children will be old enough to take her place in the factory, do the same job and continues the circle of life. But the arrival of Reuben Warshowsky (Leibman), a New York union organiser, galvanises her life and the prospect of forming a labor union beckons a possibly better future, so she is bent on functioning as Reuben's right-hand man. Norma Rae also meets a fellow worker, Sonny (Bridges), a divorc with a young daughter, and soon they form a family, but her whole-hearted devotion to the ongoing campaign for the union engenders clashes with the management of the factory, and she has to be crucified for the progressive cause when the antagonism reaching its boiling point. The Union wins in the end, but Norma Rae loses her job and Reuben leaves when his mission is achieved, will her future become better afterwards, the film doesn't reveal any detail, but a reconciliation with Sonny bespeaks at least no marital disruption will occur.Sally Field, injects such a redoubtable force in her acting, like Reuben patronisingly tells her, she is too good for the place, one can totally get impressed by her punchy effort in every line, gesture and expression, which transcends Norma Rae from an ordinary gal to a highly relatable and extremely likable cinematic heroine, that's the reason why we love to see these stories being told again and again on the screen. The script carefully treads the camaraderie between Norma Rae and Reuben, to avoid any scandals, but Leibman's Reuben, in the meaty supporting role, should be an equally likable character, doesn't register the same impact, wanting of sincerity in his acting could be the culprit, whereas Beau Bridges' Sonny and Pat Hingle's Vernon, Norma Rae's father, both cast more weight in their much leaner screen-time.NORMA RAE is a juggernaut success, receives four Oscar nominations (including the prestigious BEST PICTURE) and wins two (Field's BEST LEADING ACTRESS and David Shire's theme song IT GOES LIKE IT GOES, beautifully sung by Jennifer Warnes), the relevance of labor union has ebbed away since then, but it definitely sparks off a neo-realistic trend for American indie films, with real- life location and tapping into the misery of low-class people which average cinema-goers consider too harrowing to watch on the silver screen, in retrospective, it is something we should praise for! "},{"Title":"Sally Field More Serious Than With the Bandit","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A young single mother and textile worker (Sally Field) agrees to help unionize her mill despite the problems and dangers involved.The story is based on Crystal Lee Sutton's life as a textile worker in Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina, where the battle for the workers union took place against a J.P. Stevens Textiles mill. How much is true and how much is fiction, I have no idea. My suspicion is that the bulk is fiction, because the film is called Norma Rae and not Crystal Lee.This film has to be the highlight of Martin Ritt's career. Not only does it have some nice awards (cementing Field's career), but it now sits in the Library of Congress. The only other Ritt film that comes close is Hud (1963). "},{"Title":"This film is a dramatization of the life of Crystal Lee Sutton and her stand against unfair working conditions along with a fight to unionize.","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Contemporary historians consider the 1970's a pivot of change in world history due to an engaging wave of social progressivism within the Western World. Amidst economic and societal reforms, tides to unionize factory workers had washed over from shores of the 1880's Knights of Labor, only to crash onto rocky beaches of the 1970's unfair labor conditions. Norma Rae is based on the story of Crystal Lee Sutton's life as a textile laborer, working beneath employers in a poor environment, that stands up to obtuse societal normalities. The film does a surprising job at portraying the struggles faced when unionizing is attempted. Unbeknownst to most, a dream to unionize often separates a reformer, as well as creates opposite factions within a community. These two factions, those who want change compared to those who are content with the status quo, are depicted very well in the film via Reuben Warshowsky, a labor activist who supports progression, and the textile factory owners, who promote disdain and contempt towards reform. The film instills a sense of pro-unionism within a viewer, which isn't bad-actually, quite the contrary-it's good! Norma Rae does a fantastic job at revealing injustices, and promoting a positive cause. To the films disadvantage, it fails to address other problems facing labor unions outside of the factory. Rather ironic, given the movie focuses on unionization, yet fails to unite other platforms for labor progression. This inability does NOT downplay the great screen writing or acting produced, but it fails to communicate different forms of injustice surrounding labor. While focusing on changes in the factory, the film fails to represent problems facing migrant workers in the west along with mining industry in the northeast. The most powerful scene from the film is the dramatization of Crystal Lee Sutton's actual protest, in the mill, where she creates a sign reading UNION and stands on her worktable until all machines slow to a silence. Alongside other meaningful scenes, including confrontations with her family, protagonist Norma Rae (a representation of Crystal Lee Sutton) literally taking a stand against injustice in the workplace in both historically significant as well as emotionally. In total, Norma Rae works on all levels with the means to tell an amazing story, along with the ability to support a just cause. "},{"Title":"B movie style, A movie quality.","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a very good movie. It is extremely fun to watch. The movie is simple to explain, basically the movie is about a labor organizer who comes to a small southern town with the mission to set up a labor union at the local cotton mill. Obviously, the mill does not want it's workers to organize. After the organizer arrives he ends up making friends with a worker at the mill. Obviously there is more to the story then this but this is the basic synopsis. The film does a good job of telling the story of how some of the blue collar workers are treated in our country. The quality of the film stock reminds me of a B movie. But the acting and story are superb and nothing short of a quality A list flick. I know the movie came out in 1979, so I was expecting a little lower quality film stock but this is so far below the standards of the time that I think it was by design to help put the viewers in the shoes of the cotton mill workers. The trick was nothing short of effective, I think this low quality of the film's picture helped put me in the right frame of mind. As far as the acting goes it is great. In fact Sally field wan an Oscar for her performance in the movie. And I think the labor organizer at least deserved a nomination. The other Oscar that the film won was for Best Original Song, and the song deserved it. The music here is simple and the song defiantly anchors the light soundtrack. Other then these two wins the film was nominated for Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Picture. Those last two nominations go to show just how good this movie really is!!! Take my advise, WATCH IT! "},{"Title":"I hope my erection is based on sound egalitarian and feminist-conscious values","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a review of Silkwood and Norma Rae, two of the more famous women's pictures of the 1980s. The better of the two, Norma Rae stars Sally Field as Norma Rae, a textile worker in small town North Carolina. Director Martin Ritt delves into Norma's social and home life, highlights the exploitation of both Norma and her fellow workers, and then introduces Norma to a Jewish unionist played by Ron Leibman. Ron teaches Norma the importance of solidarity, worker rights and battling for betterment. Sally, meanwhile, reveals herself to be a headstrong, blue-collar warrior; the brawn behind Leibman's brains.While Norma Rae does trivialise (it champions a fairer capitalism, rather than examine the contradictions of capitalism itself), it does contain a number of good passages, most of which either compare Ron and Norma's differing social backgrounds or show the textile bosses strategically promoting dissenters and so pitting workers against workers. John Alonzo's cinematography is pitch perfect, gritty, intimate and pseudo-documentarian.Some have complained that Norma Rae is uncritical of unions, that the film neglects to mention that Norma's textile plant promptly shut down, and then go so far as to suggest that unions are bad because they end jobs and chase jobs offshore. We see similar arguments today, banks, and the financial sector as a whole, which proclaim themselves as being indespensible, threatening to pack up and leave countries if taxes are raised or stricter measures are put in place. Such things are typically used as proof for the benefits of less regulation. In reality, it's tantamount to blackmail.Directed by Mike Nichols, Silkwood, another blue-collar whistle-blower picture, stars Meryl Streep as Karen Silkwood, a lowly worker at an Oklahoma nuclear facility. Along with her best friends (played by Kurt Russell and Cher), Karen begins to gather proof of her company's copious wrongdoings, which include poor safety measures, employee exploitation and radiation spills. Like Norma Rae, the company bosses attempt to fight back, but can't seem to counter Karen's grit and determination. Both film's are overly sentimental, deal in very broad stereotypes (bad bosses, good exploited workers, saintly activists etc), but mask their deficiencies well with their low-key tones, naturalistic acting and strong, small town atmosphere. Their ancestors are King Vidor's Our Daily Bread and Michael Wilson's Salt of the Earth. Their children are everything from Matewan to North Country to Erin Brokovich to The Insider to Ken Loach's underrated Bread and Roses. The tale's familiar, and is habitually resuscitated every now and then.Unlike most films in this genre, Silkwood's hero is actively stalked, hounded and murdered by the shadowy corporations she locks horns with. In real life, the nuclear facility at which Karen worked (Kerr-McGee) was rumoured to have strong ties to the US Government, the CIA and the NIA. As Karen was about to whistle-blow on the illegal sale of nuclear grade plutonium, some believe she was assassinated. In the 1970s, women like her spearheaded the anti-nuclear movement, which has been successful in stopping the construction of nuclear plants, which even today are constantly being offered as clean, carbon free, reliable energy sources.8/10 - Overrated, simplistic, but well acted. Worth one viewing. See Bread and Roses. "},{"Title":"Underrated It goes like it goes...","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hard to understand, why on IMDb the movie only has a rating of 7, it deserves much better than this. Wonderful sets, cast, cinematography and plot. Everything beyond perfection! It's a touching story and the movie portrays it well. I have always liked stories that are about justice, while old black and white movies lived up to the expectation, this is relatively newer one and it didn't disappoint. The length is just ideal, it finishes at the right point though leaves much curiosity and longing that it should have lasted more. Great movies are about this. Dialogues are inspiring and background music is impactful. The movie also has one of my favourite songs! Couldn't have asked for more... "},{"Title":"Well worth your time....","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the first film that earned Sally Field an Oscar--in the title role. Norma Rae is a slightly fictionalized retelling of a real-life series of events (among other things, the names have been changed). It's set in a textile town in North Carolina. When a union organizer comes to town, the workers are very leery about talking with him or joining the union. However, eventually Norma Rae and a few others join. However, they face intimidation, job loss and perhaps worse if they join--even though this is a violation of the law. It seems in this town, what the mill owners want, the mill owners get. Can Norma Rae survive and win against a huge machine bent on crushing the union? This is a very compelling story--especially since these places were terrible places to work--with low wages, brown lung (a fatal disease caused by inhaling cotton fibers) and bosses who have a 'take it or leave it' attitude about the employees. Ironically, in real life, after the mill workers eventually unionized, slowly the mills began to close and jobs were sent abroad. Today you'd barely know that North Carolina was once a huge textile producing state.Overall, a very good film with a nice performance by Field and was her breakout movie role. I liked how the leading character was, at the beginning, a complete screw-up in life. But, as the film progressed, she grew up and became so much more. The plot was compelling, interesting and, at times, exciting. Not a great film but a very, very good one--and well worth your time.It's funny, but my wife seemed to have no interest in watching this film. Because her family comes from North Carolina and practically all of them worked in the mills decades ago she'd be interested...but she wasn't. Perhaps it's too depressing for her to think of her parents and grandparents working such a low paying and thankless job. Regardless, when she saw I was watching Norma Rae, she left to find something else to do! By the way, this movie repeats an often repeated line as the Sheriff tells Norma Rae (after she's arrested) You got one phone call.... You CAN and do have more than one phone call--it's just a movie/TV myth that it's only one. "},{"Title":"Sally Field Wants You","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of those rousing films in which a blue-collar normal Joe (or in this case perhaps we should say normal Joan) stands up against the big boys in the corporate office for what is right and just. Movies like Erin Brockovich wouldn't exist today if movies like Norma Rae hadn't existed first.And Norma Rae is a lot easier to swallow, because it's done without all the Hollywood ritz and glamour. Director Martin Ritt specialized in making movies about blue-collar folks that looked like blue collar movies, and Sally Field, playing the factory worker who's sympathetic to an invading union organizer from the north and becomes his ace card in rallying the other workers, is a much better actress than Julia Roberts, and we're actually able to believe her in the role.The image of Field standing up on a table silently holding up a placard that says Union has become indelible.Grade B+ "}{"Title":"Solidarity Forever","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Before writing this review I noted that Norma Rae was shot entirely in the state of Alabama, a state known for its anti-union tradition. Was this director Martin Ritt having a private joke shooting it there and did the Alabama film commission know exactly what Ritt was making?The attitudes of the management of the textile mill are pretty typical of Alabama. They want no union no how and no Jewish organizer from New York played by Ron Leibman here is going to change things. Leibman knows he's going to meet cultural resistance so he's got to get a point person among the workers to carry the ball.The person Leibman chooses is Norma Rae played by Sally Field in what turned out to be her first Best Actress Award winning performance. Field is at first glance about as typical as you can get for a textile mill worker. But Field slowly but surely brings out the fact that Norma Rae is a woman who is curious about the world and knows intuitively there's something better out there. The way to get it for herself and her co-workers is to have that union and have some strength in dealing with management.Sally Field's career ever since she left television and Gidget and The Flying Nun had her playing mostly women of a southern rural background, she seems to have taken a patent out on those parts. Right from films like The Way West through the films she did with Burt Reynolds, it seems almost like she was preparing for the parts that got her the Academy Award. I don't think it's a coincidence that her second Oscar for one of the most beautiful films of the Eighties, Places In The Heart is also for a southern woman in a rural setting.Field also gets good support from Beau Bridges whom she finds time to romance and wed while doing all her union organizing and from Pat Hingle playing her father.Besides Field's Oscar for Best Actress, Norma Rae won a second Oscar for Best Song for It Goes Like It Goes which is sung at the opening and closing credits by Jennifer Warnes. Thirty years after Norma Rae was released, I'm almost afraid to say it, but that mill town has probably lost the textile mill to China or to the third world. Hopefully some Norma Raes will emerge in those populations as well. "},{"Title":"Kudos To Some Others","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There was a lot that could have gone wrong with Norma Rae. It tiptoed around melodrama for its entire length, but never lost its balance. There were several reasons for this 1. A tough, honest script. It put real words in peoples' mouths, and even in the most confrontational scenes there was no preachiness. Real people don't stand around preaching at each other; nor did these characters.2. Martin Ritt. It is hard to believe that Ritt, an aging veteran by this point in his career, was not nominated for Best Director. His camera practically floats, in some impressively tight quarters - an actual motel room, an actual textile mill, an actual house. The camera rarely feels backed into a corner and never intrudes into the natural eye view that Ritt superbly controls throughout. Not a rough edit in the entire picture; internals and externals are both handled splendidly (the creek scenes work especially well)...the best compliment you can pay a director is that his touch seems to be invisible. Ritt deserves this high degree of praise.3. Ron Liebman. Liebman is so self assured as Reuben that he creates the color palette from which Field draws her own remarkable performance. It is literally impossible not to view Liebman AS Reuben. Suspension of disbelief is total, because Liebman never, at any point, does anything 'actorly'. It is one of the most relaxed performances you are likely to see, especially when you consider that this is a tense movie and his character is the direct cause of the tension. His performance was ignored by any and all award organizations. Classic (especially supporting) performances often are. Liebman and Field spent considerable screen time together; their chemistry was adult and complicated, and yet never overwhelming. Her win was his triumph as much as it was hers.4. Beau Bridges (lack of). Bridges was a very popular actor when this movie was made, and was probably considered helpful to the drawing power. His characters tend to be likable and aw-shucks simple and enthusiastic. In this movie he was cast as the same type, but was expected to go through an arc of disillusionment as the union takes more and more of his wife's time and attention. Whether because the script demanded it or because this was a difficult transition for Bridges, he gets essentially one scene in which to demonstrate this arc. It is just the right amount. Bridges moves the film along during the middle, helping to develop Norma Rae's family ties and the stresses that her activism is causing; when it is time for the movie to clarify its focus and bring home the last chapter, Bridges is cast aside. He is not missed.Let history not forget Ritt and Liebman, though at the time they certainly were forgotten. "},{"Title":"Exceptional drama","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is based on a real life story. It takes place in a small Southern town where virtually everyone works at a textile mill. They're underpaid and overworked and some die because of the conditions. Norma Rae (Sally Field) is disgusted with it but what can she do? Then union organizer Reuben (Ron Leibman) comes to town. He revs her up and they start trying to convince the workers to unionize...but the company management doesn't like that.Incredible movie. As everyone probably knows this film won Sally Fields a deserved Oscar and proved to everyone she can act. She's just incredible--full of fire, energy and anger. When she's on screen you can't take your eyes off her. In a good move the movie does NOT glorify her or make her a super woman. She's just a strong, determined woman fighting for her beliefs. The sequence where she holds up the UNION sign in the factory has become a classic. Leibman matches her. He was just as good, if not better, than Field. He deserved Oscar recognition too but sadly didn't get it. It also shows how a man and woman can work together and NOT fall into bed. It also shows how Norma's husband Sonny (a sadly underused Beau Bridges) comes around and realizes his wife is doing a good thing to which he was incredibly opposed to at first. The script is great--never too preachy or too sappy. Martin Ritts did an incredible directing job too. Heck even the opening and closing song (It Goes As It Goes) is great and ALSO won an Oscar. A great movie. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"picket line","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I rate this a 20. I had to cross a picket line, just to see this film! I too own it, and watch it all the time. She deserved 20 Oscars. I was very active in union work/womens' rights, etc---to this day, I am still called Norma Rae. My favorite parts--- how come everybody down here has 3 names? (I still use that expression) ohm dieting. Too funny also, how she wants that machine in the ladies' room--do it and i'll shut up! When Liebman tells her he has the kind of name he has to spell for head waiters! rofl... so do I........ just the way Field says stuff! Cracks me up. Still one of my favorite movies, and Field is my favorite actress. Yes, it was based on a true story. I once told a boss of mine, that I too was having a union meeting, and he could come and look in the windows! Never offered him lemonade tho! My favorite part of that movie,was when she wrote that ''union'' sign and held it up! Got shivers down my spine....... "},{"Title":"TWO THUMBS UP! FIVE STARS OF EXCELLENCE!!!!","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is definitely a monster of a hit. Sally Field was great playing the single mother who wouldn't let unsafe conditions go undetected. This movie was Oscar material. It was strong, smart, and very uplifting. I like the part when she had the black men in the meeting and she told her husband played by Jeff Bridges that they didn't give me a hard time. Whatever you say about it, but it's AWESOME! 10+ "},{"Title":"Masterfully written, well acted, poor political objectives","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The masterful way in which southern small town details and some characteristics are displayed makes the authors point seem not only valid but confirmed! You can't help but watch vignettes of the film and say to yourself, yup, a huh! Specs of behavior, dress, mannerisms all are carefully unrolled to create a scene that endorses their political goals.Yes, Norma Rae, although entertaining jams leftist political views down ones throat. In doing so it makes out small town Southerners on average to be drunken simpletons that live reckless promiscuous lives. Unable to take care of themselves, the hero from New York (Ron Leibman) sets things straight and awakens the otherwise naive Christian southerner played by Sally Field. Many clichs throughout the movie are utilized. It's no wonder the media and the educational system embraced and praised this movie to such a large extent. It's another opportunity to influence young people. "},{"Title":"Lots a sweatin' in a real slow Alabama labour movie","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Oh gosh, some films do start to look a bit tired. I'm reviewing this after seeing it for the first time in 2012. To say that the film is a tad bit slow is being generous. The script is quite all right; it's just that Ritt seems to linger too long on each scene whereas he could have made the points in a tighter and more urgent manner. Think of what Clint Eastwood would have done with this material. The end credits to the film claim that this is a fiction and rightly it might be so. However, the not so subtle subtext is the labour situation in the deep south, which continues on to this day.I live in Ontario and I have seen recessions come and go and years back one of them saw a lot of furniture manufacturers close up shop and move to brand new facilities in the south. In states that had practically no union presence. The impression we had then was that expensive Canadian labour went south to much cheaper non-union labour in the south. There are still many factories in the United States that are under represented by unions. I am not advocating unions and the issue is broader than I need to refer to in a movie review.The poor and largely uneducated working folks of this southern town have no where else to go, no other local jobs open, certainly not for their skill sets. So, they feel obliged to take any work and the factory owners take full advantage of that fact. Comes a Jewish labour leader from New York, who just as slowly as the film plods on, finds it tough going to get any of the workers to come on board. Norma Rae actually is not the tipping point for his labour organizing. Not at first. A spontaneous stand taken by Norma, done with great contrast to her surrounding, in silence, by holding up a made up union sign, tips the balance. This type of battle took place all across the United States for as long as it ramped up its industrial foundations. There have always been too many unsafe work places where labourers are paid third world wages. There are many movies dedicated to just such a story. This is a good one but it suffers from dragging its feet in the soup.The actors are all good and the chemistry in particular between Sally Field and Ron Liebman quite fun to watch. Were this film not so long on the sweating and plot development I would have given it higher marks. Not great, but worth a viewing. Then think again about the recent headlines of the terrible working conditions of workers producing Apple computer parts in China. So little changes. "}]