[{"Title":"What a great movie!","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"47 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most captivating love stories I've ever seen on film. It starts with a young woman (Katya, played by Vera Alentova) reporting to her Worker's Dormitory friends that she has flunked by two points the exam to get into university. It ends with the most incredible sweetness of life.It is like a French film done by a Russian company (which is what it is). The Moscow we see that does not believe in tears does believe in love, and it is not a Moscow of politics, although some people do call one another comrade. This is a woman's point of view film (a chick flick) that transcends any genre cage. It begins slowly, almost painfully dull in a way that will remind the viewer of all the clichés about Russia, the unstylish dress, the worker's paradise that isn't, the sharp contrast between Moscow and the peasants who live outside the city. Katya works in a factory. She works at a drill press. She is obviously underemployed. Lyudmila (Irina Muravyova) works in a bakery. She is probably gainfully employed for the time and place. They are friends, twentysomethings who are on the make for a man, but not a man from the sticks. They pretend to be university post docs or something close to that and they impress some people as they house-sit a beautiful Moscow apartment.This is how their adult life begins in a sense. Lyudmila falls in love with an athlete; Katya becomes infatuated with a television cameraman. One thing leads to another and before we know it they are forty. Neither relationship worked out. The athlete becomes an alcoholic, the cameraman, in the sway of his mother, believes that Katya is beneath him (once he finds out that she works in a factory). How wrong he is, of course.But no more of the plot. I won't spoil it. The plot is important. The characterizations are important. The story is like a Russian novel in that it spans lots of time, but once you are engaged you will find that the two and a half hours fly by and you will, perhaps like me, say at the end What a great movie! My hat is off to director Vladimir Menshov and to Valentin Chernykh who wrote the script and to the cast. I've mentioned Vera Alentova and Irina Muravyova, but Aleksey Batlov who played Gosha was also excellent. I don't want to say anymore. Just watch the film. It is one of the best I've ever seen.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"35 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the last movies I have seen before leaving Russia. I am watching it every time with a lot of pleasure. It is funny, and touching to tears some moments. It is also very realistic, as many women in Russia went through the same problems as the three girls, and it touches  most of people in Russia. It is also showing that it is never late to restart and suceed in your life, and in spite of difficulties it is possible to reach your goal and success (whatever it means for you). "},{"Title":"a nice movie. Splendid, in one word","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a tribute to the Soviet era some people in Ukraine still consider to be the best years of their lives.I saw the movie in my child years, but didn't pay much attention to it. Now, when I study film history and techniques, the movie revealed to me some dark sides. Moskva sliezam nie verit, I guess, tells a story of a humble Soviet woman in pursuit for happiness with a beloved man. This woman does not care about feminism. True love of a man-stronghold, a man who is ready to comfort her any time she needs--that is what she is searching for in life. The movie shows some cloudy moments in the way to happiness three female friends go along. And the movie ends up where it should--an island of placid I watch it in original. Have to say, many phrases from the movie are cited in Ukrainian and Russian-speaking communities these days. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully entertaining and touching","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This may be the first Russian movie I saw that did not end tragically. There were the normal problems of living in Moscow, particularly for the 3 young women trying to make it under very difficult circumstances. The things they do (particularly Lyudmilla) are funny and yet give us a glimpse into how difficult it must have been for them. Katya, the main character, goes through her trials but comes out on top. She does better than anyone else (out of the 3), even raises a daughter (without a husband), but she secretly longs for a man in her life. After many failed attempts are relationships she accidentally meets the man who turns out to be the perfect one for her. However, they too go through some struggles before coming to the final realization that they belong together. It is a wonderful story of struggles, successes, and life in general. The acting was wonderful, particularly the actress who played Katya. Her young daughter (Alexandra) was adorable. The scene I liked the most was Gosha invites Katya and her daughter to a picnic, to get to know each other better (after declaring that he is going to marry Katya). Katya is tired and she just falls asleep in a chair in the fresh air. Gosha gently puts a blanket on her. Very simple, but very caring and touching. There are many wonderful moments in the movie. The humor is sprinkled throughout and it is very refreshing to see a movie like this one. The most valuable thing to me was it gave a glimpse into life in the USSR, and yet we can relate to the story and the characters on a human level. "},{"Title":"You usually don't expect to see some of these things.","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The second Best Foreign Language Film winner from the Soviet Union was something impressive. Moskva slezam ne verit (called Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears in English) starts out portraying three college friends in 1958, and picks up twenty years later.In 1958, Katya (Vera Alentova) is motivated, hard-working and bright, while Liudmila (Irina Muravyova) is manipulative, shallow and scheming, and Antonina (Raisa Ryazanova) is shy and simple. They're all from the countryside, but all looking to get jobs in the city. Over the next few days, Antonina ends up with one Nikolai, and these two are the most traditional; Liudmila ends up with hockey player Sergei. Katya, meanwhile, gets filmed for a TV project on the factory by cinematographer Rudolph, who ends up getting her pregnant. They try to talk things over at a park bench, but he just leaves.Twenty years later, the movie focuses on Katya's redemption, one might say. She is now the director at the factory (and even gets to drive to work, practically unheard of in the USSR), and her daughter Alexandra is doing quite well. Granted, Katya's successful in her public life, but what about privately? It looks as though her personal life will remain empty until she meets one Gosha (Alexei Batalov), an honest, outspoken, perceptive fellow. She does meet Rudolph again - and this time he's going by his real name Rodion (he called himself Rudolph because western names were popular in the '50's) - but she leaves him at the bench.This movie makes an interesting use of duality. There are two meetings in the park; Rudolph/Rodion leaves Katya the first time, but she leaves him the second time. Rudolph/Rodion makes two speeches about how TV is the wave of the future and will eliminate theater, movies, and books. There are two trips to the countryside. Katya twice falls asleep crying. Katya is twice filmed for a TV interview by Rudolph/Rodion; she's working at the factory the first time, and she's the director the second time. And finally, there are two scenes where people dance to Besame mucho. And watch how they use the alarm clock in the middle of the film.Among other things, how Gosha and Rudolph/Rodion bond at the end is classic for Soviet cinema. And, we get to see remnants of the '50's and '70's that even we in the west can understand as teenagers, the girls swoon over movie stars (and their socks looked kind of like bobby sox), and people wear colorful clothes in the '70's. A classic in every sense of the word. "},{"Title":"Oscar-winning story about young dreamers","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Moving story of three young girls who come to the capital of Soviet Russia in search of their fate. They play rich girls to impress the guys, and succeed in doing so. Katya (the protagonist) does not like the game, but still goes with the girls. But the truth is soon revealed, and Katya's boyfriend breaks up with her. She is pregnant and has to raise a kid alone in a tiny dorm room, and still try to get an education.The second part shows the three girlfriends 20 years later. Katya is a very successful business lady and has a wonderful daughter. But she hasn't found real love, and the story takes a new turn when she meets Gosha in a train. They both now have to find ways into each other's established lives. A very nice and sincere story that people watch over and over again!  "},{"Title":"Small Theme with a Big Heart","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Culturally interesting since this occurs in a Communist country that US propaganda gave little insight on the values and realities of the people. We see idealistic poets who say the older generation made mistakes, women promoted to executive positions, a film produced by the State yet approaching sexual themes, Western idolization, the drudgery of repetitive industrial work, and class distinctions between the haves and have-nots.Also of interest is the protagonist's view of herself. Without revealing plot twists, it is suffice to say that a woman is socially seen as submissive to the man. This is a shock to Western sensibilities of women's equality, especially as we see her ordeals as a result of a man's selfishness and dominance. What is revealing is that she, herself does not rebel against the System. She works within the parameters, creates her own success, and becomes transformed.Being Western, I found myself questioning whether she had truly achieved something. The crown of achievement, we are taught, is independence, equality. Whereas she achieved that in a career and in her lifestyle, in her heart, she yearned for a man, to be the little wife, and to submit herself to a patriarchal marriage. But, in the end, who are we to judge another's happiness? "},{"Title":"story about Soviet Cinderella","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you try to understand the meaning of Soviet mode of life (especially place of woman in Soviet society), this film represents the best one you can find for this purpose. The destinies of three women are depicted in clear and awesome way, and the most important you can see is that whatever happens in life, try to be optimist and to do everything not to give up living and being happy. "},{"Title":"too much quality to sum up","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Vladimir Menshov's well-balanced 'Moscow does not believe in tears' provides a moving story about human warmth. About fortunes and misfortunes that can befell anyone of us -- enabling us to identify easily.This film also is about a very East European female eagerness to hunt after Mr. Right. Pressure is on, for in Communist society failure usually meant a lifelong condemnation to a poor, worried, boring and tiring life in some drab Russian provincial town. With a big possibility that your husband would booze himself up too much.No doubt this film's acting makes its strongest feature. Its uninterrupted, breathtaking quality convincingly carries you back some fifty years in time. To Moscow, the capital of the USSR. Although this Communist society has been gone for a long time, 'Moscow does not believe in tears' will easily get you back there. "},{"Title":"Let's remember this is a Russian Comedy","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"25 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being of Russian descent and a first generation Australian, I first saw this film in the original Russian a year or two after it came out. At the time I thought it was one of the funniest things I had seen in a long long time. I saw it again when our World Movie channel broadcast it and I laughed just as hard and just as long.  To understand the comedy in what appears to be a story of feminist angst you need to be Russian.  There is no other way to see it.  We don't see that the supposed conflict between between the heroine and her lover is that she is a manager and he is not.  It's much more primal than that.  It is because she EARNS more than he does.  Women held managerial positions in the USSR since they first began driving tanks and tractors during the second world war.  Most of us are brought up to believe that we can do just about anything, and a lot of the time we have to.  So please, if you see this film, remember to laugh.  Remember that Yes, Russians aren't happy unless they're miserable but the story of this film is also about the joy of rebuilding lives and relationships for both men and women and about the triumph of the human spirit over seemingly impossible odds. "}{"Title":"A film about three women out for love.","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Moscow Does Not Believe In Tears is an appealing comedy-drama with much to say about Soviet society from the 1950s to the 1970s. The cast deliver standout performances, and this is the film's greatest strength. The story is about their lives. The city's scenery is often featured, with cinematography that's good for a Soviet drama film. The score, however, is standard fare, but there are a few notable songs. Considering its high entertainment value it's no wonder that Moscow Does Not Believe In Tears became one of the most popular films in the Soviet Union. It even won an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 1980. It's just one of those films where everyone involved in making it contributed to a result that delivers on all fronts. If the acting or the direction was worse then the result could have been another forgettable drama. Soviet filmmakers, however, specialized in drama films. This is because of the restrictions that were put on them by the government. Many good dramas were released during the Soviet period, and Moscow Does Not Believe In Tears is one of the most memorable. I definitely recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"Perfect love story","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A soviet film very emotive and marvelous.When I saw by first turn I to touch much,because is a realist story about the life. And is more,like is a movie of 1979,in that time not are common see a single woman with a child.Well,my opinion is that this film is like that to announce the future.Well,in this moment are more divorces,single woman with a child,homosexuality, things that in that time not are very common.The director makes very good in to think and to realize this film.Deserving of the Oscar,is one of the films more memorable that I saw. My opinionA perfect love story.Please,see this film. "},{"Title":"A very clever plot.","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen this movie many many times. But many times I've noticed some details in the plot which made me estimating again what is really happening there, and what were the writer's main idea in such a plot. The acting is also brilliant, and after seeing this movie several times, each another time makes me thinking again about my and our life, and also about the type of the gender relationships which concerns lies.The story begins in the late 50's, and the first part concerns the lives of the characters at their early 20's. Then, the film jumps about 20 years forward, and the second part concerns the lives of the characters at their late 30's (or early 40's). The first time you see this movie, most of the interest is how did the lives changed over the 20 years, and what kind of an end the movie has. But it turns out that almost every scene and cite play an important role there, and after seeing it a few times I noticed that the movie is not just about the tales of the three girls and how does lives change.For example, each of the parts is built by a pattern where the first half tells about the lives of the three girls, and the second half tells about Katya's (main character's) relationship with a boyfriend. In each of the parts the relationship isn't built in a pure way, since Katya must hide some facts about her (and even lie) to make sure everything will go on (I think this is the reason for making Gosha a macho man, and seeing it again you may find out what makes him behave like that). But in the two parts there are different kind of lies and relationships, and I think that makes the writer to put different endings at the parts. Although the first part has a sad end (what also reflects Katya's life further), in the second part the relationship doesn't break after Katya's boyfriend finds the truth about her.Besides this example, there are many other topics about life which this film concerns. Seeing it enough times makes you sure that Gosha isn't as awful as he seems to be at the first time you see the movie (his past is barley mentioned, but when you find it out, it clears the scene where he meets Nikolay, and what will be afterwards), and therefore the ending may be concerned good.Again, this film may be watched again and again, in a very entertaining way, and each time telling you more about the plot. I think that such a film is a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Good beginning, disintegrates into stereotypes","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film makes one wonder what exactly the heroine worked so hard for.  A young girl from a small town comes to Moscow and becomes pregnant.  Her lover repudiates her, the lover's mother humiliates her, telling her that she is not a good fit for her big-city dandy son.  Rather than leave Moscow and go back to her parents, or try to perform an abortion on herself, the heroine has the baby.  She works hard at the factory, getting up at 5 AM every morning, passes grueling entrance exams into college, becomes an engineer -- all while raising her little girl as a single parent and an unwed mother.  Bold subject matter for a Soviet movie made in the seventies.Then -- a compromise the heroine who, sixteen years after her ordeal, has a good life, a good home, and a prestigious managerial job, falls head over heals for a man who treats her like dirt.Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears was made almost at the same time as the equally celebrated Workplace Romance (Sluzhebnyj Roman), and they are, in a sense, competitors.  Both movies are about single women in their mid- to late thirties who made a brilliant career but were never married.  Both heroines are presented as strong-willed, independent individuals in managerial positions, whose lives are nevertheless missing something.  But if Sluzhebnyj Roman says that life is incomplete without love, Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears says that life is incomplete without a man.Women of the older generation are all in love with Moscow's main male character -- the heroine's ultimate husband.  I cannot fathom why -- the actor's cute, but his character is unnerving.  One does not need to be a feminist to have a strong urge to throw this man down the stairs.  He stifles every impulse of individuality in her; he presumes to know what she wants, what's proper for her and what's not; he patronizes her; he pushes her around.  On the train, he begins their acquaintance by commenting You have the eyes of a woman who is not married. (What kind of eyes are those?) I cannot see why one would find any charm in such familiarity and cocky self-assurance from a stranger.It's worth noting that the corresponding character in Sluzhenyj Roman -- an excessively mild-mannered, shy man -- learns to stand up to the bossy heroine, but does so without disrespecting her.  The character in Moscow, on the contrary, puts the heroine in her proper place -- which is to be quiet and follow orders.I think that a Western critic would perceive the ending of Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears as ironic and sad.  The heroine, a woman who spent her life making something of herself by overcoming seemingly insurmountable obstacles, is last shown fussing around her kitchen for the benefit of a man who was not with her on that long journey, who dares to raise his voice at her in her own home, while eating her food, and who acts as if his very physical presence at the table confers a rare privilege  on a woman whose clock is ticking. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching At least Once!","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is not likable by everyone, although I loved it. There is not much to this movie if we compare it with fast paced action, thriller of Hollywood or intense drama, but instead this is a simple movie of three women friends in general or more specifically of Katerina who is a hard working women, then successful women, unmarried mother and raises her well too. So this movie starts with the friendship of three women characters then shows how their lives are changed when two gets married and other didn't as she got pregnant and her boyfriend left her and then goes to their later stage of lives when they are not young any more and how their lives have changed. In short, I can say it is kind of character study from start to end (as characters grow at every segment of the movie like in the beginning they are in hostel having fun, partying and all, working, then get married, become mother and then later stage when one is successful but not that lucky in love, other lucky in love others having mixed life). Acting by the main character is very good and believable as fun loving girl, traditional at times, working women (working in factory with men's and even better at her job than others, she even repairs the machines), mother, and at the end lover. Other casts too are good and works well. Direction is good too. I think the reason for me liking this movie is its simplicity, in the story, the way it is presented; in down to earth characters one someone can relate to easily. So if you like such movies then you might like this one. Watch it. "},{"Title":"More than an entertaining film","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Loved by both Russian and western audience alike,this film has often been regarded as entertaining romantic comedy and nothing more. Still,it,s a timeless story about love,friendship and the pursuit of happiness. It is the story of three girls who leave in 1957 their hometown somewhere in the remote Russian countryside for Moscow,to study and,above all,to find professional and personal fulfillment. One of them finds her happiness in marriage,another lives an ill-fated love story with famous hockey-player who eventually ends up as an alcoholic,but the most touching is the story of Katia,who,seduced and abandoned,pregnant and thrown out of university has the courage to raise her child all by her self,becoming,in twenty years,from a penniless unskilled laborer the manager of an important factory(the woman of career is almost an obsession of Soviet cinema,Katia being a sort of modern day Ninotchka). Nevertheless,in spite of her professional success,Katia is lacking,what almost every successful woman lackstrue love. As the film is a happy one,she finally meets a cultivated and good-looking worker(a propagandistic&proletarian bias)excellently acted by the brilliant and attractive Andrej Batalow,this man becoming more than simple infatuation to her,being devoted,caring and protective like a husband(even if they aren't married). All in all,the story is credibly optimistic,the actresses are extremely good-looking,the settings are elegant and the language witty and picturesque-in the Russian way,that is. Therefore,worth watching. "},{"Title":"A wondrous Novella to inspire others","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Films from a Communist nation can be Propaganda, but this is a Fairy Tale and Novella in the idea of so many Mexican Telenovellas that have been shown in Russia. This Film deserved its Oscar, and Vera Alentova as Katya is wonderful, let alone her being a beautiful Lady. The story begins in Moskva Moscow in 1958, and Katya is a student who failed her Finals, and her roommates are Lyudmila and Antonia. This story talks about the decisions that they made at a young life and how they haunted them, as Katya came out Pregnant and Lyudmila married a future Drunk who still cling ed on to her even after they divorced. Antonia married and had children, when Katya raised her daughter Alexandra alone, but longed a relationship. She finds it in a man named Gosha, and falls madly in love with him, but they get into a Fight and for a matter of days Katya is desperate to find him. Antonia's husband finds Gosha, and become the finest of friends, with it ending happily for Katya as her Knight in Shining Armor stays with her forever. The songs are wonderful and the actresses of Irina Muravyova  who played Lyudmila and Raisa Rayazanova who played Antonia were amazing. The Film has many scenes of Moskva in many parts of the residential parts of the city, as well as the countryside. When I think of this Film and as wild as this is, I think of various Bryan Adams songs, for his idea of Songwrighting is romantic and Blues saturated. Russia is a land of Blues through and through, for especially today, Moskva can be as mean as Chicago, and Saint Petersburg is the same, despite their beauty, for Chicago is also beautiful, but cruel; and the trials and tribulations of the three Girls in the story, are a perfect setting for Adams' Songs. "},{"Title":"Russians Are People, Too","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a life story of three girlfriends from youth to autumn ages. Their dreams and wishes, love, disillusions. Different careers. And big late love.Allegedly, US President Ronald Reagan watched the film several times prior to his meetings with the President of the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev, in order to gain a better understanding of the Russian soul. What is so odd about this is the idea that the Russian soul is all that different from the American soul, or any other country's soul. The women featured here could just as easily been American in most (if not all) of their adventures.That being said, I was a bit surprised about how free everything seemed. Russia gets a bad rap as a strict, awful place, but we actually get a very feminist vision in this story... and touch on some questionable subjects like abortion. Perhaps Soviet Russia was not what we think? (at least not by 1980.) "},{"Title":"Entertaining as well as an interesting look at life in the late Brezhnev era","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This Oscar winning Russian film from 1979 begins the action in 1958, when we get to know three young women, who have come from the provinces to study in Moscow and are now living in a student's residence. While they are studying, they work in blue collar, factory jobs, but dream of escaping that life by marrying some powerful men. When a professor asks them to take care of his nice apartment while he's traveling, they see this as a perfect opportunity to impersonate women of higher status than they are and woo some eligible man into the apartment. One of the girls woos a famous athlete, another named Katya (who eventually becomes the center of the movie and is played by the beautiful Vera Alentova) gets involved with a cameraman in the then new medium of television. Eventually, Katya gets pregnant from the encounter with him, and when he realizes that she is a factory girl instead of a professor's daughter, decides to have nothing to do with her (he is in part afraid of the rejection of his snobbish mother, and the subtext of this, of course, is that the Soviet Union was far from a classless society). She thinks about aborting her baby, but eventually gives birth to a daughter and decides to raise her alone.The movie then cuts to twenty years later. While her friends have married but remain trapped in a drab, working class life, Katya has remained single but has prospered professionally. She is now a director in a factory (a prestigious job in Soviet times) and lives in a nice apartment with her daughter, who is now a young woman. Despite her professional success, Katya is still looking for love, though she usually ends up in doomed affairs (for instance, when she gets involved with a married man). Eventually, she finds a promising prospect with Gosha, a masculine blue collar worker she finds on the train. But just when the relationship starts to develop, the long forgotten cameraman reappears in her life.One of the interesting things of this movie is to get a glimpse of Soviet life at the late Brezhnev era, a time of relative prosperity&#x85; Sometimes the director goes for the easy reaction of the public, and modern audiences might not always approve of some of the cultural mores. But this is an interesting and entertaining film if somewhat overlong (two hours and a half). "},{"Title":"I believe it's worth watching","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This won the Best Foreign Film Academy Award and it has received a lot of very high plaudits here. I didn't like it quite as much as would justify all that enthusiasm -- but I did like it.It's a sweet story, touchingly told, with very good acting from all involved. Because it's presented in two parts which, when combined, make for a fairly long movie, it has time not only to follow its characters but to develop themes -- prominent being that of the loneliness of people in the big city and the sometimes unwise things they do to relieve it.Because of the wise scope it moves slowly, but that and the effective device of setting in two distant times allows for the payoff of some affecting moments in the second half. While it's nominally a drama-comedy, it means more on the side of drama, and sometimes feels almost novelist in its wide scope. It was also interesting to see how it addressed various aspects of the social implications of the introduction of television and the social effects of income disparity in the two times. But overall personally I found myself more appreciative than enthusiastic. "}{"Title":"The last half of the film makes up for the first--so stick with it.","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I did not love Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears but did like it and appreciate it. I am confused, however, that it is apparently the second biggest Russian film ever according to IMDb--it didn't seem THAT good. Regardless, it's a film where the second half if MUCH better than the first and so my advice is to stick with it--it's worth the lengthy running time.The film begins in 1958. Three women share a tiny single room in a dormitory for folks working lower-paying jobs. Two of the ladies take a vacation, of sorts, to a nice fashionable apartment--they are apartment sitting. During this time, they make a fateful decision--they pretend that they are higher-class ladies. Soon they attract a couple men who think they are professional ladies--not women from blue-collar jobs. When one of them, Katia, becomes pregnant and her working-class roots are exposed, the man refuses to marry her and they go their separate ways.About 20 years pass. Katia has a daughter and she never has married. Her prospects for love are bleak--especially since she now has risen way up the ranks and it's even harder for a successful career woman to attract a man. What will happen next? Tune in and see.Overall, this is a very good film that unfolds VERY slowly. It's a film you've just gotta stick with, as the acting and eventually the story pay off. Worth seeing...but the second highest grossing Russian film?! "},{"Title":"A great insight look of what life was like for Soviet women. It's has a lot of dushá.","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" During the Cold War, not much, was known about life in the Soviet Union to western audiences. Even least was known about life for Soviet women. There were very few movies at the time, that capture how Russian women were treated. Most films from that era, were highly narrow formula propaganda stories of socialist realism. It wasn't until Brezhnev Era, that cinema got expand its boundaries, and begin work on a wider range of entertaining and artistic films. It was here, that filmmakers started to developed stories that intense focus on Soviet personal life. One of those films, was 1979's Moscow does not believe in tears. Director by Vladimir Menshov and written by Valentin Chernykh, the movie tells the 20 years story of three Russian women who come to Moscow from smaller towns Katerina Tikhomirova (Vera Alentova), Lyudmila (Irina Muravyova), and Antonina (Raisa Ryazanova) in search for better life. Only to find that the search is more complex, than they thought. Without spoiling the movie too much, I have to say that the first half of the film, set in the 1959s, during Khrushchev Thaw, was really dull and boring. It's really a shame, because it would be, nice to see, more on these women's reaction, to the change in reform in their country since De-Stalinization. It would have been better, if the movie set the events during the 1963's Cuban Mission Crisis. It would be, nice to see, how the average soviet citizen was thinking of the event. Sadly, film content like that, would more likely be heavily circumscribed and subject to censorship and bureaucratic state control. Instead, the film doesn't get good, until the movie took a 20 year leap forward in time, to 1979. It's here, that one of the women's stories really outshine the others. In my opinion, the movie should have been all about Katerina's struggles. Not only, is the actress, the better of the three women, but her character has the most complex and entertaining story-line. Even, with a huge time jump, you see her character, transform from a weak factory worker in the beginning of the film into a strong-will single mother, factory director, by the end. It just sucks that the movie gloss over, how she became so mature. It would been interesting to see, the years that she had to go, through the double burden of a job and family-raising responsibilities. It really surprise me; that they didn't focus on that, because it was very common, for Soviet women at the time. Still, I like how they shown a working woman, was able to reach the executive level, in a male-driven field. It's very rare to see a film, like this, both in the Soviet Union and the United States at the time. I just wish, they show, how she rose the ranks to become the woman that she was, toward the end of the film. The movie could have been, easily just be about that, but the movie didn't want to seem, too extreme in its Feminism outlook. So, the movie focus more on, her trying to fall back in love, after a previous man have left her, to rise a child on her own. It's here, where the audience is introduce to Gosha (Aleksey Batalov), a tool-and-die maker. He's one of the better characters in the film. He is a very complex fella, that's mostly entertaining. The only complain that I have, about his character is the weak conflict. Despite that, the movie still shows that he's a good man. Aleksey Batalov plays him, very well. One of the bigger faults, about watching this movie, today, is how dated, it is. Not only does, this movie have some really questionable old-school beliefs about relationships and gender roles. It's somewhat offensive, when you think about it. Still, I can understand that it's a product of the times. One of the funnier moments in the film, is when Rudolph/Rodion (Yuri Vasilyev) makes two speeches about how TV is the wave of the future and will eliminate theater, movies, and books. I guess, he didn't count on, the internet, being made. The true value of the film is its reflection of the Russian culture and traditions. Anyone interested in better understanding the Russian way of life should see this film. It's nice to see, that not everything in the Soviet Union wasn't so gloomy. Even, US President Ronald Reagan watched the film several times prior to his meetings with the President of the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev, in order to gain a better understanding of the Russian people. So it's clear, that this movie does work, but it's still questionable to me, if this movie should have deserve the 1981 Academy Award for Best Foreign Film in 1980. I mean, it's alright, but it's no way beats 1980's Kagemusha. After all, if you take away, the fact that it was made in Soviet Union, it feels like a generic soap opera or chick flick. There wasn't much, substance. While, the movie was shot, pretty well. There were hardly anything great with them. The only one, worth noticing is the park scene, with the long panning shot. In my opinion, it was just alright, but it's pretty eerily, how close, this version is, with the shot in 1979's Kramer vs Kramer. Another problem with the film is the DVD quality. I have, not yet, seen a good version of this film. Most of the audio kinda sucks. I can barely hear what's going on. The English subtitles are bit questionable. I really doubt the Russian language have a word for Hillbilly or Hicks. I would rather, take the Russian slang, than it trying to be go all the way, with the English language. It was a bit jarring. Overall This is not your typical Bolshevist movie. It's very unique. A must-watch for anybody, trying to understand Russian culture. If, that's your cup of borscht, more power to you! Check it out! "},{"Title":"Astonishing","Date":"20 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The given film, one of the most favourite films at my mum. It is a lot of years, I didn't give it many value, yet haven't learned that such Oscar and for what give it. The film describes destiny of the woman at which all life has gone head over heels, I advise to watch this film to people who had similar turning-points in life. Vladimir Menshov's work has shaken me, after all many American people think that Russia represents one drunks, bears and caps with ear-flaps. Why Russia became object of similar sneers? Remember Norway, Germany, after all they had the same in those of year, a vivid example to that a film Life of others (2005). I consider the given film good not only because of respect for the great country, Russia, but also because of ingenious game of actors and an unforgettable history of the unfortunate women living after Lenin revolution. "},{"Title":"Like a Russian American Graffiti","Date":"30 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You might say this is a Russian version of American Graffiti. It starts following the lives of a large group of Russian teens in 1958. However, it follows them through the next 20 years as well. The movie gets more and more interesting as the characters evolve to become more serious. The gradual ageing of the players is quite well done, and pangs of nostalgia for how short life is. Nothing too dramatic happens, marriages, divorces, unplanned pregnancies, meddling mothers. It is all in Russian with subtitles. The characters, though often silly, love each other a lot, and stand by each other. Everyone just revels in the joy of hanging out with friends. It makes you wish you were Russian. "},{"Title":"A nice portrayal of people and relations","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film Moscow doesn't believe in tears has many characteristics of the typical Bolshevist movie. First of all, the plot develops at quite a slow pace. The director is not in a hurry, for there are no budget restrictions, apart from the materials. And the audience values a quiet and calm life style. And secondly, the story contains little passion or energy - although all people struggle to survive. Russian Bolshevists know that they are nothing more than a face amidst the masses. Their ideal is spending a weekend in their datsja (second house). In this respect the film strongly differs from Die Legende von Paul und Paula, made in East-Germany at about the same time (recommended). In addition Moscow doesn't believe in tears describes daily events in the lives of common people. Nonetheless, the film is certainly not boring. In fact it is amazing (just read on). Let me briefly sketch the story, so that you can judge if it is your thing. In the thirties of the last century three female laborers, Katja, Ljudmilla, and Tonja, work in a production plant. They live together on the campus of the factory. Of course they all want to marry. Tonja quickly finds and is satisfied with a laborer. Katja and especially Ljudmilla aim higher, and pretend to be intellectuals. They organize parties and evenings for real intellectuals. Ljudmilla is successful, whereas Katja is less lucky. She befriends a camera man of the TV station, Rodion, and becomes pregnant. When Rodion discovers that she is actually just a laborer, he immediately leaves her. Then the story jumps another twenty years into the future. Katja has a grownup daughter, and has become the director of her company (not very credible). She is still single (after the war men were scarce). But finally she meets an instrument maker, Gosha. Within one day he proposes, and Katja doesn't seem to be unhappy about it. But then Rodion emerges again. He has been married twice, is still a camera man, and likes to start again with Katja. Obviously she is no longer interested, and refuses him in favor of Gosha. Quiet happiness, and end of story. So what is typical about this film? Evidently it relates to the lives of laborers, and Katja has even been praised as a hero of labor (just a medal, a simple thank you, no money involved). Clearly the script writer has more sympathy for instrument makers than for camera men. He transforms the intellectual of Ljudmilla into a drunkard. Everything is real life (realism), there are no false sentiments. Bolshevism doesn't believe in tears. The plain message is that happiness will come to the patient ones. In a Bolshevistic society chances are abundant and patience is a virtue. However, although the film reflects on the Bolshevistic society and its values, it is certainly not propaganda. It is simply a nice portrayal of people and relations, that tries to satisfy the good-natured observer. Amazing, isn't it? If I use the word amazing at least three times, when I write a review, then the IMDb team is satisfied. "},{"Title":"Soviet soap","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Two periods in the life of a Russian woman trying to find romance. The title seems to come from a Eurovision-type song, though it's not clear exactly who or what 'Moscow' is meant to represent - the Kremlin perhaps. It's a long film but maintains momentum after a manic start and few scenes outstay their welcome - many skip onto the next before we're ready. There's a thick overlay of tacky music, sometimes inappropriate, and loads of dismal but fascinating 70s interior décor. The Russians too are a strange bunch, especially in the brusque way they treat strangers that seems to come from a 'don't-expect-anything-from-me' kind of social inhibition rather than hostility. But this is basically soap opera and the psychology is unconvincing. The woman is formidable at her job, rising from factory worker to some kind of director - almost a national celebrity - yet all the while floundering in her emotional life. She is cold, severe and humourless in the office. If that was meant to represent some spiritual sacrifice, it didn't come across. The little wistfulness in her personality is hardly enough to make her likable. You could pick any woman off the street and find a more involving story. In Part 1 she gets pregnant first time over Besame Mucho (it always works) to a guy who's not interested in her. Part 2 resumes 17 or so years later when she finally meets that rare commodity, a decent guy - giving us two emotionally charged bookends to a bleak, workaday, if economically comfortable life. Mr Perfect though is annoying in his unconventional charm and the film gets a little wayward towards the end. This beat The Last Metro and Kagemusha to the best foreign language Oscar in 1980 - no doubt because it portrayed the Soviets as human and fallible as everyone else, which must have been a relief to the rest of the world. "},{"Title":"A good story that break the barrier of political ideology","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was aired in China during the 1980's, when China and former-USSR was still bitter enemies due to political ideological split, yet, the story is good enough to break such barriers in political ideology and aired in China.  Of course, the original intend of Chinese government was to use this film to demonize former-USSR by presenting the problems in Soviet society, but it turned out the Chinese audience was rather sympathetic to the protagonist and hated the sexist pig.  "},{"Title":"Soviet Chick Flick?","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this film in Sri Lanka at a Soviet Cultural Centre. At the end, to be polite, I told a Soviet Embassy staffer, You Russians make better French films than the French. (This is a good film, but it's European, jerky and the plot takes second place to people gossiping, like in an Eric Rohmer movie.) Then I naively asked, Is the Soviet Union like that?Huh? This film bears as much resemblance to Soviet Russia as 'Midnight Cowboy' resembles America. It became controversial because it accepted officially that a woman's life in the Soviet Union was not perfect. Duh?Nevertheless, the music at the beginning is great (Alexandra, Alexandra...) and the film is simply good fun, if you're curious about Soviet life. Any Russian born in Soviet times will enjoy it. If you have an older Russian visiting, and you want to be a good host, mention this film or make it available. A cure for homesickness. In 100 years, will Russians (or anyone else) watch this film? Maybe, but I suspect that a Russian, film-making Emile Zola will appear between now and then. And anyway, there are better film records of Soviet life. "},{"Title":"Sensitivity, in a good russian way","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first thing I got from this movie was its honesty. I think this is a pure piece of cinema and I don't know if this is true, but I suspect the movie shows exactly what the director meant to (and that's why I say it is honest).I am from Portugal, therefore a western, and so there were some attitudes and things in the characters lives that I found at first strange and inadequate, even 23 years ago, and so this movie was a good document for me to understand a bit more of the great russian people.The movie debates many questions, moral questions, social questions, inserted in a different society from mine, which presents diferent solutions and different postures in front of the problems. So we have the typical case of the single mother, with all her difficulties to be accepted and to suceed. But the message of the film comes in the end. She doesn't do what the public would like her to do, which would be either to remain single or to marry only if she really loved the husband and him to her. She doesn't do that. She marries in the end a man who is not what we might call an ideal man, quite far from that. He is a machist guy, who what's to rule her wife. But maybe that's the true happiness for her (since she spend a hole life alone, fighting against rejection for being alone with a child, maybe she now just wants to enjoy a married life, to do now what was the concept of a normal life when she was young). Or maybe not... Maybe she has just stopped fighting and left herself into the hands of a man who, not being perfect, is at least a man. There is a third option, which is what I think it's right she loved the man (she even said he had no bad things), and he loved her (the machism and the attitude are due to society, we maight say...), and so, in this case, this would be a love story, very sensitive, in my opinion, but a different love story. Still other ways of seeing the meaning of the movie should be accepted (the true piece of art is the one which allows herself to be interpreted in inumerous ways...).I also noticed the very interesting contrast between the three girls, among which the first one to marry seemed to have the more regular and happy life of all. The other girl, who married the sportsman, didn't suceed and seems to have a decadent life in her middle age. Then we have the main character, who has already been spoken.Also an excelent not to the soundtrack... and this the way a post cold war portuguese educated person sees this movie...8/10 "},{"Title":"You cannot imagine how good the life was in USSR!!!","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Movie is splendid.Well paced, classic filming stile, doesn't look old. All problems are fresh still. A very good example of non-Hollywood movie.Just look at it like an example of an ordinary life in USSR. No wars, no racial problems, everybody were brothers/sisters, money did not mean a thing (cause everybody had almost the same salary)!!!.Paradise!!!Russians were sure that they lived in the best country in the world and that everybody abroad are poor exploited people. (You know, after living myself 6 years outside of Russia, I can tell you that they were absolutely right).You can see Gosha as a sexist, but do not forget, he is like that only on surface. He follows old Russian code of HONOUR. I REALLY envy those people who lived in the USSR.  "}{"Title":"Professional work with normal drama, which is rare nowadays","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Utterly normal drama, in the sense that every episode has two or three functions at the same time(developing the story, depicting the social background,making the main characters understandable and sympathetic to the viewer,pushing the dramatic situation forward).There is no useless episode or detail. The shooting and editing is complete, not waisting time to be too artistic(because it is not a Art-House film). This is a professional cinema work with normally composed drama,but not only so.The story begins in 1958, soon after the short thaw(ottepeli) had come to Soviet society, when Soviet cinema was full of hope and energy. So it is natural that young girls go to the theater with the board announcing Festival of French films and they dream of better life,to marry celebrity, to become rich. It was so that moment.Screenwriter and director are utterly right to jump 20 years and then to start telling about their own time(film was made in late 70s). Dreams of youth were betrayed by the reality, but not so cruelly for ordinary people(different form intelligentsia),as Western right conservatives may have imagined. In Soviet Union lived such ordinary people, as well as intelligentsia under political pressure and many other social types(it happened and happens in USA, Japan and any other countries).We don't know how Katya suffered from personal complex and from possible injustice, but such things will make no sense to drama. And professionals doesn't add meaningless details to their works. "},{"Title":"Cold Russian soap opera","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Funny title for a Russian soap opera taking place from the 1950s to the 1970s. Three country girls who become friends while living in a dorm together. Katerina is a college student who works in a factory and she watches an apartment for wealthy relatives. She and Lyudmila pretend to be rich kids in order to meet well to do men. Katerina hooks up with Rudolf, a camera man at a TV station and she becomes pregnant by him. He denies paternity and she has a daughter she names Alexandra.Twenty years later, Katerina is in charge of a factory and is still unmarried. She has a lover, an older man who has a wife. Rudolf reappears with a news team to do a report on the factory but doesn't remember Katarina. He eventually meets his daughter Alexandra but nothing is resolved in this Soviet Peyton Place. The mood is cold and so are the characters, and running over two hours, I was not overly impressed with the Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears. "},{"Title":"This was a very popular movie in Russia","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a very popular movie in Russia. Also quite interesting for foreigners, I would think. Two girls decide to marry into a good family (how utterly bourgeois these Moscow girls were already 20 years ago!). They both seduce a boy from such a family. First girl gets pregnant, but boy refuses to marry her. Second girl gets married to her boy. He becomes an alcoholic. First girl has to raise her child alone, but nevertheless succeeds splendidly in her career. She becomes director of a factory. She also finds a friend and marries. Her husband is dismayed however, when he finds out that she has a much higher professional status than he himself. He gets very much depressed because of that. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly anti-feminist (SPOILERS)","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Contains SpoilersChronicling the lives of three friends, Menshov's Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears has a plot that is familiar to anyone who has seen Steel Magnolias or the HBO series Sex and the City. Divided into two parts, the film touches on themes of love, success, and gender relations as it presents the three very different lives these women lead. Although feminist ideals such as equality and independence are present throughout much of the film, the ending is decidedly non-feminist.First, there is Antonina who marries Nikolai and ends up as a housewife living a normal, if not dull life in the country with her family. Lyudmila, preoccupied with fame and material happiness marries a hockey player whom she later divorces when he turns out to be an alcoholic. Finally, the main character Katya is left to raise her daughter alone after a one-night stand runs out on her. She manages to balance family and work and ends up advancing her career to the successful position of factory director. One expects the film to end with a statement about the glories of single motherhood.However, Katya is plagued by loneliness and longs for a husband. She hides her success from her overtly sexist boyfriend Gosha who, upon discovering the truth, leaves her. In the end, this successful, independent woman cries in her living room while Antonina's husband searchers Moscow looking for Gosha. Gosha ultimately agrees to stay with Katya only after she agrees to let him be the head of the household. The Sex and the City girls would be appalled.  "},{"Title":"Stale film from the central committee","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears (1979) is a stale, not so obvious propaganda film from the central committee, which was filled by backward, hypocritical, power hungry men who supported a tyranny and oligarchy. It's about as ridiculous as the gutter rubbish produced by Hollywood conglomerates. Punctuated by dull, sleep inducing scenes of Russians eating, drinking and discussing nothing in particular, it doesn't really go anywhere. The lives of a few Russian women are given selective treatments, from their work as slaves in the glorious proletarian factories, repeating menial tasks, to wanting to get laid. It's not intellectually stimulating, very tedious to behold and has no complicated storyline. People come and go without any loud drums or narrative.What is so infantile is that the writers managed to cram nonsensical and inconsistent story lines just to fit the required amount of implantation of central committee doctrine, from mild scenes of elites eating well to the 'happy at the end love scene' that is entirely preposterous and incredulous to believe.Moscow Does not Believe in Tears does not even function as passable entertainment because, frankly said, it's boring. There's not much attempt to examine the women's lives at all, it's just all so very convenient to present us with conflicts and their convenient denouements.It is really hard to believe that Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears (1979) beat out Akira Kurosawa's brilliant and far superior Kagemusha (1980) for a Best Foreign Language Film Oscar. "}]