[{"Title":"This is a biting and uproarious look at the world of pro football.","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  North Dallas Forty rates as one of the all-time best sports movies ever made and is probably the best football film ever. Peter Gent's excellent novel was essentially a roman a clef about the Dallas Cowboys --America's Team-- of the '60s and 70's. And this movie sticks very close the book only dropping the novel's bloodbath ending. Nick Nolte gives one of his best performances as a world weary receiver facing the end of his playing days and still not wanting to become a full-fledged adult. Mac Davis is wonderfully wise cracking as the quarterback and leader of the team (basically he playing the real Don Meredith). G.D. Spradlin is memorably uptight and tight-jawed as the head coach. The rest of the cast fills out this colorful world of a raucous pro football team very well. It is an antic filled movie that tells a very dark tale of rich owners and rich people treating anybody beneath them like cattle. When one of the cattle happens to be smarter then the rest of the herd and decides to quit playing dumb --Nolte's character-- then that animal is turned away from the herd and is no longer allowed to play anymore reindeer games (if I may mix metaphors). The movie is played broadly but it cynical bite elevates it to a a much higher status as a serious work. Kudos to Ted Kotcheff for his acute direction. "},{"Title":"one of the top 5 football films of all time!","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  and probably my favorite one!  written by pete gent, a former dallas cowboy in the 60's, it gives a great look inside the mentality of professional football ... especially in dallas during the landry years. i enjoyed this film because i played ball at the college level in the early 70's, and i feel it's the most realistic portrayal of the emotional seesaw that a football player goes through.the film shows what happens in a society where professional athletes are idolized, and the things they can get away with ... but at a cost!  it portrays how the professional athlete must constantly look for new ways to achieve a high, whether on the field, with drugs, sexually, or just by cutting loose.  the problem is that each high gives way to when you either make a mistake on the field, or come down from the off-the-field high.if you were a football fan in the 60's-70's, you can just see the dallas cowboys in this film!  mac davis does a wonderful characterization of don merideth, and g.d. spradlin's coach just reeks of tom landry.  and nolte does a magnificent job in one of his earliest works.please, take some time and watch this film.  the videotape version is obviously much better than the tv version ... you lose a lot of the reality otherwise.  please, if the first-run shelf is empty, take the time to check out this film.  you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Sports Movie","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" When this movie first came out (late 70's), I was still in high school and very naive as to the behind the scenes machinations of professional football. This movie was ahead of its time in its depiction since no other movie on professional football had ventured into this area exposing drug use, both off the field casual usage and to get players on the field, and indifference of ownership and coaching staff to players feelings and thoughts.Nick Nolte was exceptional as Phil Elliot, the wide receiver whose character was based on Pete Gent, a wide receiver with the Dallas Cowboys who authored the book (North Dallas Forty) the movie was based on. He is a free spirit with little regard for authority but undoubtedly cares about his performance on the field. He cannot play by the rules because he doesn't make them. Mac Davis was great as quarterback Seth Maxwell, the jaded athlete who knows how to bend the rules to remain in good standing with the team.Supporting cast, especially GD Spradlin as the coach modeled after Dallas Cowboys coaching genius Tom Landry, was excellent. If you have 2 hrs and want to catch a well-acted, well-written movie on the reality of professional football, then catch this flick. It preceded such films and Stone's Any Given Sunday, but its content is very relevant to football 30 years later. "},{"Title":"The best sports movie ever?","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  'ND40' is my favorite of all the sports movies I've seen. It's both a dark and funny look at professional football, succeeding on both levels, with special emphasis put on the way the pro machinery chews up players and spits them out. There's no doubt who the fictional North Dallas Bulls are supposed to correspond to in real life, and the Dallas Cowboys were none too happy with either the book or the movie. For the rest of us it is first-class entertainment.The movie abounds with great performances. Nick Nolte is superb as the aging wide receiver, weary in spirit and broken of body. His independence and declining skills are threatening his usefulness to the team. G.D. Spradlin gives one of his usual excellent performances playing the team's amoral head coach. It's the type of role he seems almost to have a patent on.Some actors in this movie, I suspect, are doing the best work of their careers. Mac Davis plays the fun-loving quarterback who is serious about keeping his position both with the team and the ladies, and knows all the tricks, whether it's before, during, or after the game. Steve Forrest is the millionaire owner who wants nothing in the world more than a Super Bowl championship team. And Bo Svenson and former pro player John Matuszak are a couple of linemen who play by the same rules on the field and off.It's a complex movie with so much going on in some scenes (just like a football game) that it deserves to be seen more than once. One small quibble the big game was obviously not filmed before an audience. That doesn't detract too much from the overall picture, but a viewer is aware of it.  "},{"Title":"Excellent blend of comedy and drama in underrated film","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Some have said that this is the best film about football ever made and they may be right but at the center of this film is a solid performance by the lead. Story is about a fictional football team from Dallas, Texas where we see cold hearted management and players that must endure incredible amounts of pain to be able to play. Phillip Elliott (Nick Nolte) is a veteran wide receiver who has gone through many operations and walks with a limp and must take assorted pain killers not to play football but to just be able to get through the day. His only friend is quarterback Seth Maxwell (Mac Davis) and together they smoke pot and drink beer and that's during the training for a game! Elliott has to sit on the bench and only makes rare appearances in games and this makes him angry but he puts up with the cold hearted rantings of Coach Strothers (G.D. Spradlin) while waiting to play.*****SPOILER ALERT*****Elliott meets a nice woman named Charlotte (Dayle Haddon) who doesn't like football but together he is able to talk about his dreams of building a ranch. Finally after a star player gets injured Elliott is told that he is going to start in an important game but come game time coach Strothers has changed his mind. During the game Elliott gets to play and does very good but a few days later management has decided his future with the team.This film is directed by Ted Kotcheff who was a pretty good director during the 1970's but he couldn't hold on to his success and has basically directed television ever since. The film works on two levels and the first is the way that it shows how players are used by both coaches and management. Just before the big game they trick their star player into using a pain killer which also means that the starting player that's taking his place will be screwed. But it's the performances that really make this film work from the supporting roles to Nolte's lead. Mac Davis wasn't known as a good actor when this was made but he's good here as the quarterback who knows how to play the game (Not football) and keeping his players cool. Nolte's performance I think is one of his most underrated and while he physically may not exactly look like a player he perfectly embodies an individual who has sacrificed his own body to play the game. Nolte's natural wit and sarcasm are of good use here but what really shines through is how jaded he has become of the system. The scene where his girlfriend wakes up in the middle of the night and catches him trying to crack and twist his pain ridden body back into place has become a near classic and if anyone wants to know what it's like to be a football player than they can watch that scene. Does the script go over the top? Probably, but I'm not convinced that it's by much as we have all heard stories about what goes on during and after games. Very entertaining film has only a few minutes of actual game playing because it's emphasis is on the players and their manipulation and that in itself is an achievement but none of that would matter without Nolte's rock solid performance.    "},{"Title":"Back to the future","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I hadn't seen ND40 since it first opened, but I always remembered it as my favorite football movie. Since my friends are sick of me comparing every football movie to it, I decided to make sure I was still right after 20 years. The movie holds up remarkably over the years. Sure, lots has changed--making the movie a humorous period statement. The bad hair, the bad polyester clothes, and cigarettes everywhere. The coach actually has to tell the team to put out their cigarettes five minutes before the big game!On substance, the movie is still right on the mark. The addiction to pain killers, the crippling effect of the game, and the effect the game has on the players personal lives all ring true today. Although we try to unsuccessfully bury some of those problems today, they sneak out anyway in Bret Favre's pain killers or OJ Simpson's arthritis.One problem if Nolte really is the best receiver on the team with the best hands in the league, why isn't he playing? I can hypothesize reasons, but the writer/director could have made the reasons more obvious.9 stars out of 10 "},{"Title":"Read This Or Joe Bob Will Kill You!","Date":"13 September 2015","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Spoilers AheadFor me, the essence of the movie is the showdown at the very end in the corporate headquarters. Phil says to BA,Hell, BA, we aren't the team these guys here, they're the team. We're just the equipment and they depreciate us and take us off their GD tax returns. BA just stares silently, he has to, but his silence gives assent. This is the movie in microcosm; these men are pieces of equipment manipulated in Machiavellian fashion then discarded when they are used up. The scene with Phil getting up in the middle of the night and stretching, every move brings a wince of pain. The other core scene is Phil sitting patiently as BA sits at his computer number crunching Phil's personality with statistics. I love the sardonic smile over at BA that says,Man, are you pathetic. When BA finishes, he pronounces that the numbers prove Elliot's immaturity which is the reason he is hurting the team. This is throughout the movie, these poor jocks are subjected to lectures on how they are failing the coaches statistical expectations like they are human balance sheets who have risen against their accountants. This expose is worth owning; yes, it contains little actual football games but that was never its purpose. It wishes to show you the business that football has become masquerading as a sport.We see drugs used to get out of contracts on players who are used up like Phil. Elliot challenges who is smoking the joint with him; a hush falls over the room, if you think they will say Seth, their star quarterback, forget about it. The callous manipulation of Delmar by the sanctimonious BA by lying to Elliot and telling him he's going to start to get Delmar to dope up his knee, like they want. During the big game, Delmar tears it all up and gets carted off. If you are looking for a pure sports movie, Hoosiers is more like that. This is a trenchant look inside the world of football. It has lots of great, quite vulgar humor. Joe Bob steals the movie with his buddy O.W. Phil says,Oh, Joe Bob's Fine Foods, eat here or I'll kill you. The other players hold Joe Bob back from launching Phil into orbit. The movie is not perfect; Mac Davis had a very popular TV variety show when this came out. They put him in here and Nolte holds him up, acting wise, as best he can. Yet, his acting is painful, some lines just fall flat. He only made one other major movie, the bomb Sting 2, after that he disappeared.The romance slows the movie way, way down. Dayle Haddon, while stunningly beautiful, was a dreadful actress. She only reappeared in Van Damme's bomb Cyborg. She does have that good scene where she gets up and sees how crippled he is while he is stretching but the majority of the scenes serve no purpose and slow down the narrative. Yet, it is worth owning, as an expose on sports it is without equal. I love The Natural but that is more a deeply allegorical morality movie. Parents be warned, only DePalma's Scarface has worse language and vulgarities inside of it than this movie. Some of them I am still working on, evidently Joe Bob's mom is a teacher but he is very sensitive about it. I will not lie to you, yes, I am a Theistic Existentialist, but I laughed my butt off. Joe Bob is hilariously out of control; he is like the world's most dangerous toddler. Within the deep laughter is a great movie about the cruelty inflicted upon these athletes. If you vote to this to the back, I wouldn't tell Joe Bob. An Excellent Movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant 70's football film, great fun","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Seen this movie a few times on TV and it is a superb football film. Nick Nolte is excellent as the gruff and rough guy with lots of problems on and off the football field. Being in the 70's makes it even better and more realistic. Made in a time when men where men and sports meant more than money, a lot more. Sex, booze, knocking heads and blood & tears is what make these players happy! Good, fun all round film with great thought put into the story especially when entering Nolte's problems with team management/owners. As we all know deep rifts and problems occur between sports players and club owners but we never get to really know the truth and what goes on in the boardroom and player meetings. This film gives us a little make look at what could or should I say happens! I enjoyed this film very much,love the music, great characters and a good story. A winner all around. "},{"Title":"This IS the NFL Today!","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Listening to the Colin Cowherd Show on ESPN and Kyle Turley was on. He was getting into the drug use in the NFL and now wants the NFL to pay-up. I saw this in 1979 with two friends I worked with at a hot dog place. They were both going to USC to play football. This movie was an insight to the reality of sports...and it was 1979. Nothing has changed! Why is this movie so significant? If you listen to Turley's arguments, he acts as if this is something new. Like anything else, nothing is new. You want women, money, and a lifestyle that says, Live for today then you can't whine about the consequences. The NFL sees you as a product. That's news to you? Every professional athlete should have to watch this movie before signing any contract. You show this to any high school athlete, and like the guys I saw it with going to USC, they will say, So...that's not gonna happen to me. Great movie! "},{"Title":"Wait till you fathom the good part","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" The opening shot of Ted Kotcheff's North Dallas Forty is a tense and memorable one. It shows the aging and exhausted Phil Elliot (Nick Nolte), passed out in his bed and awoken by a blaring alarm clock. Elliot is slow to get up, every move being a slow one that clearly causes a searing amount of pain. He lumbers to the kitchen to get a beer before stumbling to soak in a bathtub. Punctuating this scene are brief little clips from last night's football game, where Elliot was met with several rough, polarizing blows to every part of his body. Interrupting this scene's quiet, almost meditative atmosphere are Elliot's loudmouth friends, clearly intoxicated, who want to go out and cause a ruckus with their shotguns.What we see in the first few minutes of North Dallas Forty are what we never see in sports - the morning after the game. The physical pain rather than the heated press conferences or celebratory events in the locker. Because we see the lead character in such a vulnerable, often powerless light despite being a very good football player is why North Dallas Forty is so skilled on its feet as a film. It explores where other films would dim their focus. It fully embraces and boldly depicts in element where other screenwriters' knees would buckle under the weight and pressure of the story, especially for the time. Written by a trio of thoughtful and thoroughly ambitious people - Peter Gent, Kotcheff, and Frank Yablans - the film manages to be less entertaining and sensational, like a typical sports film, and more heartbreaking and an often immersing watch.We set our sights on Elliot, who is becoming greatly dissatisfied with the way the NFL operates (his team is the fictional North Dallas Bulls, which mirror the Dallas Cowboys, FYI). He loathes the way managers and coaches treat their players like cattle, constantly emphasizing their flaws and not their advantages, and justifying their ungrateful, smug comments on poor performance as methods of tough-love. Elliot knows the organization is out to make money and injuries, long-term trauma, and player wellbeing are the least of their concerns. Through Elliot's dissatisfaction, however, he becomes heavily dependent on painkillers, alcohol, and other pills of sorts to keep his mind right. Just before a big game that determines the Bulls' playoff fate, Elliot's leg, which is experiencing hellish pain, is given a shot of a mysterious substance. What was it? What are its effects? Why is it being used? Who cares, the whole thing's numb, Elliot states.The film is held together not only by the competence of its writer but by Nolte's tremendous talents as a character actor and performing. He articulates with a touch of sensitivity and years of craft the agony and despair many aging athletes likely experience. For instance, consider Super Bowl XLVIII, which took place yesterday and ended with the Seattle Seahawks winning 43 - 8 over the two-point favorite Denver Broncos, led by Quarterback Peyton Manning, who is already thirty-seven years old with years of professional experience under his belt. I wouldn't want to feel what that man has felt waking up, especially now, nearing forty with the albatross of having numerous neck surgeries conducted. Watching the Super Bowl last night, I could only imagine how he not just him but many of those players wake up with severe pain in their bodies - pain that will likely carry over to their older years and maybe even cripple them as time goes on. All for a game that will be out of the immediate mindset of even the most heartened-fans in no more than two weeks or so.On a final note, the promotional poster/home video release images for North Dallas Forty are criminally misleading ones, showing two football players, one dousing himself with water, the other hoisting his helmet while they both lounge in two cowboy boots with two woman grappling to get at them on both sides of the boots. The image at hand denotes a fun sort of rabble-rousing, Animal House-style entertainment which is completely absent from the film. This is not the film you will see, and the marketing campaign has shamefully misrepresented the film to consumers if their sole-exposure to the film is by looking at the film's promotional poster or home video cover.Starring Nick Nolte, Mac Davis, and Charles Durning. Directed by Ted Kotcheff. "}{"Title":"Best football movie ever","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" This movie is the best football film ever made. Along with The Natural - baseball, and One-on-One - basketball, these are an outstanding trilogy of the three best pictures representing our primary American sports, and all have interesting multi-dimensional stories as well. Pete Gent was a maverick in his NFL career, but it would seem his alter-ego, Phil (Nick Nolte), while possessing this same nature, is significantly more accomplished in his pro career (even if on the coach's secondary list in the film). Gent played six years, 48 games, with only 68 overall receptions and four touchdowns. These numbers and his yardage (his average per catch was pretty good) would comprise a good single season's stats. The primary athletes in the film - played by Nolte, Davis, Matuszak and Svenson are realistic, interesting, tough and bawdy. Matuzsak's distinguished career was as a defensive end, and Svenson also possesses more of the physical characteristics of a defensive lineman. The fact, though, that they played offensive linemen in the film was obviously a necessity to the drama - both off- and on-field, where all four prime leads had to be on-screen simultaneously. As I mentioned in commenting on One-on-One, where the great G. D. Spradlin was the basketball coach - coupled with this film, he wins the award of the all-time horse's ass coach hands-down. Durning was hilarious as the vacuous assistant coach. Anyone familiar with Gent and Tom Landry can see that Spradlin's coach Strothers is modeled - at least in part - from the latter. Although similar in appearance, and more professorial than most coaches, and probably often a bit distant -- Landry did not seem to possess the extremely negative traits displayed by Strothers. In the film, with the level of talent Nolte's Phil possessed, it is unlikely he'd have been as neglected by the coach as depicted, even in view of Strothers' compulsive devotion to his computerized statistics, and distaste for Nolte's persona. I suspect that this relationship has similarities to Gent's with Landry, but, again, Gent in real life was not as productive or talented as Nolte on film. Steve Forrest was excellent as the smarmy, wealthy team owner, and Dabney Coleman as his even smarmier, completely unctuous younger brother. Has anybody, EVER, in the history of the motion picture industry (t.v., too), done smarmy or unctuous as well as Dabney??? This one's a 10 for both sport and drama. "},{"Title":"Honest and straightforward account of the lives of football players.","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" North Dallas Forty can rightfully take its place among the greatest of sports based movies. It's an intelligent, unflinching look into the world of professional (American) football, and the assortment of characters that inhabit the world. There's no need for flashy filmmaking here; the drama is strong enough to carry the story, along with some completely authentic performances. People unfamiliar with this movie will note that there's not necessarily a lot of game action; the concentration is on the action taking place off the playing field.The pivotal character is Phillip Elliott (Nick Nolte), a weary seen-it-all veteran of the game, a top notch receiver conscious of all the punishment that his body has taken over the years. Phillip knows the game very well, but he's not too interested in playing a different sort of game, with the hard-driving coaches (G.D. Spradlin and Charles Durning) and the greedy team owner (Steve Forrest). Fortunately, he does have one good friend star quarterback Seth Maxwell (singer Mac Davis).This is scripted by director Ted Kotcheff (First Blood), producer Frank Yablans, and author Peter Gent, who wrote the semi-fictional novel on which the movie is based. Based on the Dallas Cowboys team of the early 1970s, it takes its time telling the story, contrasting the more philosophical and low key nature of Phillip with gung-ho defensive players like O.W. Shaddock (real life football star John Matuszak) and Jo Bob Priddy (amusing live wire Bo Svenson). We feel completely sympathetic towards Phillip, and can also practically feel the pain that he experiences after every game. There are several key emotional scenes, especially towards the end.Nolte is excellent in the lead role, and as one can see, the supporting cast is full of rock solid actors (also among them is Dabney Coleman as Forrests' younger brother). Nolte and Davis have very fine chemistry and one can buy them as friends. Dayle Haddon, as a love interest for Nolte, isn't terribly effective because she comes off as just too aloof.Compelling material, even for people who aren't necessarily football fans.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Is it worth the price to be a successful football player?","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Released in 1979, North Dallas Forty stars Nick Nolte and Mac Davis as receiver and quarterback for the fictitious North Dallas Bulls professional football team. G.D. Spradlin excellently plays the austere coach who won't tolerate lone wolfs on his team. Charles Durning plays his assistant and Steve Forrest & Dabney Coleman the wealthy owners of the team. Marshall Colt plays the young up-and-coming secondary quarterback who's also devoutly Christian and eventually soiled by other members of the team. Various NFL players are on hand, such as Bo Svenson and John Matuszak.The film plays like a docudrama and attempts to show the grim reality of professional football and what it takes to be a champion team. It's more of an adult drama than a sports movie and therefore lacks the typical sports movie formula. The plot revolves around the team members preparing for a big divisional championship with the fictitious Chicago Marauders, which takes place in the third act, but the game footage is limited to the last two minutes of the game. After this, there's still 20 minutes left where Nolte's character is confronted by the office big wigs. They have evidence that he was regularly smoking weed in his off-time, which of course was illegal back then. He responds by understandably pointing out that the team docs keep pumping all kinds of drugs into the players on a regular basis so they can play despite pretty serious injuries. What's that compared to smoking a little pot? It's a good scene and effectively shows the idiocy and hypocrisy of the accusations. John Matuszak, who plays O. W. Shaddock, ironically died a mere ten years after this movie was released at the young age of 38 due to an accidental overdose of propoxyphene, a pain-reliever that is now outlawed in the USA and Europe. According to the managerial staff in the movie it's okay to take these kinds of drugs, but by golly you better not be caught smoking a joint! (Don't get me wrong here; I'm not into marijuana, but if it trips your trigger what's that to me?).The female cast is limited to fairly small roles by Dayle Haddon (Charlotte) and Savannah Smith Boucher (Joanna), both good-lookin' but rather plain and neither curvy enough for my tastes. Being a football movie you'd expect some cheerleader sequences or something. Nope, nada. Needless to say, weak job on the female front.BOTTOM LINE This is an okay adult drama about the grim realities of professional football, as well as the perks. The story is moderately interesting but never full-on compelling. Moreover, the characters aren't all that interesting, although Spradlin shines as the coach and Nolte's good as the cynical and burning out protagonist.The film runs 119 minutes and was shot in Los Angeles, CA.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Cynical but hilarious","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" If it weren't for SLAP SHOT, this would probably be the most cynical sports movie ever made. Ted Kotcheff's version of Peter Gent's book casts Nick Nolte as a not quite over the hill pro football player struggling through the morass of corporate politics, crazy team- mates and myriad injuries. It's a great performance and he's well matched with Mac Davis as team quarterback and best friend. Few stones are left un-turned in this seedy look at the lives of professional athletes. While SLAP SHOT portrayed hockey players as foul-mouthed, tooth-less goons, the football players here as seen as drug-addled sex maniacs who lust after woman AND B12 shots with equal aplomb. Davis has many of the film's best lines, espousing much crackpot southern wisdom fitting just about every insane situation (gross is when you go to kiss your grandpa good night and he sticks his tongue down your throat). The outstanding supporting cast includes Charles Durning, Dabney Coleman, Bo Svenson (hilarious as the hot-headed Jo Bob Priddy), John Matuszak, Steve Forrest, G.D. Spradlin and Dayle Haddon as Nolte's level-headed love interest. "},{"Title":"Better football through chemistry","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Better football through chemistry is a line of Nick Nolte's as he's being shot up with painkillers before the big game. When I first saw this in 1979, I found it amusing; now I find it prophetic. Sure it has it's sexist moments, but those are mere reflections of the times. The theme is that of abuse. These are modern gladiators, and we watch this sport as did the Romans. It's our bread and games. The new findings that NFL teams sent injured players into games full of drugs gives this film new meaning. Head injuries now show concussions that were untreated, and old players now have addictions and crippling arthritis. This was an amusing movie in it's day, but it's not as funny anymore. "},{"Title":"Football the way it really was","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I'm not really a football fan. I've always thought it was silly for all those men to go pounding on one another for a pigskin! So when I watched this, I was not really knowledgeable about what goes on when not on the field.This is a really funny film! I laughed a lot (a lot!) and was thoroughly entertained. Everyone was good...but Bo Svenson was really funny! I felt the film really came to life when he was on screen because of the energy that he brought to Jo Bob Priddy. With his curly hair and outrageous behavior, he brings the roof down! The scene between Jo Bob and O.W. in the locker room where Jo Bob eats the paper to show what he'll do to the other players is priceless! There's another great scene when he meets a woman with great ______  that he wants to show O.W. The way Jo Bob talks about them is hysterical! I'd watch it again because it's also a good depiction of what a 'team' is really all about, all the actors are good and it still holds up today. "},{"Title":"Dated but still relevant, and very entertaining.","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" This is one of those films people rarely talk about, so a lot of people, especially those under 40, have never heard about. Unless I am wrong, this is the 1st film that introduces the darker side of pro football and NDF does it extremely well on both as commentary and as a film. If you ever thought sports were just a game then this film will flip that viewpoint on its end. The casting is odd yet superb. Mac Davis ( yes, the Country Music crooner and ace songwriter) as the sagacious jaded insider QB could not have been better played. He and Nick Nolte's presence is dominating and multi-dimensional. Dayle Haddon is the ultimate love-interest for Elliot. You get it from all angles in this film from the team's owner, the doctors, the players, the coaches, the social cling-on's, and the uninformed bystanders. Truly a well balanced piece of film making, that to this day, still will casts some negativity in the minds of the football fan. Great lines in this film Elliot to Maxwell  You know everything, don't you?  Maxwell  That I do poot.... that I do//  Shaddock to Coach Johnson  Every time we call it a game, you call it a business, and every time we call it a business you call it a game!!//  Elliot to Coach Strothers  You are right about one thing, B.A., it IS time to put away childish things. Please read other quotes listed here. Films that are cutting-edge as this one, also tend to be time-sensitive, and NDF is no exception as some things will undoubtedly seem old-hat to most viewers, but there is still plenty of meat left on the bone to make seeing this a priority. Don't pre-judge it as just a sports film, its much more, deeply moving, just in a very different way than say Rudy, Hoosiers, Field of Dreams, or Pride of the Yankees. Don't miss the opportunity to see this one. "},{"Title":"A Retrospective Critique of a Very Good Film, and Ideas for a Sequel","Date":"6 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I was 11 years old living in Texas, and therefore a huge football and Cowboy fan when 'North Dallas Forty' was originally released in the summer of '79. So, like a lot of fans of 'America's Team' in Texas, and across the country, I was extremely angered and offended when I first heard that a major Hollywood movie was released that was a scathing indictment of not only the Dallas Cowboy's, but professional football as well. And, I vowed then, to never ever watch that blasphemous film that dared criticized the sacred sport of football and its most important team.I guess, I was in a rather sacrilegious mood one day when I decided to watch 'North Dallas Forty' on cable 15 years after the movies original theatrical release. And, to my surprise, I became a big fan of the movie. Watching it every chance that I could when ever it was rebroadcasted.Unfortunately, I think the window for a potential sequel which continues the story line of Nick Nolte's character (Phil Elliot). Or, at least one of the main characters of the original film. Like Mac Davis's colorful character Seth Maxell/Don Meredith for example closed sometime in the mid-late 80's.Therefore, I'm recommending a 'North Dallas Forty' reboot that's based on ex-Cowboy player Thomas Henderson's '87 autobiographical novel Out of Control Confessions of an NFL Casualty as the main source material for a sequel to 'North Dallas Forty'.For those of you who don't know? Thomas Henderson was the extraordinarily athletic and media-darling strong side linebacker for the Dallas Cowboys from '75-'79. Who was on the cover of Time Magazine in January of '79 for an article on Super Bowl 13. But, was later released the next season from the Cowboys in November of '79 for erratic play due to drug abuse. Then wound up playing in only a few games with other NFL teams until retiring after a career ending neck injury in '81.So, in other words, he was at the pinnacle of success in the NFL just 7 months prior to North Dallas Forty's original release in August of '79, and at its lowest depths just 3 months afterwards.And, let me tell you, the stuff Thomas Henderson covers in his personal account of his experience in the NFL, makes 'North Dallas Forty' controversial indictment of the Cowboy's organization and professional football as a whole, look like a white wash by comparison.Most of the events in Thomas Henderson's book take place during the mid-late 70's, just before the over-the-top deifying worship of football players and professional athletes in general began in the 80's by means of new cable channels like ESPN and HBO for example. That served to heavily augment the local sports news and talk radio that already existed at the time, along with national magazine articles commenting on games and sports celebrities leading up to national TV broadcasts of the games of the week. Eventually growing into the constant bombardment of sports media entertainment monster that exists today.So, one can perhaps imagine that the mine field of problems and worldly temptations that players are constantly confronted with, and have to negotiate through to maintain not only an athletic career, but a normal sense of humanity has only increased exponentially as a result of their athletic accomplishments since Peter Gent's or Thomas Henderson's NFL careers in the 60's and 70's.The cinematic version of Thomas Henderson's Out of Control can also serve as an explanation for why celebrated athletes on all levels get themselves caught-up in so many controversial and tragic events ranging from the goofy, love myself behavior of Terrell Owens, to drug overdoses of young athletes in professional and collegiate sports, to murder convictions. That is if the modern mass-media actually had an interest in educating the public about the people and the sports organizations that they worship?(which, apparently they don't) So, to sum up, I think you could still have a sequel to North Dallas Forty by staying true to the overall theme of the movies scathing indictment of the NFL, its players, coaches and the owners directly involved in putting on the weekly gladiatorial show. Along with an indictment of the over-the-top mass media coverage that's responsible for over-hyping the importance to gigantic proportions the sporting events, without providing one iota of REAL insightful information concerning the actual day-to-day operations of the organizations and athletes themselves.And, if someone was to use Thomas Henderson's Out of Control as the main source material for a kind of sequel to North Dallas Forty? Then I imagine the movie beginning with an over middle aged ex-NFL star who played for a franchise in Dallas, TX as the main character. Who, after being the keynote speaker of an anti-drug and alcohol seminar is listening to a sports talk radio program, or watching a TV satellite channel debating (ad-nausem) the most recent controversial conduct by the latest and greatest batch of sports celebrities. Causing him in turn, to reflect on his own conduct during his professional career back in the day.Sort of like, The Raging Bull meets Any Given Sunday. And, I hope that you're listening Hollywood?!? After all, I'm giving away these great ideas for free. "},{"Title":"has the feel of authenticity","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Phil Elliott (Nick Nolte) is a worn out wide receiver for the North Dallas Bulls professional football team in the 70s. It's crazy parties, drugs, sex, and alcohol. Seth Maxwell (Mac Davis) is the popular quarterback. Jo Bob Priddy (Bo Svenson) is a dumb wild lineman. Phil meets Charlotte Caulder (Dayle Haddon) at a party but she's not happy to be there. He rescues her from Jo Bob with a lot of help from Seth. Coach Strother thinks Phil isn't serious enough. Team executive Emmett Hunter (Dabney Coleman) is dating Joanne Rodney but Phil is actually sleeping with her. Johnson (Charles Durning) is the assistant coach. Phil is constantly threatened with the CFL. His body is all worn out and the trainer gives him 'B12' shots. Somebody mysterious is after him.Based on the novel by Cowboys wide receiver Peter Gent, this has the feel of authenticity. It's not quite a spoof with few outright laughs. Nick Nolte is terrific as the weary player. The story is a bit scattered. It could be even darker and more intense. "},{"Title":"Pro-Football A Down and Dirty Look","Date":"4 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Fine sleeper film, very much a reflection of iconoclastic 1970's. Seldom has corruptive nature of professional sports been on more vivid display than here. Pro football (and others?) comes across as supremely exploitative of players, with millionaire owners collecting the reflected glory. Sure, the money is good as is the lure of easy women, while all the adulation is hard to resist, but the cost comes high as battered and bruised Nick Nolte finally figures out. Emphasis throughout is on obvious physical toll, but inner toll proves equally devastating. Team quarterback Mac Davis's sly character and coaching staff's slimy ploys illustrate that inner rot in sometimes subtle fashion. Davis's understated performance provides memorable glimpse of intelligent man trapped by own weaknesses. Also one of Nick Nolte's most natural performances in both a brilliant and unorthodox career. His Phil Elliot may not be as clever as Davis, but the love of the game is truer, helping him finally see through the clouds of hype. But where oh where was director Kotcheff when beleaguered non-actress Dale Haddon so clearly needed help. Her one and only expression, paralyzed fear, almost brings down the entire film. Was the casting of this ex-Playboy playmate Hugh Hefner's price for assistance with the production?Thanks Peter Gent for the gutsy expose' and Frank Yablans for bringing it to the screen intact. (After all those Monday evenings on TV, who could ever think of Tom Landry, Don Meredith or straight-laced Roger Staubach the same way again.) (Then too, fans might check out 1949's Easy Living, a less caustic but also revealing film on the earlier days of pro football.) All in all, the screenplay of North Dallas is one of the best from the period -- humorous, savvy, and richly ironic -- the final boardroom scene arguably among the most compelling of any on sports. It's also one of the best arguments for getting athletics out of all those cathedrals of cult worship and back into neighborhood sandlots where they belong. "}{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" This is an outstanding take on the 1970s NFL, back when it was a game of characters and passion, not the current business-like No Fun League.Kudos to the writer/director. They smoothly mix bawdy comedy and drama. And they include many minor scenes that help round out the supporting characters. Several characters come across as stereotypes early on, but they are full-fledged individuals by the end of the movie.John Matuszak's business or game? rant near the end belongs in the sports movie hall of fame.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"One of the best sports films ever.","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Ruby was inspiring and Brians song was a tear jerker. ND40 was just a great movie.Nolte is a great actor period. Down and out in Beverly Hills, 48hrs, Cape Fear and The Deep. Just a few of his many great roles. Sad to see him in some of his worst times. Though they should be forgiven due to his great contributions to film.The movie is about a receiver in the NFL and his conflicts with people and the team he plays for. A person that comes to realize that the damage to his honor and soul, not to mention his body are not worth the price anymore and his struggles to come to grips with this.This was before free agentry.Great scenes follow this movie throughout. If you haven't seen this movie, make some time and watch it. "},{"Title":"Captures some of the insanity","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"     Pete Gent's North Dallas Forty was a great book about the fear and desperation of being a marginal football player in the NFL, even if it's outlook on sex, drug use and authority seems rather sophomoric and dated now.  The movie faithfully follows the book most of the way, although the sex and drug abuse is significantly toned down in the movie.  Nolte captures the rebelliousness of wide receiver Elliott/Gent, while Mac Davis, in a true casting coup and career performance, does a great turn as the Dallas quarterback Maxwell/Meredith.  For those keeping track, both Gent and Meredith ended their careers in 1968, Meredith when he was at the top of his game.  Hmmmmmm. "},{"Title":"Hit 'em Hard!","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" One of several films about beaten-up professional sports stars. One had Charlton Heston. This one has Nick Nolte. I get all of them mixed up. Usually the star has a final triumph and then quits while he's at the top, rather like Robert Redford in The Natural. Come to think of it, the story doesn't have to be about sports. Charlton Heston played a similar role in the much better Will Penny, as an aging cowboy realistically reduced to a life of three baths a year.Nick Nolte has some good scenes in this one. He's a laid-back football player for the North Dallas Bulls. He's not noticeably old but he's been so battered by playing the game he loves that he's dispirited, and the management doesn't like it. He should be playing for the team. The management consists of Steve Forrest, Charles Durning, and G. D. Spradlin (in a semi-sympathetic role for a change). At the speech-ridden end, Nolte realizes that their argument about playing for the team is just so much horse hockey designed to win the championship and get Forrest's photo on the cover of time. Forrest is so rich he doesn't need the money that the team will make because he's a steel magnate, and a money magnet to boot. He only wants the glory, which is paid for by the blood of his players. Now, is that egocentricity or not? Nolte quits, presumably marries the girl (Dayle Hadden, beautiful but can't act), and retires to raise horses. Nolte was a little nervous about his two Big Scenes in the movie but he was my supporting player in Weeds and Everybody Wins, so I helped him over the rough spots, as is the duty of any old pal.Genuine football fans -- and I'm not among their number -- will probably be disappointed because there aren't many scenes of football being played. Only one, really, and the set up isn't so hot, so it isn't as exciting as it should be. Redford's The Natural, by contrast, had a great set up for the final game and the climax was spectacular and satisfying to our glands if not our aesthetics. Here, the most harrowing scene is when Nolte suffers a steroid shot behind his lemniscus in order to keep himself upright.The chief problem with the film is its lack of focus. What the hell is going on? Fast Eddy could talk about shooting pool in The Hustler and we could feel that his description, limited to only a few sentences, was authentic. The Germans call it Funktionslust, the love of doing what one does well. I didn't get it from Nolte or anybody else on the team, a couple of whom were bat-crap bonkers. None of them LOVED playing football.I guess the moral that we can drag in from somewhere outside the noösphere is that playing along with the team is childish and then when you grow up, you follow your own bliss. Spradlin even gets to quote the passage from St. Paul about when I became a man, I put away childish things. But it's very confusing because we're told so often that Nolte has far more love for the game than he does for raising horses. His Funktionslust is a childish thing? I mean, you can see that the calculus doesn't quite work out. When I was a kid I wanted to be a catcher for the New York Yankees, but when I became a man I put away that childish thing because I realized I was a lousy ball player. Nolte, on the other hand, is supposed to be very good.Well, you can make up your own mind. I found it a little monotonous and basically dull and at cross-purposes with itself. "},{"Title":"Memento mori","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Beautiful, powerful, cold and magnificent.A superb piece of ice with some shadows of mud.Poem, exploration of feelings and signs, parable and pledge for resignation.New version of relation between Oedipus and the Sphinx.Taste of ash and nostalgic dreams, slices of illusions and subtle search, corpses of hope and mist of fear. Same disillusion and vain desire. Same spider law and strange fight against the Angel.It is not an atheistic pledge or aesthetic experience. It is only reflection of huge solitude and shadow of Kafkaesque Castle.A memento mori and sounds of Texan voices. The silence of death and a lost football game. "},{"Title":"No Fun League","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" A professional football team makes a season-ending push for the playoffs. The film really tries to belabor the point that playing professional football is hard on the body, with Nolte wincing in pain with almost every movement he makes. Similarly, the ills of professional sports are exaggerated to stress the greed and ruthlessness of this cutthroat business. Nolte is fine as the aging wide receiver while Davis is surprisingly effective in his film debut as the quarterback. Also good is Spradlin as the stern coach who seems to be modeled after Dallas Cowboys coach Tom Landry. The cast features the late Oakland Raider Matuszak as a fierce lineman. "},{"Title":"Mac Davis","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Another reviewer wrote that some of the actors here gave some of the best performances of their careers in this film, and I heartily agree. There's not a fake moment in any of the actors' contributions, but I especially think Mac Davis has never surpassed what he did here. As a Cowboy (and Pete Gent) fan I was intensely interested in seeing this when it came out, those many years ago. The public image of Tom Landry (the guy in the hat as Roger Staubach called him) was so large that Dallas residents even protested at movie theaters. The filmmakers presented the truth as it was seen by the player that wrote the book. It holds up well and any sports movie that has Bo Svenson and John Matuzak in it gets an automatic 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The book was better and had MORE ACTUAL FOOTBALL","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Peter Gent wrote the book several years before the movie came out. There are so many parts in the movie that just make you scratch your head and go Huh? How does that fit in?....or maybe it's just me after having read the book first.VERY different ending too.I liked the movie, but when you know MORE of the story than what's portrayed on screen, it kind of leaves you wanting more.I gotta say B.A. was portrayed better in the movie than in the book. Seemed like Elliott ALMOST actually got the coach to understand him just a little bit.I liked Nick Nolte. He did a great job in this movie.I'd recommend it, but if you REALLY want this story, read the book for more drinking, drugs, sex, and on-field FOOTBALL ACTION. "},{"Title":"LIKE A HELMET TO HELMET HIT","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This gem of a picture is not only one of the best sports oriented films of all time, it is a bone jaring indictment of corporate America, that was glamorized years later in Oliver Stone's WALL STREET, and the films that followed.  This was the pre-cursor to the 80's era of greed is good and (corporate) win at all costs.  The North Dallas Bulls are the ultimate corporate whores, aptly observed by Seth Maxwell, who justifies their fate by stating  We may as well be the best.  One of the nicest surprises of 1979 was Mac Davis' performance as Seth Maxwell, who along with Nick Nolte's stellar performance in the lead, give an already gritty film that much more depth.  Ted Kotcheff's tight direction of Frank Yablans and Peter Gent's screenplay intensely marches the film.  All that was missing was NFL Films Voice Of The Gods, John Facenda, with the play by play.    "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  One of the finest tongue-in-cheek looks at sports.Davis and Nolte are magic together, melding more like frat brothers than actors.The one-liner's alone make this a must see along with Major League and Slapshot. "}{"Title":"Great sports movie!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is a great sports movie.  If you are a Cowboy fan you will relate.  If you are not and you understand the game as it once was played, (and you wish it still was in some respects) you will love this movie.  I wish they would have made a sequel.  "},{"Title":"flozz abound","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" The opening is perfect, with Nick Nolte's football pro waking up with a bloody nose and feeling every hit from the night before as he tries to navigate the kitchen. The ending is awful, with Duddy Kravitz (and, er, First Blood) director Kotcheff channeling Stanley Kramer in a big speechifying boardroom rigamarole. In between is a pretty fair expose of the business of American sports, with the players ENCOURAGED to remain stupid childish louts so they'll be easier to manage. Unfortunately this movie really wants it both ways on the gender thing - the Smart Girl who rescues Nolte from the daily grind is just a device to facilitate domestic bliss, nothing new there. And condemnations of misogynist violence are married to gratuitous boob shots. Not at all as bad as that makes it sound, but when I recall this movie I remember the lapses, not the many nice touches in between. "},{"Title":"North Dallas Forty","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Gritty, realistic look at the win-at-all-cost business of pro football. Nolte is especially engaging as an over the hill wide receiver who rebels against goading coach G.D. Spradlin. Davis, Svenson and Charles Durning all add fine support to this very real story.  "},{"Title":"Makes a point that has been made better elsewhere","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Phillip Elliot is a wide receiver for the North Dallas Bulls.  He is approaching the end of his career and ravaged with injuries, which he needs medication to cover the pain enough to play.  The coaches want 100% to win games and win the season, but do the owners see the people inside the uniforms?Written by ex-player Peter Gent this film wanders between love for the game and admiration for the players and the flip side where the players are overpaid little boys in men's bodies who are seen as disposable by club owners.  This wandering happens for most of the film, mostly due to the fact that the plot seems to be wandering all over the place with little to do.  When it actually focuses on the dealings of the club owners and the sacrifices the players have to make, it is pretty interesting &#150; even if it does what many other sports films have done better.The central point about owners seeing the players as just another piece of equipment owed by the club is pretty well made, but it is confused by the plot wandering a little bit.  The ending is designed to back up this central point, but the circumstances come out of nowhere and the ending doesn't really ring true and isn't as strong a conclusion as it should have been.  The film also struggles to condemn either the sport or the players, seeming to be annoyed with bosses more than anything else.  The players are clearly childish and irresponsible, violent men but yet the film weakens on that point after hinting at it, likewise the film condemns part of the game but then happily indulges in big game action near the end of the film.Nolte is pretty good, but he also seems a little unsure about whether his character loves the sport or hates everything about it except the game.  Support players simply play victims or childish thugs.  The reason for Haddon's love interest is beyond me but Durning and Spradlin give good support as coaches.Overall this is an interesting film, which is strongest at the start and end, the middle section lacking structure and focus.  The message it is trying to get across applies much more today than it did back then, but has been made better and in more enjoyable total films than this.  Still an interesting watch for the most part though. "},{"Title":"Better football through chemistry, huh?","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I recall the book that this film is based on made quite a splash when it came out; I guess it was inevitable that it get a film treatment. I never read the book and only saw the film for the first time today, and man, it was a disappointment. Greatest football film ever? - I don't think so. There's nothing inspiring about the players, coaches or organization in the picture that says to me that football is or was a noble profession. Seriously, I've never, ever seen a more out of shape cast put to celluloid that was meant to represent a professional sports team. The drugs, booze, sex and general mayhem portrayed on screen may be the case, but the entire picture seemed more of a caricature than reality. And watching it today, very much anachronistic. Busted for a joint! - that's the least of a ball player's worries today, just ask a Cincinnati Bengal. I just couldn't get over how seamy the whole thing was. For a football picture I actually liked, I'd have to go with The Longest Yard - that would be the Burt Reynolds original, not the Adam Sandler one. "},{"Title":"Differences in the book","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Just saw this on DVD again after many years and it is, in my mind at least, the best and most honest book about the doings and going- ons behind the screens of pro football out there. Peter Gent was a very good possession receiver, great hands, not much speed but definitely an asset to the late 60s America's Team. Nick Nolte portrayed his character Phil Elliott pretty much as he intended. Both G. D. Spradlin and Mack Davis were right on the money as the Meredith and Landry characters, great typecasting and real good direction. The one thing different and that I felt really took away from the main story as it was written was the elimination of the Clinton Foote character, Tex Schramm in real life, and the sort- of breaking up the instances of his character influence onto the owner, his brother and the Charles Durning coach, all of which didn't even come close to the real story. Too bad, it would have been better with someone, say Telly Savalas or maybe Robert Duvall as Clinton. The ending of the book was also considered real shocking along with some of the characters that made it up which was all Hollywood's doing I am sure, and the Delma Huddle/ Bob Hayes character was also played down except where it was necessary with his injuries and the drama leading up to Nolte's quitting speech B.A., B.A., you, the owners the coaches, you're the team... We're the equipment! One thing I would like to know is if the movie director let Matuzak just take what he always took before his Raider games just to get the real life emotions coming out? Probably not but would still like to know. Bo Svendson was believable as Joe Bob but just barely, his manicured nails gave him away and he just didn't come across too good as an offensive lineman, the muscles just weren't in the right places and neither was the demeanor. Matuzak's pre- game hype up was OK but Svendson's reaction was pretty hokey. "},{"Title":"One of the best sports' movies","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" This movie ranks up with Hoosiers, Remember The Titans, Eight Men Out, and other outstanding sports' movies. However, this movie may be one of the most accurate and realistic. Nick Nolte is excellent as an aging receiver with gifted hands. Nolte has taken a beating in his profession. Pain killers is not even an option to avoid. The intense pressure and training is portrayed in a very gritty way. The brutality and luck involved in surviving intact is portrayed no better in any other movie. And yet, I would say that this movie was from the football lover's perspective. The movie used some real pro footballers. No matter how bad things got, no one wanted to quit on the team. The footballer lived for the thrill of the game. Lastly, the money side/management side has never been portrayed better in a sport's movie. Dabney Coleman plays the soul-less main investor in the team. No matter how much Nolte's character gave, the business side was going to get him in the end. There was enormous tension between the coaches and the players. The coaches demanded perfection. The players thrived on the spirit of the game, not being treated like robots. The players feared the coaches, but also despised them. I was surprised how good Mac Davis was. He is a singer, but seemed to get how to play a quarterback on a pro team with great believability. "},{"Title":"40 ways to play football","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Nick Nolte gets the role of a lifetime as the receiver in a Dallas football team whose value to the team may be wearing out. The movie is overall a pretty scathing look at pro sports, showing in one scene how they give a player a shot so that he can keep playing even while injured. But of course, this is Texas, so football is king.Nolte does very well in his role. Also starring are Mac Davis as the quarterback, and Charles Durning as the coach (If you moved any slower, you'd be going backwards!). One can just imagine if North Dallas Forty was set in the 21st century, how George W. Bush would probably own the team and everything would thus be connected to the oil industry - although it might have been even back then.Anyway, this is a very good sports movie, even better than All the Right Moves. You may not want to play any organized sport after watching this. Also starring Steve Forrest, G.D. Spradlin (the senator in The Godfather Part II) and Dabney Coleman. "},{"Title":"Just Plain Funny","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Nick Nolte never was better.  He really does have a flair for comedy.  Mac Davis was a riot, too bad he could never follow it up.  Even though the movie was an expose of pro football, the serious moments flew by quickly and soon got back to what this movie did best, made me laugh.  It is one of my all time favorites. "},{"Title":"Best Football movie ever","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is by far the greatest football movie ever. Other than the Longest Yard, nothing compares.  I recently, saw ANY GIVEN SUNDAY, and the only thing that it did for me, was make me realize just how good this is.Nolte is tremendous, but to be honest Mac Davis is the real scene stealer. The greatest scene is when Haddon is watching him stretch in the morning...classic! "}{"Title":"Not Quite A Touchdown","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" NORTH DALLAS FORTY is often billed as one of the all-time great sports films (and the best to do with football). But there's a reason our mothers told us not to believe everything we hear.The biggest problem with NORTH DALLAS FORTY is that it's not really what it wants to be. The film was promoted as a sort of expose on the pressure athletes face to perform not only when it hurts, but when it's dislocated or broken; and to use illegal drugs to numb the pain. That's an interesting angle, to be sure, but it's just one of many explored here. So much of NORTH DALLAS FORTY feels like a run-of-the-mill pigskin picture that's been done a dozen times since. And the dramatic and comedic elements the writers injected mix about as well as oil and water.To be fair, NORTH DALLAS FORTY was made at a time when the issue of drugs in sport was much more taboo. Three decades later, we all pretty much accept what's going on behind closed dressing room doors. Don't get me wrong. NORTH DALLAS FORTY is a decent film with decent performances, with a beat-up Nick Nolte and holier-than-thou Mac Davis leading the way. Yet there's nothing overly spectacular about it. "},{"Title":"Personally, my favorite football film.","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" For me, North Dallas Forty is one of my favorite films to enjoy to watch and never get tired of watching. It stars Nick Nolte, the star before he did 48 Hrs. is in his excellent performance as a football star in North Dallas Forty. His character is Phil Elliot who is a football player. He has a bad attitude sometimes about the team.His co-star friend in this is the country music star Mac Davis. He is Phil's friend and plays football as well. Phil meets a woman and she thinks football is wrong for him. Phil gets injured a lot, takes a couple drugs, and is a wreck of a football player. His team has some jocks on his football team too. Jo Bob is a major one, because he always seems to pick a fight.But in all, this film is not such a big film, but with Nick Nolte and Mac Davis, this film is one of my favorites to watch for a long time. If you want to get into more of Nick's films, you should definitely take a look at this film for once. It's worth watching if you like football films. "},{"Title":"Exhibit B","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This film is nearly ruined by the ADR, which renders it almost a B-movie. All the actors suffer -- and this is a huge shame, because you can tell from their body language that they really worked hard to deliver. Without the ADR, Nolte's performance is undoubtedly Oscar-worthy. (In other words, don't let your sound mixer bully you into using boom mics in questionable environments when wireless body mics will do. The integrity of the performance is WAY more important than the quality of the sound recording. IMO ADR SUCKS.)The script is lazy, from a structural perspective. There is no clean distinction between acts one and two. There easily COULD HAVE been, but someone dropped the ball.That said, what's truly inspiring about this film is its tenor and direction. Ted Kotcheff, who did a bravura job with First Blood, reveals a sensitivity for character that few American directors of this period can match. BTW Kotcheff's a Canadian. Which is only proper. The best movie ever made about hockey was by an American, George Roy Hill.Long live sport. "},{"Title":"Dated","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Professional football was all the rage in the 1970s and a phenomenon Hollywood recognized. Several football movies were made in the 1970s (and some non-football movies, like ROLLERBALL) which were inspired by the violent sport's massive popularity. NORTH DALLAS FORTY was made to satiate the thirst of avid football fans to see what they weren't been shown on regular television broadcast drugs, violence, sex and cursing. So ND40 basically plays like a voyeuristic behind-the-scenes look at what goes on in a professional football team. My favorite such scene is the party at the beginning. But in this context, the film looks positively dated. The fact that there are almost no African American football players in the team should tell you how dated it is. And the idea that a player is being hounded by the team's owner because he's too much of a rebel reeks of that silly and ubiquitous anti-establishment theme seen in too many movies of the 1970s.The actors do what they have to do with the script. Most of it is forgettable. Dayle Haddon (remember her?) looks like Sylvia Kristel's frosty sister. And Nick Nolte and Mac Davis basically play themselves. BTW, it's nice to see that Nick Nolte looks as bad in this 1979 film as he does (25 years later) today. "},{"Title":"The Story Behind the Big Story on the Sports Page. A Sketch of Greed, Love, Desire, Fear, Friendship, Betrayal and Eventual Disgard by The Team.","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" The old Grid Iron has long been a favourite topic of Film Makers. First the College Game, which truly hit the heights in the 'Roaring 20's was the subject of fans passion, young boys admiration and the Gamblers fascination. Tobe a College Boy on the 'Varsity' was surely a close approximation of Heaven on Earth. But what about the Pros, Professional Football, that is? Wouldn't a talented College, Simon Pure Athlete like to try his hand at this Professional Game. The American Professional Football Association had been formed and soon thereafter, the name changed to The National Football League, and it had its problems.The early pro football 'clubs' bore a greater resemblance to what we would today call, Semi-Pro teams. That is generally, the membership paid for equipment and game uniforms. Travel was usually done by auto and wasn't too far as a rule. The typical entrant was usually from Small Town, USA, not Bigville. So we saw less the likes of the Chicago Cardinal sand more like Decatur(Illinois) Staleys, the Providence(Rhode Island)Steamrollers and the Canton(Ohio)Bulldogs.The first and only truly recognizable star was Jim Thorpe, who was elected the figurehead President of the League right at the start. Then the Chicago Bears signed Harold Red Grange, old number 77 from the University of Illinois. The Bears went on a Barnstorming Tour following that season, introducing a sports crazy public to the Galloping Ghost and the Pro Game.Other College Stars and All Americans followed, their names alone guaranteeing boosts at Box Office numbers. Guys like Elmer Leyden, Jim Crowley, Don Miller and Harry Stuhldreyer, collectively known as Coach Knute Rockne's Four Horsemen of Notre Dame, all did hitches in the Pro Ranks, before going into Coching and Business.So the Pro FootnallWorld that our story is one of maturity, having gone through years of ups and downs in the attendance figures. By this time, the Mid-1960's, things were generally pretty good financially, to say he least. Franchises in the NFL, which had reportedly originally cost $100.00, now hovered in the Million$, as teams played their schedules in increasingly modern facilities.The story/screenplay of NORTH DALLAS FORTY(1979) is by Pertr Gent, former Pro Footballer with the Dallas Cowboys and the New York Giants. He was a graduate of Michigan State University, where his main Sport had been Basketball.In the screenplay a DRAGNET Style policy of The Names have been changed to protect the Innocent., and to prevent any civil litigation. All the characters' names are fictitious, of course. And as for the names of the various teams, we have ones like 'North Dallas Bulls' and 'Chicago Maurauders', but when a game is portrayed in the film, we all know who'w who in the real life counterpart.The whole drama unfolds in the space of a little better than about 2 weeks time. The main character, Phil Elliot, a veteran Wide Receiver,finds himself as being on the spot when a team mate receiver is injured and his(Elliot's)playing time will be greatly increased. We spend an awful lot of time following him around town, at practice, servicing a girlfriend of one of the owning family Hunter Brothers.He also meet up with a very lovely Lady at a team party, and strikes up a romance, the real thing, I mean! We are shown the life of a pro athlete, how they want for nothing, but crave everything intangible, like Love, Security, Respect and Home.The relationships of players as friends and the intricate construction of the Pro Sports Team Office Politics are given a thoroughly complete, through the microscope examination.It is in the end, that we and our story's protagonist are suddenly made aware of what we really are to the public and the Ownership.The point of view is of Author Peter Gent, who did go through several seasons on the rosters of both Dallas and N.Y.Giants. He was always known as a sort of Football Non-Conformist, a sort of 'flake', if you will. But, we all know that there are 3 sides to every story. Your side, My side and the True Side! We'll take Mr. Gent's word for it as far as it goes. This is the way he saw it and we can't dispute anything first hand. Besides, were you there, Schultz? And the typical , that f "},{"Title":"Not enough football in this movie!","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  When I watched this movie again I did not realize how little football is actually in this film.  This film shows the reality of the football business, and price one pays both physical and mentally in pro sports.  I would call this film more a drama then a comedy.  The personal side in Elliots life drags in this film, and kills it. "}]