[{"Title":"A Stylish Morality Play","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"43 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Richard Gere is perfectly cast in the role of decadent but vulnerable male gigolo cum prostitute who is framed for a murder he didn't commit. His emotional entanglement with a married woman (Lauren Hutton) is believable, but the film is above all a dissection of the emptiness of the kind of stylish materialism which was to become such a hallmark of cosmopolitan lifestyle in the 80's. Like many such morality tales, though, the superficial attractiveness of the 'style' as a way of life is liable to lead some to embrace rather than reject it as a way of bringing excitement into their lives. In any event, a stylish piece of cinema.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"47 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  American Gigolo is surely one of the most underrated movies of all times. It's a very good movie, in my opinion second best of Paul Schrader's films, right after Mishima - Life in four chapters, and I never understood why it got all the bad reviews. First of all it's one of the most stylish films I've ever seen, with fascinating scenes from start to finish, vibrant colors and beautiful sets and exterior shots. Paul Schrader, apart from being a great scriptwriter is also the master of photography, maybe the best in modern Hollywood. American Gigolo is a phenomenal character study too, struggle of a lonely man against the society he doesn't belong to, and in which he was artificially implanted by becoming something he's not. Michelle (Lauren Hutton) succeeds in bringing out the true Julian Kay, and their relationship on screen is very close and direct, although it maybe doesn't seem so, probably because both of the actors appear cold and distant, but that's just the result of the world they're living in. Both their lives are fake, and the only time they are real is with one another. The love scene between Julian and Michelle is one of the best in history of the cinema, it tells so much without showing much. Paul Schrader is one of my favorite directors, but that's only a small fraction of why I'm giving this movie10 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Gere is terrific!","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Enjoyable and different character study works better as a romance than as a thriller.  Julian (Richard Gere) is a male prostitute who falls in love with one of his clients (Lauren Hutton, who is well-cast), the wife of a famous politician.  About the same time, Julian realizes that he is being framed for a kiky S&M murder, and is wanted by the police.  Hutton is the only one who can give him an alibi, but can't without putting her husband to shame.Although the thriller element doesn't really work, the film still excels because of Richard Gere's wonderful performance.  He creates a character that is intense and somewhat sleazy, yet amazingly vulnerable and naive. His performance (and the chemistry he shares with Hutton) holds the film together and makes it work.  Gere created one of the most interesting chracters of the last two decades.   "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was under the impression that American Gigolo was one of those cult movies I never understood why so many people liked in the first place. But I was utterly surprised by the user rating of this movie and the fact that  there are only a couple of comments. But the biggest surprise is I actually liked the movie, I found it extremely interesting and thought it had a great 80's feel to it. Richard Gere, who never really impressed me with anything, is in the role of his lifetime, playing his playboy role to perfection.Director Paul Schrader made a smart movie that doesn't have to show everything in order for the viewer to know what happens and I liked it. The ending is very suitable and I especially love the last scene and Gere's last sentence which really touched me.I didn't really understand the plot, but with Gere, a great score that manages to keep a single song interesting throughout the entire movie and great directing American Gigolo stands high above average and is one of the best movies of the eighties. 8/10 "},{"Title":"compromised sex","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A male prostitute, Richard Gere as Julian Kaye, works out of a swank Malibu dating service tending to the needs of older, wealthy women, while also taking jobs with an entirely different clientele that are arranged through Leon (Bill Duke) the proprietor of a gritty downtown LA gay bar. The contrasting services are strikingly presented in this pre AIDS hysteria film, with a completely different twist to the theme of safe sex, as here he gets implicated in a murder while working a job in ritzy Palm Springs arranged by Leon. The most obvious suspect, he goes searching for an alibi, gets rebuffed by his rich acquaintances as well as by Ms Malibu, who never liked the idea of him doing tricks for Leon in the first place. Forced to go to Leon for an alibi, the film reaches its dramatic climax in Leon's high rise apartment, in a scene that is both suspenseful and disturbing. Apparently too downbeat for the studio to end it here, a sugarcoated redemptive ending was wedged in to try to lift the film out of the interesting gutter of prostitution, murder, and desperation it was doing an okay job of portraying. "},{"Title":"Another sleazy tale from the mind of Paul Schrader.","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Fresh off his eye-opening 1979 effort Hardcore, writer/director Paul Schrader struck again in 1980 with American Gigolo. This is the story of a high-end male prostitute (Gere) named Julian Kaye. Julian caters to the every need of several well-to-do older women whose husbands either are unable or reluctant to satisfy them. Julian is good at what he does, and he knows it. But that's his problem. His subtle arrogance is beginning to rub others in his line of work the wrong way. After he is framed for the murder of a kinky wife, Julian finds that none of his associates will help him clear his name. Adding to his misfortune is the fact that in order to clear his name, he will have to reveal much of what he does, as well as the identities of some of his powerful clients to the police. Either way he's screwed. He either goes to jail for the murder, or he never enjoys his profitable career again. The only person who seems interested in helping him is a state senator's wife (Hutton) who has fallen for him.The film is really not bad. Maybe better than it deserves to be. Much of the credit goes to Richard Gere. Say what you want about the man's odd behavior off screen, but as an actor he is always top drawer. He plays Julian as a smug, intelligent, and sexually ambiguous young man. The performance keeps you guessing as much as the screenplay. Lauren Hutton is very beautiful and plays her part with classic sensuality. This woman never did that much after this, but she gives a fine performance here. Hector Elizondo is on hand as a sleazy detective, and look out for Bill Duke in an early role as a homosexual hustler at odds with Gere.As for the direction, Schrader does what he can, but he is much better as a writer than a director. There is nothing overly creative about how much of this film is shot. George C. Scott tried to convince Schrader to stick to writing while on the set of Hardcore. American Gigolo is a much better film, so maybe Schrader took those comments to heart and made himself better. Still, the man is just not quite the director you'd hope. Some of the scenes are just a little too stale, with only the actors to breath life into them. One downfall might also be the conclusion. The film just kind of ends without a lot resolved, and a tough choice made by a major character just isn't given the proper motivation you'd think it would need. That said, American Gigolo is not a bad film at all. It was better than I expected, and it is a nice time capsule from 1980 Los Angeles. Give it a try. 7 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Gere is excellent in entertaining Schrader effort","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" American Gigolo really is slick and stylish. As slick and stylish as any film could be, so you really wonder whether this is Schrader's film or Jerry Bruckheimer's? If you look solely at the screenplay, it almost fits into the typical Schrader exploration of any given 'seedy underworld'. You could even argue that Julian and Michelle are in a way similar to Travis and Betty. Looking at the final product, however, I see a slick Hollywood mystery-thriller that's actually far more interesting for its romantic sub-plot than for any of the suspense parts. Don't get me wrong, in places American Gigolo is a quality character study, and the romance is as well-written as you could ever expect from a major, mainstream Hollywood production, but the suspense thriller portion is just so banal, expected, and predictable that it really takes away from an otherwise very good film. Perhaps most worthy of praise here is Richard Gere who gives one of his best performances here, and I certainly cannot even begin to imagine John Travolta in the lead role.It sounds like I'm criticizing how stylish this film is, I'm really not. It's pulled off pretty darn well in comparison to how many films of this sort have ended up, and you have to admit Gere's wardrobe is impressive. The film is well-shot and well-acted and for the most part quite well-written (although this is far, far from Paul Schrader's best work as a screenwriter). My comments on the film's slickness are really just a natural reaction to this film coming right after Hardcore. Indeed, it seems like this film is a signpost for the early 80's (the dud of a score proves it) where in Hollywood even homicide cases with a Gigolo as the main suspect are glamorous rather than gritty. A lot of people hate this film, but it has also gained a large cult following and a respectable following from film critics and aficionados, even landing a spot on the 'They Shoot Pictures, Don't They?' top 1000 list, and I can't really understand why anyone would have such extreme feelings about a film that is just watchable and entertaining. I don't think Schrader did his best work here, but it's not his worst either and the film as a whole is so unimposing and forgettable that I find it hard to believe it has so many fans and so many detractors. 7/10 "},{"Title":"An example of 80's style","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of Richard Gere's first lead roles in Hollywood, and he doesn't disappoint.  The film gives a little insight, a preview even, of the seamier side of the 1980's.  Beginning with the shots of Julian Kaye's (Gere) Mercedes convertible,  glimpses of Rodeo Drives and Malibu (all with Blondie screaming Call Me!), the film manages to be more than just a whodunit. Perhaps the charm of the film for me is that we're never quite sure what to think of Kaye and his married lover (Lauren Hutton), but their quest for happiness with each other is believable.  And though the detective plot-line of the movie is a little contrived, Detective Sunday and Leon provide good opposite poles of this Sodom and Gommarah-like portrayal of life in L.A. In fact, Julian's verbal sparring with Detective Sunday provide a light contrast with the realistic portrayal of a gigolo on the run. "},{"Title":"Excellent drama/thriller.","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Richard Gere is excellent as a high class escort in this storming and stylish drama.Richard Gere plays Julian,a man who is paid alot of money for giving older and married woman pleasure.Life seems like it can't be better until he is framed for a murder he didn't commit.Everyone turns their back on Julian apart from a married lover of his called Michelle.Michelle is his only hope,things keep going more downhill and eventually collapse.Anyone who thinks or mistakes American Gigolo for a psychological thriller before they see it will be dissapointed.It is a mix of a thriller,a drama and a murder mystery. It is slightly predictable but everything eventually picks up and it is electrical.Richard Gere is excellent and coo, as the character Julian.The film is dated by now but is a classic.Stylish,disturbing and cool.I rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"Death of LA in the 80s","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's hard to precisely depict the impact of the smoky undertow of 1980s LA mores on the emotional and cultural landscape of the city, but Richard Gere's subversive topsy-turvy solo show comes close. Weird, well-shot and intriguing. The queasy feeling it leaves is hard to remove even days later. A/A- "}{"Title":"Stylish & Surprisingly Touching","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This incredibly stylish movie that did so much for both Richard Gere and Giorgio Armani initially seems to celebrate materialism and equate it with success and fulfilment. Gere's character dresses in designer clothes, drives a Mercedes and spends his time mixing with conspicuously wealthy people in Los Angeles. He's seen in expensive restaurants, exclusive country clubs and posh hotels but gradually it becomes evident that there's an emotional emptiness in his life which becomes even more pronounced when he's accused of murder and has to face the prospect of losing everything. Unexpectedly, what follows is a story that illustrates how genuine love (that leads to redemption) can develop in even the most unpromising of circumstances.Julian Kaye (Richard Gere) is a male escort who's handsome, charming and very good at his job. He speaks five or six languages, lives in a luxurious apartment and is very accomplished at attending to the needs of the affluent older women who pay him very well for his services. Most of his introductions are provided by Anne (Nina van Pallandt) who taught him everything he needed to know to be successful in his business but despite all that she's done for him, he's disrespectful to her and treats her unfairly in their financial dealings.In the course of his work, Julian introduces himself to a politician's wife called Michelle Stratton (Lauren Hutton) at a hotel bar but her reactions lead him to believe that he'd made a misjudgement and that she had no interest in becoming one of his clients. Later, however, she contacts him and they get to know each other better. Julian's problems begin after he's directed to a client in Palm Springs by a down-market pimp called Leon (Bill Duke) because a short time later, she's found dead and Julian becomes the prime suspect.Police Detective Sunday (Hector Elizondo) is assigned to the case and firmly believes that Julian is the killer. Suddenly, Julian finds himself in a position where he's unable to provide an alibi because the nature of his work means that discretion is vital but also his rich clients start deserting him at a rapid speed. Although it's obvious to him that he's been framed, Julian doesn't know who's set him up and so his efforts to prove his innocence become increasingly desperate as he can see no way out of his predicament.The plot in American Gigolo is almost of secondary importance to the relationship that develops between Julian and Michelle and the surprising way in which their affair enriches both their lives. Julian's journey from being a conceited, selfish and superficial person is remarkable and is seen to take place very gradually as the loneliness that both he and Michelle had previously experienced is replaced by something far more meaningful and substantial. Richard Gere and Lauren Hutton are marvellous in their roles as they evolve so subtly from the awkwardness of their first meeting and find so much more in each other that they could ever have imagined was possible. Nina van Pallandt, Bill Duke and Hector Elizondo are also superb in their supporting roles.American Gigolo is a work of greater depth than it might appear to be on first viewing and is strongly enhanced by its wonderful visual style and the music of Blondie and Smokey Robinson & The Miracles. "},{"Title":"80s suspense film about a gigolo.","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Giorgio Moroder's signature synths followed by Deborah Harry's instantly recognisable new wave classic, Call Me, opens up American Gigolo as we see a pretty suave 80s Richard Gere in a black Cadilliac driving along the beachside. Gere has all the trappings of a wealthy 80s lifestyle so usually romanticised in a Bruckheimer production but the film establishes in its first few scenes that Gere is pretty much a buck for hire with little sway over his Aryan madam. This form of bait and switch appears throughout the movie, with Gere appearing in control and pretty cool at first and then as a total whore. The dichotomy between these two personas plays a big part of the film's plot as Julian K., Gere, becomes entangled in a murder investigation of a trick who is the wife to a wealthy S&M aficionado and learns that he should question the many friendships he's procured during his career as a loverboy. Lauren Hutton plays a random woman that Gere meets and develops into the film's love interest after one of the most minimalist sex scenes in an 80s film. The set production, music, acting and story is all very connotative of the eighties. Apartments are gray or salmon coloured with minimalist artwork and expensive vases and silver blocky stereo systems - it's clear with some scenes, including one where Gere hangs upside down to do some crunches, that the set design heavily influenced the mise-en-scene of Mary Harron's adaptation of American Psycho. Moroder's various compositions of Blondie's Call Me highlight the continuing descent of Julian k. as the chorus becomes more melancholic and ominous - it's all very suspenseful from an eighties perspective. Some may find the final scenes slightly ridiculous and most likely unrealistic, but one should remember that American Gigolo was produced by Jerry Bruckheimer and even on the tail end of New Hollywood, the film does show caution in its dark themes as not to alienate mainstream audiences. I definitely felt the material was pretty subdued for a film written and directed by Taxi Driver's Paul Schrader. However, it doesn't matter as the film is effective as a time capsule of the seedier side of the eighties. "},{"Title":"gigolo turns good boy","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I actually thought it was a pretty decent film. I have seen Gere act before but this has to be one of his best performances, he is at his prime of his good looks. I have seen him in later films but he is truly good-looking here and easily fits the mold of a high end call boy. He is framed for a murder he did not commit. It shows the seedier side of Los Angeles, the gigolo business, the loneliness of rich women with husbands who don't love them. The love story between Richard Gere and Lauren Hutton I don't think was fully explored. It's a great little movie and I was very surprised at how much liked it not because of the storyline but also Gere's acting. He has an understated believable type of acting which is fully seen in this movie, the movie also shows flashes of Gere and his marvelous physique, having previously trained as a gymnast before acting. In the end, he is finally acquitted and can join Lauren but the ride was flashy, dangerous in the meantime. "},{"Title":"A review American Gigolo","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" American Gigolo (1980)Directed by Paul SchraderStarring Richard Gere, Lauren Hutton, Bill DukeStylish and full of sense love story about Gere being a very sensual gigolo who gets involved in a murder. Schrader makes and obvious critic, not only of American high society life, is about loneliness and, at the end, change. The film is full of colors and sticky Giorgio Moroder score (Inclcuding Blondie's hit Call Me). Of course, it tries to be a thriller, but it really doesn't work like that. Is about Gere character, how he think, how he dress and how he smiles making a interesting character study as a study about the sordid and lost life of pleasures. Co-starring Lauren Hutton as a women searching for a new life. "},{"Title":"American Gigolo Richard Gere Becomes A Star","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" American Gigolo (1980) Richard Gere, Lauren Hutton, Brian Davies, Hector Elizondo, Nina Van Pallandt, Bill Duke, Tom Stewart, K. Callan, David Cryer, Patricia Carr, Macdonald Carey, Carole Cook, Carol Bruce, William Dozer, Richard Derr, Jessica Potter, Peter Turgeon, Robert Wightman, Faye Michael Nuell, Pamela Fong, Randy Stokey, James Currie, Roma Alvarez, Dawn Adams, Bob Jardine, Nanette Tarpey, Barry Satterfield, William Valdez, John H. Lowe, Ron Cummings, Gordon W. Grant...Director Paul Schrader, Screenplay Paul Schrader.Director Paul Schrader directed and wrote the 1980 film American Gigolo by now an old film, and a Richard Gere classic, in fact, the film that launched his career. This is Richard Gere early in his career, in his first attention-getting role, flexing his acting muscles and even boldly doing a nude scene. He portrays Julian Kaye, a charismatic, seductive Beverly Hills escort/male high-class prostitute for older women. Life's a party for him until a turning point - his affair with the wife of an esteemed Senator Charles Strutton (Brian Davies), portrayed by Lauren Hutton. The chemistry between Hutton and Gere carries this film, but it is also a number of things. Yes, Gere is always paired with a superb actress in most every film of his - Julia Roberts in Pretty Woman for instance- but this film, released in 1980, was breaking new ground. Julian Kaye's profession is exposed to the most sordid detail and for a while it appears to be like some kind of soft core erotic film. That is until the mystery/drama unfolds. A murder. A senator's blackmail. Before long, Kaye's being framed for a murder he may or may not have committed. Everyone's inclined to believe he did not do the murder. The slow-moving mystery, happening in Los Angeles in 1980, begins to take on the feel of a film noir. With darkly somber music by Giorgio Moroder and stern-looking cinematography by John Bailey, the look of this film pays homage to thrillers of olden days but with a more modern touch and feel. Modern for 1980. It's also interesting to note that not only did this film spell good things for Gere but for its young producer Jerry Bruckheimer, who would go on to a bigger career in Hollywood in the 1990's. This film is not raved about anymore but it's very underrated. It was setting the bar high for other films. It would pave the way for similar films later in the 80's and early 90's. As far as some people are concerned, 1998's Palmetto is clearly influenced by this film, and some would say 1997's L.A. Confidential. Richard Gere is doing a terrific job, breaking new ground as an actor and emerging as a new star in Hollywood. This is no date movie, despite the romantic element of the relationship between Kaye and Strutton. Rather, this is a film for adults who can enjoy a good soft core erotic thriller with crime, mood, Los Angeles setting and scandal among the upper classes. A film that may not appear realistic now (some call it clichéd and contrived) but a film that benefits from a solid script, fine acting and overall wholeness. It's never really very dirty or base (Basic Instinct has more of that kind of stuff) and in its subtle way it packs a punch. So ultimately this is a film for people with certain tastes and definitely a film for Richard Gere fans. "},{"Title":"Form of illusion","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A wonderful film about the illusion's form.About the interior truth and the way to self discover.About the dainty appearance and life's skin. About time's ash and the wantonness of gestures, the breathing of words and the silence outline. A nostalgic story about love and his price, about trust and belief.I saw American Gigolo like a Kafka's written passage. The same tension, same contracted atmosphere and same expectation.In fact, it is a  The Trial version. The search of Julian has like object the essence of sin. Lauren Hutton is a feminine character of Kafka's work and the ambiguous situation of new David's world is piece of Kafkaesque reality.But, important is the statute of film. Beautiful, deep and tender, American Gigolo is a trip in the desire of filling in same style of Odyssey or Don Quixote. "},{"Title":"Extremely unpleasant and dull as dishwater with virtually no suspense what so ever","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I happen to be a fan of Richard Gere. The man is a fantastic actor, so of course I was going to check out this film, despite its dubious reputation. Was it a mistake? You betcha! The sleazy undertones cannot be ignored here or the gay overtones. Not much offends me, but this film is thoroughly unlikable and slightly detestable, even. Director Paul Schrader did a good job of making everything grim that is for sure. Now; I fully grasp as to what they were going for here. Richard Gere's performance suits the character, but it is extremely tough to get behind him. I realize that was somewhat the point, but it doesn't change the fact that I couldn't stand him. The story could have been morbidly riveting, but instead it is just morbid. I am amazed that this film has a rating of 6.0. To each their own guys, but IMHO this film doesn't deserve it. Anyway; I don't remember much else about it, other than it was extremely unpleasant and hard to get through. Final Thoughts Gere fans will probably wanna check this out, but I wouldn't really recommend it. There are many other films that he has done in the 80's that are much better. (An Officer and a Gentleman being one of them) If you do decide to watch it, maybe you'll get more out of it than I done. If so; all the more power to you4/10 "},{"Title":"To fight fire with fire, and lies with more lies","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With the decline of the moralistic Production Code, female prostitutes began to appear in films from the early sixties like Irma la Douce and Breakfast at Tiffany's, although they generally fitted that old literary archetype of the tart with a heart, and by the end of the decade we had, in Midnight Cowboy, a mainstream film dealing with the subject of male prostitution. American Gigolo, made in 1980, is another on the same controversial theme. Julian Kaye is a heterosexual male prostitute working in Los Angeles who makes his living having sex with wealthy women for money. It is evidently a job which pays well as he lives in an upmarket apartment, drives a Mercedes SL, wears clothes by Armani and has expensive tastes in hi-fi equipment. Julian, however, is a tart without a heart; he is a selfish and superficial man who lacks any affection for the women he sleeps with, seeing them only as a source of income, until he meets Michelle Stratton, the unhappily married wife of a rising politician. Michelle becomes a regular client and begins to develop deeper feelings for him. Julian learns that another of his clients, the wife of a wealthy financier, has been murdered. To make matters worse, the police regard him as a prime suspect and he is unable to provide an alibi. He realises that he is being framed to protect the real murderer and is forced to go on the run to discover who is responsible. The theme of a man wrongly accused of a crime is a familiar thriller trope; it frequently occurs, for example, in the works of Alfred Hitchcock. American Gigolo, however, is quite different in style to any of Hitchcock's films. It is sometimes regarded as the second installment of Paul Schrader's lonely man trilogy, following Taxi Driver for which Schrader wrote the script but was directed by Martin Scorsese, and preceding Light Sleeper which, like American Gigolo, was both written and directed by Schrader. I have never seen Light Sleeper, but there are certainly parallels between American Gigolo and Taxi Driver. Both have prostitution as a central theme and both have a main character who is a loner, despite the obvious differences between Richard Gere's affluent, dandyish Julian and Robert de Niro's seedy working-class loser Travis Bickle. Like Bickle, Julian is cold and emotionally detached, and both films similarly take a cold-eyed, detached view of their subject-matter. Julian may be the victim of undeserved suspicion, but Schrader never evokes sympathy for him in the way that Hitchcock probably would. (Hitchcock generally intended the audience to identify emotionally with the heroes of his man unjustly accused films like Cary Grant in North by North-West or Henry Fonda in The Wrong Man; Frenzy is perhaps an exception). Julian is too cold and self-obsessed to claim our sympathy; there is a sense that he has earned his living in an immoral way and paid the price, that he has played with fire and got burnt after coming up against people more vicious than he is. At the end of the film he is only saved by a false alibi- he has learned to fight fire with fire and lies with more lies, an ironic ending which, I suspect, would not have appealed to Hitchcock. The film is very much of its time, celebrating the contemporary styles of the late seventies and early eighties, represented by Julian's car, clothes and tastes in interior decoration. (This impression is strengthened by the use of the pop music of the era, such as Blondie's Call Me, on the soundtrack). As the film progresses, however, the outward symbols of his sleazy success seem to drop away; previously immaculately dressed, he now appears unkempt and unshaven and is seen driving a cheap rented car. Gere was not the first choice for the role of Julian- that was, apparently, John Travolta- but he made the part his own. As in a number of his best films- other examples include An Officer and A Gentleman, No Mercy and Chicago- Gere's performance is characterised by a certain self-confident swagger bordering on arrogance. (The same is to some extent true of Pretty Woman, but there Edward's outward swagger hides inner uncertainties and self-doubt). Lauren Hutton is also good as Michelle who has to choose between her growing feelings for Julian on the one hand and her husband 's political career and her own reputation on the other.American Gigolo is in form a thriller, but seen purely as such it is not altogether a success. There is insufficient tension, the emotional temperature is too cool and the ending is unclear. Where it does succeed is as a cool, stylish look at the underside of American society in the early eighties. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting 80's movie","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ignore the low IMDb rating. American Gigolo is a very watchable movie and its never boring. Richard Gere is a revelation in the lead role of an upper-class male prostitute whose power and position spiral downwards when a client is murdered. The fact that he's sleeping with the local senators wife doesn't help either.The photography has an interesting 80's/European feel. The plot has elements of noir to it with Gere having a moral code despite the sleaze and filth he has to live with. A bit like Taxi Driver which isn't surprising considering the writer-director Paul Schrader also wrote that 70's classic.I think Gere is perfect for this role. Neither Travolta nor Christopher Reeve could have carried the film the way he does. Too bad though that Julie Christie, who was originally supposed to play the Senator's wife dropped out. "},{"Title":"50 Ways To Remix Call Me","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  May Contain SpoilersThis film has some good elements that would have made a good film noir, but it manages to eschew all of them.The biggest problem here is the central relationship between Gere and Hutton. Although I think Hutton is one of the most beautiful faces in current memory, there is absolutely no chemistry between the two. The characters are not fleshed out, and I still have no idea why she would feel so drawn to Gere in the first place. What is their magic connection. Why is she so special to him? Their sex scenes are almost funny (in a melted cheese sort of way) and surprisingly devoid of any real passion.The Gere/Hutton relationship should be the core around which the rest of the film is built, but without character development & convincing interaction / motives, the rest of the film crumbles.This of course is a Jerry Bruckheimer production, and perhaps in renegade hands it would have been a tight 80's film noir. It manages to capture the 80's lifestyle, but believe me, it ain't no Scarface.It does have its positive points - some nice camera work & lighting, Georgio Moroder's theme song (remixed every possible way imaginable), and Richard Gere's (eh-hem) moment.But if there's a lesson to be learned here kids, African-American gay men are bad, bad, bad people. And don't you forget it (?!) Whatever...The ending is just dreadful, and I could only imagine how much better it could have been if the saccharine quotient had been reduced by several tablespoons.Still it's watchable, and there are worse films you could spend 2 hours with. "}{"Title":"The Good Ol' Days in LA!","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I had never seen this film and figured it would bore me, but after 36 years it is an historical record of the LA scene. I was enthralled with each street scene, home decor, wardrobe, and hedonistic simplicity just like when I first moved here.Richard still looks better in dress whites but nice to see him sans gray hair. I think the Armani suits were classic but those dark shirts and light silver boots ruined the look imho. He is a very handsome lad and so very wholesome, just what the lady ordered I am guessing.Most of the women they focused on for his tricks were absolutely stunning, why would they have to pay anything was impossible to imagine. Also it was hard to believe the two topless girls did not have huge implants, nice. Back then, $1000 for a 'date' appears to be astronomical, but like women in his profession, probably had to work with some nasty characters. So before AIDS, internet porn, 9/11, crazy RE prices, the lure of LA was sumptuous and hard to resist.I found the script most tedious and un-engaging, but the test of time proved this was just a blip in honor of the preservation of life in LA back in the day.High recommend for those of us who lost their Beta tapes of touring the town and a happy reminder of a simpler life. Beware of nostalgia! "},{"Title":"A slick '80s thriller","Date":"15 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Young Richard Gere plays Julian; a man who knows how to please women and is paid handsomely for it. Things are going well for him and he can pick and choose who he works for and he has just started a relationship with a beautiful woman but his life is soon turned upside down. After taking a job in Palm Springs as a favour for his friend Leon the woman is murdered. When the police start asking questions he isn't concerned at first but soon it becomes apparent that somebody is trying to frame him. He was with another woman on the night of the murder but she is not going to ruin her reputation to give him an alibi. As the story approaches its end it looks as though Julian won't be able to clear his name; he may work among the upper echelons of society but he certainly isn't part of it and it isn't likely that anybody will risk ruin to help him.Richard Gere goes a fine job in a role that could have been written for him; he is believable as the man older women pay for. Lauren Hutton is also good as love interest Michelle and Bill Duke is great as Leon; the friend who might not be as friendly as he claims to be. Writer/director gives us a stylish mystery with a twist; this isn't about finding who committed the murder, it is about whether or not an innocent man will be able to clear his name. Given the subject matter it isn't surprising that there is some nudity but it is shown in a fairly matter of fact way and is limited to a couple of scenes. Overall this is a slick film that fans of Richard Gere or '80s movies will want to check out. "},{"Title":"80s OK...","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Growing-up in the 80's I give that decade's movies the extra benefit of the doubt. Such is the case for Paul Schrader's American Gigolo, which is a pretty standard flick from then,although it helped launch a younger Richard Gere's career during the time - An Officer and a Gentleman is probably Gere's finest. The movie reminds a bit of Risky Business though not nearly as endearing or well done. Gigolo's murder mystery takes a back seat to the steamy romance between Gere's and Lauren Hutton's characters, the real draw and centerpiece of the movie. An early scene beginning scene with them both speaking French steals the show. It's easily the best scene in the movie. Mildly recommended thanks to the romance. Say a 6.8/10 "},{"Title":"Gigolo without go","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" American Gigolo is a character study wrapped around a murder mystery with neither aspect particularly satisfying.The story is centred on Julian Kaye, a high price male escort played by Richard Gere whose specialty is pleasing middle-aged women. Julian's clients are supplied by two contacts including a pimp named Leon. Julian takes a break from the middle-aged women for an extra-curricular affair with Michelle Stratton, played by Lauren Hutton, the wife of a prominent senator.When Leon arranges for Julian to provide a service for a client who wants to watch Julian make love to his wife, she is found murdered after his visit. A policeman, detective Sunday, played by Hector Elizondo, investigates Julian who receives no help from his other clients who could provide him with an alibi.Although this is one of Richard Gere's most important early movies, it suffers from the fact that none of the characters are particularly engaging &#x96; including Julian. For a man who supposedly makes his living providing stimulation to rich, middle-aged women, Julian seems remarkably devoid of charisma. We do not see very much actual gigoloing, which is probably just as well because Julian is so into himself and his clothes that the first five minutes of lovemaking would probably involve him finding a padded coat hanger for his jacket, folding his trousers and laying out fresh underwear to put on when he was finished.In the early part of his career, Richard Gere had a tendency to use too much method at unexpected moments. The scene where he destroys his apartment and his car looking for planted evidence is over-the-top and distracting. If it were a metaphor for dissatisfaction with his life it would be almost acceptable, but he shows little conscience about his parasitic lifestyle at any other time in the movie.Hector Elizondo's cigar chomping detective is a strange creation. At one point, after Julian criticises his dress sense, he turns up at the precinct in a snappy new suit. Although he seems sympathetic to Julian, he disappears from the story before this aspect is fully explored.The electronic score by Gorgio Moroder is the classic sound of the late 70's when symphonic scores for this kind of film had all but disappeared. His score for American Gigolo dates the movie far more than the full hairstyles, checked pants and hatchbacks speeding along the freeway.The fragmented last half-hour of American Gigolo caps an already flabby movie. When Michelle Stratton provides Julian not only with an alibi, but also true love, you feel that the filmmakers clutched at this ending. To have worked, there needed to be some growth in Julian's character. The audience is left with the feeling that Julian would not have made the same kind of sacrifice for Michelle. It is this emptiness at its centre that is the defining quality of American Gigolo. "},{"Title":"A Film On Sadness And Loneliness","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A slick Los Angeles call boy finds love and redemption in Paul Schrader's ultra-stylish drama entitled American Gigolo.It stars Richard Gere and Lauren Hutton together with Hector Elizondo,Nina Van Pallandt and Bill Duke.Julian Kaye is a male escort in Los Angeles whose job supports his expensive taste in cars, stereophonic equipment, cocaine and clothes. He is, at times, blatantly narcissistic and superficial; however, he claims to take some pleasure in his work from being able to sexually satisfy women.When on an assignment for his primary procuress, Anne, he meets Michelle Stratton, the unhappy wife of a local politician, who becomes interested in him. Julian's other pimp, Leon, sends him to the house of a financier, Mr. Rheiman, who asks Julian to physically abuse and have sex with his wife while he watches them.As Julian begins to get to know Michelle, he learns that the financier's wife, Mrs. Rheiman, was murdered. Los Angeles Police Department Detective Sunday investigates Julian as a primary suspect. Though he was with a client, Lisa Williams, on the night of the murder, the client refuses to give Julian an alibi in order to protect her and her husband's reputations.As Julian's relationship with Michelle deepens, suspicion of the murder mounts against him. He soon realizes that he is being framed and grows increasingly desperate. His mounting anguish is visually represented by a degeneration in style as his clothes become rumpled, he goes unshaven, and he even rents a cheap commuter car after his Mercedes SL has been tampered with.Julian finally confronts Leon, who confesses that one of the other, younger gigolos who works for him had killed the wealthy man's wife, and Leon had conceived the plan to frame Julian. After an argument, Julian accidentally pushes Leon over the apartment balcony and he falls to his death.With no one to help him, Julian ends up in jail, awaiting trial for the murder. However, when all seems lost, Michelle risks her reputation and that of her husband to provide Julian with the alibi that can save him from prison.Stylish but emotionally hollow, Paul Schrader's morality tale of a call boy, offers some visual pleasures.Mixing his admiration for European art cinema with a voyeuristic view of the seamier side of sex and affluence, Schrader renders Julian an inscrutable, emotionally disengaged purveyor of pleasure, decked out in Giorgio Armani clothes coordinated with Ferdinando Scarfiotti's meticulous production design. Amid critical doubts about its artiness and distanced eroticism, it surprised everyone by not dying on the box office vine. With some audiences reportedly showing up for repeat viewings of Gere's seductive charms, it became a moderate hit, turning Gere into a star and Armani into the new fashion sensation. Whatever reservations one may have about the movie, it provided two indelible images of 1980's decadence to come Gere's perusing his artist's palette of shirts, ties, and jackets, and Gere's cruising down the Pacific Coast Highway in his convertible to the New Wave strains of Blondie's Call Me. "},{"Title":"Avoid this film.","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Why do Richard Gere and Lauren Hutton act like they just received frontal lobotomies?  Why does Hector Elizondo (who was very likable in Chicago Hope) seem totally miscast?  Why does the plot of this film seem to make very little sense?  I guess we're supposed to see this film because we're intrigued by Richard Gere being in a near full frontal scene, and the concept of his sleeping with older rich women.  No thank you.There's nothing romantic about the romance, and there's nothing suspenseful nor intriguing about the murder plot.  Skip to either American Beauty or American Pie sitting adjacent on the shelf.  Trust me. "},{"Title":"American Gigolo - Richard Gere","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I first saw this movie in 1981 when I was 20 years old. At that time I didn't know anything about this particular profession of Gigolo. You could become a contractor or a teacher or a lawyer, but a Gigolo was nowhere in the list of choices of a profession.Last summer I watched American Gigolo again. Beautiful role play of Richard Gere who plays the Gigolo Julian. Julian is very successful and his two employers (Leroy and Anne) cannot stand his prosperity. This leads to jealousy.Leroy is a criminal, a drugs dealer and a pimp who doesn't care about people just about their money. He has been asked to mislead the police in the murder case of Julie Ryman. She is the wife of the famous investor Arnold Ryman.Investors like Ryman need to be in close contact with politicians to get lucrative orders from. It happens that the woman of one of that politicians named Rick is a client of Julian. So the scene is complete and Ryman and Rick need somebody to do the 'dirty job' (misleading the police).Although the movie has been made 35 years ago, it is an exiting detective with a lot of romance in it. I love that combination supplied with a good story and fancy cars. And I recognized lots of the location where the movie was recorded, because I had a Gigolo job to do in Los Angeles myself at Valentine's Day. "},{"Title":"not so in love with the romantic melodrama","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Julian (Richard Gere) is a high price L.A. escort. Anne is his pimp and he meets Michelle Stratton (Lauren Hutton). Leon (Bill Duke) gives him a job from Mr. Rheiman who hires him for his wife Judy. Later, he finds out that Judy is dead. Detective Sunday (Hector Elizondo) investigates but his alibi won't co-operate. Michelle falls for him. Somebody is trying to frame him.I think the movie was on its way to be a great paranoid psychological thriller. When he found the jewelry, there's a few different ways to go with the evidence. He chooses the stupidest road to travel on. It doesn't fulfill the promise of the movie and instead relies on a romantic melodrama. I never really feel invested in their relationship and it doesn't matter to me whether she supported him or not. I just don't care about the melodrama that Paul Schrader is so in love with. "},{"Title":"Murder, male whores and Blondie, oh my!","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" American Gigolo is not a particularly taut thriller, but it's got that tawdry early '80s vibe going strong. The real selling point of this movie is its star. Plenty of screen time is spent ogling Gere's well- appointed living space, car, dress, and impressive physique. The role of Julian Kay required physical discipline, and Gere's got it in spades. Plus that's a million dollar swagger. The rest of the time is spent watching Gere stress over who's trying to frame him for murder, with cop Elizondo on his tail. And all of this against the background noise of Moroder's tacky synth score (which is constantly reminding us that there's a song called Call Me by Blondie). And in the end, Gere had to be dismantled to find true love. But that road wasn't a very fun journey. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A Minor Success for Schrader","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Paul Schrader has always come across to me as a particularly graceless screenwriter and especially director. Although he can create intense moments and thoughtful compositions, even a sense of stylishness, there is also a heavy element of cheesiness to the texture of his films, similar in many ways to the feel of Brian De Palma's work.However, American Gigolo is one of his more creditable efforts. There is sufficient intrigue in the film's second-half, once the crime narrative gets going, to hold one's attention. There is also a certain sordidness that is well-captured about a subsection of petty criminal to whom money, sex, clothes, social status are everything, and human beings nothing. Richard Gere and Schrader ably convey a sense of purposeless and drifting loneliness in the character of Julian Kaye. One has to ask, though Isn't Schrader embarrassed to copy Bresson's Pickpocket so brazenly, as he has done in other films? His application of Bresson's themes to Gere's character here seemed strained at best. And anyway, no matter how skilled the filmmaker (and Schrader isn't all that skilled), you can't really effectively execute what Bresson pulled off within the context of a Hollywood film. There's too much surface nonsense, commercialism, and gratuitousness to arrive at the sublime emotional and intellectual rewards produced by the no-compromise Pickpocket, A Man Escape, Mouchette, and L'Argent.6/10. "}{"Title":"not what I or you might have expected a subtle examination of class and society","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's important that Paul Schrader put 'American' in his title. This isn't just something to make it a title that is easily recognizable or to know what country it's from. It's about an American state of being, what it is to be a gigolo who likes swanky suits and fast cars and, well, the women he gets what he has to work for. But what happens when this man's reputation is called into question, or what kind of reputation a gigolo has? Politics also comes into it, not too oddly enough, as Julian (Richard Gere) catches the eye of a woman who is married to a Senator. That the movie is technically a murder mystery, sort of, as Julian is accused of killing a woman who he had seen previously as a 'fetish' customer, is almost besides the point. It is good for the plot, but what Julian has to focus on, the big question for him, is what is he doing with himself? How do other people look at him? He makes himself a sex symbol, of sorts, as he works out religiously and always gets the best clothes (like a peacock perhaps). Schrader puts a lot of focus on the relationship Julian has with Michelle, who genuinely cares about him and is probably the only person he knows who is straight with him (certainly not the pimp played by Bill Duke, or his mentor who has her own gaggle of men and women to 'send out'). Of course sexuality plays into it, but I liked the fact that Schrader didn't focus squarely on it. He's interested in some of the mechanics of it (there's a scene where Julian/Michele do it, but it's shot much in the way of Godard's A Married Woman, lots of single shots of body parts, some flesh, but selective eroticism), and then, mostly, the consequences.But, again, the look of the film should be an indicator. This is Los Angeles of 1979/1980, but it portends the future decade not just in the city but in the kind of middle-upper (or just upper) class lifestyle of expensive restaurants, good drinks, good clothes, and sometimes good women (or just lonely older women). Schrader even has a way of looking ahead to the future with Giorgio Moroder's score, which takes Blondie's Call Me and turns it into a synth score full of dread and mystery and drama. On top of how the look, its stylish exteriors and careful lighting (the Bruckheimer look before Tony Scott took it over with smoke machines), and the depth of the script, Gere is also fantastic here. He was on a roll right after Days of Heaven, and here he lights up the screen with charisma, pathos, intensity, and a sense of where to take the scenes where they need to be.He, much like the environment around him, makes up what is the backdrop for a tale of morality in high society, hypocrisy where it may lay in the highs and lows, and what it means to fall in love. The only part it doesn't fully work is as a full-fledged thriller (again, the murder-mystery element is the weakest link), but everything else sparks the screen with interest and excitement. "},{"Title":"Interesting early eighties film","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Richard Gere plays a gigolo. Somewhere along the way he finds himself a prime suspect in a capital crime. Who could have framed him, and why?This film will be remembered for creating Richard Gere. He is the entire film. The seedy look of LA is created deliberately by Paul Schrader, and his social commentary concerning the emptiness of peoples lives shines through. Yet it's not enough to make the film entirely enjoyable. Richard Gere is perfect here, his Julian Kay is a character not easily forgotten. However, all the other characters should have been polished just a little bit more. None of them are interesting. Lauren Hutton's character comes off as a bimbo, nearly plain dumb. The murder subplot is never fully developed, and hence, never becomes all that interesting. And the finale, with it's relentless shifts between scenes that all seem to be cut short, makes one wonder if Schrader knew entirely how to finish the film. Still, an interesting early eighties film, which looks great, is completely original, has a fantastic central performance and a great music score by Giorgio Moroder. And the Blondie song of course.  "},{"Title":"A spectacular Richard Gere performance!!!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of that movies that are designed to a particular actor, American Gigolo without Gere wouldn't be the same.There are other points of interest in the movie besides Gere, the excelent Lauren Hutton that interacts with Gere in an fantastic way, she is very sexy but acts like a women next door.I saw this movie a few times and there are always something new to be seen each time a see it. "},{"Title":"I just put a connection to this and American Psycho","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I know different actors and such but same time frame of the 80's and same theme one center focused actor and some awesome cast. The way movies should continue to be written there really has not been an new recent movies that have hit me like the old movies do. This came up as a recommendation on x1 and man i am impressed, just noticed detective is same actor from fear and loathing and i love that movie also. This movie was so much ahead of its time with the topics and such they were discussing in the movie. Very well written another one of Richard Gere's roles that will always impress the fans. Just got to the part where he is shopping in the vinyl section, boy do i wish i had kept some of my old vinyl's. "},{"Title":"You seem like a young man who needs a little self improvement.","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With just a little bit of thought, just how hard was it to figure out who the murderer was in this one? Given the characters we're introduced to in the story, the only logical choice was the Rheiman dude himself. Having the blond kid do it was just a diversion, he didn't seem necessary even as an ancillary character.Oh well. Since the story is called American Gigolo, it comes a bit out of left field when the picture turns into a murder mystery. But even then, it didn't seem like much of a thriller. Planting the stolen jewels in Julian's (Richard Gere) car didn't move the story forward in my estimation, and the way Detective Sunday (Hector Elizondo) blew off Leon's (Bill Duke) death with a circumspect eye witness was simply too incredulous for this viewer to accept.So what's left? Well I guess that would be the ending when Michelle (Lauren Hutton) shows up at the jail and offers to lie to provide Julian with his alibi in the Rheiman murder. An admirable thing to do in one respect, but I'd want to see the trial in the sequel to see how this all turns out. The divorce was bound to be messy. "},{"Title":"American Gigolo","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Paul Schrader's graphic look of an escort for hire, played suavely by Gere, who discovers the rewards of love, and the perils of vengeance. Gritty and realistic, the film starts off quite stunning, but loses it's fire halfway through. Hutton has entirely too much screen time.  "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I wanted to be Richard Gere in this movie.  The way he looks, the clothes he wears, the car he drives, and his occupation, well not bad work if you can get it.  If you want to see what the definition of cool is, then watch Gere in this film. "},{"Title":"A START OF EIGHTIES ERA","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   American gigolo was one of the first who started an eighties era of cinematography. A typical start song (a massive hit by Blondie), Giorgo Moroder's music, status symbols (Mercedes-Benz, Andy Warhol, Van Husen,...)and a story suitable for easy-watching. Sure there are some bonuses involved, such as Richard Gere partial nudity for ladies and Lauren Hutton kinky behaviour for guys, but that's about it. I sure missed more chemistry between leading actors and maybe a little more erotic scenes, since the title is pretty promising. But still, a watchable movie, suitable for all eighties fans, not meant to be a classic. That's why a5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Vapid","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I rented this movie after Sommersby because I was interested in seeing Richard Gere in another somewhat shady role.  Ugh, this film was tedious.  Another reviewer has written that it's like Showgirls without Verhoeven, just Eszterhas.  That feels pretty accurate.  Lauren Hutton seems to be a mouthpiece for Schrader's fantasy (I hope she got paid well).  Gere's character sounds as snotty as Pamela Lee Anderson in VIP.  Maybe that's a credit to Gere's range, but it's not fun to watch.  Not long into the film, you start hunting around for anything to alleviate the tedium.  I can only point to the soundtrack, which remixes Blondie's Call Me in a lot of slinky ways.  So download the soundtrack, skip the movie.  "},{"Title":"Tedious and Uncompelling","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Richard Gere's undeniable screen presence will surely delight his fans.Unfortunately, his charisma and good looks alone can not carry this tedious, emotionless film.American Gigolo does not work as a crime drama or love story. Due to poor writing, there is essentially no significant character development. As the film muddles its way from beginning to end, it failed to make me care about any of the characters.A big disappointment.  "}{"Title":"Scenic Los Angeles, if only it still...","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" looked that way- Richard Gere is also part of the scenery. When we see him walking down Rodeo Drive it looks less commercial, he himself looks less world-weary; a touch of gray, a young gigolo.Basically the Rheiman murder seems to be a distraction; Gere suddenly finds his morality after a brutal murder, Paul Schrader follows a similar theme in Taxi Driver.You will see some of the older landmarks from L.A. which are no longer there. The restaurant Perino's, where he meets up with Hutton is no longer there. Lauren Hutton herself seems like a landmark these days.The color schemes paint an idyllic scene, in the 80's many in the northeast were retiring to Southern California, thinking it to be a haven. This was before the riots, a major earthquake, and the general downturn in economy.This film is worth seeing for Gere's performance, Hector Elizondo shows up for a brief part as a homicide detective. The aura of mystery about Los Angeles and its denizens seems to be a faded history, it is no longer a city of intrigue. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting and bold","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Only in a very opulent society things shown by this film can happen. Good looking and charming Julian Kaye (Richard Gere) was simply the craziness of several old and young women. He was a complete success and he thought that this success will last for ever. However, his decay was not because he was becoming old or ugly, it was the intrigue in the world he lived and the existing interests, which hurt him. He was working for persons with no ethic at all, and they would do whatever necessary to take an adversary away or to justify any of their misdeeds with any innocent. The positive part of the film was to show how a love can be grown between two persons. Step by step Julian felt in love with married to a politician Michelle Stratton (Lauren Hutton). What her husband did not give her she always found with Julian, and Julian was becoming more and more attracted by her. This love saved him, she certainly decided to finish false life with her husband to save Julian for ever. "},{"Title":"American Gigolo is a cold, pale movie","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Film director & scenarists Paul Schrader explores the same turf in American Gigolo with Richard Gere and Lauren Hutton that he covered in his previous movie Hardcore, but he has reversed everything in American Gigolo. In Hardcore, George C. Scott entered the sordid underworld of smut peddlers, strip joints, and porno movies in his search to find his daughter. In American Gigolo, Julian Kay (Richard Gere) is framed for a sex crime that he couldn't have committed.Lauren Hutton, as an unhappy wife of a California politician, rushes to Kay's rescue when he needs an alibi to keep from going to jail. It is as if Schrader had rehashed everything, with some notable changes, to gain a new perspective on the theme of guilt that dominates his work as a filmmaker. It he did, he failed with American Gigolo. American Gigolo is as perfunctory and absurd as its silly geographical title. According to the box office receipts, though, it is on its way to being a smash hit.Film directors&#151;especially those that double up as writer & director, sometimes develop themes that recur throughout their films. Alfred Hitchcock's movies, for example, are heavily thematic. Hitchcock's heroes and heroines are ordinary people flung helter-skelter into situations as violent as they are incredible. The favorite Hitchcock hero is the innocent that is unjustly accused of a crime and must evade the police while pursuing the villains.Like Hitchcock, Paul Schrader has certain themes that permeate his cinema. Unfortunately, Schrader can never compare with a master like Hitchcock. Nevertheless, many of Schrader's issues are concerns of Hitchcock. Schrader's films are heavily influenced by the Catholic Church and its dogma&#151;especially guilt. Like Hitchcock, Schrader likes to work within the action genre. Schrader also likes to use rituals in his films. Film theorist Andres Sarris would probably classify Schrader in his book American Cinema under the heading of expressive esoterica. Schrader's shortcoming is his inability to effectively handle his themes and entertain his audience at the same time. His credits as a scenarist include Taxi Driver, The Yakuza, and Rolling Thunder. Disillusioned by the abuse of his scripts by directors, Schrader has since helmed his own scripts Blue Collar, Hardcore, Light Sleeper, and Touch. Hardcore and American Gigolo are laid against the sexual underworld. Whereas Hardcore depicted the seamy side of sex, American Gigolo shows the attractive side. As for imitating his own work, there is nothing wrong with Schrader doing this. Famous directors, such as Sam Peckinpah and Fritz Lang, imitate themselves in many of their films. Undeniably, Schrader has talent; he is an earnest moviemaker. Nevertheless, it is his Catholicism that hangs over his work like a Damoclean sword. Furthermore, the overblown melodrama and sentimentality in his film is just as bad. Along with these come Schrader's realism that border on Dantesque fantasy. Every Paul Schrader movie takes place in some kind of Hell or another. The color red appears throughout American Gigolo and many of Schrader's other films. But Schrader&#151;to his credit&#151;is a lean craftsman. His films or films made from his scripts are best when they are laconic. His stories are a new form of film noir, a psychological murder-mystery genre that flourished during the late 1940s and 1950s. Bleak and destructive, Schrader's movies are rituals in the successful completion of a mission. For example, in Taxi Driver, Robert DeNiro's character plans to kill a pimp so he can rescue a young girl from a life of prostitution. You can spot how the plot of Taxi Driver foreshadows both Hardcore and American Gigolo. American Gigolo is a familiar Schrader effort. The action is lean and hard but seldom swift; the dialogue is concise but profane. Perhaps this Schrader effort is too lean and hard. The plotting here wears thin long before the end. Characterizations are at best sketchy and the performers add little to their roles aside from physical presence. In fact, as movies go, American Gigolo is pretty barren. The movie neatly falls into two parts and then cops out on an anti-climax that is outrageously incredible. The first half details the luxurious lifestyle of a well-paid gigolo. The second half concerns a brutal sex murder than Julian is framed for by a jealous black pimp.Along the way, Schrader's Catholicism rears its guilt-stricken head. Is it a crime to give pleasure? Schrader must think so. After he holds up this gigolo's lifestyle as something we can envy, he deflates our illusions. One minute, Julian controls his life, work, and himself. The next minute he's controlled by people who want to exploit him. Julian considers himself an artistic gigolo. I don't do fags or couples, he explains. He dislikes young women, but finds older women fascinating in terms of how much pleasure he can bring into their corroded lives.Visually, American Gigolo is a cold, pale movie. The reds aren't nearly as saturated as they are in other Schrader sagas. Academy Award winning disco composer Giorgio Moroder contributes a memorable, energetic musical score that is as ominous as his score to The Midnight Express. Altogether, American Gigolo is a very chic looking and racy movie. Ultimately, however, it is a tease and a cop-out. "},{"Title":"full frontal gere","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" American Gigolo - Flacid melodrama about an upscale male prostitute who gets snared in a murder mystery.Richard Gere does a decent job as the stud who seduces women and gets paid for it.This Paul Shrader(writer/director) movie gets stalled in the second act and never really regains it steam for the climax.Lauren Hutton does a decent job as a needy senator's wife that falls for Gere.If you love the melody to Blondie's Call Me then this is the movie for you- I think we get 6 different variations of it throughout the movie.Although Gere looks stylish most of the movie- he does sport a pair of sunglasses that look really frumpy that made me laugh.The first part of the movie was interesting - watching Gere in action as the suave Julian Kaye-but things get really bogged down with emotions and plot twists.The DVD has the trailer on it.Has not aged well.C- "},{"Title":"Mediocre crime story that helped launch Gere's career","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of two breakthrough films for Richard Gere.  The other one was `Officer and a Gentleman', which cemented his status as a bankable star.  This is also an early film for mega producer Jerry Bruckheimer (Flashdance, Beverly Hills Cop, Top Gun, ConAir, Armageddon, Pearl Harbor).  In this film, Gere plays Julian Kaye, a gigolo who services the sexual needs of wealthy older woman.  One of his tricks gets murdered and suddenly all the evidence points to him.  Of course, his alibi refuses to admit he was with her because it would be scandalous.  The last half of the film is devoted to Julian trying to discover who is trying to frame him.  Concurrent with this plot is the story of his love affair with Michelle Stratton the wife of a wealthy Senator.The story isn't bad, but the dialogue is mindless and trashy, typified by Michelle's repeatedly begging for sex from Julian in the most profane and explicit terms.  There aren't any surprises that aren't completely predictable, and the mystery of who is framing Julian is painfully obvious.  The film features Blondie's hit `Call Me', but after hearing a couple of dozen Georgio Moroder variations on this theme on his synthesizer, it gets tiresome. Gere's performance shows promise here and his generous nude scenes make this film a favorite among his female fans.  Gere exudes a smart and sophisticated machismo in this film that would be his trademark for years to come.  For Lauren Hutton, who was more famous as a Supermodel than an actor, this role is probably her most notable.  She does an adequate job of playing the aristocratic wife with an untamed libido, but is in no danger of winning any acting awards.This is an interesting film to watch from a historical perspective if you are a Gere fan, but it is by no means a classic.  I rated it a 6/10.  Weak writing hamstrings a decent story and keeps it from rising above mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Gere works wonders under Schrader's direction.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A gigolo hits a peak in his life when he believes he can call the shots but the money movers jump onto him and plant a murder. Soul searching Schrader in the sleazy side of up market LA creates a European style of film making for Hollywood that worked for me.  "},{"Title":"Don't call me...","Date":"16 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" All right, so I'll admit I'm not a fan of Richard Gere. However, I don't think that had anything to do with my dislike for this movie. In truth, I found it to be rather boring. I would've thought a movie of this sort would've had a lot more action in it, sexual or otherwise. But it didn't.In short, it was a disappointment. Not a whole lot really happens in this movie. In fact, if I were to try to sum it up, this is how I'd do it Richard Gere plays Julian, a male prostitute, who primarily works for two pimps, a woman named Anne and a man named Leon. One night, Leon sends him out on a job to sleep with a financier's wife while he watches. Once he gets there, he realizes the financier, Mr. Rheineman is into some pretty rough stuff. The events of the night are barely shown, probably to make the audience wonder exactly what happened that night and how far things went...perhaps even wonder if Julian was guilty of the crime of murder, of which he was about to be accused.Julian goes about his business, until a detective starts poking around in his affairs, no pun intended. The detective seems pretty hellbent on letting Julian take the fall for the crime, which Julian claims he wasn't involved in and asserts any evidence linking him to the crime must've been planted. Essentially, he's being framed.The detective doesn't seem to buy into Julian's story...so Julian does some digging himself. He ends up finding out who framed him, the very same pimp who sent him out on the trick to Rheineman's house. Angrily, Julian confronts Leon and ends up pushing him out the window of his apartment and to his death.Amazingly, and rather conveniently I might add, a maid supposedly sees Julian attempt to save Leon so the cops aren't interested in pursuing him for that murder charge. Wait, what? So, you've got a guy who obviously got pushed out a window, but because some maid saw Julian try to save him, they don't want to pursue him for that murder yet they're going after him full force for a different murder? You'd think they'd want as much evidence on him as they could get...but whatever.Anyway, in the end, one of his other clients, the wife of a local politician decides to pony up the dough for his legal defense and also decides to risk both her and her husband's reputations by providing Julian with the alibi he so desperately needs to be able cover his ass...and that's how the movie ends.I don't know, I just felt like there was a lot missing from this movie. It left me feeling rather empty after watching it. On a 1-to-10 scale, I'd have to give it no better than a 4. It isn't the worst movie I've ever seen, but it just wasn't very good I'm afraid.I would have no problem whatsoever in telling anyone to skip this movie. It's just not worth the time to watch it. I'm sorry I did. There are far better psychological thriller/erotic thrillers out there than this. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Salesperson Escort","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When The Entire Population of The Planet Earth becomes infected with VD/STDs every Woman seeks out protection from being contaminated in fear of a new strain of VD/STDs & Rabies which can render Females infertile permanently...With The Entire Population of The Planet Earth having been found guilty of bestiality and with each censused inhabitant having made a Canine Pornography Video every Dog upon The Planet Earth is deemed a Prostitute and they are escorted to and from their Tricks with both women and men by Gigilos...The American Gigilo tries to live out a normal life as his friends and lovers drop dead from disease one by one until a poisonous drug takes out his Intended Bride which then has him along with some of his Canine Frineds looking for the culprits who are doping The Remaining Population Of The Planet Earth...In the end Man only has his Best Friend who knows that Humans can do better than this...The American Gigilo as he dies realizes that all the Children he has passed over his current adventure were his own with him being the only Fertile Man...GOD BLESS US EVERY ONE! "},{"Title":"A self-important rumination","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Richard Gere is appropriately cocky, assured and well-manicured as Julian, a high-paid Beverly Hills escort for wealthy women, but while on assignment in Palm Springs he becomes associated with a low-life couple which leads to a murder--with Julian as the fall-guy. Vicious pimps, politician's wives, and lots of nasty talk turns American Gigolo into a bitter, moralistic would-be expose. It's clear that writer-director Paul Schrader identifies with Julian's tangled ethics, and Schrader has always been attracted to the theme of morality under duress, but here these ingredients don't strengthen the movie--he turns an intriguing scenario into a sex-laced dirge. ** from **** "},{"Title":"not a masterpiece, but worth seeing","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Julian (Richard Gere) is an LA male prostitute who bounces around the city with his various clients. The sultry Michelle (Lauren Hutton) eventually redeems his existence, but a little too late, as Julian is charged with murder and can't give a credible alibi.I guess that there's nothing particularly important about American Gigolo, although it does look at the decadence that would become the cornerstone of the 1980's.Probably the main reason to see this movie would be to see Richard Gere right as he was becoming famous (to be certain, this movie made him a star). Also, it's interesting to hear him speak Swedish in one scene. Not a masterpiece, but still worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Standard 1980's fare obviously sponsored by the sun-blind industry!","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A good looking young American male carefully and methodically goes about his job as an upmarket (heterosexual) sex worker, but is framed for murder after his female alibi fails to confirm his true whereabouts for personal reasons.The world of showbiz is a strange one. Some talents are so obvious that they can claim to be all their own work (Jim Carey, Gene Hackman, Lawrence Olivier, Meryl Steep, etc.) while others need some kind of leg up. The right part at the right time is the usual solution. Richard Gere is certainly not without talent, but a lot of his appeal comes from his good looks and well proportioned physique. There is little range to him and accents are clearly not his bag.This film - along with An Officer and a Gentleman - took him to the highest rung of the showbiz ladder, but does he really belong there? When has he been outstanding? Above average even? Here he is his usual OK, but hardly anything special. He has no natural humorous undercurrent (in film or in life) and this makes him vulnerable in material that isn't up to scratch.The problem with this product is that it wants to be a bit-of-everything Sex, sleaze, jet-set, thriller, whodunit, 1980's style statement and morality tale. In the end it ends up a bit-of-nothing with the thriller part of the piece hardly being TV movie standard. While gigolos are very real they work through the ear rather than through the eye, because that is how a woman's sexuality works. They also tend to be plain, because plain fits in better than outstandingly good looking. From what I can gather sex is usually the sideline - company and providing security being the major attributes of the job. So I don't think it is even up to much as an expose of the Hollywood (male) sex industry either. "},{"Title":"A Los Angeles Icon","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Blonde Music. Mercedes coupes. Van Husen Ties, Andy Warhol's Torsos. The Oddessey. Lunch on Rodeo Drive. Perino's (closed since this movie was made). Poppers.This movie SCREAMS LA of the eighties. Forgettable for the plot, but so remembered because it really gave a feel of what it was like to live and play in Southern California in 1981. It's a great nostalgic look at the carefree time before AIDS and safe-sex. "},{"Title":"pretty darn good","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Odd that the song drew me back to this film. Upon first viewing I liked it but it slipped under the water past me it was so silently good, despite the blaring soundtrack. Hindsight, looks like it and Officer were the only Gere movies even worth watching for more than a few seconds. Talk about a career of just hanging around doing ludicrous movie after ludicrous for several decades. That's persistance. Yet this really is kind of a luscious film, so it's even more ridiculous, from luscious to ludicrous. Too bad.The ending mars it, bit sappy. Not that it somehow should not have ended on that note, but just something else than, and here is the spoiler, his doing the Jimmy Cagney bit behind bars hollering Ma, to Hutton (just kidding, but its almost that bad), no reason he has to wind up with the cuffs on. It would have made it much worse if he had been found down in some dirt floor Mexican bar, eyes swimming in Tequila. Maybe even on the run. But of course, as Sturges says, thats another plot.Anyway, one of the best takes on the emptiness, the real horror of materialism ever done. B r a v o. The only other example I can think of beating it is the scene in De Palmas Scarface when Pacino is looking around in the restaurant saying, Is this all there is. This is all there is. And starts taunting all the rich suits and disguised whores in the room. "},{"Title":"Gere Became A Star With Gigolo Role","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Paul Schrader's real first failure was this film American Gigolo. For a film that purportedly is about a male escort to older women, it sure falls short in the sexiness department. Richard Gere stars as Julian a male escort who is always on the make. One day he approaches Lauren Hutton and realizes she's more interesting than his usual clients and gets involved with her with some apprehension. Hutton is married to a politician whom she's no longer in love with. Gere becomes unwittingly involved in a murder case because of a favor he does for a former business associate. Schrader's script connects the dots for a potential blackmail showdown with the senator. However, the film takes off in another direction when we realize that Schrader may be setting viewers up for a revelation regarding Gere's potential involvement in the murder. Gere has to then juggle the contacts in his orbit to see if any of them will stand by him or not. Meanwhile, the Hutton character, Michelle, keeps the audience guessing whether she's really interested in Julian or if he's just a fling. The problem with the film is threefold. First, Gere is not strong enough of an actor to carry the role at this stage in his career. Second, Lauren Hutton is way too gorgeous and is too young in real life (under 40 at this point) for her character to be believable as an older woman stooping this low to pay a male escort, especially when plenty of men half her age now would still be interested in her. Third, Schrader's mix of sleaze and religion/redemption do not always mix, and this is one case where they surely don't. The ending, complete with Mozart fadeout, makes it clear that Schrader is aiming for the redemption angle. Hector Elizondo having the name of Detective Sunday is no accident, considering Schrader's conservative religious background. It's either an awful coincidence or it's a heck of a screenplay stretch to believe Sunday is there to right Julian's wrongs or punish him. Either way it just does not work. Elizondo does add to the film with his characterization. In addition, Hutton's character, though always watchable, simply fails to spend enough screen time with Gere to make what transpires believable enough. Blondie's song Call Me was a mega hit at the time. It's an interesting disappointment from Schrader. ** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Priceless","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is all about Richard Gere's character. The music is awful, Call me is a nice song, but not for this movie, totally out of place. The plot is completely unexciting, everything is sort of predictable and most actors like the police detective have really bad performances. However, I would not miss that full frontal nudity scene or Richard's charm and superficiality throughout the whole movie for anything in the world. One of those rare epic Hollywood performances side by side with Marlon Brando in A Streetcar Named Desire or Robert Redford in Out of Africa combining physical perfection, sensuality and intensity. Priceless.Shame about the movie itself though, could have been so much more intense and thrilling. "},{"Title":"Did they live happily ever after?","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Let's follow the trend and write 'American Gigolo 2'. Julian gets out of jail and Michelle, who is by now completely disgraced, goes with him. He gets a job in a big department store selling men clothes (he can always use the employee discount), soon she finds out she's pregnant and they marry. It doesn't take much for them to start missing the life-style they left behind. Michelle's belly grows and so do the mutual begrudging and the fights. Michelle starts drinking heavily, Julian spends to much time hanging out in bars with unsavory characters. Suddenly, she decides to terminate her pregnancy and as soon as she recovers she starts actively to look for a new companion, Julian couldn't care less and in no time returns to his old trade...What was Paul Schrader thinking when he wrote that stupid, sappy ending to a movie that, although not perfect, had some interesting points?  "},{"Title":"Missing too many elements that make a movie","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a male fashion show, with non-actors and non-situations, that doesn't add up to a single thing.  Most of the dialogue that passes between Hutton & Gere is banal and they have no chemistry whatsoever.  Both have done much better work elsewhere.  In any event, this movie lacks emotion, and if you don't care about the characters, it is difficult to watch the movie! "},{"Title":"Utterly misogynistic","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is utterly misogynistic. It had turned the table to the several centuries' history of exploitation of weaker sex.Richard Gere is not as intolerable in this movie as in The Jackal or The Mothman Prophecies. Over the years it has become evident that his 'acting' means merely posing for the camera. For example, No Mercy and Pretty Woman. He is rather a model than an actor.On the other hand Lauren Hutton is a complete disaster. She looks like Gere's mother, if that's what the movie's intention might be. She tries to act lovesick puppy and gives flirtatious looks, (oh please!) which she is obviously not and won't be in million years! She has such an annoyingly 'wrong' face! She has a completely broken voice. Most of the time one cannot even understand what she is saying. When she whispers, no sound comes out of her throat at all! Moreover, the writers didn't do a good job to portray her character. Because of that, her actions, developing feeling and relationship with Julian seemed pointless, groundless and implausible.Besides, it's hard to believe that rich women used to be so horny back in 80s that they are chasing after this self-proclaimed Don Juan, even to his home address and pouring money and gifts over him. Good for Gere fans. 4 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dated Psycho Drama","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a film very much of its time . The 80s had started and Reagen was in The White House while Magaret Thatcher was in Downing Street . This led to the 1980s being a materialist decade , you were what you possessed . Of course society had always been like that but the rise of consumerism reinforces this mind set . At the start of the decade we had LPs and at the end of the decade we had CD players meaning we'd all have to rebuy our music collection on a different format . Looking back on the 1980s it's something of a shock to see how quickly the decade has dated and unfortunately so has this film AG is an early example of Hollywood prime mover Jerr Bruickheimer's thematic film making . It's got star quality combined with a pumping soundtrack so much so that you're left wondering if the film was produced around Giorgio Moroder's score rather than the other way round because the story is fairly threadbare . Richard Gere stars as male escort Julian Kaye who finds himself caught up in a murder investigation when one of his client's is found dead under suspicious circumstances !!!!! SPOILERS TO TAXI DRIVER !!!!! The director/screenwriter is Paul Schrader who is the man who wrote the script for Scorsese's TAXI DRIVER one of the great screenplays that nails the loneliness of the male psyche . Knowing this AG is fairly disappointing since unlike Travis Bickle it's difficult to relate to Julian especially he's far too good looking and superficial to be an everyman type of character . If you've seen Robert Bresson's PICKPOCKET you do realise that Schrader has  borrowed  a little bit too heavily from that film and you'll be puzzled why it's okay for Julian to throw a pimp off a balcony . . TAXI DRIVER also features a climax where pimps are killed which strangely doesn't bring any criminal charges "},{"Title":"T.D. Faison in talks to star in American Gigolo Remake...","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I here there's a remake of American Gigolo in the works and T.D. Faison is in talks to play the lead character played by Gere. Faison a Real Life American Gigolo but with a modern day twist. I read Faison became a gigolo to fight for joint custody of his child. That to me speaks a true American story. I'm not saying that Richard Gere didn't do a great job. But I felt the movie lacked more of who the main character was. Felt the character lacked real depth. It was less about the main character and the clients it was more about the murder and the clothes. If this rumor is true then I stand behind having T.D. Faison be the modern day American Gigolo. "}{"Title":"American Gigolo","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I gave this film a 6.  It had an interesting mystery, but I did not like the characters enough to care. On an erotic scale, I give this an 8.  There is only one full fledged sex scene, but it is well done.  We get to see Gere and Hutton nude, along with three other women.  I wish there had been more sex in this however, considering the title.  What did you think?  "},{"Title":"American Giggleo","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dreadful movie. Richard Gere plays Julian a high-priced male prostitute. He does a job one night and soon finds out his client was murdered. (BTW, we never see what happened that night) He's being framed and a police detective (Hector Elizondo) seems hellbent on arresting him and throwing him in jail. The only person who can help him is one of his clients--Michelle (Lauren Hutton). However she's married and her husband knows nothing of Julian.This movie starts off great with Blondie's song Call Me booming out over the opening credits. After that it quickly falls apart. The story is dull, the characters uninteresting and the sex scenes are stupid and overly arty. The only remotely interesting part is when Gere casually strolls out of bed totally nude (you get back and front shots). It also doesn't really end--it just stops. It seems like they're trying to make a point but what it is totally escapes me. Boring and uninvolving. A 1 all the way. "},{"Title":"American Gigolo","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Textbook definition of sleaze and moral degradation. Brought to the screen by Paul Schrader and starring Gere as male prostitute who fancies himself in fine Armani clothing and rich, stuck up wives. I have no problem with a film that takes some risks, but at least give the story some zip.   "},{"Title":"mediocre, at best.","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've found sitting down to write on `American Gigolo' very difficult, and it took a while to put my finger on why.  I don't care about the flick in the slightest.  It's not bad, just solidly mediocre.  If it weren't for writing this blurb, it's a movie that I would remember having seen, but all the plot points would seep out of my head in a matter of weeks.The most interesting aspect of the movie has nothing to do with its on-screen content.  It's amazing that the same man, Richard Gere, has starred in the two canonical `hooker with a heart of gold' movies of the past 20 years.  I am referring to this and `Pretty Woman', of course.  This would be particularly standard Hollywood typecasting if it weren't for the fact that Gere played the hooker in `American Gigolo' and the flipside, the suitor in `Pretty Woman'.The camera work is fairly uninteresting, but doesn't detract from the story.  There is a vain attempt to set the mood of the entire piece by casting many shots in blue, often through shadows of Venetian blinds.  The `blue movie' analogy is just heavy handed.Julian Kaye (Richard Gere), gigolo extraordinaire, is framed in a murder case.  This plotline is uninteresting, unbelievable and distracting from the love story between Julian and Michelle Stratton (Lauren Hutton), a (state?) senator's wife.  It's clear that the murder is just a device so that Julian has nowhere to turn but to Michelle.  Julian's career is ruined, but love conquers all, right?  The chemistry between Hutton and Gere is wonderful.  If it weren't for the murder subplot, this could have been a great romantic drama.  As it is it's a weak coming of age story of a naïve gigolo finding love.Don't get excited about watching this movie, but if you want an interesting combination of movies try these. Deuce Bigalow Male Gigolo followed by American Gigolo.  The former will put a lovely comedic spin on the latter.  American Gigolo followed by Pretty Woman.  Imagine Gere in Pretty Woman as Julian Kaye plus ten years. "},{"Title":"What's with the leading male name?","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Julian? Julian? So, I have heard so much about American Gigilo being a sexy movie and it was, don't get me wrong. But then I heard the name Julie being said to Richard Gere. Couldn't it have been a more manly, sexy name like Lance, Dick, or Hermes? D OK, just kidding.Over all, American Gigilo isn't a bad movie. It's kind of a landmark in the history of film. One of the first major prostitute films. It's kind of interesting to see Richard Gere as the prostitute in this film before Pretty Woman. Do you people find it a bit ironic? D I did kind of enjoy the movie. That acting was OK and the story over all was alright. But there were a lot of clique's in the film. You can tell that it is pretty well dated. But actually, I think I'd might recommend this film for a watch. Adults only! Because it is an interesting film and it has a good love story that I think the ladies will enjoy and some action that the guys will like.6/10 "},{"Title":"Fails the test","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When I come upon this film on cable, I will give it 15 minutes or so, but never sit thru it to the end. Summing it up, it contains characters I don't care about, doing things I don't care about, in a surreal, stylized world. If you like style, see Shrader's The Comfort of Strangers, a far better film about depraved people. Is it just my eyes, or is Nina P auditioning for the part of Sonny von Bulow? Every time she appears I think of the portrayal of Sunny. And who decided to stick that cigar in Elizondo's mouth? Hume Cronyn could pull it off in Postman but Hector, you look ridiculous, as if Shrader wants us to think what else that stogie could represent.I've read so many comments here about 80's style; if you want 80's style, get Body Heat, a superb film in a sun-blanched climate. "},{"Title":"Weak Protagonist","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  American Gigolo(1980) is a good film hampered by a below average performance from Richard Gere.  If the lead had been played by someone who could do something with the role then the film would have been an improvement. Paul Schrader films some good scenes with provocative ideas.  Slight disappointment after the director's brilliant debut of Blue Collar(1978) and his very good road film, Hardcore(1979).  American Gigolo(1980) has its bright spots but these bright spots are few and wide spread throughout the story. "},{"Title":"Five words...","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ... Naff, Naff, Naff, Naff and... Naff.  Why was Richard Gere even in this?  Oh yeah, that's right, because they couldn't get anyone else to play the lead.  Why am I not surprised?  Just because the film's title includes the word 'gigolo' does not excuse the film being shot and scripted like porn.  Porn is way more entertaining than this, because it's less pretentious and doesn't include Richard Gere trying to be Don Juan DeMarco.    This film has all the moral insight and relevance of Showgirls, which would be alright if sleazemeisters Ezterhaus and Verhoeven were involved, but is appalling given that Paul Schrader had a hand in it.  I thought that Taxi Driver was slightly over-rated, but I don't feel I'm saying anything even slightly revelatory when I tell you that it's still light years away from this bilge. "}]