[{"Title":"Personal Comments","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"56 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My belated two cents worth The movie is based on the book, Accomplises to the Crime The Arkansas Prison Scandal, by Tom Murton. Tom was my roommate at Oklahoma A&M (now OK State U). I have discussed the film with Tom and read official State Police reports of the information on which the story dwells. The first few minutes when Robert Redford goes into the prison incognito was a device to inform the audience of conditions. The remainder of the film is factual, although embellished at points for audience interest. Redford did an outstanding performance representing Murton. At times I could almost believe that it was Murton standing there! Murton was advised by Governor Rockefeller that he had 48 hours to leave Arkansas or be charged with grave robbing. Official reason lack of qualifications. How much does it take to qualify? Murton got a BS in Agriculture at A&M, and a Dr of Criminology at U Cal, Berkeley, was a Dept Marshal and had 20 years experience in corrections. Murton kept his sense of humor, keeping count of applications declined (he was too controversial) for similar work (43 at last count), and remarked that one day another system would be so corrupt to demand his services. He died after teaching at Southern Illinois, U of Hawaii, and even his alma mater in Oklahoma. Waste of talent of a brilliant penologist. "},{"Title":"The best prison picture ever","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"40 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Though Shawshank Redemption has gotten the critical raves and the box office receipts that could make it the best prison story ever filmed, my personal choice for the best film ever done about the penal system is Brubaker.Based on the true life experiences of Thomas Murton, the co-author of the book the film is based on, Brubaker captures the realities of prison life, the complexities of trying to reform the system without sacrificing one iota of entertainment.Robert Redford leads a great ensemble cast in this film. The people here are real, dealing with complex issues for which there are no simple answers. The corruption of the penal system runs deep and helped in part by the prisoners themselves who don't want to see too much change at once or have a vested interest in seeing things run just as they are. Yaphetto Kotto and Tim McIntire are two such prison trustees, both of them showing very different reasons why they don't like some or all of what Redford is doing as warden.Among the supporting cast, I'd like to single out David Keith who was the best as the prisoner whose life Brubaker saves and ultimately becomes his biggest booster in the joint. A really outstanding job by David Keith as this simple country kid who just got caught up in the system.Rare you can say a film is informative as well as entertaining, but Brubaker definitely fits in both categories. "},{"Title":"Not a Disney feel-good","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  BRUBAKER is my kind of movie; grim, realistic, stimulating and a story based around a great struggle between right and wrong. Robert Redford plays Brubaker (based on the real life story of one Thomas Murton of Arkansas, not to be confused with Thomas Merton, the poet) who tries to bring decency to an Arkansas prison that is corrupt from top to bottom. There are rotten scoundrels among the prisoners and some decent men as well. What is worse, Brubaker has to fight a State bureaucracy full of characters who are even more slimy and despicable than the worst of the prisoners. Along with basic reforms, he is out to uncover a series of murders, prisoners who were murdered and secretly buried. He is really up against it and its tough not to get emotionally involved. The writing and acting is more than ok. Redford is very good in spite of being a little too pretty for the rugged guy part. He's the only one in the movie with the 300-dollar blow dry haircut. This reminds me of the movie MARIE, another flick about a single warrior battling a corrupt state system. The Grape Nuts Guy (W Brimley) and the guy who played Mrs. Robinson's husband (M Hamilton)put in a good performance as despicable bureaucrats. Very little background music is another mature plus.A good, feel-bad movie; and as a Bostonian, it's hard to hate a film that has a character in it named Fenway Park.  "},{"Title":"Excellent film rendition of the Thomas Merton story","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a well put together film for the period in which it was done in the late 70's. Redford who has always been a social reformer placed an emphasis on communicating the dedication of the Brubaker character in this role.If you happen to live in the Deep South where prison farms have used convicts as virtual slave labor for years, you can appreciate the storyas well as the attitudes of the government and local officials who are portrayed. If you are not from that kind of background, then it is a revelation for you. This film is a portrayal of the attempt at prison reform in Arkansas undertaken by Thomas Murton. In the process Murton discovered untold corruption and evidence of multiple murders by previous prison administrations. When he attempted to bring this to light he was threatened with charges of grave robbery. I would heartily recommend this film. It is one of a kind.  "},{"Title":"A true story...and things still ain't changed much.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie with my wife, who wasn't thrilled that I brought this back from the video store. She's the type that pulls movies off of the new release shelf without fail. But as we got into this movie, she changed her mind.Robert Redford plays Henry Brubaker, a prison warden who is recruited to reform brutal Wakefield Penitentiary, in Arkansas. The conditions are terrible, with men sleeping in puddles of mop water and being regularly beaten, tortured, and murdered. Brubaker gets a handle on the conditions there by sneaking into the jail disguised as an incoming criminal.When he finally begins his tenure as warden, he meets strong resistance from the community, which is used to the prison being the source of local income and slave labor. The scenes in which Brubaker has to deal with the morally corrupt prison board are powerful and captivating. A good view.Cinematography is questionable, and the editing TV movie-like. Acting is superb, and the local color interesting. I give the film a B-.Things to watch for white trash sister, Morgan Freeman's debut, rape scene. "},{"Title":"In prison, even the stink 'stinks'","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Brubaker (Robert Redford) as a messiah-type, seemingly on the fringe of municipal importance, takes up the job of Warden at a Southern state penal farm and decides to see the extent of what he is up against by entering in disguise as just another inmate, with no privileges. He feels that to absorb the experience from the inside looking out is preferable to relying on preconceptions. He is right as the thrust of the film would have otherwise been lost and the overall plot (simple though it is) is stronger for the fact that Brubaker has 'been there'.He manages to carve a bond with a few prisoners before he modestly reveals his true identity and, through a series of well acted confrontations, he begins to make the prison machine tick over nicely. In the final analysis his efforts are not totally successful, but the film does reflect change and at least the viewer can agree that he seized the chance to make a difference.The film is possibly a bit too long and the principal character is under-developed. 'Brubaker' was apparently a rather mournful, strained film to work on and the original director, Bob Rafelson, was sacked for smacking Ron Silverman (producer) in the nose during an early on-set argument.However, I think it is well acted and very absorbing to watch. I particularly enjoyed the scene where Brubaker gets his staff to release a few long term solitary confinements, stating that before they do so, the requisite pairs of sunglasses should be given to them as they come out of complete darkness for the first time in ages - the staff think Brubaker is crazy of course, they cannot see that this is all about building trust. The master plan is therefore to get the inmates on board and allow the trustees to follow. Nice theory, not so nice to put into practice as he is up against a rancid, but self policing establishment from day one.Watch out for Wilford Brimley as Rogers - a later teaming up with Redford took place in the outstanding The Natural, with Brimley starring in a major role as the jaundiced, downtrodden, Pop Fisher. "},{"Title":"Corruption and Murder told with cathartic style.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's odd that whenever talk of Prison base films crops up you rarely see Brubaker mentioned as a viable piece of work, which to me personally is a damn shame because it's origin source provides a worthy story to be involved in. Based on the writings of Tom Murton, a Prison Farm Reform Warden in Arkansas in the late 60s, the corruption and murder the film deals with is a very frightening reality, and although this film is obviously fictionalised to a degree, the evidence of the main themes can be found from many sources. Robert Redford plays the title character who chooses to go into the prison farm as a convict to see at first hand how the Farm is run, what he sees shocks him to the core, which in turn rightly shocks the viewer as well. After learning all he needs to, he comes forward to take control of the Farm and tries to put an end to the torture, corruption and dank depression that is rife at the Farm. He has to deal with many obstacles along the way and it's the strength of the man that has the viewer firmly onside all through the film. The acting is emotionally spot on, the title role calls for a cool persona to not get flustered when faced with mounting resistance, and Redford delivers in spades. The main supporting cast of Yaphet Kotto, David Keith, and Jane Alexander do very good work (believable), whilst the direction from Stuart Rosenberg is paced to perfection. The story is grimy and gnaws away at you, and then we get the ending that frustrates as much as it lifts the spirit, this is in my opinion is a criminally undervalued piece of work. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Get sent to jail, and you wonder whether this could happen.","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Redford plays another dignified character, this time as new warden Henry Brubaker posing as an inmate in a corrupt prison to understand the deplorable conditions there. As is the case with any prison-related film, we get to see some really ugly things here. Maybe Brubaker goes a little overboard in portraying its main character as a saint, but considering that the main point is to show the inhumanity of this country's penal system (which apparently hasn't changed much since this movie came out), they do a good job. I'd say that it's another movie that, if nothing else, deserves kudos for disproving the Disney-ized version of the world that we often get shown. A very good movie. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie.","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie in 1980 when it came out. Growing up this was one of my very favorite movies. In the beginning when Brubaker sneaks into the prison as an inmate - this is the stuff that kids dream of. Nothing could be more exciting. Slowed down a bit in the middle but picks up towards the end.I thought it was a great movie then & after watching it again in 2012 still think it is awesome. Redford is great. Keith is great. Morgan Freeman is great. Well acted by all.I don't comment on movies much because all I have to really say is - I like it. "},{"Title":"You can't reform the system if you're not in it.","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" W.D. Richter did the screenplay for the 1978 remake of The Invasion of the Body Snatchers. He also did the screen story for this Robert Redford film about prison reform. In fact his screenplay/story was nominated for an Oscar.I know prison reform is an anachronism today. Incarceration is simply removal from society with no concern for rehabilitation.The film is based on real life. Thomas Murton of Arkansas tried to fix the system. I grew up in Arkansas and was exposed to stories about the Tucker Telephone from the Tucker prison farm, and stories of bodies of murdered prisoners being dug up on prison grounds.So Redford sports a John Edwards haircut in the film, he still does a great job. He is assisted in this film by Yaphet Kotto, who I always enjoy, and Morgan Freeman. "}{"Title":"Classic Prison Film","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Very good Prison system film that could have been a Masterpiece if it had better cinematography,screenplay and directing which were only average.But still,the story was powerfull and very positive.An Idealist's film that challenges us regarding our treatment of the less fortunate souls undergoing over punishment in most Prison systems even today.Excessive Prison punishment is not necessary.Their punishment is their loss of freedom and that is it.Inhumane treatment is not our right to bestow on criminals no matter what they may have OR HAVE NOT done.This is the burden of society.The burden to care for these Prisoners as they serve out their time.The burden to ensure that these Prison caretakers do not become criminals themselves during the process.This great film puts it out there nicely.Good cast and acting here as well.Only for liberal or idealist minded people who like prison dramas and for big fans of the lead actors......      "},{"Title":"Great Redford Film","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Enjoyed this film starring Robert Redford, (Henry Brubaker) who plays the role as a law enforcement officer who poses as an inmate at Wakefield Prison in Arkansas. Henry discovers many corrupt people in this prison and he eventually comes into power as the warden of this prison. This prison is ruled by corrupt politicians and prisoners who are working with prison guards who are stealing food and money from the prison funds. Henry also uncovers some buried graves of many prisoners who have been buried on the grounds of the Wakefield which starts a complete state investigation and changes some of the major problems at the prison. You will be surprised how this film ends and I must say that Robert Redford gave an outstanding performance in this film. "},{"Title":"Prison reform is not sweet cake","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another film, but in 1980 it was one of the first, on prison reform. The interest is in the fact that the new boss of the prison gets inside the prison as an inmate, unknown of everyone in the prison. So we get a first part that depicts, from inside, all the unethical dealings and purely criminal acts from the prison guards as well as from the inmates. Simple prisoners are the victims of all kinds of violence from the trustees, from the bullies and they have to buy their way through this permanent ordeal even from the doctor who sells his medical assistance, not to speak of the slave labor the prison provides to local contractors or businesses, entrepreneurs in a word that may turn into undertakers, and even the finagling and embezzling and trafficking of the prison guards with the food and anything that can be taken, legally or illegally, from the prisoners and sold at a price. The second part is the first dealings of the new boss with the problem and we discover even more scandalous crimes from inside the administration including the systematic torturing and killing of resisting inmates. The third part deals with the reaction of the prison board, the senator, the governor, and other officials when they learn what is happening, i.e. the attempt to open up the various chapters of this book of torture and killing. And then we discover some more embezzling and the will to cover it all up. They will eventually fire that resisting warden. We also discover in this third part that prison reformers are ready to accept any compromise, i.e. to cover up the crimes of all officials provided they get some investment for the prison, provided the truncheons get gilded points. The last scene is the emotional departure of the fired warden and a last written statement on what happened afterwards showing or proving the story was a true story. Of course the point of view of the inmates themselves is not explored, but the film is very effective about prison reform and what the minimum has to be to give back to the inmates all their human rights lest they may go to court to fight for them, which is slightly romantic for us to believe that.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"A shock to the system","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This almost forgotten film should be analyzed today after its unexpected and unimagined possibility of an alternate reality that wasn't a complete fabrication. The story of a prison warden who wants to change everything that's wrong in the prison system of his state really happened. Brubaker focus on a challenge to a corrupt system that on the surface seems to be doing its service of punishing convicted criminals but also is a vile and dirty business whose purpose is to profit above all costs. The lead character, played by an unusual and remarkable Robert Redford, is introduced to us as a prisoner who barely speaks but observers everything concerning how inmates are treated by the guards, how the machine works behind bars and the constant brutality of the place. The plot twist to everyone is when he presents himself as the new warden and he sets up a whole reformation on the place, condemning what's wrong and doing what he believes it's right. There's plenty of benefits for the prisoners but the guards and the businessman who always gained advantages with the old administration aren't happy about this, and that misery and dissatisfaction goes back to the people who hired him, the governor and his staff who now pressure the man to go easy with his work. After all, they are losing a lot of money obtained with frauds and illegal schemes. One man alone means nothing so Brubaker is helped by some inmates and a local authority (Jane Alexander) who is close to the state governor, and will try to convince everyone that Brubaker's idealism if put to work can be profitable for everyone involved.Brubaker's idea isn't just to denounce the illegal affairs of the state and make budget cuts. He's more concerned with the way convicted felons are treated, want to stop their exploitation and make the place a safe environment instead of the critical animal factories that don't punish anyone but is only useful to transform them into bigger monsters whose only fate is either death, or commit more violent crimes or to return to the animal factory again. Sure, this idea is good and valuable but not practical. In the film's case, it fails because one can't change a system unless if one being part of it; Brubaker made the terrible mistake of not firing the whole officials team, and those guys still managed to cause harm and work their way behind his back; and the people with the money will always speak higher.Such idealism wouldn't work today, that's sure but it could worth a shot, specially in countries where the private initiative isn't the option (because politics are having their big time with a failing system that pays them well). Today's criminal minds are far more worse than the ones from the 1980's when this was made and they probably wouldn't leave a place where they could feel as if being on a hotel, practically with the cell keys on their hands, dictating orders like Pablo Escobar did in his prison time. But it can be made. And that final image of accomplish given here says everything even though things didn't turned the way it could. The film has a fine progression and it's greatly well acted by Alexander, Redford and heightened by convincing performances from trustworthy character actors Everett McGill, David Keith, Yaphet Kotto, Matt Clark, M. Emmet Walsh, Murray Hamilton and a young Morgan Freeman. Brubaker has that rare quality of being dreamy, that enlightening power some movies have in our reality and we want to believe of making a dream possible. To change the world. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Inside looking out...","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Unremittingly tough jail-drama set in the modern-day but somehow feeling retro in many ways. There's a good true-to-life story here, of a newly installed reforming prison governor attempting a root and branch reform of the corrupt, inhumane and as it turns out evil practices at a prison somewhere in the prison south. Baulked by politics as his reforms start to make themselves felt, Redford's title character must decide whether or not to toe the party line and compromise his beliefs.For me, the story was weakened by just too any scenes coming over as second-hand, witnessed in so many prison dramas of yore. At least the movie tells its story from a different point of view, in placing Brubaker at the centre of the drama and not the usually heroic prisoners.The cinematography is excellent, as, for the most part is the ensemble acting. I'm not convinced Redford was right for the part, his good looks yet again working against him and his performance falling short of the crusading zeal the part demands. He rarely seems to get really angry, which is strange, as there's plenty for a liberal like him to rail against. I wasn't convinced by the over melodramatic Spartacus meets Goodbye Mr Chips finish, which just didn't ring true.All that said, I was reasonably engrossed all the way through but didn't in the end feel the film conveyed a suitably dramatic arc, or insightful delineation of character, to really make it remarkable.Good, yes, but not great. "},{"Title":"Based on a true story....","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is based on a true story - sports an all star cast.  The knowledge of this held my interest.  Many of these actors were just getting started.  If you've seen this movie before - but it's been a while - watch it again.    One of Robert Redford's most convincing preformances.  It may be a bit idealistic - but that's tempered with realistic situations. Excellent movie - for anyone who likes a good script. "},{"Title":"one of my fav's","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Everyone has a movie they never tire of watching and this is mine. Redford is excellent as the man fighting the cons, the system and the Governer. one of those movies that makes you sit up and think, and the end where he's applauded away form the prison is superb. "},{"Title":"One Of Robert Redford's Last Great Acting Performances","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This 1980 20th Century Fox release was Robert Redford's last offical film as an actor before he made his directing debut later that year with Ordinary People. It's a fine way to bring the first end to a distinguished acting career (Redford acted in only three other films throughout the rest of the 1980's). He portrays Henry Brubaker, a man who has been elected as the new warden of a state prison farm. He decides to pose as an inmate in order to get a close up view of just how the real inmates are treated by the guards. Appalled by the sadistic treatment that he sees, he works to challenge the prison system to provide honest and decent leniency for the prisoners. Just like he did in All The President's Men, Redford once again successfully changes from his original comedic sex symbol persona and can be regarded as a serious actor. "},{"Title":"Brew this Movie","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Good story and excellently directed and acted out from all points of view. It is worthy to mention that there is so much real life here as to what is going in prisons today especially the ones run in the south where no one do anything about them without tremendous efforts. Rape, harsh punishments, and threats are all driven by fear and promotes the survival of the fittest concept followed closely by dog eat dog. The real life story took courage to come out and the man behind it all can claim that his life and his work amounted to something decent based on the end results and changes. May we all bring about good change, make the world a better place, and then hand-off to the next fellow prompting him to do the same. Good snack movie, tasty drink and no cell phone, texting etc. Go potty before hand too. Let the movie unfold without interruptions so that it can activate all your emotions thus pulling you into the film. Isn't that what good entertainment does? Enjoy and note I have seen this movie so many times and will see it again & again. Its a sure thing "},{"Title":"Good but too long","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Redford stars in this film about a new prison warden attempting to weed out corruption in a decrepit prison farm. The twist early on is Brubaker's entry to the farm as a prisoner, so he can witness first-hand the situation he will be dealing with as warden. As a prisoner on the inside, he sees the brutal beatings of prisoners and witnesses their uncomfortable environment. One of the more interesting aspects of the plot is the use of prisoners as overseers of the other prisoners. Like the character of Dathan in Cecil B. DeMille's The Ten Commandments, there are prisoners keeping other prisoners down, contributing to the penal deficiencies. These overseers take bribes, beat other prisoners and are generally malicious. This adds the twist to the plot - not only does Brubaker have to deal with the corrupt state officials running the prison system, he has to overcome the corrupt prisoners in charge of maintaining the farm. There is another complexity to this, because usually prisoner-on-prisoner brutality involves those on equal footing. Not here - the prisoners scramble for overseer appointments so they can dominate those they had just been with on equal ground. They learn their lessons well in the U.S. penal system. Almost every prison film features a scene or two dealing with the hole, the solitary confinement cells. Brubaker is no different, although the two main scenes involving the isolation cells are pivotal. In the first, Brubaker is still posing as a prisoner, but he asserts his authority when an isolated prisoner (Morgan Freeman) loses his mind. The second scene takes place after Brubaker has taken over as warden, and he orders the solitarily-confined prisoners to be taken outside once a day and provided with sunglasses. The connection between these two scenes is very key in understanding Brubaker's motivations. He sees the effects of the penal system on Freeman's character, and when he takes over, Redford attempts to correct the ills of that particular penal problem. The symmetry was one of the better moments in the film, illustrating the process of improving the penal system. Redford's age is very apparent now, but in this 1980 film, he looks beleaguered. Is it the role, or the actor in the role? I enjoyed the stoic nature of his character, unwilling to bend or break when faced with the opposition presented by the corrupted state officials. The end of the film is sort of cheesy, with the inmates showing tribute to their fired warden as he rides out of sight. But overall, the film succeeds at showing two things - the mistreatment of prisoners (whether by fellow prisoners or guards) and the corruption within the penal system. Redford shows a unique ability to respect many of his inmates, and this film is the only one focusing on the warden's perspective on prison. This different approach puts certain penal issues in a different light, although Redford's character still faces the same adversity as the inmates do--fighting a corrupt system attempting to keep them down. In one sense, Redford is an inmate, a prisoner of the penal system corruption, fighting for the rights of the prisoner. Last note - the movie is a little too long. That knocks it down a bit. "}{"Title":"A Worthwhile Prison Drama!","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My favorite kind of dramas have been those regarding prisons and their attempt to reform inmates. In fact, my top 2 films all time are 1994's Shawshank Redemption and 1999's The Green Mile. This film, Brubaker may not reach that scale, but it's still a great movie that tackles the subject of prison corruption. The film is well-acted especially by Robert Redford. Stuart Rosenberg's film is about a man named Brubaker who is a new warden at this Arkansas prison. He disguises himself as a prisoner to witness the corruption firsthand. When he reveals himself, he enacts many changes which angers the local community because they benefited from the corruption. After Brubaker threatens to reveal secrets about old murders, Brubaker's life may be threatened. Robert Redford delivers another fine performance, a more subtle performance this time around. But as the man who is performing the right moral moves and receiving sneers and jeers from everyone around him, he does a great job withholding to the pressure. There were also good performances from the likes of Yaphet Kotto and Jane Alexander as well as an early great performance from Morgan Freeman.Overall, Brubaker is a very good film. It is not the best prison drama ever made, but it still is a highly entertaining one. The one thing I suggest would have worked was more scenes involving Brubaker's disguise. I felt the beginning of the film moved too fast. A good drama with some thriller aspects. The film shows that prison corruption is more real than it seems. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"compelling grimy prison","Date":"10 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A prisoner (Robert Redford) arrives at Wakefield State Penitentiary in Arkansas. He witnesses rampant abuse and corruption from the guards and prison officials. The prison is a dangerous overcrowded gulag. Eddie Caldwell (Everett McGill) is a cruel inmate given the powers of a guard. Larry Lee Bullen (David Keith) is a lifer trying to do right. Prisoner Walter (Morgan Freeman) suffering from solitary confinement takes Bullen hostage. The mysterious prisoner comes to the rescue revealing himself to be the new warden Henry Brubaker. He institutes reforms with the help of inmates Bullen and Dickie Coombes (Yaphet Kotto).The scariest thing about this prison isn't the torture, the rape, or the corruption. It's that most of prison seems to be run by the inmates. The tower guards are prisoners. The clerks are prisoners. In fact, I can't tell who's not a prisoner. Brubaker is a bit too heroic. He's one of those impossible people and almost inhuman. It's trying to advocate something rather than be a compelling story. The prison is a gritty place. That's one of most compelling aspect of the movie. "},{"Title":"You want more from me you'll have to earn it.","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the kind of film Warner Brothers would have produced in the Forties if they had the writing and technical ability to do so. Robert Redford is probably too handsome an actor to be cast as a reform prison warden, but once that's out of the way, this is an effective and gripping story that's bound to put the viewer on edge for all the corruption on both sides of a jail cell. Particularly frustrating was the attitude of the political types who play the part of reformers, but when it comes time to take action, they become more than a part of the problem.There's an early scene that baffled me a bit that I'm still thinking about. When Brubaker (Redford) first enters Wakefield, he's working his way into the facility in a line of fellow convicts, and it appears that a guard with a rifle nods to him as if to give some form of recognition. I played it back to be sure, but nothing ever came of it later on, so I'm still scratching my head about it.Very cool for film fans is the ensemble cast that includes names like Yaphet Kotto, Jane Alexander, Morgan Freeman in an early role, and M. Emmet Walsh doing a smarmy gig as a corrupt businessman using convicts for slave labor and matter of factly justifying it. Knowing Redford's politics I got a kick out of his use of the term 'token liberal' to describe one of Lillian Gray's (Jane Alexander) associates. With his old pal Paul Newman gone and now getting on in years, Redford's liberalism is becoming more pronounced. I liked him better as the Sundance Kid. "},{"Title":"Prison Corruption.","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Redford stars in director Stuart Rosenberg's biographical account of Henry Brubaker, who goes undercover as an inmate at a southern prison where he is to be the new warden. He does this in order to evaluate for himself the extent of the alleged corruption taking place there. Once he does, he reveals himself to the prison authorities, who are of course shocked by the deception, and will continue to be after Brubaker implements a series of reforms to improve conditions. Those in the system who profited from the illegal activities decide to fight back, and make political trouble for the new warden, who has further uncovered a worse scandal...a score of unmarked prisoner graves.Well-directed and scripted film features fine performances by all, which also includes Yaphet Kotto and Morgan Freeman as prisoners, and Murray Hamilton in his last performance. A companion piece of sorts to Cool Hand Luke. "},{"Title":"The best, most authentic prison life movie ever made.","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Brukaker is, in my opinion, the best, most authentic prison life movie ever made. This movie at times resembles a documentary made utilizing a hidden camera. The cast is suburb! The cinematography is amazing - subdued hues and infrequent, yet mournful music. Robert Redford is simply astounding in his role of the new warden trying to rehabilitate a Dante's inferno of a prison farm in Arkansas. This is NOT a feel good kind of movie - definitely NOT for kids. This is a brutal, straight forward expose of the mistreatment of prisoners and the political morass that suppresses all attempts to bring fair and humane treatment to them. I highly recommend this movie to anyone seeking to see a remarkable movie that will engross you from the beginning to the end. "},{"Title":"One of the best during an astounding 13 year run by Redford","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" *** HERE BE SPOILERS *** Even at the time I remember 'Brubaker' being an overlooked film ... I told everyone i could about that film and even my parents, who went out anywhere about once ever 25 years or so, agreed it was a great movie ... one of the last things we agreed on certainly and one of the few things we agreed on ever ... but i think it says something in some way about this film basically, you've got the general outline of the story from other reviews but this is not your typical, southern prison film where even at the lowest levels of the prison system it is all about race ... this film has so much more to offer but first one plot hole ... Redford's character is the new warden of the prison but he goes undercover into the general population of the prison first for a while to see what is really going on in the prison ... this is a cool idea of course and you get to see how the prison really is, which is of course god-awful ... BUT how did he NOT get BUTT-RAPED??? seriously ... i'm not trying to be funny ... rape in prison is nearly as introductory as the lice-bath and it is not about sex (as many will point out and mention that Redford's good looking and all that) ... rape isn't about sex ... it's about power ... ask any psychologist or sociologist ... look at the statistics of how many rapes end in ejaculation (under 3% last time i looked some time ago) ... and in prison, well, it's all about power ... so how did he not get raped?? perhaps it's 1980 and people aren't ready for that ... or they thought maybe it was too much of a repeat of 'Deliverance' ... but just a big plot hole imho ...OK aside from that we see all the terrible things in the prison, etc ... and then Redford slips into a nearby phone booth and 'ta-da', changes into Super-Whitey, here to save the abused underclass of prisoners ....i'm being facetious ... the film brings out one truly horrible thing that's been going on and i won't spoil that bit plot turn ...but among the things found is a young Morgan Freeman's character who has basically been chained up like a dog for years and whose mental imbalance shows from it ... Freeman gives us an all out, frothing-at-the-mouth performance that gives way to subtleties we are now all familiar with from this very gifted actor ... but this was early in his Hollywood career and this was a big break for him indeed ... a great role and of course brubaker is the guy who can talk to this crazy man that the other guards, even the few good ones, disregard as nuts ... but from the mouths of babes and the lunatic fringe comes the truth ... and so it is for this relationship in the movie but one of the truly gut wrenching scenes is one where an old black trustee, one-eyed and spirit broken to an easy gentle submissiveness that gives him just enough motivation to push a broom basically, is told by brubaker who is looking at his file, that he should have been released YEARS before ... i haven't seen the movie in a while so don't recall the character's name or who played him but you'll know it when you see it of course ... the look on his face is one of the most haunting committed to celluloid ... but then the realization that he might actually HAVE to LEAVE the prison, the safe cocoon he's now so adjusted too and so comfortable in, makes the revelation one of truly horrific proportions ... we see a similar and longer-played out version of this in the immortal Shawshank Redemption where Brooks Hatlen is given his freedom after decades in prison and has become so institutionalized, there is no way he can adjust to the outside ... and we see our friend Morgan Freeman explaining this during this film also and nearly see his character succumb to choosing the path Brooks chooses in the film to deal with this terrifying reality ... quite a pair of bookends for Freeman in these two prison films ...anyway, don't miss this one ... it's probably easily found for a buck in a big bin at wal-mart ... or for a penny on amazon ... and don't miss the other films in this 13 year run of Redford's including his directorial debut from the same year, Ordinary People, which is probably why Brubaker got overlooked so much ... when you can make Mary Tyler Moore into the Bitch of the Decade, well, you've done some Oscar-worthy directing, my friend lol ...also don't miss 'Electric Horseman' ... one of those anti-hero classics that gets overlooked as well ... a wild and wooly start that turns into a contemplation on the American condition that is another underrated classic imho and directed by one of my personal faves, Sydney Pollack "},{"Title":"Don't start watching this one unless you  about two and a quarter hours to spare.","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In my summary, I say not to watch this film unless you he two and a quarter hours to spare. That's because I made the mistake of starting the film around midnight--intending to only watch a few minutes and then go to bed. However, at almost 230am, I was still awake--ratcheted to the TV screen watching Brubaker until its exciting conclusion.The film is essentially the experiences of Tom Murton as warden of a hellish prison in Arkansas--although unlike the movie, he did NOT enter the prison disguised as a prisoner. The horror of it all is what makes this very compelling viewing--and a film you should NOT let your kids watch. Rather vivid depictions of beatings, rapes and other violence against the prisoners (mostly by other prisoners) make this tough viewing--and the viewer should think about this first. Now this is NOT a criticism--the harsh language and violence is necessary to adequately show the horrible conditions existing in this prison in the 1960s. In many ways, it's much more horrific than The Shawshank Redemption--and unlike this Stephen King story, Brubaker is true. Corruption on a massive scale and the state's unwillingness to reform make this a very compelling movie.Excellent acting by the ensemble cast make this an amazing movie to watch. And, not surprisingly, Robert Redford is his usual exceptional self. The only negative is that despite a great story and acting, the direction and editing are poor. An egregious example is late in the story. One of the trustees escape during a rain storm and is being tracked down by Brubaker and some other trustees. However, as they track him down there is dust everywhere and no trace of rain---talk about sloppy! Still, this is a minor technical quibble and the film is one of the best prison films I have seen. "},{"Title":"One of the best prison movie","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Firstly I have to say that this is one of the best prison movie I have ever watched. Robert Redford is a very very good choice for the role of brubaker. He made a good job in this movie. No need to say something about the story because it already nominated to an academy award, it was really really good. As an addition; seeing middle-aged morgan freeman as a mad prisoner was a good experience. I also liked David keith acting and his character in the movie.Secondly I liked about the movie is giving importance to the details like brubaker's prison management. He shows to every manager; how should be a manager like? He is interested in everything about the prisoners and their problems of course. His attitude against politicians was also interesting to watch.Lastly this was a good movie also a very good prison movie. It is some harsh but it suits this story. If you like prison movies you should watch this one. A good experience to watch and analyze a degenerated system. "},{"Title":"Robert Redford runs the show","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie tells the true story of a man called Henry Brubaker.This man arrives at a prison as an inmate and witnesses all the bad stuff that's going on there.Later he reveals he's the new warden of that prison and he's gonna make some changes.Brubaker from 1980 is directed by Stuart Rosenberg.Bob Rafelson started as the director before being replaced.Robert Redford does excellent job as Brubaker.Yaphet Kotto is superb as Richard Dickie Coombes.Jane Alexander is very good as Lillian Gray.Murray Hamilton is great as John Deach.Morgan Freeman is good as always as Walter.Matt Clark is terrific as Roy Purcell.M. Emmet Walsh does convincing job as C.P. Woodward.Albert Salmi is great as Rory Poke.Noble Willingham plays Dr. Fenster.Nicolas Cage makes his debut as an extra.The movie succeeds in showing the cruelty of the prison world.One can ask is this something they deserve.Once you commit a crime, you need to be punished.But how much punishment is too much? "},{"Title":"New Broom Exposes Dirt.","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A thoughtful film, it is also sprinkled with all sorts of features designed to increase its box-office appeal. Redford is Brubaker, the new reform warden who enters the prison in the guise of a prisoner in order to get a worm's eye view of the goings on. (They're pretty crummy, what with patients having to pay for their own medical care from a corrupt doctor, insurance premiums paid to cover non-existent tractors but not collapsing roofs.) After ten or fifteen minutes he reveals his true identity and begins snapping out orders and cleaning things up. At this point it's rather like Superman emerging from the phone booth that Clark Kent entered, or Destry finally picking up a gun.But Redford learns that prisons, like wars, must operate within political constraints. He is told of a field full of buried bodies and begins to dig them up, despite the entreaties of his political friends and advisers, who try to talk him out of it or buy him off with the prison improvements he's been fighting for. It's not even clear that the bodies have been illegally buried, much less murdered as he suspects. The place used to be a pauper's graveyard, he's told.But nothing will wreck a reform agenda faster than zealotry. Before you can say Reign of Terror, Redford is relieved of his job and is driven away -- to the sad but appreciative applause of the prisoners he's leaving behind. That should leave the viewer uplifted alright.What a complicated and dynamic place a prison must be to be properly run. Some of the inmates have been railroaded but most of them have been (or have become) the cold-blooded psychopaths they're so often labeled. A warden must walk a tightrope between seeing that the men are treated decently but not given Jacuzzis. Redford, as it turns out, has pretty good balance in this regard, but if he were really concerned about getting his job done he would have compromised and stopped digging quite so hard.Nice cast of supporting players. Jane Alexander is always good. Matt Clark is effectively devious as Redford's clerk (he's about the only inmate who can read and write) who participates in the murder of a helpless and naive old prisoner. Redford is about as authoritative as he can be in his minimalist way. He's not George C. Scott playing Patton.The movie rolls along smoothly and takes us with it. We WANT Redford to succeed. But the box-office stuff just doesn't ring true. The sudden emergence of Redford's latent identity as the warden, a shootout with shotguns resulting in two deaths, the inmates applauding and whistling for the disgraced warden as he leaves. It detracts from the more important story and leaves us happy but with an armful of unanswered questions. (Just who ARE those guys buried on prison property?) The inmates may now respect themselves as human beings, as Redford claims, but how long will it take the new replacement warden to reduce them to their original rags and despondency? I wish it had been better, though it's involving enough. It was directed by Stuart Rosenberg who injected a lot more life into Don Pearce's Cool Hand Luke. Pearce, by the way, like Warden Brubaker, was a true original. "}{"Title":"Quintessential Robert Redford....WARNING SOME SPOILERS","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just before Robert Redford devoted his energies to redeeming the importance of good storytelling by spending the 80's initiating and laying the foundation of the Sundance Institute and film festival, he appeared in an above-average prison yarn with a great supporting cast and a film as far away from a horror film for Stuart Rosenberg, whose then previous film, THE AMITYVILLE HORROR (1978) proved a huge hit.Redford plays Henry Brubaker, a warden assigned to reform Wakefield prison and has to go undercover initially to see for himself.What he sees is bribery, sodomy, torture of convicts and bad conditions.When he reveals himself after an incident involving a vicious convict (played by Morgan Freeman in an early film role), the old warden is sent away, leaving Brubaker to sort out the mess. The extent of the corruption in the prison and even more shocking revelations occur.Tightly written, with some good sequences and drama, BRUBAKER ranks alongside the likes of ESCAPE FROM ALCATRAZ and THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION as a landmark of the prison movie genre.  "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brilliant story and just as good an acting performance by all concerned. Especially Redford.The prison set is so cold it real puts a chill inside you. Its just a shame the film has to end.Its nice theres a write-up at the end of the movie though, thats always a good way to finish a film. "},{"Title":"Kind hearted liberal thinks he can reform criminals","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well, Murray Hamilton once again proves he is the champ at playing the obnoxious, arrogant ass who has to prove he is the lord and master over his domain. Really enjoyed this one; it had the look and feel of an actual prison; not a place for any human being to be forced to reside in. I doubt than any real warden would come into a prison exactly this way but it did make the picture more exciting. Brubaker had some good ideas and, left along, could have most likely turned this hellhole around. Unfortunately, greed, arrogance, personal agendas, and indifference are the rule of the day in jails as well as the corporate prisons most of us are serving time in every day. 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Bleeding-heart melodrama","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rather cold adaptation of Joe Hyams' book has Robert Redford appearing to play a convict housed at a rough prison work farm for men, but he's really the new warden getting to know his prisoners first hand. Rabble-rouser is an odd choice for Redford, this genre having peaked in the late 1960s with Cool Hand Luke. The supporting cast is strong, particularly Yaphet Kotto and, in the film's strongest sequence, a young Morgan Freeman, yet the twist in the plot doesn't strengthen an otherwise well-worn formula. Troubles with the film's pacing and continuity can be traced to the problematic direction, and Redford's star-power can only take it so far. ** from **** "},{"Title":"It's definetely a parallel to the Life of Christ.","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm a born-again Christian and when I saw this movie it really made me think of the life of Christ when he was on planet earth over 2000 years ago. Brubaker assumes the role as a prison inmate before he becomes the warden. Jesus came from heaven to earth and was also in a very lowly position in life before he starts his ministry. Brubaker was a humble yet very bold individual who was not afraid to p*** anyone off. He wouldn't play anyone's game either. Jesus was the same. Brubaker was a rabble-rouser who ruffled many feathers. Jesus, even though He lived to do the perfect will of the Father, He was a bit of was a bit of a rabble-rouser too. Just read Mathew, Mark, Luke, and John. The Prison Board members kind of resembled the Pharisees and the Sadduces in a way. Redford's Character with Prison Board and other certain people the same way Jesus did with the Pharisees and the Sadduces.  "},{"Title":"Gritty But Flawed","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first half hour of BRUBAKER is a bus ride to a living hell . Here we see the prisoners being brutalised by an uncaring corrupt system. Convicts are guarded by other convicts , violence , male rape and rotten food abound. However as soon as the shock plot twist appears the film very quickly turns into the story of a liberal crusader taking on a corrupt system told in a documentary style . I preferred the bus ride to hell , it was a lot more fun for a law abiding citizenI`m told BRUBAKER is based on a true story and I don`t dispute that for a moment , however in all  based on a true story  films it`s not the word  true  that`s important it`s the word  based  . MIDNIGHT EXPRESS is based on a true story but the film version is almost total invention by Oliver Stone. Likewise IN THE NAME OF THE FATHER takes massive liberties with the true story of the Guilford four. So I`m somewhat sceptical as to how much is fact and how much is embellishment on the part of the film makers. Did Henry Brubaker really look Robert Redford ? How come those violent sadistic trustees seem to get away scot free ? Did Bullen really suffer that fate ? There`s more questions than answers. But having said that BRUBAKER is still a relatively good drama, thanks mainly to its opening half hour  "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brubaker i think is a fantastic movie to watch. If you like Brubaker, then i'm sure you will like another film he starred in The last castle is another great movie to watch i think. Brubaker was made in 1980. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Meaningful enough","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is dominated by Redford.  That can be good or bad.  In this case it's bad, as he's not particularly good.  He spends a lot of time giving meaningful looks to camera, the type that presumably excites old grannies.As the new warder at the prison where he turns around things after severe abuse of the prisoners he does fall down.It pales by comparison to the archetypal prison film, The Shawshank Redemption. "},{"Title":"OK story, bad acting and....","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ......one of the worst scores I've heard in awhile. Definitely dates the movie.  The composer also did the equally chessy film scores for Rollercoaster, The Amityville Horror and several Dirty Harry movies.  So someone must be into it.   The acting by the usually talented cast was pretty awful as well.  Robert Redford has always been a little expressionless, and it worked in his movies with Paul Newman (when Redford played the straight, serious guy) and some of his comedies.  But I could not buy him as a liberal but tough reform warden.  He even utters the F word and I laughed out loud. Don't even ask about Morgan Freeman.  Hard to believe, from this minor performance, that he would become such a great actor.  Yaphet Kotto fares a bit better. The fact that it was a true story makes it somewhat interesting, but all in all this is not up there with the great prison movies. "}]