[{"Title":"Nostalgia Maybe Isn't What It Was","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Robert Ginty isn't a name that means much to most film aficionados but for people of a certain age he was something of a movie god . People often emulate DeNiro in the bathroom mirror by saying  You talking to me ?  but for those of us who watched video nasties in the early 1980s we were far more fond of looking at the bathroom mirror rubbing our hands together and saying  Hey you really are a sick mothf--ker  . We didn't want to be weirdo Travis Bickle . We wanted to be stand up guy John Eastland . Somewhat ironic that Ginty died very recently and it wasn't until last night I chanced upon a viewing of THE EXTERMINATOR a film I loved when I saw it as a sixteen year old many years ago . Unfortunately it was nowhere as good as I remembered One problem is that the copy I saw seemed to be edited with some of the most explicit scenes such as maimed gang members being eaten alive by rats censored out . Considering this is an exploitation classic and much of the selling point is the gore it works against the film's favour in 2009 . It's not the main problem though . The main problem is that there's much implausibility . For example who do the police /hospital call when someone has been the victim of a mugging ? Normally it's the spouse of the victim but here it seems to be the victim's best buddy from 'Nam . What makes it even more unbelievable is that the hospital seem to have told the buddy that the victim will never walk again . Other ridiculous aspects include a cop saying  The only way this guy could have got a M16 is if he stole it from the army  . If that is a statement of absolute fact ( Which it almost certainly isn't ) that must have meant Eastland predicted the future and stole the weapon knowing fine well he'd need it to clean up New York a few years down the line . Perhaps the most unbelievable thing is the state senator who spends most of his time in a paedophile brothel raping young boys while the head pimp brings back prostitutes for a pegging session It's an entirely dumb film which will be of little interest for those who can't remember the early 1980s or those people who hate exploitation cinema . That said it's not entirely awful either and far better than its sequel . Ginty isn't a bad actor , similar to Christopher Walken without the annoying mannerism and overacting and seems unfortunate that this movie was the highlight of his fame . Christopher George as Eastland's nemesis cop is also good and is convincing until he gets caught up in a romantic subplot . Despite the low budget writer/director James Glickenhaus brings a very strong feeling of time and place to the movie . There is no doubt that we're watching a film that is set in late 1970s New York City . Scorsese and Woody Allen receive praise from critics for the same thing so certainly Glickenhaus deserves some faint praise for THE EXTERMINATOR "},{"Title":"Grim, but a great movie.","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Yes, THE EXTERMINATOR is a nasty picture and there is hardly any humour, but that's not to say it's bad. It's actually quite enjoyable.Robert Ginty is good as the titular vigilante and Christopher George is also good as the cop who is on the case (but seems to be more interested in shagging an attractive doctor). All the bad guys who are the Exterminator's victims are all made as reprehensible as possible (a violent street gang, child molesters, gangsters). But I must say, the meat grinder bit was totally uncalled for.Why do all the CIA guys talk with English accents, though? THE EXTERMINATOR may be grim, but it's worth a look. It's just a shame that the late Steve James, a great actor and martial artist, didn't have more to do. "},{"Title":"It was fair&#133; could have been better, though.","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In New York John Eastland an Vietnam Veteran turns vigilante when his best friend/Vietnam buddy is attacked by a group of thugs and left paralysed. Since his buddy saved his life in Vietnam, he thought he should do him a favour. So John becomes a one-man show and goes out and gives some of his own justice to these lowlifes. After taking care of that gang, he sets his sights higher, by trying to bring down the city's seedy and dark underground. He calls himself the Exterminator, but police see him as nothing than a psychopathic killer, but the CIA and Government officials see him more as a threat because they believe he could undermine an entire government administration. The media and public, see him as a (anti) hero and these corrupt officials don't want that.This is one of the many vigilante/exploitation films that flooded the screens within 70's and 80's period&#133; thanks to Death Wish, which were only meant to shock you with relentless violence and grit. Well, this supposedly DVD I watch claims to be the director's cut, but some sequences definitely feel like they were trimmed&#133; unless that was the director's choice, but I doubt it because they felt odd and was mostly around the violence.Anyway what we got here is a remotely entertaining low-budget vigilante piece, but really it's nothing we haven't seen before. If your expecting a whole lotta' graphic violence, you might be disappointed as it was rather tame in spots where it could have been grisly to watch. But saying that it does have a couple of shocking moments, but really not enough to make it stand out from the rest of its field. It was rather comic book style violence, with it being more nasty than bloody. What makes it a little tiresome is that a lot of time it skews away from our vigilante doing his work, in favour for a budding romance between a cop and doctor, it just didn't add anything, well not for me. It could have scrap that idea and delve more into the Exterminator's psyche, or please more gripping action. Yes action, the film just lacked something big&#133; I was hoping for more. Especially when we are thrown right into the action when the film begins, but I was sorely disappointed and the exploitative nature was just uneven and what was the deal with the wrenching images. Sometimes the material tries too hard to be moving and have a softer side. It just didn't work for me. You just think, oh this going to be great, with some promising torture scenes and tussles, but honestly you feel short changed with the outcome of most, as there seems to be more of a focus on the aftermath. What didn't help was that some moments are actually unintentionally humorous. But on the other hand there are some nice ideas in the bunch, but it just could've been executed in a better fashion. The plot tries to cover some social discussions involving the Vietnam War, Cheap labour, street crime, media, child prostitution corrupt officials and plenty of wry humour mixed in. Although, there's nothing about these messages that are exceptional or haven't been handled better.What blew me away was that director James Glickenhaus pulls you into the seedy and dirty streets of New York. He truly makes the raw environment an unpleasant experience to view, along with the scum who walk it. Camera work was potent with some well established shots, with plenty of close ups and fast moving shooting. Also the director loved his slow-mow! Soundtrack was very 70's. A sample of the decade indeed. But there are some odd song choices in certain parts of the film, but they were reasonably groovy and swinging in mood. Although, the editing was annoying at times, it was real choppy and because of that there's several incoherent sequences and stuff left up in the air. Just like the unthinkable ending (that took me by the blue), which is messily put together. Performances are fair, even if Robert Ginty is bland as the crusader and Christopher George makes the most of his character. Though, those people playing the CIA agents really hammed it up with inane dialogue and hilarious appearances.Mediocre at best, with some heart pounding moments and clever touches, but I just thought it could've been far better. Maybe I was expecting too much? Nonetheless, it did its job by keeping me entertained for the odd 90 minutes or so. That's good enough for me. "},{"Title":"Solid And Gritty 80's Vigilante Film","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE EXTERMINATOR is a fun piece of 80's exploit-style cinema that is an enjoyable film all-around, for people who dig this sort of thing. Decent acting, a strong storyline, some rough violence, and the gritty early 80's New York City environments up the entertainment-value of this straight-faced B-entry...John and Michael were in 'Nam together, where Michael saved Johns life from Charlie. Living back in New York after the war, John and Mike remain best-buddies and work at the same warehouse. One day, the two of them divert some robbers from the Ghetto Ghouls gang from rippin' off the warehouse, and the gang members don't take to kindly to bein' interrupted. The gang members find Michael walking home from work one day, jump him, and leave him paralyzed. John takes this pretty hard (to say the least...) and goes gunnin' for the Ghouls. After dispatching some of them, he decides the city needs some cleaning up - and goes on to attack a mob boss, a sleazy kiddie-prostitution ring leader and his chickenhawk client, and the remaining members of the Ghetto Ghouls. Meanwhile, a tough cop and the CIA is on the case of The Exterminator, and are lookin' to bring him down...This one is pretty action-packed right from the jump. The opening 'Nam scene sets the stage for what's to come as one of John's Army pals is beheaded graphically, in a scene that proves that with the right machete, you can take a head off like a knife through butter. Rather than being strictly a revenge/vigilante exploit film though, the character development is enough to really feel the bond between John and Michael, and makes it easy to root for John as he's blastin' his way through the city. Definitely worth a look to 80's U.S. exploit fans - team this one up with VICE SQUAD for a double-feature night and you'll be set...8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Grim but effective vigilante tale","Date":"8 November 2012","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love Synapse films. Along with Blue Underground, these guys are pretty much Criterion for fans of horror and exploitation, with movies like Thriller A Cruel Picture, Frankenhooker and Maniac Cop under their belt. So it makes perfect sense that they would release the vigilante movie favorite The Exterminator on a Blu-Ray/DVD combo pack. This is a mixed bag for me, as I don't have a Blu-Ray player, but I do have a DVD player, so I can watch the movie but not judge the two discs. I can however, judge the movie.John Eastland (Robert Ginty) is a Vietnam vet whose war buddy and long time best friend Michael Jefferson (Steve James.) When Michael is fatally wounded by thugs, Eastland decides that not only those responsible should pay the pimps, pushers and filth of the streets must be exterminated. Thing is, this is bad for the mayor, whose got an election coming up, so it's up to Detective James Dalton (Christopher George) to stop the man known to the city of New York as The Exterminator. While there are flaws in this movie (the relationship between Dalton and a nurse played by Samantha Eggar feels unnecessary), this is a prime example of early 80's exploitation. While gore-hounds will be let down (only a gnarly decapitation in a Vietnam flashback), the violence here is vicious and unrelenting-in fact, largely skimping on splatter actually helps enhance the brutality on display-and boy is it a vicious little movie. Eastland is not a man who plays around, setting people ablaze, dropping them in meat-grinders, shooting them with mercury laced bullets-he means business. Also, exploitation fans will more than likely enjoy this, as this is the type of movie that shows you New York before it was cleaned up. This is a world of drug pushers, murderers, and more-the scum of the Earth, and The Exterminator has had enough of them.It also helps that this is a well directed and mostly well acted movie. James Glickenhouse* films the whole thing in a matter of fact style-no flashy editing or tricks here, just the worst the city has to offer and ugly violence pushed into your face, which aids the already gritty tone of the movie. Meanwhile, Ginty (who most may remember from the MST3K movie Warriors of the Lost World) has a kind of Charles Bronson like quality-not as good of an actor, but he doesn't really look like an action star. He just looks like a regular guy, and the actor thankfully manages to make Eastland human but not too sympathetic. If anything, he's a psychopath. George meanwhile, plays the guy who may be the most likable character. He doesn't want The Exterminator killing people, but he understands why he's doing it, and doesn't seem to care much for the corrupt political and police establishment around him.For fans of revenge movies and exploitation, The Exterminator is something that must be seen. Is it a perfect movie? No, but it get's the job done without any added bulls#!t.*Glickenhouse also wrote this movie, and directed the Christopher Walken action movie McBain, Jackie Chan's ill-advised U.S. debut The Protector and the Peter Weller/Sam Elliot cop movie Shakedown. He also produced Basket Case 2, Frankenhooker, Maniac Cop and the Joe Don Baker vehicle Ring of Steel. "},{"Title":"A war veteran turns  one-man vigilante when his friend is attacked and paralyzed  by furious band formed by some ominous punks","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Successful crime thriller of the 80s that went on the ¨Vigilante genre¨ which Bronson had created as Architect Paul Kersey turned avenger . Again an ordinary man become vigilante and taking the law into his own hands as judge , jury and executioner. This first entry with excessive violence concerns about John Eastland (Robert Ginty), a Vietnam vet and New York worker and become into relentless revenger . John turns the one-man vigilante when his friend (Steve James) is attacked by furious band formed by some heinous villains . His friend lives in N.Y. along with his wife and daughter and he is made a cripple and reduced to living vegetable. Eastland then stalks the slums of N.Y. and takes the law into his own hands , searching vengeance on crooks , hoodlums, sadistic muggers and pimps making the neighborhood safer and bumping off delinquents and street scum. Meanwhile a stubborn police inspector (Christopher George) is investigating the grisly events .This first outing contains suspense , noisy action-packed, intrigue, thrills galore and lots of violence and gore , including obnoxious executions as nasty beheading -made by Stan Winston- and others. This disgusting story looks increasingly passionless and mechanical and violence seems to be considered excessive . Robert Ginty with his usual stoic acting displays efficiently his weapon , Magnum 44 , such as ¨Harry the Dirty¨ and killing mercilessly nasties . It's certainly thrilling , though the morality may be questionable , even in this time, as the spectators were clearly on the Ginty-Eastland side . Furthermore, appears a nice main and secondary cast , as Susanna York as a doctor , Christopher George as obstinate cop ,and Dennis Boutsikaris as heinous hoodlum in his film debut. It packs a screeching musical score composed, orchestrated by Joe Renzetti , including a wonderful and emotive final song that is the best item of the film . There's an unrated director's cut that runs some minutes more . This exciting motion picture is middlingly directed by James Glickenhaus . He's an expert on violent action movies as proved in ¨The protector¨, ¨Shakedown¨ and ¨The soldier¨ . Followed by another extremely violent and low-budgeted sequel to this successful 1980 movie , realized in 1984 by the same producer Mark Buntzman with Mario Van Peebles in his movie debut , Debora Geffner, Frankie Faison and of course Robert Ginty , replacing his Magnum by means of using a blowtorch against street scum. "},{"Title":"Brutal to the bone.","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"20 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Exterminator is a one hell of a vigilante thriller.This legendary flick obviously influenced by Micheal Winner's Death Wish has Robert Ginty as a Vietnam vet,whose friend is badly injured by street gangs.James Glickenhaus(Suicide Cult,The Soldier)creates an ultra gritty atmosphere of wonderfully seedy New York.The Exterminator is extremely brutalthe double murder in the whorehouse really stands out-you can see a half naked fat guy getting shot in the kidney at point blank range with a pistol loaded with poison bullets.Grisly and unforgettable!Add also one of the most brutal decapitations ever captured to film and you have a winner.All in all,I'd strongly recommend this film to everyone interested in vigilante flicks-The Exterminator is surely an unforgettable experience.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A product of its time period","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Although highly derivative of both Death Wish and Taxi Driver (and with a climax stolen directly from Badge 373), The Exterminator still successfully depicts a dirty, crime-ridden, God-forsaken New York City of the late '70s in ways that no other film has before or since.Robert Ginty portrays John Eastland, a disillusioned and apparently disturbed Vietnam vet working the night shift at the Bronx Terminal Market with his old army buddy, Michael Jefferson. One morning, John tries to stop a group of gang members (The Ghetto Ghouls, apparently based on the notorious South Bronx street gang The Savage Skulls) from stealing cases of beer from a storage container at the market, and nearly gets his throat cut for his trouble. Jefferson rescues Eastland once again (as he did in Vietnam), but of course their trouble is far from over. When the gang catches up with Jefferson and leaves him paralyzed and fighting for his life at Lincoln Hospital, Eastland begins his campaign of vengeance. During the course of this extremely violent movie, Eastland avenges not only his old friend, but other victims as well, using blowtorches, a meat grinder,an M-16 and a .44 Magnum loaded with mercury-filled dum-dum bullets as he systematically takes out mobsters, chickenhawks and other assorted street scum.Critics of this movie have contended that Eastland's violence is too randomly directed after initially taking out the gang bangers who hurt his friend. My feeling is that Eastland had been suppressing a lot of rage since Vietnam, and had been seething over the deteriorating conditions of his city, and that the mugging of Jefferson was the last straw. After avenging his friend, Eastland decides to wage war against every criminal and degenerate that he sees. Of course, this being the cynical seventies, the NYPD detective assigned to the case (himself a Nam vet) would just as soon let The Exterminator continue to clean up the streets, but it is an election year, and public officials are embarrassed by the fact that The Exterminator is succeeding in eliminating crime where they have failed. The federal government actually believes that The Exterminator may be a foreign agent working to undermine the current administration, and sends a CIA operative into the city to investigate. By the end of the story, the CIA assassin only THINKS he has exterminated The Exterminator - and, as Eastland has promised in the past, I'll be back. When creating the character of John Eastland, James Glickenhaus was obviously influenced by Robert DeNiro's deranged Vietnam vet Travis Bickle in Taxi Driver and by Charles Bronson's Paul Kersey character, who was affected by violence to the point that he was himself driven to violence in Death Wish. But in spite of this (and in spite of criticisms that Ginty's character is stiff and wooden), The Exterminator emerges as an interesting character study of a traumatized man who unravels under the stress of life in inner-city New York after the senseless violence of that place strikes a little too close to home.Those of us New Yorkers who are old enough to remember that city back in those bad old days of the late '70s - early '80s will agree that The Exterminator captures the grit and grime of places like the South Bronx and Times Square, as well as the lawlessness and general chaos of the place. Thank God the place has been cleaned up somewhat. "},{"Title":"Ginty, George and a flamethrower.","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" B-movies have their own little universe of classics and razzies. A really bad movie can be really good if it's bad for the right reasons and a better movie can be a lot worse for some other reason. When you're counting with camp and schlock, the sum will definitely come out a little different.Sometimes a B-movie can be talked-about, banned in Britain and regarded as a balls-to-the-walls-gorefest even though it's really not that graphic. The Exterminator is an example of this. It's a vigilante action/thriller, your average take on Death Wish, but despite having quite an eye-catching cover, and despite being banned in Britain and despite being pretty brutal, there are a lot of more shocking movies out there. If you are a gorehound, and I know there's a lot of you out there, I think maybe you're looking for something like Fulci's Contraband or New York Ripper. That's intense. In The Exterminator, we do get a mob boss in a meat grinder and some messy executions to be sure, but nothing that will shock anyone who will actually go looking for a movie like The Exterminator.In this take on civil disobedience on steroids, the late Robert Ginty plays a normal guy who totally flips when his buddy from Vietnam gets paralyzed due to an attack from one of those batches of racist, anarchist scum who randomly act out mayhem in broad daylight. As the exterminator Ginty's character have a few things on his agenda. Steal money from the soon-to-be-bolognese-mob. Check. Kill sodomizing pervs. Check. Shotgun away at guys who rob old ladies. Check. Interrogate his way ahead with a very talk-efficient flame thrower. Double-check. Hum, what else? Oh, right, pull the plug on his veggie buddy without asking his wife and kids about it. Yeah, check.For what it is, The Exterminator is a pretty decent exploitation movie. You can't expect much more than what the cover says. Ginty is an odd hero to boot, but I can't help but liking him. Probably due to his offbeat appearance. Who could ever take him for a lone ranger type action hero? I don't know if he looks like much of anything at all. For something as definitive as an action star, Ginty was fascinatingly bland. And ironically, that comes off as very original! Looking at his resume, somehow, despite any given logic, I feel tempted to check out a movie with the title Maniac Killer.Another thing I have to mention is Christopher George, one of my all time favorite B-movie actors. He was always so suave and self-aware, as if he wasn't really convinced he was actually doing the schlock movies he was doing. In The Exterminator he plays the cop who goes after Ginty. Once again, he wanders about the movie with this self-ironic smirk, as if he's just doing the role, not asking questions and just getting on with it (not entirely unlike Sean Connery in Highlander II). I especially like one dialog scene he has with Samantha Eggar where she asks him about the Vietnam war. It was bad he says with a pause, as if he's amazed at the stupidity of the line. It's as if he's thinking; really? It was bad? Shouldn't I say something else?? It was.... bad he tries to continue, and eventually says Not as bad as New York City... but... it was bad.... The movie makes parallels to the war, but I still can't help but wonder if that was actually in the script, or just some kind of joke from Mr. George. In another scene he misses a line but laughs it off while the camera keeps rolling, and for a moment there you can see him realizing what kind of production he's in. It's a special kind of movie magic that you will only find in a movie like The Exterminator. "},{"Title":"A brutal 1980s Semi-Grindhouse Revenge Flick","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Exterminator is a film that has many flaws but also has high entertainment value, The Story is nothing new, the characters are only half developed, and the film was made on a low budget, however it has a certain charm to it that makes it an entertaining watch.The Plot of the film involves A Vietnam vet named John Eastland (Played by Robert Ginty, RIP) Taking the Name of THE EXTERMINATOR and Going out onto the streets of New York to hunt and kill a bunch of thugs that killed his best friend, and in the process try to rid new york entirely of crime. A policeman played by (Christopher George RIP) is out to catch him, but unknown to both of them the CIA is also after THE EXTERMINATOR its just a matter of time who will get to Him first.Like i said the Plot isn't that Original, and the subplot involving the CIA is hugely Underdeveloped, and like i mentioned the characters are half developed, in other words they are only half interesting, but the sole Savior of this film is the violence and gritty atmosphere in which the Director James Glickenhaus Creates, the violence in this film is Raw and nasty and the Villains are extremely Despicable and when they get whats coming to them it Effectively pays off, The Film is what it is, an Exploitation film and a good one at that, in fact it has some truly powerful scenes as well as some emotional ones and if you see the film you'll know what I'm talking about.OVERALL (6/10) The Exterminator is a Film to be viewed with caution, as it is very Depressing and Brutally Violent, But it does have its moments of being effective, and the violence is not Over the top in gore, its nasty and disgusting, I would say its on the level of TAXI DRIVER's violence, For general film goers I would probably say Skip this film but for fans of revenge movies and exploitation films I would suggest checking out this fairly controversial flick. "}{"Title":"Rambo, Travis Bickle and Paul Kersey all rolled into one is....the Exterminator!","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The plot.John (Bob Ginty) is just a working man who clicks and starts to wreck havoc on all the wrongdoers of New York. Christopher George plays detective Dalton who's about to stop this nutcase that calls himself The Exterminator.The film.Despite its strong points The Exterminator is very bland in places. Everything the dialog, writing, shooting, acting and editing varies from very good to very bad. It stands a step higher than the films of likes of say William Lustig who made films for Glickenhaus' production company. But it's obvious that the crew didn't get enough shots to cut the film together to make it look more presentable. At times the movie takes itself way too seriously.Advice.Starts out as a slow low budget movie, turns out to be a fast and mostly effective actioneer. Death Wish it is not, but certainly is worth your time. Watch out for Christopher George cooking his meal! "},{"Title":"...That n*gger was my best friend, you m*therf*cker...","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" James Glickenhaus certainly had a stone cold vision of what he wanted when he made this gritty film in the waning days of the Carter administration about a Vietnam vet who goes on a man hunt for the worst society has to offer. What immediately becomes evident when seeing The Exterminator is that the violence and subject matter are completely uncompromising; disturbingly realistic at times, over the top and sadistic at others. But the story is well written and mature and I have a hard time throwing the 'exploitation' label at this film like some others do; it is definitely a few steps ahead of some tongue in cheek Cannon Films fodder. At the core of the story is a true friendship between two Vietnam buddies; a bachelor named John Eastland, and a family man named Michael Jefferson (who is black, which adds an interesting social dynamic to this older film and has significance in a couple of scenes). The two are law abiding working class guys living in crime infested 1980's New York City. Once this solid premise is developed, the film more or less follows the typical vigilante- revenge formula, albeit in a really brutal, and at times, heart-breaking way. The thing that saves this movie from being just a Death Wish 1.5 is the inclusion of a parallel story about the upcoming 'elections' and the perceived soft-on-crime stance the current administration has promoted. The conservative views of the films writer-director really come into play with this subplot, as a couple of CIA operatives are intent on keeping a lid on any person that would show the ineffective nature of a more liberal justice system, especially just around election time.The Exterminator is clearly a prototype for the style of action movies that came to dominate during the Reagan administration, in it's decidedly conservative stance and it's excessive use of R violence, but the slower pacing and cinematography, and bleak outlook at modern society tie this film more to the 1970's style. The music is haunting and low key and really adds to the dark feel of the film. A good surprise ending keeps the story from becoming too predictable, but leaves a lot of loose ends, perhaps not a bad thing. But avoid the trashy and simplistic sequel which has nothing to do with James Glickenhaus or his style. "},{"Title":"Overrated, non-violent disappointment!","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  'The Exterminator' must be one of the most controversial American revenge movies of the 1980s but I truly wonder why it has gained such a reputation. Those who want to see a rough, violent action movie shouldn't bother to check out this one. Yes, many critics said it was violent and disgusting but if they deem this film violent, they obviously haven't seen many films.'The Exterminator' starts during the Vietnam war. John Eastland (Robert Ginty) is nearly killed by evil Viet Cong warriors but his life is saved by his army buddy Michael Jefferson (Steve James). This pre-title sequence also includes a graphic (though fake looking) decapitation and is the best and most effective part of the film. Putting the scenes with the best impact first is never a good idea, though, and the rest of the film can't live up to this opening.Anyway, the films picks up again some years later in New York. Michael gets beaten up and ends up paralyzed after he gets into trouble with some low-life punks. John swear revenge over his best friend and conducts a terrible revenge. He doesn't stop there, though; he also goes after mobsters, pimps, a gay phedofile etc.His ways of murder are often brutal. They consist of (Oops! BEWARE OF SPOILERS!) flame thrower, letting punks get eaten by rats and most notoriously a meat grinder. But those who hope for gore galore will be thoroughly disappointed as this films is not nearly as blood soaked as it is reputed to be. The killings are often just suggestive; we usually just see the wall while the victim screams in pain. So with most of the killings occurring off screen, this movie has little to recommend it by. It's just an average exploitation film, with the exception that it's not really very exploitative.Relatively good cast, though. Robert Ginty gives an intense and believable performance and so does Christopher George as the cop on his trail. Steve James' part as the Nam buddy who dies is all too brief but good. At last there's Samantha Eggar as Christopher George's doctor-girlfriend. Eggar also gives a strong performance but her character serves no purpose in the plot what so ever. She is completely wasted and seem to be in the film only to fill up the time.I guess, 'The Exterminator' is OK but it remains a big disappointment none the less. 4 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining little vigilante action flick","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film starts out with a bang... literally. We see a huge explosion. Then one more. And another one. And yet another one... and this goes on for a while; I don't know exactly how many explosions there are, just in the first two minutes, but the movie wastes no time, that's for sure. Then there are a few sequences of Vietnam, and soon thereafter, the real plot begins. As it did, I couldn't help but wonder how many action films have an Vietnam vet(short for veteran... obviously, as I doubt that there were many animals, and thereby veterinarians, in the Vietnam war) as the hero, especially in the time right after the war ended. This is exceptionally violent, and the violence is almost disgustingly gratuitous. However, it's mostly also so over-the-top that it almost winds up having a comical effect. Regardless, no one who thinks they might be freaked out by the violence should see it. The plot is decent. A Vietnam vet snaps and starts killing a bunch of criminals systematically after his friend is attacked. He kills a very large amount of various criminals, half of them not having anything to do with his friend at all. I enjoyed the vigilante theme, and found it far more interesting than the usual Hollywood pretty-boy out to save the world from a terrorist from some country the American director can barely even pronounce. The acting is ridiculously bad. Only one actor, the one portraying the main character, can be said to give a decent performance... and even that's a stretch. The humor is decent. The action is pretty good, but the daft filming and editing manages to make several of the sequences seem dull. The cinematography and editing is unimaginative. The dialog is the typical 80's one-liner crap half of the time, and the rest of the dialog is either filler or something hinting at a point or a moral that never seems to appear. Overall, a decent 80's action exploitation flick. I recommend it to fans of 80's action films, but be warned that's it very violent. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Looks to me like all the budget was used up in the pre-title sequence...","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE EXTERMINATOR was another of those movies that had a cult following in early eighties video-fixated Britain, simply because it was a lot more bad-ass and gratuitously violent than anything you could (legally) see in the cinemas around that time. It had an attention-grabbing cover shot of the leather-clad, cycle-helmet-wearing lead character brandishing a flame-thrower, and it looked a lot more tempting than the battered old copy of STRAW DOGS which sat next to it on the shelf. But don't be fooled by the legend or the myths, this film is truly rank. After an attention-grabbing opening sequence set in the swampy hell-pits of Vietnam complete with be-headings (none too realistic, but be-headings all the same), explosions, dramatic helicopter rescue stunts, none-more-evil villains and gunfights, THE EXTERMINATOR shifts gear into...what? It's not exactly clear at first. There's a soft, folkish, John Denver-style song on the soundtrack, which momentarily made me think that David Hess (LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT) was somehow involved, and aerial shots of New York City by night. It's like DEATH WISH, only cheap-looking. Then the 'plot' kicks in. Our hero (Robert Ginty, a terrible actor who always looks dyspeptic) and his war buddy have got steady jobs loading and unloading grocery deliveries from trucks, and the boss is being leant on by some underworld goons. But that's the least of his worries - we're barely out of the title sequence and the drug-addled gangland thugs are on the loose already, picking a fight with Ginty and his family-man friend who is held down and paralysed a couple of scenes later for having the nerve to fight back. By now, you've probably gathered that this is strong stuff, and it just gets nastier. And more ridiculous.When the paralysed victim is lying comatose in a hospital bed, who informs his wife? The police? The doctors? No - Ginty himself. And the exposition scene is horribly flubbed - why did the director insert stock footage of inner-city slums halfway through Ginty's stone-faced explanation of his friend's fate? It adds NOTHING to the scene. My guess is that there was some trouble with the film stock (or another rogue microphone dropped into shot - this happens a few times) and a substitute shot had to be found in a hurry, so a quick raid on the archives was necessary. Now it's time for Ginty to bring down the street scum. Yes, it's DEATH WISH meets TAXI DRIVER, on the budget of an 8mm porno loop. But what this film lacks in originality (or indeed subtlety) it makes up for in terms of sheer nastiness. So we get graphic scenes of women having their breasts scarred with hot irons, fat blubberheaps raping tethered teenage boys, thugs being eaten alive by rats, Mafia hoods being ground up in industrial mincers...on and on it goes. It's like watching an open sewer disgorging human waste for the best part of two hours. To add insult to injury, it's technically poor, there are NO good performances, the direction is sluggish and if you make it to the finale, there's another horrible folkish song to sit through...which has squat to do with the repugnant dreck that preceded it. Cut or uncut, THE EXTERMINATOR is like being trapped without respite in the brain of a very sick individual, and you'll feel like a long shower to wash off the filth when it's done. "},{"Title":"Avoid if you can","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is bad. And not the good kind of bad. It tries to be really cool, but it can't deliver at all.The director seemingly knew nothing about composition. The revealing shots and cuts are ridiculous to watch. There is also no character ark. The guy starts out as the Exterminator right away. All it takes is his friend getting attacked and he's like Yep, this city just turned into Vietnam. Prepare yourselves, bitches. The dialogue is bad, the only exception being when the Exterminator talks to his friend at the hospital.The cast consists mostly of people who seem to have had their first and last attempt at acting in this movie. I loved the scene where the detective is talking to the doctor on the phone and they kept his takes even though he had clearly slurred his lines.Things I learned from this movie decapitation is easy as butter, as man, uniquely among mammals, has no cervical spine; the authorities will first contact a male victim of violence's best work friend before informing his wife; also, euthanasia is not a big deal, it's more similar in gravity to a spontaneous coffee date. "},{"Title":"How grim New York used to be","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a vigilante film about New York, part of a trend that was started by Death Wish in 1974. Basically the plot concerns a warehouse worker in New York who served in Vietnam named John Eastland whose best friend and fellow Vietnam veteran is paralysed by a gang of thugs when he disturbs them breaking into a warehouse. Swearing revenge, Eastland wipes out the gang members that paralysed his friend, then decides to take on a gangster who is extorting money from the warehouse( he is killed horrifically by being dropped into a meat mincer) and a child abuse gang that involves a senator and then wiping out a group of violent muggers who are part of the same gang that paralysed Eastland's best friend. While a bit cheaply made and unsettling in places, The Exterminator shows what a dirty, dangerous place New York was 35 years ago. Unlike now, where Times Square is a lively and safe pedestrianised square, in 1980 it was full of pimps, prostitutes and drug dealers and one scene shows Eastland in a squalid hotel used by prostitutes asking a prostitute who has been tortured by the child abuse gang for more information. Also Eastland's neighbourhood is full of semi derelict and dangerous tenement blocks that are often rat infested, the rats coming in useful when Eastland ties two members of the Ghetto Ghouls gang up and lets the rats attack them.Unlike now, and something the film alludes to constantly, NYC is adirty and crime ridden city and run by a corrupt and aloof city government which believes The Exterminator, as Eastland now styles himself, is a plot by their political opponents to bring them down. In the final part of a film, the mayor and the CIA decide to try and wipe out The Exterminator, but he manages to escape being shot and swims away to freedom from an abandoned ship where he has arranged a rendezvous with the detective that is investigating him.I quite like The Exterminator, even if many critics savaged it for being too violent, and think it was very much of its time when New York was a frightening place to live and the police and city government were ineffective and corrupt. "},{"Title":"One hell of a nasty decapitation.","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After his friend & co-worker Michael Jefferson is brutally beaten after foiling a group of thugs from stealing cans of beer, former Vietnam Vet & warehouse worker John Eastland blows a mental fuse & hunts down the thugs responsible & shoots them dead in their own clubhouse. Arming himself with an assortment of weapons, Eastland decides to become a vigilante in order to confiscate any money from criminals & writes a letter to a news station under the name The Exterminator. As his activities become more pronounced & violent, the police & an agent from the CIA (who is convinced that Eastland could be a foreign agent) join forces to hunt him down.In the late 1970s & early 1980s, genre cinema was becoming a major player in the controversy stakes by featuring ultra-violent tales of exploitation (mainly from the Italians with their uber-gory zombie & cannibal films) that made cult names of makeup & visual effects artists like Tom Savini. The Exterminator, a cult thriller from 1980, was banned in many countries & heavily cut in others due to its gore quotient, which was pushing boundaries at the time. It also made the name of actor Robert Ginty, who was turned into a minor B-grade action hero with this & its sequel Exterminator 2 & the sci-fi actioner PROGRAMMED TO KILL about a female cyborg assassin.The Exterminator was a minor player in the gore cinema of the time but was mainly a pedestrian cardboard thriller with some notorious scenes of gore that made its name & gave it a cult reputation. Watching this film a good thirty-five years after its release, I wasn't particularly impressed with the film's story & visuals &#x96; it only gained a cult name due to its gore which was somewhat disappointingly tame even at the time's standards. The best the film has to offer is a surprisingly nasty & realistic decapitation during the Vietnam War scene (The Exterminator was one of the very first films to depict the Vietnam War & the psychological effects it had on the people fighting in it), which was achieved with an animatronic head & the scene where Robert Ginty feeds a mafia head into an industrial meat grinder (which is more impactful by implication than actual depiction). There are also scenes where Ginty shoots a paedophile politician in the groin with mercury-laced exploding bullets & ties a pimp to a mattress & sets him on fire.Aside from the gore, The Exterminator is surprisingly pedestrian & slow going. Ginty fails to show any of the burning revenge that his character is supposed to have. What's more is that he only goes on his killing spree because he wants to prove himself by killing criminals in order to avenge his own failure to prevent his own capture during Vietnam & being mugged in the beer shed. The biggest problem is also in the ending, which builds itself up into becoming a climactic shootout but drops it suddenly & abruptly with Christopher George's cop & Ginty's hero being sniped at by a CIA sniper, Ginty surviving because of his flak vest. "},{"Title":"Jesus, looks like he got hit with napalm.","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Eastland (Robert Ginty) sets out to avenge the death of a buddy at the hands of a gang of street thugs.If you can't tell by rating, I'll spell it out - I'm not much of a fan of The Exterminator. Let me start by saying that I don't have anything against low-budget or violent films. If you look through some of the other reviews I've written you'll see plenty of glowing comments for movies with lower budgets than this one. You'll also see that I've got a lot of positive things to say about a number of very violent films. But it doesn't work here. The problems1. No plot - I gave the movie a one sentence plot summary at the start of this, and that's probably more than The Exterminator deserves. Instead of a coherent plot, it's one of those movies with a series of set-pieces randomly thrown together. There's no flow to the film and definitely no logic. Things happen more for shock value than to move the story along.2. Acting - I realize this is a personal preference, but I'm not a fan of Robert Ginty's style of acting. I know he has fans, but to me, he's just doesn't fit the part he's asked to play here. He doesn't look like a killer - he looks more like a car salesman. One small example is the scene where he's prepping bullets. Look at his hands. Those aren't the hands of a killer. Those hands haven't done the things John Easland has done. He's the wrong guy for the part.3. The love story - I was really annoyed by the love story subplot with Christopher George and Samantha Eggar. I didn't necessarily have a problem with them as actors, but their screen time together was stomach churning. A midnight picnic in Central Park, love- making in a empty hospital room - ridiculous.I really wanted to like this movie. As I said, low-budget violence is okay with me. But I had way too many problems to rate this higher than a 3/10. "},{"Title":"Oh yeah!","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A vigilante is walking the streets of New York, dispatching villains using various methods. Can cop Christopher George find the exterminator? Well, only if he can stop romancing that doctor for five minutes, which he doesn't. This gritty, violent slice of eighties goodness is well worth tracking down. I remember the posters from back when I was a kid. Where else can you see a mobster getting fed into an industrial mincer, a nonce getting covered in petrol and torched, and a truly jaw dropping decapitation?It helps greatly that Mr movie gold, Christopher George (from Grizzly, City of the Living Dead, Pieces and Enter the Ninja) and Robert Ginty (from Whitefire and Codename Vengeance) are both excellent here, and both sadly no longer with us either. Sigh. "}{"Title":"James Glickenhaus' grim vengeance action-movie, earlier banned in Norway.","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Exterminator is an Action-movie, directed by James Glickenhaus, 1980.Basic plot John Eastland (Robert Ginty) and Michael Jefferson (Steve James) are two friends who are coming home to New York from the gruesome Vietnam war. Sadly, a few years later, the dark colored Michael gets brutally attacked by a ruthless gang of thugs, and gets paralyzed for the rest of his life. When Eastland gets to hear about this, he sets out to kill many of the thugs, and later on every criminals he meets. On the other side, detective Dalton (Christopher George) is assigned to the case, and will do anything to stop the exterminator.This film is very brutal, even for a action-flick that deals with vengeance. Whenever scenes of violence occur on screen, they mostly end with a grim result. Some of the notable scenes that must be mentioned here include the realistic beheading scene during the opening Vietnam war, and the scene in which Eastland sends a man into a meat grinder.I really love how Eastland quotes his catchphrase if you're lying, I'll be back, while threatening a tied up thug with a flamethrower. For some reasons, I also find Mr. George's appearance as the detective to be great.Not only did this film suffer various censorship while being released around the world, this film was banned from being shown in Norwegian cinemas. It was later released on VHS by the now defunct NOVIO A/S, only to become the very first video movie to get banned in 1984 in relation to the heated topic being video violence. Since early 2000s, this film is now completely legal in it's uncut version, hence the fact I have a Norwegian DVD copy containing this version.Do you like action-movies that deal with vengeance, this film is truly a must-see. Actually, I don't hesitate to call this film one of the greatest vengeance movies I've seen in several decades, and therefore I give this film an overall rating of 10/10. A similar movie to be highly recommended is the 1974-movie Death Wish with Charles Bronson.The other three movies from James Glickenhaus I've seen include The Soldier (1982), Blue Jean Cop (1988) and McBain (1991). "},{"Title":"Exterminate, Exterminate!","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" How wonderfully tacky and exploitive, The Exterminator rides in on the coat tails of films like Death Wish and has a bloody good time doing so. Plot sees Vietnam veteran John Eastland (Robert Ginty) embark on a crusade of vigilantism when his best buddy is left paralysed by scumbags.Pic is relentlessly bleak, as Eastland goes about his business, offing serious low-life's in a number of gruesome ways, director and writer James Glickenhaus revels in saying that all around us is a rotten apple. Of course vigilantism is wrong, but Glickenhaus makes it virtually impossible to not be on The Exterminator's side, such is the vile stench that circles the seamy underbelly of the city.Trying to stop The Exterminator is world weary Detective James Dalton (Christopher George), well when he is not having sex with Samantha Eggar in the local hospital that is! He's a great character is Dalton, stoic and scuzzy, a throwback to the halcyon days of film noir gumshoes. And of course, he will be tinted with a conflict of interest.The pace sometimes plods, but this is off set by the action that is guaranteed to arrive in the next passage of play, and the kills, graphic for the time, are not without grotesque ingenuity. Eggar is pretty much a token offering and really serves no purpose other than to give Jimmy some sugar, while some of the editing and photography leaves quite a bit to be desired.Cheap independent problems be damned though! The Exterminator is in your face, it shows it all and doesn't cut corners or soft soap its theme. It be a splendid slice of Grindhouse Grue for those with a kink for such glorious excess. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Street justice","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This filmed caused a stir when released in the cinemas back in 1980. A raw vigilante film, a more hard edged Death Wish.It starts out in Vietnam with high production values with explosions and a bizarre decapitation scene. Then we go to late 70s/early 80s New York City, where gangsters and muggers are in every corner, it was a surprise The Warriors did not make a guest appearance.Robery Ginty playing the mild mannered Eastland who turns to vengeance when his black army buddy gets attacked by a gang is a world away from John Rambo and Charles Bronson looking more like an ordinary Joe with his heart in the right place.We have scenes where he injures, kills and maim the bad guy in all sort of nasty ways including a gangster getting a giant meat grinder treatment.In the middle of all this is a cop on his trail if only he was not too busy romancing a local doctor. For some strange reason the CIA also turn up.NYC is a mean, seedy place. As well as cut throat gangs we have nasty politicians sodomising and torturing kids, prostitutes, it was a wonder that tourists were turning up in droves.Its a low budget exploitation picture but although it might have had a reputation of being a video nasty three decades ago, its rather tame and comic book. It has rather decent product values and good acting from the main leads. I wonder if the cop and doctor get married! "},{"Title":"Best Watched On Grainy VHS","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Exterminator is a borderline video nasty from the 80s heyday of the genre.Cheap looking in parts though overall shot with a higher budget than usual for this type of fare-I have to admit I was kinda rooting for Ginty's trigger happy anti-hero.Unfortunately he is given little in terms of character development but shows a good way with a one liner and handles the few sensitive moments well(surely he deserved better than ending his career on Baywatch Nights!).But it's the graphic violence that is the film's selling point-sometimes nasty other times a bit laughable.Villains are straight from central casting though manage to be unpleasant nonetheless.Movie takes an unexpected dark turn with a sequence involving a vice den-which will leave you feeling like you need a shower.I enjoyed it-with reservations.The makers of the Jason Bourne trilogy were certainly paying attention to the ending-I'l say no more than that! "},{"Title":"The Exterminator simply rocks and is a must-see.","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Best friends John Eastland (Ginty) and Michael Jefferson (James) survived the horrors of the Vietnam war together. Michael even saved John's life. After the war, both men work at a packing plant in New York City's South Bronx. One day, Michael is assaulted and put in the hospital by a gang called The Ghetto Ghouls. Eastland then begins his quest for revenge in the seediest parts of the city - and in his attempt to clean up the streets he becomes vigilante hero The Exterminator. Everyone from street punks to child molesters to upper-class mobsters become the target of The Exterminator's retribution. He becomes so effective, he attracts the attention of Detective James Dalton (George), a man who wants to find and stop him. Even the CIA is interested in stopping Eastland. Will they catch him - or will Eastland live to flamethrow another day? Yes! We here at Comeuppance Reviews HQ LOVE The Exterminator. As you can tell from the name of our site, we have a special fondness for revenge movies, and they don't come much better than this. Movies of this type, from this place and time have a special fascination, and The Exterminator does not disappoint one iota. Everything from its killer opening set in Vietnam all the way through to the end, this movie delivers the goods in spades.James Glickenhaus is a quality filmmaker, and we're fans of his work. We also recommend The Soldier (1982) and Shakedown (1988), but this is the money movie. There's more sensitivity and intelligence behind The Exterminator than most people give it credit for. There are subtle comments about Vietnam vets and their treatment once they came home, and the shoddy Jimmy Carter presidency if you care to look for them. Plotwise there is plenty of subtext and parallels - all of which add to the texture and interest of this fine film. It's rare that a movie can entertain and please an audience on an intellectual and a visceral level. But The Exterminator achieves this rare feat. While the movie does have elements from Taxi Driver (1976) and Death Wish (1974), Glickenhaus brings this style into the gritty 80's, with fantastic results. According to the DVD commentary, he shuts down critics that wrote off this movie as a Death Wish knockoff by saying he didn't see Death Wish before filming. Glickenhaus has plenty of other interesting comments, such as when he says that Joseph Bottoms, brother of Timothy, almost played Eastland, or when he says he imagines First Blood (1982) as the ideal continuation of the Eastland story, not so much Exterminator 2 (1984).Speaking of the DVD, Synapse knocks it out of the park with its excellent DVD/Blu-Ray combo pack. While I'd seen the film before on VHS, it was like I was watching it for the first time here. It looks amazing and you have to go on Amazon and buy this right now.Being fans of stunts and stuntmen, we appreciated how in the end credits, it showed specifically which stuntman did what stunt. You don't see that very often. As for the more recognizable stars, it's great to see two fan favorites, Robert Ginty and Steve James together. They have great chemistry and really seem like friends. The Christopher George-Samantha Eggar plot is interesting because it slyly implies that Dalton is not exactly rushing to stop Eastland, he's doing it rather leisurely because he secretly approves of what he's doing, but he has to keep up appearances. There's actually a lot of sly moments, such as the use of the song Disco Inferno by the Trammps, among others. Anyone who watches Law & Order will recognize Dennis Boutsikaris and Ned Eisenberg who often play lawyers, as well as David Lipman, who often plays a judge on the show.In the 42nd street scenes you can see the famous Lyric theater, where Glickenhaus says The Exterminator played to sold-out houses for 24 hours at a stretch. The Lyric is also featured in Shakedown, where the movie marquee is showing The Soldier, and The Exterminator. So Glickenhaus has some history there. We love seeing 42nd street and the movie marquees of the time, and you can see theaters playing Beyond The Door, Cauldron Of Death, and the O.J. Simpson vehicle Firepower. It truly was a time when O.J. Simpson was simply a athlete/actor, and the World Trade Center was still standing in all its glory. There's a gigantic nostalgia factor at work here, and it just shows we need The Exterminator now more than ever.The Exterminator simply rocks and is a must-see. Go Eastland! "},{"Title":"If you're lying, I'll be back.","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Writer / director James Glickenhaus's The Exterminator is fine exploitation entertainment, albeit on a purely visceral level. It doesn't exactly have the most coherent story, but the Death Wish style premise is easy enough to understand. Where it truly succeeds is in creating some memorably vicious and amazingly trashy moments. As a snapshot of the very seedy side of NYC at the time, it's aces. Some viewers will appreciate the combination of action, stunts, and sleaze; there's always another nasty surprise around the corner.Robert Ginty has the title role (otherwise known as John Eastland), a Vietnam veteran whose life is saved more than once by good friend Michael Jefferson (the charismatic Steve James, in a part you wish was bigger). Michael, unfortunately, is targeted by degenerate street punks back in NYC; he is mugged and paralyzed. John, knowing he owes his friend, tracks the punks down and gives them what they deserve. But he doesn't stop there. Incensed at the various kinds of crime in The City, he becomes a flamethrower wielding vigilante, soon pursued by amiable detective James Dalton (Christopher George).The entertainment value here, of course, lies in that vicarious pleasure we so often experience watching somebody, whether fictional or real, fight back against the criminal scum that try to make our lives miserable. Whether we're dealing with the punks, a loathsome chicken pimp (a creep who specializes in procuring boys for perverts, played by Tony Di Benedetto), or big shot mobsters such as Gino Pontivini (Dick Boccelli), the bad guys are so bad you wait eagerly to see them punished. The wildest scene has a guy fed into a meat grinder, although people also get set on fire and shot in the crotch with poisoned bullets. These moments are what make this such a trashy fun experience, although it does waste some time giving the detective character a love interest, a doctor played by Samantha Eggar. One good thing is that the movie literally begins with a bang, giving us a nightmarish Vietnam sequence that features what is one of the best cinematic decapitations of all time, thanks to Tom Burman and Stan Winston.George as always has an engaging presence, and Eggar is endearing as his new lady friend. Ginty does what he has to do well enough; buffs will note the presence of a number of character faces - David Lipman, Dennis Boutsikaris, George Cheung, Ned Eisenberg, Irwin Keyes, Lou David, Tom Everett - among the cast. Apparently Samuel L. Jackson was also an extra somewhere in here!Amazing aerial shots of NYC, excellent music by Joe Renzetti, and some poignant songs over the opening and ending credits also help.If you love other urban B pictures from this period (William Lustigs' Vigilante is another good one), then this one is pretty much mandatory viewing.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"No funny business here.","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A cold, cruel and cynical tale of revenge and vigilantism from writer/director James Glickenhaus. John Eastland (Robert Ginty) becomes judge and executioner after his army friend is gravely wounded by thugs. The uncut DVD version from Anchor Bay also stars Christopher George, Dennis Boutsikaris and Samantha Eggar. Yes, that's sax man Stan Getz making an appearance at a concert in Battery Park.I saw The Exterminator in the theater when it was first released in 1980 and, at age 22, it was the only movie that ever made me feel physically ill. Ginty's encounter with the chicken pimp and the state senator is as grim as any execution scene put on film even though it is not the most graphic. Director Glickenhaus skillfully creates a raw and realistic rage with documentary-style camera work and lighting as Ginty methodically and brutally dispenses his brand of justice.The graphic pre-credit Vietnam sequence was filmed at Indian Dunes Park; the same location as the tragic scene from Twilight Zone where Vic Morrow and two children were killed. "},{"Title":"Taking care of business","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** The Exterminator tries to be another Death Wish but just can't cut it in that it's star Robert Ginty as Vitnam War vet John Esatman is so unemotional and zombie like in his actions in cleaning up the city of New York of crime that he comes across as no better then the criminals that he dispatches in the film. Eastman is given the chance to show off his killing skills when his best friend and war buddy Michael Jefferson, Steve James, is brutally attacked and left paralyzed for life by this gang of lowlifes the Ghetto Ghouls whom Jefferson save Eastman from being worked over,after catching them stealing, at the beer storage plant where the two worked at.Tracking the ghouls down to their ghetto clubhouse Eastman exacts revenge on them by blasting one of the gang members away and tying the other one down in the garbage strewn basement where the rats ended up feasting on him. You would think that by then in avenging his friend Michael Jefferson being paralyzed Eastmen would have gone back to his job and back with his life. Instead the guy goes completely loco taking on all the criminals in the city single handedly without even the help of the NYPD. Among Eastman's victims is mob boss Gino Pontivini, Dick Bocceili, who was shaking down the workers at the food plant or wear-house that he and Jefferson worked at. Despite dropping a tied up and helpless Gino after he tried to double cross Eastman, in not telling him that his pet Doberman pincher is guarding his home in Jersey, into a heavy duty meat grinder we later see Gino in the hospital alive and totally intact looking like Boris Karloff did in the film The Mummy.Later trying to be Robert De Niro in Taxi Driver Eastman tried to save a hooker Candy, Cindy Wilkes,from her life of sin on the streets by taking on her pimp Tony Di Beneditto who also doubles as a dealer in the under-aged male sex or chicken trade. Knocking Di Beneditto out and trying the pimp up Eastman douse him with lighter fluid and sets him on fire. Eastman later blast one of the pimp's customers a New Jersey state Senator, David Lipman, away with a mercury tipped bullet hitting him where it hurts the most in order to do the utmost damage. That's after he pops out of his room, where he was busy raping and abusing a young boy, to see what was happening!Things got so out of hand that even the CIA in the person of CIA Agent Patrick Farrely stepped in to stop Eastman's one man war on crime and demanded that the local police lead by Det. James Dalton, Chris George, give them a hand. This, the year 1980, was an election year and with Eastman showing up the US Justice Department in him not it stopping crime it would jeopardizes the current Prsident's, President Jimmy Carter, chances of getting re-elected! I almost for a moment in watching the movie thought that it was a hour and a half long campaign commercial for Republican Candidate for President Ronald Wilson Reagan who indeed ended up winning the 1980 Presidential Election!***SPOILERS*** We do get to see in that end of the film that John Eastman's job of cleaning up the city was anything but over with him living another day to star in The Exterminator II. It's there where he was to pick up, in making the city of New York safe for decent people to live and work in, where he left off in The Extermanitor I. But this time around with a much more advanced and state of the art array of fire power for him to do the job with! "},{"Title":"revenge cult flick","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those flicks that always has been classified under horror but it's rather a revenge flick. But it is really a must see for so many reasons. First of all, it contains a few major names of the genre, sadly both passed away, Christopher George (1983) and Robert Ginty (2009). You will recognise those faces immediately. Also worth noticing is Samantha Eggar from The Brood (1979). On the other hand the director, James Glickenhaus, isn't that well known but do has some flicks he produced like Frankenhooker, Maniac Cop and Basket Case. So he surely knew his stuff and it shows. Still it's low budget and that shows too. On part of the knowing his stuff it do shows on the way the gore is added. On the way of low budget it shows on the part of a boom mic is visible in a shot or the worst thing for me and also a major mistake by the editor is that in the Doberman sequence we can easily see a crew member or the trainer of the dog standing in the doorway releasing the dog. But it's really a classic this flick and that's so strange because it was made at a time slashers were the big thing and revenge flicks like Death Wish (1974) and Dirty Harry (1971) were passé. Still, another revenge classic was on his way, MS 45 (1981).But what really made this flick a cult classic is the brutality. It starts of at the Vietnam war when the 'exterminator' is captured by the VC. Only in that part a few gory shots are shown as a beheading by a machete and the slicing of one's throat. It's all shown in-camera. But for me the way the camera was used did add something toward this flick. Not done is the fact that they speak into the camera. That was done in the beginning of filming for example in slapsticks but here it do works, when one of the mob is hanging above a mince grinder he screams into the camera. Or when the black guy is being mobbed the camera uses zoomed in wide angle shots which also gives a weird feeling, and in the action they used slo-mo editing. It's also one to see just to see how 42nd looked at those days. I have written it before, I have visited 42nd in his heydays and it really looked like it's being shot here. You were really stopped by hookers and people asking to attend grindhouses or nude shows.Naturally coming out just at the start of the eighties it's slow to the norms of nowadays. It do start gory but after the opening credits it's a slow builder until the scene John Eastland takes a hooker into a room and sees how she's been treated by a costumer. From then on he becomes berserk. The acting was all believable. And watch the scene at the paedophile place, David Lipman plays the State Senator, he's also in Frankenhooker as a visitor of a hooker and is seen in True Grit (2010) as first lawyer. Not only it contains gore it even contains a bit of female nudity. I won't say that it is a horror for me it's an exploitation flick. It's released nowadays on the magnificent Arrow video label on Blu Ray full uncut (104 minutes) and on the extra's Frank Henenlotter takes us to 42nd nowadays to see how things changed, and I admit, they have changed. I've seen the sleaze but I have also seen 42nd at the end of the nineties, totally cleaned. And just watch the end credits with the beautiful shots of New York. Really a must have.Gore 1,5/5 Nudity 0,5/5 Effects 3/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Exterminating Vermin in the Big City After Vietnam","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is another of those warnings about messing with Vietnam vets - they'll put you down like the mad dog you are - but it's really another in a long line of vigilante killer movies following in the wake of Death Wish from '74. This one seems to lack a focus it starts out as standard revenge when a vet's buddy is brutally attacked and crippled by a street gang in N.Y.City; the gang gets theirs, but then the vet (Ginty) goes after a mob boss for money, to help his friend's family and, soon after, some sex perverts are targeted, after the vet encounters a scarred prostitute. This one is all over the place, offering a catharsis for common citizens upset over all the ills plaguing big cities. But it also lacks a smooth narrative, jumping from one scene to the next without the usual background required for things to make sense. The vet just seems to become very serious about vigilante justice all of a sudden, for no apparent reason, as if there are a couple of missing scenes.Top-billed Chris George is the detective on the case, while Eggar is a nurse he meets and dates at the halfway point. Their subplot doesn't really go anywhere, appearing truncated. Ginty does not strike one as right for the vigilante role, looking more at home as an assistant to a businessman, for example. But, then again, not all Vietnam vets can be expected to look like Rambo; some are average-looking guys, after all. The killings take on a very grisly tone - if you're into meat-hooks jabbing into flesh or human scum getting burned alive, then this one's for you. It's all the more disturbing because the movie begins in Vietnam, showing a particularly horrific execution, and the sense is that this violence follows Ginty's character all the way back home - there's little difference. But it comes across as sheer, unimaginative exploitation. The more interesting part for me was the scene of the vet applying his knowledge, working on some specialized bullets to facilitate his plans. Check out Rolling Thunder from the seventies for a better take on upset Vietnam vets. "}{"Title":"Classic exploitation movie","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film has everything you could want in a classic 80's exploitation film. it is based around the Death wish model of a lone vigilante cleaning up the mean urban streets single handed for no particular reason. as one commenter pointed out the editing and general production of this film is not particularly good but for me this is what makes it so great. one brilliant bit is when he pulls a black suitcase out from under his bed and inside is a special weapons cache he bought back from 'nam. later in the film the policeman investigating him (also a veteran) pulls out the same suitcase with a slightly different array of weapons. its like you get it as a gift when you leave the forces. brilliant! the whole plot of the film is fairly confusing and the end doesn't help but all in all this is a classic piece of 80's action, a must for any fan of the genre. "},{"Title":"Boring Death Wish rip -off","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is not an action film, for instance when i bought this i was expecting a good vigilante actioner in the mold of Death Wish, however what i got was geeky hero - John Eastland as played by Robert Ginty and little else. Even the front cover makes you think that its going to be full of action as it shows 'the Exterminator' posing with a flamethrower and a motorcycle helmet, well the catch is, he only uses the flame thrower to torter some gang member and he is never seen wearing a motorcycle helmet.The story for what its worth is a typical cliché ridden affair about the time honerd action of revenge. Basicually Eastland's friend Michael Jefferson who saved his life during the Vietnam war is brutally murded by a New York gang known as the 'Ghetto Gauls' so Eastland decides to take revenge. Only he doesn't.This movie is tediously slow at times and Eastlund only kills like 7 people and a dog. It is also very sick and tasteless as a mafia Don gets churned up by a meat mincer so it often strays more into the Horror genre. This is definitely one to miss. "},{"Title":"Violent vigilante vendetta","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Small wonder that Robert Ginty, star of the 1980 exploitation film 'The Exterminator' and also 1982(?) horror opus 'The Alchemist' has pretty much dropped off the radar. He is a rather bland, unconvincing actor, as his weak performance as John Eastland in 'The Exterminator' indicates. Let's face it; the guy has nothing on Bronson (R.I.P.).Designed to cash in on the success of the similarly-themed 'Death Wish', 'The Exterminator' commences with one of the most thrilling opening shots ever, thrusting the viewer right into the heart of the action - in this case, the Vietnam conflict. We are introduced to the character of John Eastland (Robert Ginty) and his negro buddy and fellow soldier Michael Jefferson (Steve James). Eastland is saved from a violent death at the hands of the Vietcong by Jefferson, and the two flee the carnage with some other soldiers in a chopper.The action then moves to New York, where Eastland and Jefferson are working together handling deliveries of various merchandise. When a group of thugs attempt to steal several crates of beer from a storeroom at Eastland's and Jefferson's workplace, the latter two leap into action and foil the theft with some fancy fistwork. But the thugs enact a chilling revenge they trail Jefferson in their car and, once they have him alone, trounce him severely, breaking his neck in the process. At his hospital bedside, Eastman promises Jefferson that he will avenge his buddy. Thus, the Exterminator is born.'The Exterminator' is a real guilty pleasure, and it is great to see Christopher George as Detective James Dalton. I believe he starred in Lucio Fulci's 'City of the Living Dead' the same year. I have been searching for 'Exterminator' and its sequel for about fifteen years, and it was great to finally locate the first movie on DVD. A big shout-out to Paramount for releasing it.This film has some pretty violent moments; in one scene Eastman sets a pervert on fire and, in the scene which follows, we see his smouldering remains (early special effects makeup from both Tom Burman and Stan Winston). In another sequence, a man is lowered into an industrial-sized meatgrinder. Nasty.I must say, I did like the ending, especially the song which plays as the end credits roll - 'Theme For An American Hero', written and sung by Chip Taylor. During the course of his investigation into the man the press have nicknamed 'the Exterminator', Dalton embarks upon a romance with Doctor Megan Stewart (Samantha Eggar) - one of Stewart's patients is the now-paralysed Jefferson. But this romance does nothing to advance the plot and seems to exist solely to pad out the running time. Do check this flick out if vigilante revenge thrillers are your bag; it passes the time quite agreeably. Ready for the sequel's DVD release now, Paramount! "},{"Title":"Leave this one on the shelf!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have been watching the unrated DVD version, which has a different ending to the cinema version, as it has been restored to a director's cut. The plot is fairly simple, 'Nam vet's friend is paralysed by vicious gang, 'Nam vet kills gang, finds he likes it, and becomes a vigilante, cop chases 'Nam vet. The film seems dated now, and the hero sports the kind of hair cut that would cause you to fall over laughing, rather than cringe with fear. There are some nasty images here a head is chopped off, people are tortured with a soldering iron dipped in vaseline (I don't know what the vaseline is for, but I thought it was odd) and there is an attack with a small rake that I've never seen on film before.Personally, I didn't enjoy it very much. I'm sure that I've seen it before, although the violence was toned down, and managed to forget it all except one scene (more later) that I have always remembered, but couldn't place.I couldn't really recommend this film, I watched it all, and wasn't impressed.Most memorable scene?This is the film where the detective cooks his hot dog by suspending it from two forks connected to his desk lamp- remember it now? "},{"Title":"Enjoyable trashy B-grade revenge flick","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" We have a winnahhhhhhhh!!!!!!!! Hahahahahahahaha!!!! I liked this movie.Christopher George is a hard-boiled cop and he's on the trail of The Exterminator--a vigilante Nam vet who tortures and maims his way to revenge. Guy's a little cracked.There is a ton of stuff to recommend this fine piece of brain candy including the filmed atrocity which is the first five minutes of this action epic. A guy is completely decapitated except for one little skin band with the faintest swipe of Charlie's machete. There's a big helicopter rescue and a bunch o' homeys go down, them's the lucky ones.There is one scene in this movie where a senator and the owner of a sodomy-teria/kid brothel hold a young hooker down and burn her boobies with a soldering iron. Later on, The Exterminator takes her under his wing Travis Bickle/Jodie Foster-style and goes apesh!t on some punk asses. He even puts one cat in a giant meat grinder.The Exterminator is a totally kickass cult crap-fest that is a lotta fun--8.5/10. Recommended as a double feature with Vice Squad or in a marathon with Savage Streets, Class of 1984, Repo Man, or any other great 80s cheese-pulp. "},{"Title":"A decent urban revenge movie...","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie at the drive-in back when it first came out and it seemed a lot more violent then than it does now (I bought a copy of it and watched it today). Of course, that was 1980 and things have changed. The film is violent and the Exterminator (Ginty) does do away with the bad guys in some innovative and gruesome ways but most of it is left to your imagination and is not shown on screen. One thing about this film is that the editing is terrible. The scenes don`t flow into each other but instead seem to jerk onto the screen and the ending is to abrupt as if they just decided it was time to end it.Still the film is effective as a revenge movie and is worth a watch if you are into that type of movie.   "},{"Title":"Vengeful violence in the Big Apple","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The film opens with its initial scenes set in Vietnam and an effective graphic decapitation scene of a soldier by the Vietcong. One of the soldiers, John Eastland, is saved and released from capture by his buddy. The film then shifts to New York City where Eastland's buddy is beaten up by a gang and paralysed and left for dead. Eastland then sets out on a crusade to avenge this and also to wipe out the scum of the city, including the company's boss where Eastland's buddy worked in a gruesome manner. There is lots of violence from then on as Eastland evades the lame cop on his trail and proceeds on his quest. It is a typical early eighties exploitation flick, but worth seeing for some notable grisly scenes. "},{"Title":"Not sure why critics are that good","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have to admit, Robert Ginty does an OK job at being a vigilante in this movie, the other characters are in the mid OKs either, and there are some pretty violent scenes that actually make the movie worth a watch.However, the movie makes no perfect sense; it patches scenes one after another without any specific reason, and none ever goes to deep in how it tries to make the spectator feel about the movie. I never felt anything for any of the actors in the Exterminator, and I thought that was a shame.Apart from a slow-but-fast overall rhythm in that movie, there are 2 things I loved and hated in that movie. I absolutely loved to see some smart stuff, such as Ginty modding his own bullets, or C. George cooking up a hot dog right out of a desk lamp I simply love when I can actually learn small but real stuff and how-to's simply by watching a movie. On the other hand, what really got me to go from a 7/10 (poor rhythm, rest is fine) to a 5/10, is the ending of the movie. I'm not going to spoil it here, but it just made no sense at all and leaves you guessing What, is that it?! Seriously???.5/10 for me, I wish Ginty played in something better. "},{"Title":"Dark and Vengeful","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Dark as a panther's kiss, this top notch killer thriller pops all the right tubes and leaves you dancing like Sullivan. There's something about a good vigilante film to get the old blood pumping and your mouth salivating. When I watched it as a youth, it made me want to track down Barry Bargeld, the school bully, and grip his coat collar. I spoke to Christopher George shortly after he'd completed work on this picture; he was tired and emotionally drained. He didn't have a very good relationship with the film's director, James Glickenhaus. Glickenhaus kept getting Christopher's name round the wrong way and kept calling him George! "},{"Title":"Pest control...","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Robert Ginty stars as an inexpressive Vietnam vet who comes back from the war after being saved from a beheading by a black guy (Played by American Ninja's Steve James) however when thugs cripple the black guy Ginty hits the streets in this terrible rip off of Death Wish. It's truly interesting that The Exterminator can go much farther than Death Wish in depicting its violence and repulsive acts to get us to take the vigilante's side and yet still lack the complete watch-ability and power that Death Wish had. The main problem is with it's rotten script which leaves no breathing room for the characters. We aren't watching a movie about people, just one dimensional figures who function due to the ridiculous script. The action sequences are also particularly embarrassing with Ginty easily dispatching goons without breaking a sweat. One such action sequence finds Ginty in a hotel room shooting unarmed goons. What is also truly fascinating is just how hard it tries to disturb the viewer. With a politician who disfigures a teen hooker and then later seen having sex with a male prostitute who then is shot in the balls right after our exterminator sets the pimp on fire for expressing interest in buying young boys. This will offend you if you're not used to exploitation, but I for one found The Exterminator too unconvincing to even for a split second get wrapped into the sleaziness that this film wallows in. It is all so ridiculously phony, with it's right wing politics delivered in the most laughable way. I think the main problem with The Exterminator is that the vigilante in question is hopelessly unlikable. He grinds a mobster into hamburger for no real reason and in Robert Ginty it becomes obvious that he's no Charles Bronson. More lame plot twists ensue such as the CIA wanting to take him out for no good reason and the movie pretty much ends on the same note as it started. Complete indifference. As exploitation goes, this one lacks the power of say a Last House On The Left or I Spit On Your Grave and certainly doesn't hold it's own against the Death Wish movies or 80's action flicks in general. So what The Exterminator ends up as, is a great title without a narrative. Really as I look back at my notes, nothing is credibly explained and subplots are never resolved and all the action is gratuitous to the plot. This is an awful movie that has a cult following. Cult following or not, The Exterminator still sucks big time.* out of 4-(Bad) "}{"Title":"Horrible piece of violence exploitation. Avoid like the plague.","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" *WARNING Possible spoilers. Although I recommend you don't watch it anyway.*Sometimes I really question my own decisions. Why did I waste £5.99 on this? I managed to return the DVD so I don't feel so bad about it now, but I haven't felt so p*ssed off in ages as I did after watching this piece of trash. I've seen a lot of bad movies in my time, but while I laughed at the likes of Skyscraper and Extreme Limits I actually felt physically ill after seeing this.The front cover of the DVD shows The Exterminator with a flamethrower, and on the back it said it was a video classic and had some awe inspiring car chase. All I really expected was an action movie. But this has no real action, the apparent car chase was virtually non existent and everything is handled in such a sloppy manner that it fails on all counts. It fails as an action flick as it's far too slow, and is far too stupid to pass as a crime drama.Let's start with the lead. Robert Ginty ranks beside Michael Dudikoff as one of the least effective action heroes I've ever seen. He only has one facial expression, one tone of voice and delivers all his lines so flatly and it doesn't help that at no point does he even look tough or menacing at all, which makes him rather hard to accept as a Vietnam vet. With the exception of Steve James, nobody looks the slightest bit interested in the material which hardly comes off as much of a surprise. Now Steve James would have made a far more interesting lead as he actually has genuine charisma, knows martial arts and above all has the looks of an action hero. All three of which Ginty completely lacks.All this could be forgiven if there was good action, right? Well it would be impossible for me to accept Robert Ginty as an action hero but even if we were to overlook that, the only action there is handled terribly. Ginty kills the gang who attacked Steve James very early on, and really that should be the movie over. But no, he needlessly decides to go around killing several criminals who were completely unrelated to this in the most gruesome of ways. He lowers a mobster into a meat grinder not because he felt like getting him off the streets, but for the money. Yes, the money. What sickened me so much about that was that the guy was completely helpless suspended over that meat grinder, but Ginty lowers him into it anyway. Some hero. And we knew very little about this character anyway so how were we meant to feel he deserved that? The plot is largely driven by coincidence and moves very slowly. By the halfway mark he has only killed a few people so if you're expecting a fast paced over the top bodycount actioner like the Death Wish sequels, think again. I could barely call this a vigilante flick at all.We are treated to some gruesome images of burnt corpses and a hooker with her breasts burnt. Also, at the start we are treated with a poorly done but gruesome all the same beheading which is included for no reason at all. Don't get me wrong, I'm not against violence in movies at all, but with a movie where everything is handled so incompetently and the only thing that makes it stand out is some needlessly gruesome graphic violence, I really do think that is wrong. Not to mention the lack of any suspense or tension the movie has. The action scenes that surround it are incredibly flat, usually missing key shots and mostly not accompanied by any musical score, they could hardly be less exciting. And the highlight car chase which was mentioned on the back of the box is short, and handled just as poorly as the rest of the action scenes. Basically, this is a cheap, derivative movie which relies on brutally gruesome graphic violence as an attempt to cover up a horribly wretched and poorly made movie. The only things I found remotely interesting were the somewhat novel way the cop cooks his hot dog and some nice aerial views of New York at the start and finish. When one of the best parts of the whole movie is at the closing credits, you know you're in trouble. Unless you want to punish yourself, then avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"Low budget vigilante movie","Date":"18 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Vietnam veteran John Eastwood takes to vigilante action against assorted bad people following his buddie being hospitalised.This film gives us nothing which we haven't been given elsewhere (most notably in Death Wish, but change daughter to buddie and nobody needs to mention the word plagiarism, do we?). What can I say? It is very violent, often very sadistically so, and it may well satisfy some viewers on that level. Personally, I found it unpleasant and not very well done, and it was not helped by the fact that Robert Ginty, playing protagonist Eastwood, is so chubby-cheeked and baby-faced that I simply couldn't take him seriously as the vicious cold-blooded vigilante he was playing. "},{"Title":"Hard To Follow - Harder To Watch","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The exterminator is not the worst film you will ever see in your lifetime, however it is not going to be one you will remember for any reason.The storyline is straight forward, a guy is furious and wanting revenge after his best friend is killed in New-York.Hell-Bent on revenge he turns it into a personal crusade to try and get revenge on anyone who can be held responsible for this.The action is unrealistic in places, with some very poor effects used in the fighting / action scenes.(The boom-mic being seen early on just shows poor producing efforts)even for a lad's night in, action film evening, you would give this one a miss "},{"Title":"Feed 'em to the Meat Grinder!","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The immense success of Michael Winner's brilliant vigilante classic Death Wish of 1974 starring the great late Charles Bronson spawned four sequels (the first of which was highly entertaining exploitation, the rest gradually got dumber), as well as quite a bunch of even more nasty, ultra-violent and politically incorrect rip-offs, such as William Lustig's Vigilante (1983) or this brutal example of 80s vigilante exploitation called The Exterminator (1980). Even more than any of the Death Wish sequels or Vigilante, The Exterminator wastes no time with explanations whatsoever. James Glickenhaus' film starts off right in 'Nam, with an incredibly nasty throat slitting/beheading scene and a following ultra-violent battle. Years later, Vietnam buddies John (Robert Ginty) and Michael (Steve James) are working as meat-packers in New York. After Michael is attacked and paralyzed by a gang of lowlifes, John transforms into a violent vigilante. Not only does he go after the ones who made his friend a living vegetable, however, he also takes out a whole lot of other scum, such as mobsters, pedophiles, pimps and muggers. Also, John doesn't simply shoot people like our friend Paul Kersey liked to do it in the Death Wish films. Oh no, Johnny prefers other methods of 'scum-disposal', such as burning thugs alive, or putting them through meat grinders while they're still breathing... Apart from the constant ulta-violent content, an immense dose of sadism, loads of action and the (disgusting but oh so entertaining) recurrent message that self-administered justice is the only possible way, this piece of trash has little to offer. As opposed to other vigilante flicks such as Vigilante, most of the performances are awful (which is not something that lowers the fun factor to me). As opposed to even the last Death Wish sequels, not a second is wasted with any kind of sentimentality's. John does not waste any time after his friend gets attacked. The storyline goes like this Friend gets attacked. John takes revenge. The time span in-between the attack and the revenge is about a minute. Yes, it is not too far-fetched to call The Exterminator disgusting reactionary trash. But it is so damn entertaining in its disgusting reactionary trash way! Definitely not a film to be taken seriously, but yet highly recommended to all my fellow Exploitation buffs out there! "},{"Title":"Robert Ginty","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The only successful aspect of James Glickenhaus' effort is in the coldness of it's star, Robert Ginty.  A vietnam vet (Ginty) becomes a vigilante  after a brutal attack on a war buddy (Steve James, of Delta Force and American Ninja fame) who once saved his life.  The plot...well that's pretty much it.  As you might have imagined, many criminals will die painful deaths.  After watching this movie, your main question will be, Who the hell is that guy on the cover?Ginty's display of emotions is confusing at times, as you can't seem to understand why he needs to kill these pitiful degenerates.  There are reasons to watch this movie, namely the meat grinder scene or the heated battle between Ginty and a guard dog.  Is this movie worth a rental you ask? No way.  Why would you do that when you can probably purchase this masterpiece for less than the local video rental fee.  You might even be able to pick it up in a trade for a broken slinky.  If you do, be fair, at least give the poor sucker a metal one, not that cheap plastic crap  "},{"Title":"Passable movie from the days of New York grime","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" New York in the late 1970's was a grim and dangerous city to dwell. The city was bankrupt, both financially and morally. At one point in 1978, New York's electricity was shut down, causing incredible amounts of looting and other forms of violence (greater than the London riots of this year). So, inevitably, New York folk (if they weren't the pimps, drug pushers, and other assortment of criminals) were p****d off. Which brings us to The Exterminator.John Easton (Robert Ginty) is a Vietnam veteran, back in his home town - a city so derelict, he probably wonders what has happened to his beloved country during his time defending it. His best friend is attacked by street thugs - a claw-trowel is gauged into his spine - and ends up in hospital. This obviously angers Easton who, seeing the lack of progress by New York's finest, takes it into his own hands to hunt and kill the attackers. With a pseudo-serial killer on the loose on the streets, it is down to detective James Dalton (Christopher George) to discover his identity.The p****d off Vietnam vet film was relatively prevalent around this time - from Taxi Driver's (1976) Travis Bickle to First Blood's (1982) John Rambo, - the war veteran was understandably angry at the America they came back to. Whilst Eastman's character is essentially good (he seems very pleasant when not murdering the murderers), he does carry the angry-young-man ethics of a Bickle or Rambo. They are collectively fighting the injustices they see on their countries streets.This film however, is not on a par with even First Blood, but it does have that late-70's and early 80's New York grime that I personally love. It's certainly not as charming as Basket Case (1982) - a very different animal, and does not have the exuberant gravitas of Scorsese's Taxi Driver, but I enjoy the New York movie of these years. I do love a good bit of urban disintegration, decay, and the inhabitants of these kinds of environments. I just wish I could have been in that city at that time - the rise of American punk, the dirty cinema of transgression that made it's mark (quietly), with the films of Richard Kern, Nick Zedd, Lindia Lunch et al. I also probably would have had a shorter life, as I would have more than likely been shot or stabbed. But hey, it would be worth it to have those brutal nights in on 42nd street and the lines of grindhouse cinemas that adorned that street, where I could have watched those exploitation films that we here at 'The Wrath of Blog' just adore.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Must watch vigilante film","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In an explosion of gunfire and death, something is born in the trenches of Vietnam. Something is born and something else has died. John Eastland has witnessed the horrors of Vietnam first hand and like all veterans, it has changed him. Now living in New York, trying to make an honest living, he is subjected to the same degree of violence. When his best friend, Michael, is left paralyzed after a mugging, John commits his life to cleaning up the streets using the code name, The Exterminator. What makes a superhero? What is the difference between a hero and a vigilante. Superhero's like Batman have proved it has nothing to do with super powers. Is it simply a matter of a costume? For my money a super hero is anyone risking his life for the good of the city. If a man fights crime strictly for the sake of revenge he is a vigilante but when the quality of life comes into question, we may now consider him a superhero. Despite your personal definition, The Exterminator falls in that perfect grey area where we get the violence, the anger and the quirkiness without the cheesy one-liners or terrible tights.This is not to say The Exterminator escapes the necessary cheese of a low budget 80's action film. It also has quite a few roaming subplots and bad moustaches. The beauty of the film, though, is despite the cheese, it is played straight the whole way through. If you are willing to be in the mood and except the dated dialogue, The Exterminator actually holds up as a well made film.Robert Ginty as the Exterminator is such a fantastically strange choice. His baby face and cold eyes are so misleading it almost feels more realistic than the expected, big jawed, hard ass we see in most action films. James Glickenhaus, the director of this masterpiece, seems to be dedicated to creating something genuine and it shows in every scene.The Exterminator is dirty and that's why you love it. It's rotten to the core just like the city it was filmed in and we wouldn't have anything less. Despite the follow through of the amazing cover art, The Exterminator will always be one of my favorite vigilante films of all time. "},{"Title":"Braindead action...","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is plain stupid. A guy's friend get killed and this guy goes maniac on a random killing spree of scum of the earth such as child molesters, rapists and robbers. There is no connection between these killings; the only plot of this movie seems cold blood and raw graphical violence. I gave it 2 points because it has some nice explosions.You could imagine the movie makers getting the idea for this movie from watching Friday the 13th movies and coming up with the idea would it not be cool if the killed once had it coming instead of just being innocent stupid teens? No, it would not. You do not feel there is any hero in this movie and just wish they all would die. "},{"Title":"The worst film I have ever seen.","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this film on VHS many years ago. I still remember it as the worst film I have ever had the misfortune to sit through. Why did I sit through it? Because I wanted to see if it could get any worse. And it did. Some films are so bad, they're good. This film is so bad it is truly unbelievable. 'Entertaining' in the same way as watching a car crash.Firstly, the 'acting' is laughable. Secondly, the 'plot' is the width of a cigarette paper. The set pieces are poorly realised. The characters have all the menace one would find in an old folks home. The front cover depicts a scene which isn't even in the film.Admittedly, I've not seen this film for many years, and it may not be as bad as I remember it. But I doubt it. It is probably worse. "},{"Title":"Bad Guys Beware,He Ain't The Orkin Man","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  THE EXTERMINATOR is a cheap urban exploitationer whose success probably yielded the DEATH WISH sequels. Being how those Charles Bronson sequels were just as cheap and grimy(and bad)as this film is, maybe the quality to profitability ratio was sensible from Michael Winner's standpoint. Then again,I have no doubt that THE EXTERMINATOR also spurred the obviously much better and more successful FIRST BLOOD. Michael Winner doesn't make movies anymore, he is a restaurant critic. Draw your own conclusion. HintWinner takes fall. Cannon Group fodder.You have to love the cut-rate approach that a film like THE EXTERMINATOR takes. Here you have an opening shot that I swear could parody the one in APOCALYPSE NOW if this movie didn't use it to serve it's genre hook. Since the opening setting is in Vietnam,you need it to be at night to veil the sound stage, you also need little palm trees, an interrogation scene that can be used later for inducing cold sweats and flashbacks and of course, last but not least you got your squad running to the ubiquitous Huey taking fire. Flashforward a decade and you have your protagonist alive and well with his 'Nam buddy who literally saved his head. They work at a meat packing plant which will come in handy for the man they pushed too far. Afterall,he fought in the Far East and his name is John Eastland. Apparently,the detective (Christopher George)is the only one who picks up on that kind of karma. To play the main character,you have Robert Ginty who played a 'Nam buddy in COMING HOME. How convenient and economical! You'll also notice that he'd play Vietnam vets in most of his later films as well. American typecasting;always so reliable.THE EXTERMINATOR could have been at least enjoyably bad had it went along more of the lines of a slasher/vigilante pic. Yes,the The Exterminator uses a blowtorch. But it is not the trademark weapon as you are lead to believe. He uses it only once or twice but it isn't the cool flamethrower gun on the poster. 2004's THE PUNISHER makes a nod to this film in one torture scene. Nor is the Exterminator outfitted like on the poster either.Although there are other cool gruesome deaths to satisfy gorehounds, this film miserably failed to align itself with the Friday THE 13TH crowds of that same year. Maybe that's why this movie is out of print.  "}{"Title":"Great Revenge Flick","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT! This movie is not a ripoff of Death Wish---in fact I consider DW's shoddy sequels---I'm not including Part 2 now---to be bad copies of The Exterminator. Ginty's character is no Charles Bronson---he's more in the mold of Travis Bickle from Taxi Driver but without the introspection.  Ginty seems almost unnerved by violence in the first encounter with the gang.  When he decides to respond, it's with massive firepower (M-16!!!  my Army buddies and I howled way back when)and merciless vengeance.  But he's not a tough guy.  Troubled, yes---continuing the image of the haunted veteran begun by Billy Jack and carried on in the Rambo films---he's obviously demonstrating a case of Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome in his lonely life and his dealings with others, and in his reaction to criminal acts.  He is set into motion by the savage attack on his friend (his only friend) but he continues on his mission at first to aid his friend's family, and then in defense of others he encounters. And make no mistake, The Exterminator is indeed an ACTION FILM. The martial arts, the gun battles, the car/motorcycle chase mark it as such. Also setting it apart from DW are the hero's inventive ways of meting out justice.  M-16---flamethrower---.44 Magnum packed with mercury-loaded rounds.  Let's not forget the meat grinder.  Very good action flick.  If you like it check out Rolling Thunder and Defiance.  "},{"Title":"You want a nasty and entertaining b-grade vigilante movie? Go straight to The Exterminator!","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The success of Michael Winner's 'Death Wish' in the mid-70s spawned a sub-genre of vigilante movies. Two of the best being William Lustig's 'Vigilante' and James Glickenhaus' 'The Exterminator'. Lustig's movie has superior plot and acting, but 'The Exterminator' is nastier, more action packed and just plain more entertaining. In fact I'd say it's better than any of the 'Death Wish' sequels. Robert Ginty ('Coming Home') plays a Vietnam vet who decides to take the law into his own hands after his best friend (Steve James - 'To Live And Die In L.A.') is left paralyzed after a vicious attack by street thugs. After dishing out some brutal justice he decides to widen his net to punish perverts, muggers, mobsters and other low lifes. Christopher George (Fulci's 'City Of The Living Dead') plays the cop on his trail who perhaps feels more connected to him than he'd like to admit, and Samatha Eggar ('The Brood') a doctor whom George romances. How and why Eggar ended up in this one is anyone's guess! The scenes between her and George are a complete waste of time and almost grind the movie to a halt. The major focus is of course, the Exterminator himself Robert Ginty, and his methods of punishment which include a blowtorch, poison bullets and a giant meat grinder. No one is going to look at this movie for any kind of intellectual content or insight into the human condition, but if you're looking for an exciting and hard boiled revenge movie then this one is not to be missed. It's wonderfully entertaining if you don't take it too seriously and just go along for the ride. Recommended. "},{"Title":"knock, knock. who's there?.... exterminator!","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  a very wholesome and pleasant slice of sadistic gratuitous exploitation fun; this purports to be entertainment but seems squarely aimed at people who enjoy watching people losing their heads (literally) and being lowered into giant mincers (charming). exterminate all rational thought! "},{"Title":"Ultra violent vigilante action from the golden 80's!","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  James Glickenhaus directed this over the top revenge thriller which was without a doubt inspired by Death Wish, by Michael Winner. The Exterminator stars Robert Ginty as John Eastland, a Vietnam vet, who gets his old friend beaten and paralyzed by local hooligans and criminals. He decides to take the justice into his own hands, but I'm not sure can we talk about justice anymore. Well, anyways, he starts to remember all the things he was taught in the army and soon his own war against the scum in New York is ready to begin.This film is very dirty and gritty, and that's exactly what I like about these films they are honest and challenging as they depict society as no other films wouldn't dare to depict. The Exterminator is not any intelligent statement about society, but it sure will grab an attention of a viewer due to its merciless attitude, and of course this all exists and existed back then, when Glickenhaus wrote this film. The scum depicted in the film is real and should be wiped out forever, but efforts this far haven't been too succesful, have they?I didn't exactly remember how strong this film was, both emotionally and physically, now that I viewed it again. The things Eastland and his friend experience are very horrific and occasionally I felt myself experiencing a feelings of empathy and sorrow, the feelings I didn't expect to find in these films. What eventually happens to Eastland's friend and his family is very sad and these scenes are greatly shot and written by Glickenhaus. It really makes the viewer understand Eastland's behaviour, and think about what's wrong in the society as this kind of act of revenge becomes necessary and all this violence and horror appears everywhere in the world. As I said earlier, this is not intended to be a noteworthy social commentary in the tradition of Oliver Stone, but still these issues are handled briefly in The Exterminator, too, and that only adds to the power of the film.The violence is very strong (I'm talking about the full uncut and unrated version) and the first scene at the Vietnam war camp is very brutal and haunting throughout the film. I had seen this film before, but now that I watched it on DVD for the first time, this all seemed even more horrific and graphic. I must say the beheading in this first scene is among the most brutal acts of violence I've seen in cinema. There are other violent scenes, too, and overall the film is very brutal on every level. There are child molesters, prostitutes, pimps, drug use and all imaginable diseases found in the world. The film is little too slow moving and uninteresting (the love affair between the cop and lab lady is unnecessary and boring) moments, which tone the film a little bit down. If they were left out, this would definitely get at least one star more from me. Also, I like the Vietnam flashbacks during the film, as they bring certain atmosphere and feeling of anxiety and decay to the film. I gladly give it 7/10 and recommend highly for fans of this kind of ultra nihilistic 80's independent action cinema. "},{"Title":"Death wish of the 80's","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had a funny picture that The Exterminator would be a barbarous feast of non-stop violence. When I watched the Vietnam sequence (the very first scene) I got more and more convinced about it. In the end I was surprised. As far as I'm concern, this isn't even an action movie like it's usually classified - this is definitely a thriller. Sure there are lots of cruel scenes and bloodshed. It still isn't far as ultra-violent critics sometimes makes it to be. Violence is just something that gives audience the necessary shocks to built the excitement or to keep it up.The Exterminator reminds me of the 70's classic, original Death wish (1974). There's something awfully common in Charles Bronson's legendary character Paul Kersley and Robert Ginty's John Eastland. Both are men who took justice in their own hands. I think I'm not the only one who's got the same feeling. Actors aren't brilliant and the plot is faulty but from time to time this movie gets very interesting and it has a great bunch of magnificent sequences and couple of really good lines. Not a perfect thriller but surely a decent cult movie. "},{"Title":"He hardly used the flamethrower!","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw Exterminator 2 before I saw The Exterminator, and I liked it in a crude sort of way. Robert Ginty's trademark weapon in that film was his flamethrower. After I saw Exterminator 2, I really wanted to see The Exterminator, so I just ended up buying it. The cover looked promising enough with the Exterminator brandishing a flamethrower, but the cover lies. He only uses the flamethrower once in the film, and that is only to intimidate a thug. That's it! The rest of the time he uses guns and meatgrinders to do his dirty work. All The Exterminator turned out for me is a below average revenge affair much in the aspect of Charles Bronson revenge epics. ** out of ***** stars "},{"Title":"Grindhouse grit done right!","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Something that can be found in all the best grindhouse films, is their ability to tap into the most primal of human emotions. The rawness of the film style brings a gritty realism to the proceeding. That is certainly true in the case of the vengeance-fueled fantasy that is The Exterminator! Former vet, John Eastland (played very effectively by Robert Ginty), finds life in New York City is even more savage than the jungles of Vietnam, after the near-fatal assault of his best friend causes him to wage his own personal war on the criminal element of the city. Of course, such actions will not go unnoticed.Right from the start, writer/director James Glickenhaus lets you know just what you are in for with this film, as it begins with a horrific flashback to Eastland's time in 'Nam and sets the tone of the violent displays that will soon follow it. While the special effects are not what one would call high quality, the sheer brutality of what is shown (and often what is not shown) adds a degree of realism that most big budget special effects extravaganzas never could hope to achieve. The beheading scene during the wartime flashback (done masterfully by special effect artist Stan Winston), for example, perfectly illustrates what I mean. It's a gripping moment, due to the harshness and savage way it is presented. Most of the violence is presented in this fashion and it gives the film an edge over many of the like-minded ones that were being produced at the time. They also did a very good job of portraying New York City in the late 70's. The feeling of urban decay, filth, and human misery is almost palpable. Quite simply, you might almost feel the need to bathe after watching this film.As far as the story goes, it's pretty straight-forward. Just your typical revenge style fantasy stuff, which was like a cottage industry back then. There are some bits about the political climate of the time woven into things, as Eastland's actions are not taken well by political figures, who feel his war on crime makes them look inept and weak. But while the politics are in the background, they never really dominate the story. Instead, the focus is kept on Eastland's private war. Most of the performances range from adequate to banal, but then one doesn't watch this kind of cinema expecting Oscar-worthy acting. Robert Ginty was never really a great actor, with this film being his biggest claim to fame, but he truly brought out a great performance here. You can understand and relate to him and why he's doing what he is. I also liked the role of the cop out to stop him (played solidly by Christopher George). However, the romance he strikes up with a nurse (played by Samantha Eggar) doesn't really fit in with the rest of the tone of the film. As a result, it feels tacked on and unnecessary, only serving to take time away from getting more insights into Ginty's character. The ending of the film is, without question, not your typical Hollywood kind and the film only benefits from that.While many might see The Exterminator as just a fairly typical entry into this sub-genre of film, I think some of the smaller bits within it shine through enough that it stands out from most fare of this nature. Within the realm of grindhouse flicks, this one is certainly one of the better ones out there. The rawness and grit of the setting and the downtroddened feeling in the performances, gives the film a legitimacy few others of it's kind ever have. Genre fans would do well to seek it out. "},{"Title":"Nerve thrilling and very cruel","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very violent and exciting movie with good actors, very good plot and very realistic gore-sequences. Robert Ginty is a ex-soldier from Vietnam who decides to exterminate the mafia and some other trash from the street. He uses methods that will shock most people and he really gets the job done. This is a violent movie with an atmosphere who really thrilled me. I can recommend it to people who are not easily offended by violence. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Vigilante Fantasy with Some Ideas","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This post-Death Wish vigilante fantasy film is also symptomatic of America's identity crisis over Vietnam. Particularly the unedited director's cut makes Vietnam into a central motif &#x96; the men who were in Nam can trust one another, regardless of which side of the law they work, but cannot ultimately trust anyone else. The former War Protester love interest problematizes this nicely for the cop hero, who must decide whether his loyalty is to her and the law or to the comrade-in-arms who has become a killer of the criminals he is powerless to stop. Something about Ginty as the vigilante does work, he's nice enough that at times we identify with him, but also remote and isolated enough that we can believe him as he becomes increasingly violent and sadistic in living out our fantasies of revenge. Nice use of New York locations, especially Central Park, the Battery, and the old Meat-Packing district (back before it was all trendy nightclubs). "},{"Title":"Now that's what I call justice!","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Robert Ginty stars in this highly satisfying revenge flick as a Vietnam Veteran who takes violent retribution to the criminals on the streets, after his best friend (played by Steve James of American Ninja fame) is brutally attacked and paralysed by some sadistic yobs.And boy, do the criminals get their just deserts in this movie! We get to witness such great scenes as a mob boss put through a meat grinder, a sick pimp who specialises in selling children, is strapped down and set on fire and one of the said pimp's customers is shot in the groin and left to bleed to death! &#150; Now that's what I call real justice! Also of particular note is the stunning pre-credits sequence set in Vietnam where our hero is captured by the VC along with James' character. There follows a particularly gory and well executed (if you'll excuse the sick pun) beheading scene (in fact probably the best rendered such scene I've ever witnessed in any movie) plus afterwards a plethora of spectacular explosions as our heroes make their escape in a chopper.Now as you've probably already guessed, I'm a real fan of the 'Revenge Genre' flicks that followed in the wake of Death Wish. In a world where injustice is prevalent and our leaders fail to act upon it, at least in some movies we get to view a possible solution.I must say however, that whilst I did enjoy the movie in question immensely, I felt it could have been a lot better had it contained a bit more action and less of the scenes between Christopher George's and Samantha Eggar's characters (a sort of budding love story develops).Still, if you've ever enjoyed a film where the legendary Charles Bronson puts pay to the bad guys, then this will be right up your street to. "}{"Title":"Best Post Taxi Driver Graphic Thriller","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Following the enormous success of my number one favorite movie Taxi Driver, there came a few exploitation revenge thrillers that hit the mark, with the former Viet Nam Vet theme. The first one that got my attention was Paul Schrader's script for the ultra violent Rolling Thunder (1977) with William Devane. In that fairly sadistic movie, Devane is an honored Viet Nam Vet who's family is murdered by a gang of thugs searching for money he received as a hero. It had one scene that made many people leave the theaters, when his hand is forced down a garbage disposal with Devane still refusing to give in. He is then shot, but lives to take his ruthless revenge on the killers, with Tommy Lee Jones joining in to help him. Gruesome thriller, but this only set the stage for what was to come, which is The Exterminator.When I saw The Exterminator in the theaters in 1980, the movie was already denounced as a sleazy over-the-top crude exploitive graphic and gory worthless piece of crap. So right off, I knew this was MY kind of movie. And it was, the opening scenes of The Exterminator are impossible to forget, as three Ranger soldiers in Viet Nam are tied to stakes with the enemy trying to get them to talk by torture. When they don't, one of movies all time great special effects takes place, compliments of Stan Winston and Tom Burman. Almost in slow motion, a Viet Cong soldier takes a machete and decapitates one of the soldiers in the single best decapitation scene I have ever seen period. It is so realistic, and catches you off guard, that it etches in your mind the horror of it all. And in this new director's (James Glickenhaus) version DVD, nothing is spared, the scene is much longer and more graphic, and the other Viet Nam scenes are also much longer, as the other two Rangers make their escape. One of the two is John Eastland, portrayed by Robert Ginty in his best role ever. That's not saying much, because he never did anything close to this role. The story moves to modern times, and he's working with his Viet Nam buddy on the docks in New York. After his buddy is paralyzed by a band of thugs over some beer being stolen, Eastland goes on a rampage to exterminate the gang. He does in rather extraordinary means, and then goes after a big time gang boss in one of the more memorable scenes. He kidnaps the boss, takes him to a warehouse, and chains him up over a giant meat grinding machine. Eastland's idea is to take all the bosses money and give it to his buddy's family. When the boss withholds some information about a vicious dog in his home when Eastland goes to get the money, Eastland comes back to make hamburger meat out of the boss. That's after he dispatches the dog with an electric knife in a bloody fight. After that, Eastland turns into The Exterminator and notifys City Hall, he is taking on the bad guys, because the police are not doing their job. This puts Christopher George, as Detective James Dalton, on the trail of Eastland. It seems the CIA has gotten interested in this too, and wants Eastland found because it makes the current administration in Washington look bad too.In the meantime, Eastland comes across a young prostitute that has been brutally burned by a sadistic pervert in a chicken dive. (a place for perverts to have sex and torture young boys called chickens). After that, Eastland has a Taxi Driver scene, as he files down his 44 magnum cartridges, filling the tips with mercury, and soldering them back. After that, he visits the chicken dive, sets the sleezy owner on fire, and kills the pervert while freeing his chicken boy. There's a couple more such scenes as he comes to the rescue of an old lady mugged in the park, and then Detective Dalton starts to move in on him. The ending is not expected at all, but it does leave the door open for the expected sequel The Exterminator 2, which is not anywhere near as good. It's a pretty shoddy sequel, mainly featuring Eastland with a flame thrower all through the movie. This movie is a classic to me, and a lot of other gorehounds, and even though it's very low budget, it delivers the goods in every respect.Now as far as the new DVD released by a company called Tango it is bare bones, except for one excellent feature. The menu which has only one option, PLAY, it continually plays the best action scenes from the movie. This is pretty cool, I wish more dvds would do that. There is no audio selection, just straight digital stereo, and the audio is the only minor problem. There are a few dropouts in the audio, but nothing to discourage anybody from getting it, IMO. The video is excellent and completely uncut, and that's the only thing I was interested in. A nice bright transfer, with scenes included that I have never seen before in this movie, mostly from the opening Viet Nam segment, but a couple other graphically violent scenes too. Yes, this is a very sadistic nasty movie, but our anti-hero is always going after the bad guys, usually very bad guys, and makes them pay dearly. People that I knew back in those days, that I went to with most of these types of movies loved The Exterminator, and it stands well today as one of the best and most gruesome. It makes the Death Wish movies look like kiddie stories, and takes a movie like Rolling Thunder to a new level of violence and sadism. For you twisted minds out there, and I know you're reading this, this is one you want for your collection. "},{"Title":"An exploitation movie with a message. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  James Glickenhaus' THE EXTERMINATOR (1980) brought to a close a decade which had seen the vigilante movie reach far and wide audiences and had one of the best ever taglines in a movie - 'IF YOU'RE LYING, I'LL BE BACK...'The passage of time hasn't really done it justice and Glickenhaus hasn't got the touch or style to make some of the action sequences in the movie more tighter. Brutal and cynical in both contexts of good and evil, it still does have some good moments.Like HENRY PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER and TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE, it has the ability to make you want to take another look at it, to understand it. Interestingly enough, after nearly 25 years, it comes across as one of the few exploitation movies of the time that has a conscience. The 42nd Street sleazeden sequence remains one of the most uncomfortable scenes, even in the cut versions that I have seen over the years and I am glad that such sequences are not shown in commercial offerings these days.The opening head slicing scene ranks as one of the best make-up effect sequences ever committed to film.My final word of advice just make sure you don't cook a hot dog like Christopher George does in this film whilst he talks to Samantha Eggar.... "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Robert Ginty stars as John Eastland a Vietnam vet who turns vigilante after an attack on his friend, in this poorly made rip off of Death Wish. Awful movie is a failure on all levels. Even though Steve James has some good moments, overall this is a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable, unfortunately","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Saw a lot of positive reviews of this movie in this forum, and decided I had to add my two cent's worth.I saw the uncut, unrated version of this movie in a theater when it came out 23 years ago.  I have not seen it again since.  Yet to this day, the gruesome beheading at the beginning sticks out in my mind as one of the most brutal cinematic scenes ever.  But you know, it is the only thing about this movie that I remember.A repulsive, slow-motion beheading scene does not a good movie make.  Basically, I thought it was pretty trashy overall.  2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"To hate this movie, is to miss the point","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  JAMES GLICKENHAUS now sadly either produces rubbish kiddie movies, or the (let's face it) the terrible BASKET CASE movies.But in 1980, he got it so right.......but then blew it all by making the incomprehensable THE SOLDIER. THE EXTERMINATOR, like it or lump it, is a very important movie on lots of different levels. It re-kickstarted vigilante cinema again. It set a new watermark for screen violence. It was a movie that is hard to pigeon-hole, is it a action film, after all? It also brought to attention, the under-rated ROBERT GINTY. He should have been a superstar by now, but fair dues to the guy, he still works constantly. And any subsequent movie poster with him in it, will akmost certainly contain ; ROBERT (THE EXTERMINATOR) GINTY. After a horrific vietnam opening sequence, (what a beheading) the movie concerns two men, one white one black. THe black guy saving the white guy is the common thread, and it later acts as the guilt thread, from which the white guy (who becomes THE EXTERMINATOR) can vent his anger on.The story moves on five year or so to new york. Our two protagonists are working in a meat packing factory, after roughing up a few thieving punks, the black guy once again steps in a helps out the white guy. Later on though, the aformentioned punks, beat up the black guy, leaving him crippled. This sets off, his friend and he takes it onto himself to not only right the wrongs that have been done to his hospitalizes friend, but to then go after bigger fish to fry. Excellent music, a good performance by the late great CHRISTOPHER GEORGE, and above average production values, for what was, essentially a low budget movie. Big Lee has no choice but to award this classic movie 10 out of 10. See it, or he'll be back! "},{"Title":"Memorable little Death-Wish knock-off","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those pre-Cannon sleaze-balls of a film; made back in early 1980, by James Glickenhaus. Gintry (our hero,) begins his tale in Vietnam where he and his friend are held captive by the V-Congs. The scene recalls a very dated but still grotesque and nicely done decapitation of an American POW. Of course, they escape and do away with the bad-guys. Skip to 1980, New York. Gintry and his Pal are working at a meat-packing plant, when a couple of thugs decide to loot some free-beer. The pair stumble on to them and wind up kicking their ass. Some time later, on his way home from work, the gang tracks down Gintry's buddy and leave him a brain-dead veggie.So Gintry decides to get even. He tracks them down to an apartment where he takes them out and then goes to take out the rest of the city's trash as well. However, the film's real failure is to explain why Gintry decides to go after the rest of the city rather than just being satisfied with taking those who did him any wrong. Also, the mayor and his goon-squad were as unconvincing characters as any. They're in an office talking about how some vigilante's prescience will cost him an election, while ignoring the fact that doing nothing about the city's colossal crime rate will do more damage to his next election.  The Chicken-house scene is gratitous and will leave a memory in one's mind for many years to follow. This is perhaps the movie's most disturbing moment. Otherwise, it has a nice, talented cast for such a low-budget who play out fine and it is definitely a worthwhile time-waster.  "},{"Title":"Heavily influenced by the Executioner stories.","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one solid action flick.  The Exterminator is a worthy film of its genre.  However, the best story behind the picture is its inspiration Mack Bolan, The Executioner.  More than the Death Wish movies, the Exterminator lives up to the Bolan heritage.  It also beats the worst of the Bolan clones, Marvel's travesty of a movie, The Punisher!!! "},{"Title":"Explosive!!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw the sequel to this movie in the cinema and enjoyed it very much for it was like a Charles Bronson as The Vigilante film but with another main actor. I hired The Exterminator in video some time later and I enjoyed it even more!.  It´s an explosive film, just what one expects to see when sits in front of a screen to watch a movie called The Exterminator.  It´s not a love story or a children cartoon obviously. This movie gives you what you expect to see. A desperate man who wishes to avenge his best friend who has been almost beaten to death by a punch of lousy punks. Once he has taken care of them, then he finds that making justice with his own hands and his own way is quite rewarding... You will enjoy this movie if you enjoyed Death Wish or Dirty Harry. Punks, take care, The Exterminator is coming!!...  "},{"Title":"Even better than Death Wish","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For those of you who liked Eastwood in Dirty Harry or Bronson in Death Wish, then you might wanna check out Ginty in the Exterminator. It's a sleazy, exploitative, little film, which is about an ex-vietnam vet who comes back home to New York. He and his army buddy began work in a meat-plant, and are met by a couple of thugs stealing beer from the plant. So they get into a fight with the thugs, and throw them out. Sometime later, Ginty's friend's mugged and beaten to death; left basically a brain-dead veggie on an operating machine. So Ginty gets even; tracking the thugs down in a sleazy apartment building. The next thing I know Ginty meets some slimeballs in what's called a Chickenhouse, and is a pretty disturbing scene. Afterwards, being that one of the thugs is a senator from Jersey, the law's tight on his trail.Ginty's does a decent role, and Christopher George's good as the cop. It's at least a good renter for vigilante-film fans.  "},{"Title":"straight to the point","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the acting may have aged a little but there's enough action at a fast enough pace to keep you interested throughout this movie probably would have been better with stallone or bronson in the starring role but still good enough for me "}{"Title":"Violent, upsetting, yet effective...","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Extremely violent and gruesome Death Wish I-oriented saga of a Vietnam vet (of course) who embarks on a rampage against mafiosa, local gang members and other assorted scum in New York City.  Robert Ginty (in his last really good role) plays our everyman, Eastland, a dock worker who begins his vengeful paths after his best friend (the late, great Steve James) and fellow 'Nam buddy gets mutilated and paralyzed for life by some psychotic gang members. This film is a cut above most urban revenge thrillers because it has some above average acting (Samantha Eggar and Christopher George have supporting parts and jazz man Stan Getz is featured) and the scummy city locations are used to every possible advantage. Be warned -- there are some gruesome parts, particularly with a prostitute and a soldering iron, plus a chicken pimp (who made my skin crawl) but if you're looking for an intense action film with a bit of social relevance, this might be the ticket... "},{"Title":"Crude But Effective","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Writer/director James Glickenhaus has fashioned a crude but effective little action thriller from a somewhat predictable premise.  A Vietnam vet comes home from the war, seeking a peaceful life but finding a dead-end job and urban ugliness instead.  When his best buddy is killed by a gang of thugs and the police don't do anything, he becomes a vigilante, striking out at gangs, the mob, child pornographers, sleazy politicians and everybody else he perceives as scum.There's quite a bit of violence and grotesque happenings in the story, but also some very effective shocks and impressive action scenes.  Glickenhaus makes the most of what was apparently a very small budget, the on-location filming giving the movie a sweaty, dirty, rather claustrophobic feel.  Robert Ginty is relatively wooden as the vigilante John Eastman, but that woodenness sort of works, given that the character is a vet who hasn't yet gotten over his combat experiences and finding that the ugly urban and social decay of New York City is bringing those memories to the surface again.  Christopher George is good as the cop on his tail.Not a classic for the ages, but not bad, either.  Recommended to those who like their action rough and violent. "},{"Title":"A relic from Hollywood's violent past.","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If revenge is a dish best served cold, then James Glickenhaus' exploitation piece could be considered positively frozen. His cold autonomous handling of a Vietnam veteran's (gotta watch out for THOSE guys!) one man war against crime in New York after an army buddy is crippled by a gang, is devoid of any emotion or sentiment, except maybe an underlying sense of malice.'The Exterminator' made quite a name for itself in early eighties Britain taking good money at the box office and became a bit of a cult title on video at a time when shelves were filled with some of the most violent (and it must be said, crap) titles around. The Exterminator was no exception, even watching today it still packs an underhanded punch, featuring brutal scenes and subject matter that Hollywood of today would no doubt be afraid to touch upon. Amongst the M-16 gun toting and street brawls Glickenhaus' mean streak extended to fighting off dogs with electronic carving knives, castrating a pervert with mercury filled bullets, a gang eaten alive by rats and perhaps the most notorious; feeding a gangland boss into an industrial meat mincer!Obviously catering for it's 'Death Wish' audience the film delivers little more than it's quota of offing low life. Robert Ginty's performance is understated to the point of blandness, though he does deliver threatening lines convincingly, his New York accent has a bitter twist to it, not unlike (but nowhere near as compelling as) Christopher Walken's. The detective on the Exterminator's trail played by Christopher George (unsurprisingly getting first billing) doesn't really add a great deal and at times distracts from the main plot.Today the film doesn't have a lot going for it, a collection of grisly revenge acts held together by the film's thin but uncompromising script,  may well interest gore hounds and those with a morbid curiosity, but for most it will more commonly repel if not just simply bore those watching it.  "},{"Title":"An enjoyable piece of gritty 80s trash cinema.","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" New York in the late 70s and early 80s was a prime locale for gritty dramas and tough thrillers; it was a sleazy place, teeming with vice and riddled with crime. Which made it the perfect place to set a vigilante movie too.In James Glickenhaus's The Exterminator, Vietnam veteran John Eastland (Robert Ginty) goes on a killing spree when his best friend, Michael (Steve James) is left crippled by a vicious street gang. Armed to the teeth, he dispatches with the lowlife criminals and scum who have made his stomping ground such a dangerous place to live.The movie opens with a flashback sequence set during the Vietnam war, in which some American soldiers (including John and Michael) are captured by the enemy. A superb, but extremely nasty torture sequence (which features a very realistic beheading created by top FX expert Stan Winston and his team) lets the audience know what they are in for a brutal and grim no-holds-barred movie.Eastland's methods of disposing of the thugs and crooks that plague his city are extremely nasty (although not especially graphic) he lowers a man into a giant mincing machine, sets people on fire and shoots them with mercury filled bullets. A couple of unfortunate gang members are left to have their faces chewed off by rats.In between all of this nastiness, the film also follows a cop's attempts to bring The Exterminator to justice and his romance with a nurse (who happens to work in the hospital where Michael is being looked after). These scenes take up far too much of the running time and often seem redundant to the plot.A little less of the cop/nurse stuff and a touch more of The Exterminator getting brutal on the bad guys, and this trashy but enjoyable slice of 80s action would have been almost perfect. As it stands, I'll give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"one disturbing repulsive movie","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember when I first watched The Exterminator. It starts off in Vietnam when the late and wonderful Robert Ginty and his mate (Steve James) who are tied up by the Vietcong, watch the beheading of the mate. This is in a graphic slo mo scene. I went to bed, trying to get over that image as if a disbelief. The next morning I continued to watch it, through it's 101 minute duration. At the end I felt pretty disturbed by what I'd seen. The reason being, it's just plain sick. Now cut from the jungle to the city, years later. Ginty becomes avenger after these thugs paralyse his mate (James) who falls into a vegetative state, and the life support, inevitably has to be switched off. The rest of the movie has Ginty exacting justice on his mate's thugs, but it doesn't stop there. He goes after perverts, rapists, killers. Enter the great Christopher George as the cop on his trail, aided by pretty nurse (Samantha Egger) I know this sounds like a bad replica of a movie I can't mention, but the only existence of this film is to make money and shock. I'm not gonna describe some of the scenes in which justice is served, but if you disturb easily, stay away from this. I like James Glickenhaus's films, especially Blue Jean Cop and The Protector, but this I would find hard to sit through another viewing. These three fine actors, deserve better. The one redeeming thing I liked was the ending song by Chip Taylor. I like his one for The Protector better though. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable vigilante movie","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I found The Exterminator and Exterminator 2 in a video store so I decided to buy them both and I enjoyed them. The Exterminator is a low budget 80's vigilante movie that's pretty good. The box on the first movie show him using the Flamethrower although in the actual movie he only uses it once to scare on the gang members to make him talk although in Exterminator 2 he does use more of the Flamethrower. Through the rest of The Exterminator he's using guns but the film is still good though. The acting is pretty good and the action is alright also the soundtrack to the film is a nice touch. The Exterminator is an enjoyable 80's vigilante movie that's worth looking out for. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Okay, at best.","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"15 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A vigilante revenge thriller set in New York (why is it that about 90% of films are shot at least in part in New York, everything is set there!) that for some unknown reason has become a bit of a cult classic. During the opening sequence set in Vietnam, a soldier, John Eastland (Robert Ginty) saves the life of his buddy from a group of nasty Vietnamese soldiers. Years later back in New York (why New York, why?!) Eastland's mate is attacked and paralysed by a group of thieves/thugs. Eastland is annoyed about this and kills them all in revenge. He then goes round killing the odd bad guy here and there for various reasons, not just that he wants clean New York up. For instance, he kills the mob boss so he can get money for hes mates wife and kid, not just because its the moral thing to do. He kills the guy who runs the brothel because of what he did to the prostitute he has befriended. Then there's the cop (Christopher George) whos trying to track him down, yawn. So, the exterminator for the most part isn't really a vigilante film in my opinion, hes just a guy who tries to do the right thing by his mate, and kills the odd bad guy here and there if he gets a good enough reason. Ginty is poor, laid back, mild mannered and looks rather uninterested in the whole thing. I never got the impression he was a hard as nails ruthless killer. He just seemed to quiet and nice. George as the cop is also pretty bad, mostly focusing on his relationship with a female doctor, yawn. One or two nice bits of gore to keep you awake/interested, the beheading by machete in the opening sequence an obvious standout. I just found the whole thing a bit boring, dull and pedestrian. This guy was meant to be the exterminator, by half way through the movie he had killed about 4 people, hardly a one man army! I maybe am being a bit harsh as there's nothing technically wrong with it, and what was there was okay but I just expected more from a film with a title and reputation like the exterminator.  "},{"Title":"Watch it only for the opening five minutes....","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A sadomasochistic revenge fantasy that rips off the basic formula of Death Wish, The Exterminator has achieved a cult reputation as an overly violent cheapie, and violent it is, but most of the time it's just derivative and boring (especially in the scenes concerning the cop and his girlfriend). Robert Ginty doesn't quite have the stuff to be convincing as a vigilante. (POSSIBLE SPOILER)  The throat-slashing scene near the beginning, however, is a marvel (and hard to forget!).   (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Silly Exploitation Death Wish Style","Date":"15 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Exterminator (1980)* 1/2 (out of 4) This cult classic has John Eastland (Robert Ginty) turning into a vigilante after his Vietnam buddy is severely beaten by a street gang. Along the way he begins to wipe out not only the gang but also the mob, people who abuse prostitutes and various other bad guys and the only one on his case is a detective (Christopher George). This film takes elements of DEATH WISH, TAXI DRIVER and THE DEER HUNTER and pretty much puts them into a meat grinder (the same as a victim in the film) and spits out pure madness. Now, there's no question that this is an incredibly bad film but at the same time I can see why it's gained such a huge cult following over the years. I think the majority of the problem is with the story that just keeps going and going and at 104-minutes it's just way too long. This is an exploitation movie so that type of running time is just way too long for a movie like this and it quickly runs out of gas and we're not even at the half way point when this happens. Even worse is the fact that the story jumps all over the place and there's never a clear story of what's going on. The friend is beaten and the exterminator goes for revenge. He's able to track down the people in the matter of hours and then he starts killing mob members but this subplot goes nowhere. There's a sequence with a prostitute clearly inspired by TAXI DRIVER but this to comes but goes nowhere. I'm really not sure what the point of this movie was except to show several gruesome death scenes and it at least does that good. The pre-sequence Vietnam stuff is just so crazy that it has to be seen to be believed. Ginty is fairly good in his role, giving that same type of stone cold, quiet Bronson-type of performance. George is always fun to watch and that's true here and just check out that sex scene in the hospital. Samantha Eggar is completely wasted in her bit as a doctor. I'm typically a fan of these DEATH WISH rip-offs but this one here was simply way too long for its own good and way too silly for that matter. I think fans of the genre might want to check it out but I'm sure others will be hitting the eject button before the thirty-minute mark. "},{"Title":"Rough, tough and stone-cold exploitation!","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The good thing about late 70's/ early 80's B-cinema was that, whenever a new idea hit big at the box office, an endless amount of shameless rip-offs would follow almost immediately, most of which even more exploitative that the original success film. Last House on the Left, for example, resulted in huge load of brutal revenge films like I spit on your Grave and House on the Edge of the Park, whereas Michael Winner's Death Wish caused a giant stream of low-budget vigilante action movies. The Exterminator is one the most remarkable rip-offs and definitely also a cult-favorite, simply because the style of this film is so grim, raw and nihilistic. Writer/director James Glickenhaus certainly doesn't waste any time, as The Exterminator opens with a very violent Vietnam flashback (containing THE vilest decapitation scene I ever saw!), introducing us to the inseparable buddies John Eastland and Michael Jefferson. Back in New York, Jefferson quickly becomes the victim of a coward racist attack by street gang members, leaving him numb in a hospital bed. Eastman responds by becoming a one-man vigilante squad, only he doesn't stop at killing his buddy's aggressors but continues to take on corrupt politicians, pimps and ordinary thugs. The tone of The Exterminator is very distant at all times. It's like Glickenhaus doesn't want you to develop neither feelings of sympathy or aversion for the protagonist! We simply observe his actions, not really picking sides for either him or the obtrusive cop Dalton. This surely isn't meant to be pleasant film-experience, as the editing and camera-work are roughly handled, there's almost no use of color and the musical guidance is very depressing. The only light-headed moments involve the romantic interactions between Detective Dalton and a nurse, and they're actually quite redundant. "}{"Title":"THE EXTERMINATOR (James Glickenhaus, 1980) *1/2","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had been aware of this film (and its notoriety) for a very long time - perhaps due to its iconic poster - but only now managed to catch up with it. In essence, it's a gorier and sleazier version of DEATH WISH (1974) - but with a lousy script (So, how was Vietnam? It was bad; In order to eat this meal, I have to dispose of the one I had yesterday first) and acting (Samantha Eggar has a particularly thankless role). Only its violent excesses keep one watching - though the Vietnam prologue seems interminable and, in the end, there's precious little use of the blowtorch so prominent on the poster! There's even a 'surprise' ending the cop hero (Christopher George) dies - treacherously killed by his CIA partner - while the title character (a Vietnam vet - what else? - played by Robert Ginty) lives on for a re-appearance in a sequel made 4 years later! By the way, even if it's billed as the Director's Cut, the R2 DVD I watched was censored by the BBFC! "}]