[{"Title":"A true delight","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie when it was released twenty-four years ago and I am happy to say that it has not aged at all. It is just as funny and delightful today as it was then. Hopscotch is a diamond in the rough and a real gem. Walter Matthau plays an experienced CIA agent, Miles Kendig, who is sentence to a desk job by his idiot boss, for disciplinary reasons.If you are a Walter Matthau fan then this is a must see movie. If  you are not familiar with Matthau then `Hopscotch' will be a great introduction to one of the most talented actors in Hollywood history. Even though `Hopscotch' is based from a novel the role of Miles Kendig must have been written for Walter Matthau. He was brilliant!I certainly don't want to over shadow the terrific supporting cast. Ned Beatty and Glanda Jackson were superb. You will also get to see a very young Sam Waterston. Pay special attention to CIA agent `Ross' played my Matthau's son David.  "},{"Title":"Hopscotch 1980 Film","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A rare movie jewel, quirky, funny, intelligent, interesting, with a well paced, and well-developed in-depth story line. Realistic characters believably conveyed by the actors and full of great dialogue. There is no excess un-necessary fluff or overkill in this movie! All players carry their weight and are completely believable in their characterizations, operating, as one would expect normal people to communicate with each other, with intelligence and humor. All of this serves to amplify (Ned Beatty's) Myerson character making him look all the more obnoxious &#150; a lifelike caricature when compared to the other key players. This film is a creative alternative to the stale ridiculous explosions, un-necessary violence and 'shoot em ups' seen in many movies. Every aspect of the movie compliments the story line; it is shot on location in the natural settings of Europe and the U.S., which makes it visually attractive. There are no studio backdrops, with dark unrealistic settings. It is unendingly interesting and can be seen many times a year, without becoming old and tired. The only problem it has is the poor picture quality as film sometimes appears out of focus.Jackson and Matthau are brilliant foils for each other, because despite their obvious age difference they are well matched by intelligence and wit, therefore coming off as a believable pairing as players of equal stature, eclipsing the obvious age issue altogether. This is a delightful movie has an apparent absence of Hollywood movie politics. This is one of the very best films I have ever seen for the all of above reasons. "},{"Title":"Perfect Fun","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Walter and Glenda together again after House Calls, what more could you ask for? Witty intelligent comedy, a romance between two not so beautiful people and despite the sweetness and the light touch you still worry about how its all going to turn out. Why don't they make movies like this any more?For the record this is the story of a CIA man who quits when he's given a desk job and then gives everyone in the spy business kittens by writing is autobiography. Its wicked fun.Perhaps the only flaw, and the reason the film is rated R is that Ned Beatty curses up a blue streak needlessly, the again since no one else does it simply shows how out of place he is.See this movie. Do not pass go, do not collect two hundred dollars, just go get this movie and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Impressive film","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The most impressive thing about this movie is the way the director manages the tone of this film. The balance between comedy and drama is handled with great aplomb. This is best in encapsulated in the Myerson character. His ineptness is clearly the comic relief yet he also is trying to hunt down Kendig. I had seen other films where Matthau was in a supporting role like Mirage and Charade but here he is the star and he carries the film perfectly. The new Criterion Collection DVD has a very interesting interviews that add immensely to the appreciation of the film. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Great comedy thriller for adults","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't think a movie like this could get made today. Funny, clever and understated, it's exactly the kind of movie that does not lend itself well to Burger King merchandising or witty catch-phrases (although I'd say he has you well and truly by the short hairs comes close).Instead, this is simply a funny, charming and romantic spy thriller that's all about Walter Matthau's great acting. As others have said, this is a movie I can see again and again for the great acting and hilarious moments. Thankfully, it's finally available on DVD.  "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A sleeper. I can watch it again and again.  Well written, well crafted, fun performances. Shame it is not available commercially.  Wonder why? Funny situations interspersed with witty dialogue-- as good as comedies from the thirties. The airplanes for me are a plus. "},{"Title":"A simply delightful little film.","Date":"4 September 2008","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After growing tired of the job, CIA agent Miles Kendig decides to get out of the business once and for all. Fearing that his peace, and maybe his life, could be threatened by the organisation, he tells them that unless he is left alone he will spill the beans on all the secrets that he knows about. They call his bluff, thinking he is full of bitter hot air, so he promptly starts sending out to them one chapter at a time. Realising that Kendig is serious, the CIA sets about putting a stop to him, by whatever means necessary!!. But with Kendig having been one of their own once, he is one shrewd customer, and stopping him is going to be one hell of a job.Based on the Brian Garfield novel, Hopscotch is a cheeky comedy paced with utter perfection from director Ronald Neame. Featuring a very accomplished cast, Walter Matthau, Glenda Jackson, Herbert Lom, Ned Beatty & Sam Waterston, Hopscotch relies on a sharp script and incredibly appealing dialogue to bring home the bacon, and it does, admirably so. It's the type of film that one knows is not about winning awards, the kind of film that is an actors film, where everyone is comfortable with the material and appears to be having a great time. The lead role of Kendig is tailor made for Matthau, ambling along at his own pace with a glint in his eye and a quip on his tongue, Matthau carries the film with charming ease. The others all contribute of course, but the comedy gold comes from Walter and that lived in face of his. So bits of drama here, bits of comedy there, Hopscotch is a very well made and hugely enjoyable picture, recommended 7/10. "},{"Title":"Hopscotch...Good Title","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think many of us were really surprised to see Criterion release Hopscotch, but glad, were all glad they did. Here Walter Matthau is reprimanded for allowing a wanted KGB agent to walk. Matthau's integrity is too precious to take guff from even the CIA. Subsequently, he does not take the news of being reassigned to the job of file clerk very well so he begins to write his memories, leaking secret information to the opposition. The ensuing chase is slapstick, a Spy vs. Spy comedy with great international locations. Frankly, using the cold war as a catalyst for comedy was long overdue by 1980. A great travel piece. "},{"Title":"One of Matthau's most overlooked and best movies","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is Walter Matthau at his best. The easy way he shoves it to his boss, Ned Beatty, at the CIA when he's put behind a desk is a joy. The twists and turns of just how he goes about this keep the movie moving and interesting. You want him to get away with it while humiliating the agency at every turn. He gets excellent from then wife Glenda Jackson and a young Sam Waterston. Too bad it's not available on DVD as the VHS tape isn't wide screen and isn't a great transfer.  "},{"Title":"Funny, charming, witty...don't overlook this one!","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I agree with the above review completely we watch this movie several times a year and it never gets old! It's like a fabulous view from a high place; you just never get tired of it. My rating of 10 reflects how much I love this picture. I don't think you can rent it but you can buy it. Recommended! As to picture quality the movie was re-released on DVD with a complete remastering of both picture (fantastic!) and sound (good audio, but still monophonic; there's only so much you can do when the original is single-track mono) plus interviews with Ronald Neame (D) and Brian Garfield (writer of the novel and co-screenplay) a couple of years ago. The DVD is anamorphic widescreen, so all the stuff that was pan-and-scanned out of the VHS release is back, just like it was in the theater. I bought two copies as soon as it was available and sent one to my brother, who introduced me to this gem. One of my all-time favorites.Note to producers do NOT attempt to remake this picture. It would be folly. There are no actors on the planet who could pull it off. No one, I mean NO ONE has the charisma and charm of Walter Matthau, and the chemistry between he and Glenda Jackson isn't something you can fake. If anyone else had been the co-stars, this picture would have disappeared completely. You wouldn't remake It's a Wonderful Life, would you? "}{"Title":"Absolutely Delightful!!!","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie I have seen several times, though Glenda Jackson, albeit a fine, well-seasoned actor, is not one of my favorites... Just to watch Walter Matthau run rings around the CIA.... it's great, with good casting...especially a young Sam Waterson as Ned Beatty's young assistant(who, by the way, is rooting for Matthau).... the scene where Matthau holes up in Beatty's summer cottage and the ensuing one-sided gun battle with same is eye-watering... the descent of Beatty into sheer hatred for Matthau and his obsession with catching him.... Superb, even though the movie could have done with less foul-mouthing by Beatty's character(but it served the point of showing his lack of class, ineptness and total unsuitability for the job)... Definitely one of Walter Matthau's finer offerings, and a reminder that he was one of a kind.... All-in-all, an exceptional movie, and even after several viewings, still a great delight!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I doubt anyone will read this far into the reviews, but for the record I felt I had to contribute. We all of us watch many, many movies, and some of us feel motivated to review some or all of them no matter the quality. I HAD TO REVIEW THIS, despite the fact I seldom bother, for I genuinely feel it was a delight. Previous reviewers will provide the details, and for example, the first review by dbborroughs has it completely right wholesome, intelligent fun that is so seldom achieved by more modern movies that seem compelled to add gratuitous violence, explosions, one-liners, etc. There are shortcomings that could be improved, of course, but in the end they don't matter. The viewer is left with a smile that didn't depend on potty jokes or shock tactics for stimulation. Brilliant. The overall work is a true gem. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Break 'em all!","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The '70s had seen a number of movies dealing with suspicion of the government (The Parallax View, Three Days of the Condor, etc), and so Hopscotch plays it for laughs. Walter Matthau plays a CIA agent who decides to rat on the CIA, KGB, etc. Much of the movie has the CIA chasing him all over the place, while he outwits them at every turn. And there's a lot of great classical music every step of the way, as well as some great scenery. I wouldn't say that I had a specific favorite scene, but I did like Matthau's escape in Georgia.It's just a funny movie, and I really liked it. Also starring are Glenda Jackson, Ned Beatty, Sam Waterston and Herbert Lom (the police chief in the Pink Panther movies). Director Ronald Neame also directed The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie and The Poseidon Adventure. "},{"Title":"great fun","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Two pros who make an unlikely but very successful combination, Walter Matthau and Glenda Jackson, star in Hopscotch, a 1980 film directed by Ronald Neame. The film also features Ned Beatty, Sam Waterston, and Herbert Lom. The film received an R rating due to the use of the F word by Ned Beatty's character.Matthau plays Miles Kendig, a CIA operative who is demoted to a desk job after he doesn't do what his boss, Myerson (Beatty) expected him to do. It's just as well with Miles - he's tired and he would like to get out, but not before giving a kick to the shins of the organization. He announces that he's writing a book that will reveal a lot of behind the scenes stuff and scandals. Naturally everyone, including the Russians, want him terminated.Thus begins, with the help of his girlfriend (Jackson), a game of hopscotch around the world as Kendig leads the powers that be on a merry chase. Aware that just about everything he touches is bugged, he feeds operatives all sorts of information, changes his name more than once, rents planes, flies commercial, steals a police car, and arranges for operatives to break into a hotel room where they think he is. In his greatest coup, he calls his ex-boss from his ex-boss' house, which is then blown to bits when there's an attempt to capture him - of course, he's long gone.Both funny and dramatic, you've really got your fingers crossed for Kendig, and the film keeps you guessing as to whether he can get away from the CIA -- and what his ultimate plan is, as well how various elements fit in.Matthau is his usual, implacable, flippant self, perfect for an operative and with the right temperament to try to escape CIA clutches. Jackson gives a classy, smooth performance as his helpmate. Sam Waterston plays it straight amidst the comic elements as he attempts to bring this spy in from the warm and into the cold. Ned Beatty plays the boss like the buffoon that he is. Everything works together to make a wonderfully entertaining film.Highly recommended. Very clever and well acted. Of course, there's nothing like seeing government operatives making fools of themselves. "},{"Title":"There's nothing wrong with aiming low and hitting the mark perfectly...a charmer","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hopscotch (1980)A lightweight, enjoyable entertainment about an aging spy who has fun going renegade in his final weeks. I have to admit I liked the movie for the congeniality of Walter Matthau. While not as zany (and original) as the much earlier Charade (also with Matthau), Hopscotch shares a lot of the feel of that movie, with villains who aren't quite villainous, and a leading man who is part bumbling and part a step ahead of the game. The supporting cast is fun, though just barely--both of the key CIA guys after our hero are good actors at their best, but they are not at their best here, especially Sam Waterston in a wishy-washy role. Most peculiar of all, and almost scotch-taped into both the plot and the casting, is very British and very different actress Glenda Jackson, a former spy who chips in as needed, and plays a growing role as things proceed.British director Ronald Neame (who directed The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie and The Odessa File) is completely in charge here, making the most of a middling script that uses well worn or barely surprising twists and gags to keep a potentially violent espionage film from ever leaving light comedy. Because in fact the pace is consistent and the filming (under the eye of Arthur Ibbeteson, also British) is completely fine, if nothing to write home about. In fact, this feels like high budget British television, which is something different than pure Hollywood. Or it might feel like 1960 Hollywood widescreen with minor updates--not including the 1960s Hollywood star, Mr. Matthau.But it is Matthau's movie, fortunately. He can be a convincing bumpkin and a warm hearted fellow, and he can be clever beneath his seeming simplicity. All of this is an advantage here, and you are completely on his side as he thwarts, with winks and tricks, the supposedly superior forces of a full press CIA assault. Expect some fun, and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Matthau should have his face on a mountain somewhere...","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This guy did more funny pictures than anyone. He should be in film class in the very first introduction. The Class title? Comedy 101.You wanna laugh? You wanna laugh again? Watch Hopscotch. This one is a keeper. You can't go wrong when Walter Matthau is an aging CIA man put out to pasture and he doesn't take kindly to it. That's OK though, he'll get his revenge. The way he makes fools of his former co-workers is just classic.I can't say enough about Mr. Matthau as a comedic actor. He just brought the goods. Maybe it's his looks and acts like someone you know way or he was just talented as hell. I think maybe it's both. "},{"Title":"Bowdlerized!","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Watch out - the streaming version I saw on Netflix had the dialog bowdlerized. E.g. when an actor said son of a bitch you hear son of a gun, and so forth. I could tell this was coming because the quality of the sound changed.Netflix says they distribute the movies as is, so this must have been done upstream.I'd be interested to know how many of the revelations the Matthau character puts in his book are actually true seems like I heard that the CIA did try to slip poison cigars to Castro.Otherwise, an amusing (and unbelievable) film with exciting locations.Lee De Cola. "},{"Title":"If you find it, buy it.","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" To lump this with LeCarre as a thriller is extremely misleading. This is a comedy. But it is not a silly comedy. The portrayal of the CIA is quite plausible, within limits. The contrast between the American and British styles is also quite interesting and plausible.This is a movie where the elements fall into place effortlessly. It doesn't look like an expensive movie, though. Listen to the extra feature on the DVD by Neame and you will learn that there was quite a bit of serendipity to this movie.The best part is the remarkable chemistry between Mathau and Glenda Jackson. This alone is enough to give the otherwise far fetched story believability. What we see are two highly intelligent people in a relationship, something rarely seen in movies these days. And they are not just bad actors pretending to be intelligent.This is a delicious satire of government, the CIA, and bad bosses in general. Like 9-5, it is the vicarious revenge we all wish we could take on a bad boss.How many comedies do you know that you can watch repeatedly and still laugh at them? Most times, after one or two viewings the laughs dry up. Not Hopscotch. Every time I see it I laugh and enjoy it just about as much as the first time. I'm not sure why. Perhaps it is just a really good film. But there are very few comedies in this class. For that reason, you should just rent most comedies. This one is an exception. "},{"Title":"Another Great Re-Teaming Of Jackson/Matthau,","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" HopScotch, successfully reunites Glenda Jackson, And Walter Matthau,after their brilliant pairing in 'HouseCalls' Matthau plays CIA operative Miles Kendig, who is designated to a boring desk job after an unsuccessful mission, Ned Beatty,plays Matthau's Dislikable boss,Fed up with his desk job,Kendig decides to pen a tell all memoir of the CIA,which will not only embarrass the agency but kendig's slimy boss, Matthau hooks up with old flame and former agent, Jackson who plays a prim and proper Viennese widow, Whilst romancing Jackson,and writing his memoirs Matthau cleverly outwits Ned Beatty and his goons who are intent on silencing him, 'Pink Panther'Favorite 'Herbert Lom' pops up as a Russian agent, Sam Waterston,plays a rookie agent who idolizes Matthaus ways, Ronald Neame,directs this enjoyable Comedy, Which is finally available on DVD,in 2351 WideScreen,The disc has excellent features including an interview with Director Ronald Neame,It also has an alternative audio option which dubs out the profanity, "},{"Title":"Best Argument for Widescreen, not Pan/Scan","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of the best arguments for widescreen film versions -- in the final scene at the cliff, Sam Waterson (Cutter) and the rest are standing at the cliff watching the wreck of Walter Matthau's (Kendig's) plane.  I remember Cutter saying, in response to a line about Kendig now being dead, something like... Well, he'd just better stay dead.In the old pan & scan (VHS) version of the movie, you cannot see Cutter off to the side of the screen as he says this line, the camera is centered on the other characters and he is cut out.  I remember from the theatrical release (1980!) that Cutter had tears in his eyes as he said this line BUT YOU CANNOT SEE THIS IN THE PAN/SCAN VERSION!I have been waiting more than 20 years for the widescreen DVD release (finally coming out this August, 2002) so I can confirm my memory of this scene. "}{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of my favorite comedies.  Wonderful romantic relationship between Walter Mathau and Glenda Jackson's characters.  Mathau's loves Mozart, so it's got a great score.  Sam Waterston is every bit as credible and reasonable as Ned Beatty in not, so you wonder how they could all be on the same side of the equation.  Wish they would issue it as a DVD. "},{"Title":"Charming but thin","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The great thing about this film is the nonchalant and natural way the actors have fun with the film. Matthau, Jackson, Waterston, and Beatty all play their parts with great ease and sense of a good time. The problem is that the story is simply too thin and the characters don't evolve. There are many scenes, but they fail to build up any sort of complexity; instead they are basically repeats of the same idea over and over. The characters are given no chance to move beyond their initial (albeit charming) characterizations.Do we know anything about any character after their first scenes? Not really. We're given delightful cartoons and then they are set to work on a plot. Anyway, the film showcases some great talent, but don't expect to remember much a couple of weeks later. "},{"Title":"My new role model","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I love films where a smart guy outwits a bunch of buffoons in authority. Walter Matthua plays the veteran CIA agent who decides to resign in a blaze of glory, by revealing all the secrets of his occupation via a book. He leads his former colleagues on a merry dance throughout Europe and America, one step ahead of his dim-witted pursuers all the way. He pauses only to flirt with a very sexy Glenda Jackson, before she turned into a shrieking harridan of an MP. Humiliate your stuff shirted bosses AND have a lot of fun doing it? Am I jealous or what...The script crackles with funny dialogue and ludicrous situations, and as Matthua's plans become more convoluted, so the entertainment factor increases by a notch. He's like the funny uncle I never had (Sorry to my two present incumbents, but it's true) and his sheer presence in every scene is almost enough to make you grin. Give me this guy over 007 any day. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Matthau vehicle","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As I was sitting and watching this film I couldn't help but think how lucky we were to be able to enjoy so many films starring Walter Matthau. He was an original, and how fortunate he evolved beyond a supporting actor to a full-fledged movie star. Some actors ACT funny. Mattau WAS funny.And it is watching Matthau that makes this film enjoyable. It's a mildly clever spy plot, with Matthau playing the fed-up CIA agent that decides to write a tell-all book and then disappear. Along the way he reignites what was an apparently long-standing love affair with Glenda Jackson. Although Jackson definitely plays second-fiddle here to Matthau, I was reminded how much I once enjoyed that fine British actress. Sam Waterston, Ned Beatty, and Herbert Lom each do their part in supporting roles. And the film comes together nicely...not totally unpredictably...but it's pleasing.Perhaps not one for the DVD shelf, but one to savor...at least once. "},{"Title":"A throw-back to the good old days of making interesting, character-driven capers.","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I found this one on streaming Netflix, a real gem of a movie, every scene was absolutely interesting.Walter Matthau was almost 60, and that seems to be the age of his character, Miles Kendig, seemingly considered the best of the CIA agents. In the opening scene, to establish his character, he is in Germany and notices some interesting encounters in the crowd during an Octoberfest celebration. As the Russian spy exits the venue, Kendig confronts him, explains that he has photos, and demands the microfilm spy photo cartridge, in return he will overlook his being there.But Ned Beatty as Myerson is the younger, ambitious, division chief back in Washington. He isn't happy that the Russian spy is let go. So he sentences Kendig to a desk job, a menial filing job, until his retirement. But Myerson has skeletons in his own closet.Kendig decides not to get mad, but to get even. He basically fails to report to work and after a few days they begin to wonder where he was. In fact he was in Salzburg, Austria, visiting his girlfriend, rich widow Glenda Jackson as Isobel. Kendig decides to write a tell-all book about the CIA and in particular about the few he wants revenge against. He copies and sends the first chapter to a number of places, including Moscow and Washington.So most of the movie is about slick, calm Kendig always staying one or two steps ahead of the CIA who are trying to hunt him down. At each new location in hiding he writes another chapter and mails it to all the same places.Good movie, good story, good characters.SPOILERS As the story is getting to its conclusion Kendig, also a pilot, buys an old plane outside London and tells one of the agents he will fly it to mainland Europe, because he knows all the normal exits from England are being monitored. They end up chasing him in a helicopter, and arrive over the cliffs of Dover. Then the airplane explodes over the water, Kendig is presumed dead. But we see that he was actually on land, flying by remote and had set off the explosives. At the very end we see him in a disguise, in a book store, his book Hopscotch is a best seller. He is with his girlfriend, whom he had given power of attorney before he disappeared, so they are set to live the good life. "},{"Title":"Slight, but fun.","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Completely ridiculous, though super endearing. We're asked to believe some serious absurdities, like that one can escape from an English country-side police station with a paper- clip, or that a handful of FBI agents, as opposed to a full swat team with aerial observation, would move in on a major CIA turncoat who's giving away national secrets and is holed up in a country house. But it does still manage to be a mock- solid satire of the intelligence game and the American perception of the CIA in the wake of the disillusioning 1970's. It's also a pretty engaging cat and mouse chase and of course, as always, Matthau gives us a hell of a likable central character to root for. If you dig real-world spy flicks and you don't mind rolling your eyes at a few logic burps, this is a really good time. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hopscotch did not change the world. Although it bridges the rapacious 70s and the venal 80s, it manages to avoid both of those grotesque milieus. So, as far as artifacts go, it's not bad. And it represents a now all-too-rare movie type; entertainment for intelligent adults (with intelligent adults in it). Once upon a time middle aged people were allowed to appear intelligent and desirable, because the culture was less focused on immediate appearances, superficiality and scoring. Glenda Jackson represents a certain type of thinking-mans sex symbol.This globe-trotting yarn is a good vehicle for Matthau who was never really allowed to portray desirable leading men. There are a few good laughs in it. The best scenes just involve Jackson and Matthau bantering. Anyone who thinks it doesn't move fast enough has no mind for civilized entertainment. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!  You've got to see it.","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hopscotch is the kind of movie you can enjoy time and time again.  This is a comic spy thriller with several twists, all great fun.  There are many subtle references to other spy story authors (watch for them).  Each time we watch it we see new things that make the movie even more enjoyable.  We purchased this movie on VHS many years ago and were so happy when the DVD was released as our tape was just about worn out!  The humor between Walter Matthau and Glenda Jackson is classic.  I found the ending so interesting that while in England we visited Beachy Head to see the actual site of the filming.  This is as close to a guaranteed good time as a movie can be! "},{"Title":"Entertainment at its very best","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are few films that I can watch more than once a year.  Hopscotch is a film that I can watch once a week and still enjoy.  Walter Matthau's rubber face and Glenda Jackson make a delightful pair, and Sam Waterston is perfect in his understated role.Critics, like some of my long suffering friends, like to point out plot holes, and the constant portrayal of top government officials as buffoons. But films are supposed to entertain, and Hopscotch does just that- and does it better than most.So when is the DVD going to finally be issued?? "},{"Title":"Fond recollections","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Recall this one fondly from my childhood.  It was one of my mom's faves, but don't hold that against the movie, which was good fun and quite humorous if memory serves.  Worth a look-see. 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"One of the Sharpest Late Cold War Comedies","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After their success in HOUSECALLS (1978) Glenda Jackson and Walter Matthau got re teamed again in this marvelous spoof of the world of spies.Matthau has been one of the best trained CIA operatives in the field, but he is aware that the atmosphere where he blossomed is being tainted by a new chief - Ned Beatty. Beatty is ultra conservative politically (Matthau's more easy-going; witness his rivalry friendship with his opposite number Herbert Lom, the Russian KGB expert). Beatty is trying to force Matthau into line or to resign. So he transfer him to a meaningless desk job. Matthau decides that he has to get out of this dead end - and get out with a great deal of money.First, taking advantage of his still existent clearance, Matthau removes his personnel file from CIA headquarters. Then he goes underground, keeping in touch with only one person - Jackson, his old fellow agent and sometime girlfriend. While Beatty and Sam Waterston (Matthau's friend, and the reluctant assistant to the hated Beatty) try to find Matthau, the latter starts typing up his memoirs which will show the incompetence of certain figures (i.e. Beatty) in all the world's major police and intelligence services. He sends copies of the chapters to the publisher he has chosen, but also to Beatty, Lom, and several others. The revelations (all protected by freedom of the press - the book is being published in England, and the English are not apparently one of the secret police groups targeted), make Beatty furious - and more determined than ever to find and silence Matthau.Unfortunately Matthau is so far superior to Beatty in brains and cunning that he runs circles around him. The best moment is when he manages to have the FBI destroy Beatty's summer house. Similarly Jackson does a number on one of Beatty's favorite acolytes, who is stupid enough to be trapped in her home when she has left - and left behind a large, mean Doberman Pincher.The film reaches a climax in England. Will Beatty and the reluctant Waterston catch Matthau, or will he continue making a monkey out of Beatty - or will he find the ultimate escape route? It was a wonderful comedy. Unfortunately it would be the last that Jackson and Matthau made together. "},{"Title":"Staying one step ahead of the CIA in this Cold War comedy","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The plot for Hopscotch is very simple. One of the top CIA field agents is being sent to a desk job until retirement. Walter Matthau plays Miles Kendig. His boss is of the Ivy League set and doesn't like the way Miles works. Ned Beatty plays boss Myerson. We don't like him right away. He's a jerk, not as intelligent, and he swears and cusses a lot. Miles won't take it sitting down, and decides to go on the lamb. He destroys the CIA file on himself, and through work contacts arranges for a few new IDs &#x96; passports and all. Miles contacts a former colleague and girlfriend to help him with parts of his plan. He wants to get back together with Isobel (played by Glenda Jackson), who is a well-to-do widow now living in Switzerland. A couple of other main characters are Cutter, a CIA agent who Miles trained, and who is now in charge of trying to find him. Cutter likes Miles, and tells the boss that he will be a step ahead of them all the way. The other character of substance is a Soviet counterpart to Miles, whom Miles like and respects. Miles know how he thinks.. Herbert Lom plays Yaskov, who also likes and respects Miles. Most of the film is about Miles eluding the CIA who pursue him around the globe. He is writing his memoirs and sending them, a chapter at a time, to the CIA and its counterparts in Moscow, Peking, London and Rome. Myerson wants Miles eliminated, and maybe the other intelligence groups do as well. But Miles finds a publisher in London, and his book becomes a best seller. As he sets in play each move, Miles stays a step ahead of his pursuers. Until the very end with its unusual but not very surprising ending. The film is based on a book by Brian Garfield. In an interview that came with my DVD of the movie, Garfield said he wanted to write a CIA story as an adventure and a comedy without the gore and killing. His screenplay kept to the book in that regard. He and Ronald Neame, director, talked about how Ned Beatty had to practice using his profanity because he wasn't that way in real life. That's the one thing that keeps this from being a movie for all ages. Another reviewer noted how the intrigue of the plot keeps one somewhat on edge for what comes next. We all pull for Miles and want him to succeed. The comedy isn't of the loud laughing type, but is dry and subtle at times with some humorous situations. It's an enjoyable film, but there's still something lacking about it. We don't see or know what Miles plans to do from one point to the next --- and there's a sense that he doesn't have a plan. He even says something to that effect at one point. Yet his every move seems so methodically planned out. He moves too smoothly and almost nonchalantly between stops. He visits a forger. He flies to Switzerland. He rents a car. He drives to see Isobel. He flies to London. He visits a man for a job there. He flies to Washington. He drives to South Carolina. He rents a house. He hires an oil truck. He hires a plane and pilot. He flies to Bermuda. He flies to London. He hires buys, rents and flies ad infinitum.The movie was shot in several locations &#x96; London, Munich, Salzburg, Atlanta and other locales. In the interview that came with my DVD, we learn that Matthau was cool on doing the filming portion in Germany. He is Jewish and lost several relatives who were killed by Nazi Germany during World War II. Ronald Neame explains how he got Matthau to come around. It involved giving parts in the film to some relatives. Mathau's son, David Matthau, plays CIA agent Ross. Lucy Saroyan, daughter of Matthau's second wife, plays the airline pilot, Carla. Both tested well for their parts, according to Neame, and he said he made their roles conditional on Matthau's agreeing to the filming in Munich during the annual Oktoberfest there. This movie was made at a time when Cold War spy and espionage films were highly popular. It broke away from the usual suspense and mayhem with killing and gruesome scenes. It offers a light comedic touch to the otherwise dark and often seedy world of espionage. It's not a great or complex film, but a light comedy that most adults should enjoy. "},{"Title":"Walter Matthau delights in this breezy comic spy romp","Date":"27 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Shrewd and rumpled veteran CIA operative Miles Kendig (marvelously played with crusty aplomb by Walter Matthau) gets demoted to a dull desk job. Disgruntled with this dismal situation, Kendig decides to strike back by publishing a tell-all memoir that exposes the innermost secrets of several major world intelligence agencies.Director Ronald Neame, working from a witty script by Brian Garfield and Bryan Forbes, relates the enjoyable story at a snappy pace, maintains an engaging tongue-in-cheek tone throughout, makes inspired use of classical music, and pokes wickedly droll fun at basic spy movie formula conventions (the sequence with a bunch of trigger happy agents destroying a house that they think Kendig is hiding in is an absolute riot!). The fine acting by the top-rate cast keeps this film buzzing, with especially stand-out contributions from Glenda Jackson as Kendig's feisty old flame Isobel, Ned Beatty as huffy, bumbling, foulmouthed superior Myerson, Herbert Lom as Kendig's suave and cagey Soviet nemesis Yaskov, Sam Waterston as the easygoing Cutter, David Matthau as the zealous, but inept Ross, and Severn Darden as the corrupt Maddox. The crisp widescreen cinematography by Brian W. Roy and Arthur Ibbetson provides an impressive elegant look. The various globe-trotting locations -- Austria, Germany, England, and so on -- supply a neat sense of scope. However, it's Matthau's utterly amiable shambling grace and wonderfully relaxed natural chemistry with Jackson which in turn gives this picture an extra additional appeal and energy. A total treat. "},{"Title":"A really fun, old but not ancient, classic.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Maybe this isn't truly a ten, but I'm going with it, because I so badly wish they still made movies like this. An actual clever plot, no extraordinary malice or violence, and likable characters. Sure, this isn't Walter Matthau's strongest movie, but it is still solid and just leaves you feeling good in an uncomplicated way. Also, the chemistry between Matthau and Glenda Jackson works brilliantly and much of the movie is filmed i Europe. What's not to like? I don't have a lot more to add, except that if you are around 50 years or older, you might really enjoy this movie; however, if you are much younger, it may seem too slow and stilted, although I can vouch for the fact that that's really pretty much how life was back then. You young rapscallions probably wouldn't believe it anyhow that the world actually was a much nicer place not too long ago. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hopscotch is a light-hearted, fun film that treats us to witty dialogue, gorgeous European locations, a sumptuous Mozart score and a battle of wits between ex-CIA man Matthau and his former boss Beatty.It's hard to believe that Hopscotch received poor reviews when it came out. If you approach it with the right frame of mind--that is, looking for a clever, enjoyable film--then you'll have a ball. Maybe the reviewers wanted sex and violence? Sorry, none of that here. Maybe they wanted a movie that needed to make a deep point? Outside of satirizing the government and its feeble-minded minions, there is none. No, you'll have to settle for an elegant, sophisticated show filled with memorable characters that help you root for the good guys (or good guy). Can't imagine who would object to that. "},{"Title":"Catch Me If You Can.","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Matthau is one of the best field agents in the CIA. He's hated by his boss, Beatty, who humiliates him and assigns him to a desk job, to be replaced by the younger Waterston, who admires Matthau. Well, actually, everyone except Beatty admires Matthau, even his opposite number, Herbert Lom, in the Soviet intelligence apparat.In retaliation, Matthau cheerfully erases his identity and sets about writing a book that exposes all of the most secret operations of the CIA and the Soviets. Beatty is scandalized, and he and Waterston and Lom pursue Matthau and Jackson, his girl friend, all over Europe and the Southern United States. Matthau, being an exceptionally knowledgeable operative, remains one step ahead of them.He tricks everyone into believing he's been killed. The book is published and becomes a best seller. And Matthau, in a ludicrous disguise, insists on patronizing book stores and hearing his work praised.It's treated lightly, with trippingly elegant Mozart pieces used as the score. Matthau's spy is a big fan of Mozart. The scheme begins in Salzburg. Coincidentally, Bizet's Carmen provided the score for Matthau's later film, The Bad News Bears. Twenty years earlier his character had hummed pieces of Carmen in One, Two, Three. Twenty-three years before, he skipped down a hallway whistling a tune from Mozart's 41st symphony in A Face In The Crowd. Should we be worried? He does well as the CIA agent, always his usual, slouching, unpretentious self. Glenda Jackson is strictly secondary, which is just as well. Her popularity always eluded me. She's so domineering and icy. Maybe if you're into bondage or something -- But Waterston is fine as the friend reluctantly drawn into the pursuit, which turns from comic to serious over time, with the threat of termination hanging in the air. In fact, as comedy, this is only moderately successful. There is some drollery in the script but little in the situations themselves. One of the reasons I saw it through to the end is that, with a few changes, this could easily have been a dramatic thriller with Matthau dying. The ridiculous turned into the tragic.Matthau gets to do a side-splitting imitation of Eleanor Roosevelt. Some nice location shooting, a few impressive aerial shots, and nice reactions from a balked and frustrated Ned Beatty tearing his hair out as his house is mistakenly shot to pieces. "},{"Title":"A fun spy caper","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first enjoyed this film when I saw it on television but hadn't seen it for years, thankfully I found it on DVD and could enjoy it again. Often when one sees an old favourite many years later it turns out to be less enjoyable than one remembered but that wasn't the case with the excellent film.Walter Matthau plays CIA field agent Miles Kendig who quits when his new boss transfers him to a desk job. He doesn't do this by resigning but by shredding his file and heading to Austria where he meets up with an old flame played by Glenda Jackson. He also meets his old adversary, KGB agent Yaskov, played by Herbert Lom, who tries unsuccessfully to recruit him. He does however make a joke about Kendig writing his memoirs which he things is a good idea.Once he has written the first chapter he posts copies to several intelligence agencies including the CIA and KGB. His boss, Myerson, is less than impressed and decides to have him killed before he can cause more embarrassment. Of course before they can do that they must find him and he is always one step ahead of them, often letting them know where he is just before he changes his identity once again and moves on. At one point he actually rents Myerson's Summer house which inevitable annoys him even more.Just because this is a film about a spy on the run don't expect it to be like the Bourne series, after all is is a comedy and Matthau is playing an agent at the end of his career, not an ultra-fit assassin. The acting is good, especially from Matthau and Jackson in the two main roles. The only slight fault with the film is that there is quite a lot of swearing from Myerson which means parents might not want younger children watching it. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Cold War/Cia Thrillers","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is easily the best of the Cold War Spy Thrillers - John Le Carre movies excluded since they engage a different perspective. The script is so much fun that you can easily coast along wondering where it all leads. The casting is inspired with Walter and Glenda running the show and Ned Beatty providing the perfect counterfoil.I've worked my way through the 'Best spy thrillers' lists and for whatever reason this gem doesn't rank, but it is by a long way the best of the lot.The script is fast-paced and very witty. The acting is excellent - understated and very amusing. I have to think the Director was more interested in the plot than the plaudits because he set every scene to play for what it was - and the dialog is quick and apt. The musical score for once really acts as a sub-dimension that increases one's pleasure - no blaring fanfares when nothing is happening, or to herald a big moment - but Mozart used better than ever.Beats the rest of the 60s-2000s offerings by a long way. It's a keeper! "},{"Title":"Matthau makes you smile again & again","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've been a fan of Walter Mattau for over 40 years, starting with the Odd Couple, followed by his previous movies and all since then. Walter can crack you up with just a look, as he does to great effect in Hopscotch. This movie graced the local cinema in Leeds and along i went with a couple of friends just to relax and enjoy. We all thought the plot was terrific and Matthau perfect for the role. His constant whistling and humming of Verdi, Mozart etc adding to his persona of someone enjoying getting his own back on the miserable Masterson. I particularly like the way Herbert Lom's character accepts with good grace - they're old spy friends - that he's been caught out, and then continues on his merry way, until he too has cause to be alarmed at Matthaus forthcoming book. The whole movie is an enjoyment and at times laugh out loudable - if there's such a word, especially when Masterson shoots up his own home. Unfortunately my VHS copy has worn out and it is yet to be released on DVD. Please someone hurry up and re-issue it again. Great fun, great movie. "},{"Title":"Superb Screenplay, Tight, Not a Second Wasted, Lovely.","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the movie I have viewed most often about 30 times since 1990. The second most viewed is A Man For All Seasons at about 12. Few others have been seen from my library more than once, perhaps 100 or so 2 or 3 times.Why? Because it restores me/us every time we see it.The script is one I would use were I teaching script writing. It is tight, clever, simple and easy like all great art.The performances are all very fine, including Cutter, despite his rumored tiredness on the set (no fault of his - see details on this website).And, perhaps above all, it has become more timely with every passing year, a more and more accurate portrayal of an institution many have grown to doubt or even distrust.What better than such a clever revenge story? Superb evening's entertainment that you will come back to again and again.It is consistently rising in the ratings both on this site and in the published books. Should be a 9 or 10, and recent reviews tend to be higher rather than lower.Recommended without hesitation. It will lift you.Paul Muller, Lauzerte, France. "}{"Title":"a unique, hidden gem of a movie","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is one of my personal favorites. When the Criterion Collection released Hopscotch on DVD several years ago, I immediately went out and bought a copy.I do not know another movie quite like it. I first saw it as a pre-teen in the early 80's. It is a clever spy story, replete with twists, turns, and comedy throughout. I cannot think of any other (non slapstick), spy chase movie with plenty of shooting... yet no one gets killed in a shootout. The movie is full of twists and turns, but no matter how many times I see it, I still love it. Hopscotch has a well written screen play with a strong supporting cast.Some people will suggest there is poor chemistry between Glenda Jackson and Walter Matthau, but I tend to disagree. The chemistry is there, it's just different than the kind usually shown in Hollywood. The dialogue in their first scene together is sublime. How many fun spy stories do you know which have an entire scene built around metaphor, and, yet, don't feel force-fed?I finally got around to reading Brian Garfield's original novel last fall, and although I liked it, I didn't find it nearly as enjoyable as the film. But to be fair, the movie treatment, also by Garfield, is different. It is like comparing apples and oranges.I have never been a groupie of Matthau or Jackson. That said, if you have never seen this movie, buy it or rent it. You won't be sorry! "},{"Title":"Must see for fans of good acting","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is in my collection, first on tape, now on DVD, as the tape was getting worn out with much viewing. It must surely be one of the movies that somehow missed fame. Maybe the humour is too clean, or the acting puts too many others to shame. Glenda Jackson is delicious as the partner-in-crime, Walter Matthau has to be seen to be believed. Maybe he is just playing himself, but the part must have been written for and round him. As for the scene where he gets his idiot boss to ........ but we mustn't give anything away, must we. Any movie buff who enjoys a sexy movie with no sex, a spy movie with no-one killed, a chase movie with (almost) no car crashes or a humorous movie with no swear words will love this one. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Pure entertainment - grabs you from the beginning and it doesn't let go!","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are few films I can think of that come at you from so many different angles and do it so successfully - drama, comedy, romance, suspense, slapstick, mystery - it's all there. As may be expected the late, great Walter Matthau turns in a terrific performance as disgruntled CIA field agent, Miles Kendig, who is, in the beginning of the film, unjustly demoted by his direct superior, Myerson (played by Ned Beatty) for successfully using his own initiative in shutting down a major spy ring in West Germany. The rest of the film deals with Kendig's wonderfully unique approach to teaching his boss why his demotion was such a huge mistake, all the while having the time of his life pursuing romance while eluding pursuit by the CIA, KGB, Scotland Yard, etc. Wonderfully entertaining and not to be missed ! "},{"Title":"Matthau's Masterpiece!","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've been a Walter Matthau fan for as LONG time. He was excellent with Carol Burnett in PETE 'N TILLIE, and Elaine May in A NEW LEAF, but when he did HOUSE CALLS with Glenda Jackson, there was an instant chemistry that neither Burnett or May came anywhere near matching. Somehow, the pair of Jackson and Matthau just meshed and complemented each other perfectly.In HOUSE CALLS, Jackson does a hilarious physical comedy bit with Matthau, a scene where they try to achieve the old Hayes Office movie requirement that people on the screen MUST make love with at least one foot on the floor. May, in A NEW LEAF, has a similar physical comedy bit, a sequence where Matthau, on their honeymoon, has to help the inept May to correctly put on a complicated night gown which she'd bought for the big night, and promptly made a mess of. In that sequence May approaches, but does not match, Jackson's on screen chemistry with Matthau.HOUSE CALLS was good... but HOPSCOTCH is the ultimate comedic triumph for Matthau! We're talking about a low key, sophisticated, INTELLIGENT comedy here; the lovers of frat house farces need not bother to watch. No double entendres, no fart jokes, and no out of context obscenities anywhere... but nonetheless a hilarious film. The current crop of young directors could learn a LOT from watching this one! Interestingly, Matthau's smooth, civilized, understated comedic style is counterpointed beautifully by the more conventionally broad, less sophisticated comedic style used by Ned Beatty in the film.Matthau plays Miles Kendig, a very unconventional CIA agent who also just happens to be the very best that the Agency has. After a successful operation, he finds that his new boss, Meyerson (Ned Beatty) does NOT consider the operation to have been successful. Meyerson is new to the job, and somewhat crude in his approach to intelligence and counterespionage, in addition to being possessed of all of the personal charm of a suppository. As retribution he takes the maverick Kendig out of field operations, intent on keeping him as a filing clerk until retirement.Kendig, having decided that the spy game had become too dirty and crude for his tastes, decides on his OWN retirement plan; simply, he writes a book in which he exposes all of the past failed operations he knows about, and tells of the current stupidity of Meyerson's regime. To rub everyone's nose in it (especially Meyerson's), he mails one chapter of the book at a time to ALL of the world's major intelligence organizations... who are unanimous in their conclusion that Miles Kendig MUST be eliminated, and the publication of his book stopped, at all costs! Therein lies the tale...Kendig's assignment is to stay one step ahead of those who are out to stop him while having a little fun at their expense (and wreaking some well deserved revenge at the same time) in a round the world chase; a game of global hopscotch. In his somewhat goofy quest he's ably assisted by friend / ex-lover / ex-CIA agent Isobel von Schoenenberg (Jackson), operating out of her home in Salzburg, Austria.Sam Waterston puts in a bravura supporting performance as Joe Cutter, Kendig's protg and replacement, who NOW has the assignment of taking Kendig out of play. Cutter very much likes and admires Kendig, but he'll carry out his job if he can... as Kendig no doubt taught him.One thing that gives this film a lot of it's charm and sophistication is it's music. Walter Matthau was a long time lover of classical music, and a great deal of the sound track is a tour de force of Mozart!Matthau was always intelligent and classy in his work. Watching HOPSCOTCH makes me miss him all the more... NOBODY out there now can give us his brand of humor. I won't tell any more of the plot, you'll have to see the film for yourself. All I can say is that the film is, without question, the crowning career achievement for Walter Matthau.It's DEFINITELY worth your time! "},{"Title":"Smart - A beautiful tribute to Walter and Glenda","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Intelligent, timeless comedy that is a pleasure to watch over and over again. My favorite Walter film by far. His pairing with Glenda represents the unique mixture of two of acting's great curmudgeons. The scene with Myerson's house is a classic set-up. Very fun! "},{"Title":"A very long joke","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is unique.  It is so good, great even, that it transcends the ordinary in the same way that The Sting, Casablanca, and many others did. All of these are disguised by genre, going unrecognized for quite some time as the magnificent works they are. "},{"Title":"intelligent spy comedy","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The CIA tries to stop a retired agent from publishing his potentially embarrassing memoirs. Cloak-and-dagger satire suitable for family entertainment.  Sly, low-key performances with exceptional script and nice plot twists.  (Rating A-minus) "},{"Title":"One of my favorites...","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love a twisty plot with surprises (The Sting is also a favorite in this category), so I thoroughly enjoyed this one.  Matthau is perfect for this role.  My entire family loves this one; it is a great family movie. "},{"Title":"wonderful film","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this is a real gem. extremely witty and intelligent script w/o abundant special effects consigns it to oblivion. however its just vintage walter with an excellent backup cast. one of my all time favorites of its type. ps great music  "},{"Title":"A great escape movie, with many laughs.  Always cheers me up.","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the first movie I bought.  It always makes me feel better when work pressures are getting me down.  Love the characters.   "}{"Title":"Big names having big fun","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie features some big-name talent having a lot of fun romping across most of the Western Hemisphere and generally fulfilling all your expectations in the most unexpected ways.CIA agent Kendig gets promoted to a desk job and chafes at being taken out of the game, then sets out to expose the Agency's worst secrets in a tell-all book.If you have only ever seen Sam Waterston in dramas, you owe yourself the experience of seeing him in this comedic role, where he truly shines as Cutter, the snarky agent sent out to hunt Kendig, Walter Matthau's character. Ned Beatty is hilariously malicious as CIA dirty tricks honcho Myerson, a role beefed up significantly for the movie than it was in the book, which was more about the tango between Kendig and Cutter.Grade 10 out of 10. Superior. Exceptionally brilliant and/or personally meaningful. "},{"Title":"Hopscotch never skips a beat","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hopscotch is one of my all-time favourite movies. Walter Mattaugh gives, in my opinion, one of his best performances as an agent who is getting back at all the spy agencies by publishing his memoirs. The plot twists are great and the pace never lets up. I particularly like the soundtrack which has some great classical music. A great flick!P.S. Let me know if anyone has a UK copy!! "},{"Title":"Hopscotch","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An aging CIA agent takes elaborate revenge plan on his boss who forced him to retire, and decides to write his memoirs.Uneven and scrappy but energetic, sprightly diverting and very likeable caper comedy, graced by deft performances and a delicately witty script. "},{"Title":"Hopscotch","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An aging CIA agent takes elaborate revenge plan on his boss who forced him to retire, and decides to write his memoirs.Uneven an scrappy but energetic, sprightly diverting and very likeable caper comedy, graced by deft performances and a delicately witty script. "},{"Title":"A tongue in cheek, spy story","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Walter Matthau, while attempting to retire from the spy business, makes a mockery of the spy game.  He and Glenda Jackson play a game on the game inventors. Great fun. "},{"Title":"Spy Spills Special Secrets","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Although Hopscotch is lovingly photographed in many locations around the world and beautifully played by its stars Walter Matthau and Glenda Jackson, I could not quite get into it.Matthau plays a top CIA man who is stationed in West Germany and who has his corner of the Cold War down to a science. His opposite number for the Russians is Herbert Lom and they hold each other in mutual respect.That's not good enough for Ned Beatty the new guy in charge who after Matthau recovers secret microfilm from Lom, Beatty wants to know why not terminate Lom. Matthau considers that kind of stupid because he and Lom know each other so well that if that ever happened and the Russians put a new guy in charge, it would take him years to get know a new man's moves as well as Lom. In point of fact by the time this film was made, the whole Cold War had settled into something like this.But Beatty's a true believer and he relieves Matthau. A move Matthau doesn't take lying down. He writes his memoirs and threatens to reveal all including a lot of embarrassing moments for the CIA. Beatty than makes it a crusade to get Matthau and Matthau with the help of girl Friday Glenda Jackson leads them on a merry chase on two continents.As ridiculous a fool as Beatty is made out to be, in point of fact he's not wrong. But this was the Seventies, the age of Watergate and as is said in the film, National security is not the all embracing excuse it once was.As for the ending you'll find almost the same ending in Charley Varrick, a movie that starred Walter Matthau that I liked a lot better. "},{"Title":"May be Matthau's best performance ever.","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A movie I grudgingly loved.  Grudgingly because, like M*A*S*H and All in the Family, it makes the pro-American, pro-establishment good guys buffoons and makes a hero out of the anti-establishment, anti-American rogue.  Loved because, again like M*A*S*H and All in the Family, it is so overwhelmingly funny that it's impossible not to like it.Ned Beatty makes the perfect buffoon, and Walter Matthau plays him like a fine instrument.  Sam Waterston's wry sense of humor in seeing things from Matthau's viewpoint even while trying to apprehend him adds to the mix, as does Glenda Jackson in the role of sidekick.Much as I hate to say it, this is a must-see movie. "},{"Title":"Fantastically fun, partially angering.","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What a thriller. It's Matthau being funny, cunning, and the best part about this movie, beside his partner, Glenda Jackson who seems to just be along for the ride and watch him go. The man destined to chase him down (a young Sam Waterston) looks tired, beat down, out of it, and not really into being the guy that brings down his former mentor, which in itself was kind of fun to watch. Matthau's serious but silly 'one step ahead' role couldn't have been played by anyone else so well. But I believe the biggest and only problem I had with this film was the amount of unnecessary swearing by the CIA agents that were after him. It was incomprehensible and only made me dislike the movie, along with strange overdubbing on specific scenes that didn't really belong there. Other than that, a flawless action/spy movie that could still hold up in today's standards. "},{"Title":"Tale of Matthau's rogue CIA agent is a rather dull and boring affair","Date":"3 April 2010","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You'll probably love 'Hopscotch' if you love Walter Matthau. It's really a one man show with the supporting cast playing second fiddle all the way to the late, great thespian. The film dates back to 1980 during the height of the Cold War. Matthau plays Miles Kendig, a veteran CIA agent who takes down a Soviet spy ring but declines to eliminate the leader of the operation, his KGB nemesis, Yaskov. Kendig has been friends with Yaskov for years and when his new boss at CIA headquarters, Myerson (played by an unpleasant Ned Beatty who continually employs the F word throughout the movie), is angered by Kendig's refusal to eliminate Yaskov, he transfers the veteran operative to the file room.Kendig then destroys his own file and takes off without telling anyone at the CIA where he is off to. He then meets with Yaskov who offers him a job as a double agent but Kendig regretfully declines. Yaskov then asks Kendig what he'll do with the rest of his life and when Kendig replies that he's uncertain, Yaskov suggests that he write his memoirs. This is the impetus for the second act of 'Hopscotch' in which Kendig decides to take his revenge on his former employer by sending the first chapter of his memoirs to various spy agencies around the world including the CIA. The memoirs chronicle a long history of CIA 'dirty tricks' in which Myerson had a big hand. Myerson is bent on eliminating Kendig in order to prevent the big expose.The rest of Hopscotch involves a cat and mouse game where Myerson, along with the operative who replaced Kendig, Cutter (ably played by a young Sam Waterson), attempt to discover Kendig's whereabouts before he finishes his manuscript and has it published. Kendig ends up globe trotting including a trip to Myerson's house in Georgia where he places firecrackers inside the living room and then phones the CIA from Myerson's home phone. The FBI joins the CIA and they end up shooting up the house as the firecrackers go off. Kendig escapes by taking one of Myerson's bumbling operatives hostage, driving off in a small truck (since this is supposed to be a comedy, no one ever tries to jump Kendig while he brandishes a gun, knowing full well that he would never shoot anyone!).Nothing much else happens until the climax when Kendig rigs an old bi-plane to fly via remote control. As Myerson chases the bi-plane in a helicopter, Kendig pushes a button and the plane explodes, leading the CIA to believe that Kendig is no more (it's not clear how Kendig makes it look like he never got into the plane). With the CIA no longer chasing him, Kendig's memoirs becomes a best-seller and he walks off into the sunset with his old flame, Isobel, played by the now retired Glenda Jackson.We first meet Isobel at the beginning of the film where Kendig rekindles his old relationship with her in Austria. Unfortunately, the chemistry between the two actors fizzles, since they are never seen face to face until the end of the movie (they communicate constantly via telephone). The same goes for all the other principals (including Beatty and Waterston) who have virtually no screen time face to face with Matthau (there's a rather flat scene where Kendig ties Cutter up in a hotel room).If you're looking for many twists and turns, you will not find it here in 'Hopscotch'. The whole thing is a rather pedestrian affair, adapted from a popular novel whose screenplay did not translate very well into the intended visual tour de force. Hopscotch is also supposed to be witty and amusing but is undercut by the one-note, nasty image of the CIA, represented by the aforementioned unpleasant Myerson, bent on taking down a rogue agent at any cost. The CIA's attempt to eliminate Kendig (instead of capturing him), ruins the otherwise whimsical tone of the film's narrative. On the other hand, Waterson's 'Cutter' and Herbert Lom's 'Yaskov' are too warm-hearted to have much effect on the proceedings, as the story simply plods along.My late father, a big classical music aficionado, was a big fan of this movie and with a plethora of all that Mozart constituting the film's soundtrack, I can understand why. Despite the endearing musical score, Hopscotch's plot is a big dud as its protagonist's machinations do not prove to be very clever. If you're willing to give Hopscotch a 'pass' based on your love for Walter Matthau (as Roger Ebert did in his 1980 review), then you might deceive yourself into believing this is a well-written movie. It's not and in reality it's a rather dull and boring affair! "},{"Title":"Hopscotch Jumps Around **1/2","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Walter Matthau is as clever as ever in this 1980 film. The problem with this that after the plot is announced, the movie becomes tedious at best.Matthau is the zany CIA man who is demoted and decides to write a tell-all book which is quite damaging to the agency. He meets his match in acting with Ned Beatty as the head of the bureau. Beatty knows how to use that salty language and whoever made his hairdo should have received some sort of award. His hair is arranged as if it's in a flower pot.Glenda Jackson, already a 2 time Oscar winner by the time this picture was made, plays his ex-CIA girlfriend who aids him in his attempt to allude everyone.There are some funny scenes but there is only so far you can go with such a plot. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly crass...","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" CIA agent, deemed an over-the-hill insubordinate by his new boss, quits and threatens to write his memoirs, exposing the department's dirty tricks to all the nations. Callow screenplay by Brian Garfield and Bryan Forbes (adapted from Garfield's book) was criticized at the time for turning the original, darker spy material into another lightweight affair retooled for its stars, Walter Matthau and Glenda Jackson (reteamed from 1978's House Calls); but if the critics were implying that the film was a comedy, they were way off the mark. Matthau and Jackson once again show a nice rapport, but the sharp-tongued dialogue is sniggering and pushy instead of funny, particularly a 'fag' joke that was de rigueur for 1980. The film looks terrible in dull browns and olive greens, moves sluggishly, and is filled with characters one would cross the street in order to avoid. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Pleasant enough","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hopscotch would have been a much more mediocre comedy without Walter Matthau's brilliant performance. If you don't care about the rather implausible plot twists, this mild spy flick can provide good fun. Glenda Jackson is somewhat miscast as the Austrian lady friend, but her and Matthau's first scene together is simply delectable. "},{"Title":"The Spy Who Came Out From The Heat","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was shown late last night on TV and having watched it and then read the first page of comments here I'm slightly bewildered by what seems exaggerated praise. By permitting a middle-aged, non-athletic WAlter Matthau to take on both the CIA and FBI and make monkeys out of both is stretching credibility to the limit; it's like the Bourne Identity without the fx but the difference is that in the case of Bourne you were in no doubt that his masters were seriously angry and he was often seconds away from termination whereas here, Matthau seems moments away from only a custard pie in the face. Whilst it's undeniable that the film is intended as a comedy drama it never seems to fire up fully in either genre but is pleasant to watch because of Matthau who again co-stars with Glenda Jackson which makes it possible that the whole raison d'etre for this was the success of House Calls. As late TV movies go this is certainly watchable but that's all. "},{"Title":"Butterscotch Is Better","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hopscotch is a slow-paced but charming comedy starring Walter Matthau as a rogue spy who threatens to write a book revealing agency secrets. This is not a laugh-a-minute picture&#x85; it moves at a snail's pace and takes its sweet time unfurling what proves to be an only mildly-clever story. That said, it's great to see Walter Matthau in a comedy from an era when comedic leads weren't forced to be maniacal slapstick stick figures&#x85; Matthau plays it cool and smart, which lends the film an extra touch of class.If the script had been re-written once or twice more with a focus on comedic tempo and extra punchlines, Hopscotch might be a classic. As it is there are simply too many minutes that slip by without any jokes, too many talky scenes featuring men in suits, sitting, and too much repetition How many times can we watch Matthau taunt his pursuers while they do slow burns in frustration?Sam Waterston makes an appearance in the film, proving that he was always 45 years old, and Ned Beatty plays some sort of furious bloated midget who somehow got to be head of the CIA. Not much else going on here&#x85; there are some cute moments, if you're in such a mood, but otherwise I doubt you'll make it through the picture&#x85; oh, well&#x85; there's always masturbation.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Tired, slow, dull.","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After all the positive comments here I was shocked by how bad this was. The dialog is labored, the pacing extremely slow, the situations lack plausibility or interest. A sad comedown for the actors and director. The underlying impulse seems to be anti-Nixon, or more generally anti-uptight Republican types. I could sympathize with that message but not in this ham-handed form. Also an age thing happening the old guy outwits the young guns--except the young guns have no heft at all so who cares? It's not seriously involving and not funny enough to be a parody. Hard to believe this is a Criterion DVD. I felt almost as let down as when I saw the excruciating A New Leaf. If you want a good Matthau movie try Charley Varrick. "}]