[{"Title":"A film for the ages.","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a movie about the kind of people most of us spend our lives trying to avoid drunks, whores and cripples of every description. The setting is seamy, mostly taking place in an old neighborhood bar; no ferns here, no clever reparte between beautiful people. The is a story of loneliness and not a little darkness, leavened with gentle, often self-effacing humor.The miracle here is the degree to which you wind up truly caring about what happens to these folks. The action in the movie is simple. The people are not, and it is a remarkable feat of storytelling to bring this ensemble to such rich, moving life.This is truly a sleeper, Steinbeckian in its evocation of the common humanity in us all. "},{"Title":"Very good movie with some excellent performances and good scriptwriting (great ending!)","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Let me start out first with a bit of a disclaimer I am disabled, so I was either going to love this movie or hate it, depending on how real things seemed to me.  So my comments have to be seen in that light.  Here goesThis is a very good film, with a good cast, some excellent performances and I love the script.  But the thing that impresses me the most about this film is its portrayal of the disabled.  They come across as average, normal people-sometimes they're jerks, like most people and sometimes they're nice folks, like most people.  There is nothing inherently heroic about being disabled.  Conversely, the disabled should not be hermetically sealed off from society for their protection (or yours).  All too often, peole make assumptions about people and far too many are made about the disabled.  End of sermon.The other thing I like about this film, although it is admittedly a bit too pat, is the ending of a couple of plot threads.  Suffice it to say that Several of the characters get what they deserve, good and bad.  I love the poetic justice (or karma, if you prefer) at the end, in the basketball arena.  Most recommended.  "},{"Title":"High on my list of top 10 movies of all time.","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  John Savage provides us with another look at his exceptional talent with perhaps his finest performance since The Deerhunter, with a supporting cast including Oscar-nominated Diana Scarwid and another of my favorites, David Morse.  A truly feel-good movie, directed by Richard Donner, that explores the depths of human emotion while depicting the sometimes comedic, sometimes heartwrenching stories of characters who are all crippled, either physically, mentally, or morally.  It is a great mystery to me why this movie has not been made available on DVD, and if I knew how to achieve its release, I would be relentless in my pursuit of that goal! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Uplifting Movie","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Detailing the plot of this film would lead the unsuspecting to assume they were in for an hour and a half of depression - but quite the opposite. The acting was spot on, the script razor sharp, and the storyline genuinely different and inspiring. I've not seen a copy on video or dvd for years, and for some reason it's never been on terrestrial tv in the UK, and I have to admit I'm baffled as to why. In the genre, it's quite simply one of the best films ever made. "},{"Title":"It's been eighteen years since I saw this movie, but thinking about the way things unfold in the story I still get tears in my eyes.","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a movie about the kind of people most of us spend our lives trying to avoid drunks, whores and cripples of every description. The setting is seamy, mostly taking place in an old neighborhood bar; no ferns here, no clever reparte between beautiful people. The is a story of loneliness and not a little darkness, leavened with gentle, often self-effacing humor.The miracle here is the degree to which you wind up truly caring about what happens to these folks. The action in the movie is simple. The people are not, and it is a remarkable feat of storytelling to bring this ensemble to such rich, moving life.This is truly a sleeper, Steinbeckian in its evocation of the common humanity in us all. "},{"Title":"Soulful masterpiece.","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's been many years since I've seen this film, but I've never forgotten it.  There's little I can offer in terms of praise that hasn't already been posted here by other commentators.It's a film about adversity, finding friendship, and finding the inner strength to rebuild and embrace life for what it is.  It's a film that shows people with physical disabilities in a very normal light, showing them to be neither noble-handicaps nor pitiful cripples, but as normal everyday folks with all the faults and good points of humanity.  It's a film about coping with one's own decisions, and overcoming life's challenges.There's some mild profanity, and references to adult situations, as well as some violence, so be warned ahead of time.  It's a film the likes of which I have not seen since, and am hopeful that it'll see a DVD release someday.  Until then we'll just have to wait -(In the meantime if you get a chance to view it, then do so -) "},{"Title":"Movie About Acceptance","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I happened upon this movie at the video store and had to rent it because it'd been years since I first saw this movie in the early 80's.  This was the movie that introduced me to my now all time favorite actor, John Savage. I truly loved him in this movie as Roary, a man who attempts suicide and ends up a cripple.  His handicap leads him to meet some amazing people he might never have had if he wasn't.  Through them, he learns about true friendship, love and acceptance for who you are.  The ending also tugs at you when Roary explains why he tried to kill himself.  A person could really relate to his reasoning why and you can feel the emptiness he must have felt.  If you are a John Savage fan and haven't seen this one yet, I highly suggest it, if you can still find it in the video stores. "},{"Title":"A movie that once you hit while surfing, you just can't leave","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have a very subjective method of measuring some of my all time favorite movies. If I'm surfing the remote and hit the movie that I just can leave, then that's it. I did this last night and  when I hit Inside Moves. This is a extremely comfortable and beautifully paced film . The scenes in Max's are so warm and intimate you feel if your in the corner of the bar observing the intimate relationships and comaraderie of the supposedly special  people that live there. Yes, they are special..they're only aspirations are enjoying each other's company and accepting each other and their metamorphical handicaps. The scene where Louise admits she is frightened by a potential romantic realtionship with Rory is honest and heartbreaking. After checking the credits on Inside Moves I was surprised and then nodding in agreement, why it's a classic. Written by Barry Levinson...enough said..  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie more times than I can count. Full of human tragedy and comedy, Inside Moves is a reminder of our resilience, ability to love and be loved, and the inherent goodness that lives inside us all. I highly recommend this movie. A good thinker's movie. "},{"Title":"Of Human Bondage with a little help from the friends","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"      Inside Moves was marketed in Japan as San Francisco Monogatariwhich means San Francisco Story.    (To Kill a Mockingbird is knownin Japan as Alabama Monogatari.)   Inside Moves is another littlemovie that when I saw it in a cheap theater in Japan, I thought, Great.  I am going to enjoy seeing this many times; only to findmyself waiting for decades for it to resurface.    It's a film whichexamines the essence of humanity  heart, mind, and body.  It's aboutfinding yourself through helping others; something that in the Thailanguage is called,  Nam Jai which means water from the heart. Sometimes we find it and sometimes we lose it.  My favorite line isJohn Savage's,  You don't have to come around anymore.  We don't needyour kind of cripple  to indicate the sorry lot of those who have lostthe joy of giving and the value of camaraderie.  But Inside Movesgives it back again.  "}{"Title":"I have yet to meet anyone who even remotely disliked 'Inside Moves'","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So friend of mine told me when she returned from her trip to DC, 'You gotta see 'Inside Moves'!' I remember asking her what it was about. She said to me, 'I don't know how to explain it, but I know you are going to love this one!' But it did not come to our hick town, forsaken by God, when it was released in 1980. Then, while practicing with a new surfboard of the day, in 1981 or 2, I crashed on HBO when I see a&#133;something smash the top of a car! Director Richard Donner had my full attention. When it's revealed during the opening credits, this is a failed suicide attempt, I noticed a very promising actor, John Savage. However, I was wrestling with my then 'Catholic/Christian Compassion' I wasn't sure I wanted to see a flick about guy, Roary, who wants to send himself straight to the fiery pits of hell for eternal damnation! But, when we are immediately introduced to the other colorful characters that live in his building and pass the time of day in Max's Bar, Inside Moves had full-undivided attention of my body, mind and spirit! Inside Moves is a human drama about getting to know these real people whom we almost never talk to, while observing the humanity in the physically challenged and emptiness of emotional cripples. The entire cast of, then, unknown actors under the skillful fly on the wall direction of Richard Donner makes Inside Moves a film well worth watching...at Thanksgiving too..with the whole family! "},{"Title":"How the Inside Moves are more important than the outside moves...","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This has always remained one of my favorite movies. It's hard to believe it's 25 years old. Nevertheless, the story and what it offers is timeless.The story starts, depressingly, around a young man, Roary (John Savage) who jumps from a 10 story building in a failed suicide attempt. After months in the hospital, he is left disabled.In his new place he discovers Max's bar where the regular cast of characters includes Jerry (David Morse) a young man who aspires to be a basketball player, but has something wrong with his leg/knee. Anne (Amy Wright) his prostitute girlfriend with a habit. Also there are Blue Lewis (Bill Henderson) who is in a wheelchair, Stinky (Bert Remsen) who is blind and Wings (Oscar winner for The Best Years of Our Lives Harrold Russell) who lost both hands in the war. And Louise (Oscar Nominee Diana Scarwid) a waitress at the bar who falls in love with Roary.The movie is about Jerry's dream to play basketball, but it's about so much more than that. It's about the emotional, aka Inside Moves that people make. In this story, Roary makes the move from suicidal to survivor and more. Jerry makes the move from parasite to friend. And the supporting cast enables them to have a place to come where they feel like it's okay to be disabled. But as the movie title implies, the focus of this movie isn't the external or physical disabilities, it's the inside disabilities that are the focus of this movie. Which is another reason for its universal appeal, because we are all of us broken internally in one way or another.This movie has gotten so many great comments because the dialog, the performances and the script and music are all so wonderfully done. A must see for anyone that likes a movie with a story, with a heart. John Savage is totally believable in every way. An example is the scene with him and Diana Scarwid where her character admits that she loves him, that she wants to be his lover, but is afraid. Afraid of what it would be like with a cripple. Afraid that if it did't work, that she couldn't forgive herself, because she did not want to hurt him that way. The movie is full of sincere & honest moments such as that one. It truly is a gem.Hopefully, it will come out someday on DVD!!!!! "},{"Title":"John Savage is Big! BIG!!! Bigger than most...","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorites. Read the other comments because they accurately reflect what is great about this movie. With the jarring beginning and all the ugly snapshots of inner city life, this movie makes me want to go back to this believable place that has been created. It makes you believe there is really a place called Max's... a place with diversity and all the complexities of humankind... and that there is hope for mankind! Some of my favorite lines that I repeat constantly (probably wrong) He'll come back. He just wants to spend some time with his dream. You've got it backwards. First you get crippled, then you try to commit suicide. Of course... I'm big, BIG, bigger than you...but that's not hard to be Jerry ... that's not hard to be! (BTW, does anyone know what Roary (that's how Rory spells it) says after that?... it sounds like Oh, my hiney Let me know. My wife and I have played it back 100 times. John Savage has many great lines throughout this. I could never figure out why he didn't win an award. Finally,I think the often-called hokey/corny ending is necessary to bring us back from a hard smack on a Buick. Hey Roary! "},{"Title":"A very down to earth portrayal of a diverse group of people coping with disabilities","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have been hoping to see Inside Moves released on DVD, since it is a far better movie than many that are already on DVD. A true sleeper, if you like the kind of movies that just take a slice across life to tell a story. That said, it is worth viewing if you can find a copy on VHS. I think one of the film's primary messages is that the disabilities of people are often more about how they think than what physical challenges they face. That includes all of us.A strong cast of characters that really have chemistry make this a fun and poignant movie. It's all about friends brought together by circumstance and how they cope with life together, with side stories and humor woven in nicely. "},{"Title":"gritty story of suicide survivor and the people who befriend him","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie when we first got cable in the early 80's. It really got my attention with the jarring beginning, and the subsequent treatment of the initial character and the bar acquaintances who soon become his support and family. Great ensemble cast, great soundtrack( I have it on LP), great story. You'll recognize several faces of character actors and some who went on to the small screen for bigger parts. The story doesn't protect the viewer from the ugliness of the characters' lives, though it does let us see the joy and hope the have in the less-than-ideal lives they must live. Some might classify the ending as hokey, but I prefer to see it as satisfying. "},{"Title":"It's a film that will stay with you long after you watch it","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I enjoyed this movie when it first came out and after owning it on VHS I am still waiting for it to come out on DVD. I figured with the success that director Richard Donner and star David Morse have enjoyed that we would revisit this early work but alas it has been slow to happen. It is a pretty straight-forward simple story but the way it which it is told is very touching and heart-warming..the dialogue scenes between David Morse and John Savage is very good as is the pre-Cheers bar bantering that goes on between the disabled barflys. Granted the movie is a little dated, especially with the basketball subplot that today would seem hokey but hey..it's Hollywood. Here's to hoping this release soon shows up on DVD. "},{"Title":"Favorite movie/looking for it on DVD","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is one of my most favorites. I first saw it when it was being shown to Academy members in 1980. The network showing it was a pay channel named ONTV. I have a laser disc of it which I bought from a store that had it available for rent, but he was able to sell it to me because no one was renting it. As I said, I love this movie but my laser disc player is damaged and I am afraid that the cost of repairing a machine that I need to play just this movie might be prohibitive. Of all of my laser discs, this one is the ONLY one not available on DVD. With such fine actors who are still very active, one would think that the release of this movie on DVD would be a done deal. Question Can you copy a laser disc onto a DVD? thanks for being here to talk about a great movie. "},{"Title":"A Richard Donner film - unavailable on DVD or VHS?!?!","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Richard Donner is an extremely talented filmmaker with a string of hits under his belt, so why as of 11-28-03 is this film not available for purchase or rental on DVD or VHS???I saw this film when I was 11 years old and remember being very depressed (probably my first time from a film) by the beginning of the movie when John Savage's character tries to kill himself. I remember by the ending of the film I felt much better.I don't remember much else about the film, although I do recall John Barry's score being very moving (along with another 1980 film, Touched By Love.).DVD is such an accessible medium these days (as was VHS), so it's pretty much a slam dunk that this film should be released for more people to see.This film showed a different side of Richard Donner, and I think the general public deserves the chance to see it. "},{"Title":"W.O.W (warm...original...wonderful)","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first watched this movie when i was about ten years old, and i always remember the suicide attempt at the begining of the movie. Having just watched it again, nearly twenty years later..this movie had me in tears.Far removed from the (now standard) TOM HANKS/JULIA ROBERTS form of audience manipulation, this movie actually has something to say, it is also very warm and moving. As usual,the under-rated JOHN SAVAGE gives another off-beat performance, its just a shame this movie is not as well known as it should be It shows cripples as real human beings, with the flaws that others have, no more-no less. And above all, it asks us (the audience) to never stop dreaming. RICHARD DONNER has made a fine movie here, its a shame he doesn't credit his audience with more intelligence, and make more daring movies. Or is it just not 'ecconomically viable' to make a movie about a bar full of crippled people? Ten out of ten "},{"Title":"Survival of the troubled","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At the time when this film was produced, a movie of this type was not well accepted. Who wants to watch sorry people? But,John takes this roll and you become the observer of a wonderful transition and the the people that make it happen. A film that you want good things to happen and they do. Well worth seeing. JAR "}{"Title":"Inside Moves","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sweet little movie which could've easily been titled Max's Bar. It stars John Saxon as a badly damaged man, Roary, whose suicide attempt left his body crippled in that his back is twisted(Saxon's ability to convince us wholeheartedly of this is a major accomplishment he desires mucho accolades)affecting the way he walks. He enters into a bar, meeting a bartender named Jerry(David Morse) with a bum knee, linked to a junk whore named Anne(Amy Wright). With 10 grand, Roary sees fit to use his cash to help pay of the debt owed on Max's Bar, and with his assistance, the business takes off. Jerry, his mouth getting the best of him, challenges a star basketball player for the Golden State Warriors, Alvin Martin(Harold Sylvester), to a round of ball and almost beats him, setting off a sequence of events he couldn't have dreamed of..thanks to Roary, who becomes Jerry's loyal and honorable pal. Jerry's Achilles' heel is Anne who returns to him after a stint with a vicious pimp, Lucius(Tony Burton). Lucius and his goons batter Jerry, with Anne returning to him. So Jerry gives up on life and it's to Roary's credit that he is snapped out of his depression and given a new lease..a talk with Alvin, and Roary might help Jerry follow a dream.Richard Donner's Inside Moves is about dreams, and not forgetting those who helped you along the way. With such a wonderful cast, including a superb supporting group, bar loungers who share a common cordial friendship with each other, such as Bill Henderson(..as wheel-chair bound Blue Lewis), Stinky(Bert Remsen, as the blind joker, always tickling the funny bones of his gang), and Wings(Harold Russel, the vocal leader of the boys, with no hands..many will remember him from The Best Years of Our Lives), I couldn't help but embrace them. Steve Kahan is Donner regular, Burt, a bartender/waiter(who later was the boss of Danny Glover and Mel Gibson in the Lethal Weapon movies)and Jack O'Leary is bar owner Max, who wouldn't increase taxes on his customers which caused his financial troubles.This is the kind of movie which tugs on the heartstrings, it's a gentle, caring film without a bad bone in it's body. Tony Burton's pimp creates the only real violence in the movie, and he's drawn into this story's little setting by good-for-nothing Anne, who leeches on naive Jerry for drug money. The camaraderie among the cast is genuine and pleasant. The budding romance between Roary and a waitress, Louise(..portrayed by Diana Scarwid) only injects more sparks into an already luminous film. Good use of street locations, one of Richard Donner's most off-beat and smaller scaled pictures..very invested in the characters. While I've always responded in kind to Donner's explosive actioners, it's nice to know he could make such an endearing film. Any other time and John Saxon's character would've been exploited as an object of ridicule or comedy. I can't believe I have never even heard of this movie before..go figure. Saxon is the heart and soul of the movie and his work with Scarwid and Morse simply works wonders. "},{"Title":"Superb and up- lifting possibly one of Richard Donner's best film's","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Inside Moves stars John Savage as Rory a young man who is left partially crippled after a failed suicide attempt whilst undergoing rehabilitation he hang's out at max's bar which is all full of lovable characters some of which are also disabled, the bar is run by Jerry played by David Morse in his debut When Jerry the bartender suddenly finds himself playing basketball for the Golden State Warriors, Rory and the rest of the bar regulars hope his success will provide a lift to their sagging spirits. Inside Moves is an undeniable gem of a film which is now getting another chance of recognition through it's special DVD release "},{"Title":"One of the unsung miracles of 1980 (the last official year for the '70s 'golden age'; an indie  sleeper gem","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recall seeing this quirky sleeper gem in 1980 on HBO when I was about 13 and was enthralled with the unique story about a man named Roary (John Savage, best known for his superb similar work in THE DEER HUNTER, and a highly underrated actor)whose failure at suicide in a freefall off a 10 story building in LA leads to a painful recovery and his gradual acceptance of a second chance at life. He discovers it at Max's Bar, a dive that houses many handicapped denizens, misfits and colorful types including a trio of elderly men (veteran character actors Bill Henderson, Bert Remsen and Academy Award winner Harold Russell, who won a special Oscar for THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES, a WWII vet who lost both his hands with hooks for substitutes); an affable bartender named Jerry (David Morse in one of his earliest and memorable turns) who has a lame leg as well; and a beautiful waitress named Louise (Diana Scarwid, who would gain an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress). It is here that Roary eventually comes out of his shell, finds a best friend in Jerry and a possible soulmate in Louise, and more importantly a new outlook on life itself.Directed with aplomb, reassurance and tender care by veteran helmsman Richard Donner (LETHAL WEAPON, THE OMEN, SUPERMAN, etc.) the film unspools very gradually and certain likelihoods are just accustomed for the way the story unfolds (i.e. characters pop up out of nowhere with no backgrounds on them but just like life, accepted as part of the fabric of society). Based on a novel by Tony Walton and adapted superbly with finesse, wit and humanity by scribe team Valerie Curtin and Barry Levinson (who would go on to his own acclaim as an Oscar winning filmmaker for RAIN MAN), the movie is a minor miracle in acting, directing and screen writing. Bare bones for all the world to see but a precious heart at its center with flawless performances by its three leads and some truly heart-wrenching yet not maudlin moments (Savage's climactic confrontation with both Morse and Scarwid are for the film vault and should be viewed by students of acting to see what true acting really is!) It made my heart warm to hear this incredible film was finally coming out on DVD and I can truly say it was my pleasure to re-experience this true original film that has echoes of Hal Ashby and any other 1970's 'golden age' film of its waning era on the cusp of a new decade that would more or less push nuance aside. *** One last personal note when I first saw this with my good friend and neighbor Joe Hetro, we would always greet each other with the Hey &#150; Jer-REE! fist pump ; a fine memory of my childhood. "},{"Title":"A Hard to find Jewel","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember seeing this movie on for the lst time on cable TV about 20 years ago. I think I have seen 2 times since then. This movie is hard to find, and if you come across it, stop and watch it. The acting is great. The story centers on friendship developed between John Savage's character (a bitter failed suicide) and the people who work and hang out in a neighborhood bar in Oakland. What I liked about this movie is that it had a great mix of gently funny moments, great human insight, and touching moments without being sappy.All the performances were very good but John Savage stole the show. With some fine supporting work by David Morse of St. Elsewhere fame, and Diana Scarwid of Mommie Dearest fame. Also great work by an excellent crew of character actors. This is a human interest drama devoid of special effects....how refreshing. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Date Movie!","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the most overlooked and underrated films in recent memory, Inside Moves ranks among the best date flicks ever made. Too bad it's so hard to find. I myself missing this film so much that I bought a very worn, very old VHS tape of it so I could get my fix on demand. This film has everything. For guys buddies, basketball, dirty jokes, and a pretty blond lady. For gals romance, tear-jerking scenes (watch out fellas, you may find your eyes welling up and a lump in your throat, too), and a Sinatra song to boot. Standout performances in this wonderful ensemble piece by David Morse, Bert Remson, Harold Russell,and Bill Henderson. Diana Scarwid received an Academy Award nomination, but John Savage's performance tops them all. How he was passed over for an Oscar nomination is evidence that the Academy is often asleep at the switch. Find this film and snuggle up with your sweetie -- you'll be smiling through the tears when the end credits roll. "},{"Title":"Moving, simple and funny drama","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Inside Moves is a nice film that sort of combines the best of 70s-styled minimal cinema with the heart you would expect from a Richard Donner film. The most interesting thing about the making of this film is that it's the movie Richard Donner did after he was fired from Superman II. Donner had been a highly successful television director for nearly 20 years when he got his big break on 'The Omen' in 1976. On that hit, he was offered 'Superman' and directed a large scale classic. We'll see most of his vision for 'Superman II' later this year when 'The Donner Cut' comes out on DVD. However, 'Inside Moves' is a small scale film that tells a simple human story and shows that Donner can win with both big and small films.The opening prelude is quite stunning. John Savage plays Roary, a man who walks up to a building, goes in, and jumps out the window of the 10th floor to commit suicide. He fails and after recovery, he ends up disabled and with nothing. He walks into a bar and finds himself among other disabled people, including Jerry (David Morse in an early lead role) whose bad knee prevents him from following his dream of playing basketball. Roary finds that these people openly kid about their disabilities and at the same time care about each other. Roary begins to open up and find hope and cling to his new friend, Jerry. When Roary helps Jerry get money to have an operation that will fix his knee, Jerry forgets his roots and leaves the bar, disappointing his friends. It's up to Roary to deal with his own emotions and feelings for a fellow waitress (nicely played by Diana Scarwig in an Oscar-nominated performance), and calling Jerry out to return to his friends at the bar.There are a few schmaltzy moments, but this film has focus and heart. Donner always succeeds in that. More than that, this film has some wonderful issues that are touching and make you think. Remembering your roots, friendship, love for someone with a disability, and how one person's success can mean so much to his friends are just many of the slices of life that this film depicts. It's all done with taste and intimate style that makes you feel like you know these people. I found myself laughing at jokes that i didn't even think were funny because I simply liked and cared for the people. There are lots of veteran actors you'll recognize including Steve Kahan (Donner's cousin, who is in nearly every Donner film), Bill Henderson (a wonderful actor who is one of the most friendly people you wish you'd meet) and after a 34 year absence since his Oscar-winning performance in 'The Best Years of Our Lives' - Harold Russell - whose disability of having metal hands is not exploited. This film doesn't treat people with disabilities in such a way. You don't look at the blind man's lack of eyes, or the man with the metal hands, you look at people. The whole cast is wonderful. A lot of the actors get to etch characters that they don't get to do in every role they take. Richard Donner deserves a cheer for this small film with a big heart. "},{"Title":"hidden gem","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of my favorites. Great performances by Jon Savage(Rory)and Diana Scarwid(Louise). Also some interesting performances in smaller parts. Well meaning movie,with lots of emotion. Moves me every time I watch it.Story of an attempted suicide survivor and the group of cripples he meets and befriends in the local bar. They become the family which none of them have. Everyone would be lucky to have friends like these. This movie seemed more like real life than just entertainment.We should all be lucky enough to know someone like Rory. If you don't connect with this character,you're missing something inside. A must see movie for people who love good character interaction. Just about every scene involving Rory and Louise are beautifully acted.I give it a nine. It would be a ten,except for the ending. The movie might have been 10 minutes to long.   "},{"Title":"good solid performances","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Roary (John Savage) jumps out of a highrise in a suicide attempt. He barely survives and ends up as a cripple in a poor Oakland neighborhood. He starts going to a local bar where Jerry Maxwell (David Morse) is the friendly bartender. It's a place where regulars gather and play cards. Jerry is a Warriors fan bringing Roary to a game. Jerry challenges player Alvin Martin in an one-on-one game and almost wins. The bar is in danger of closing and Roary buy it. Jerry is frustrated with flighty girlfriend Anne and his inability to get an operation to fix his leg. Lucius beats up Jerry and Anne goes off with him. Alvin Martin gets a $3 million contract and offers to lend money for Jerry's operation. Roary falls for waitress Louise (Diana Scarwid).Richard Donner directs this movie of a man regaining his life. John Savage is a solid base. David Morse shines in a something more than a supporting role. The story can ramble on a little because there is no set direction for the plot. It has that 70s feel of an undefined life course. There are some solid performances not just from the two men and Scarwid. "},{"Title":"Character-oriented drama with wry, ornery vignettes...","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A botched suicide attempt leaves a young man with a terrible limp and emotional scars, yet he is able to turn his life around with the help of a friendly bartender at the neighborhood hangout; after helping the bartender recover from a vicious attack by a black pimp, the two men find they are both attracted to the same woman, a friendly waitress. Dialogue-driven character piece was directed by Richard Donner, who seems to revel in these extraordinary 'ordinary' lives. Oscar nominee Diana Scarwid gives a fine performance as the working girl, though the film's weak link may be the shaggy-haired central character (John Savage), who simply isn't a very intriguing or charismatic presence. Well-enough done for those seeking small movie pleasures. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"loved this one a gem","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" the quintessential slice of life movie that no one makes anymore easily Mr Donner's finest film even though he has had much more successful films financially in my humble opinion he has never made a better film the acting is great with possible exception of ms scarwid who is adequate but everyone else is A-plus all the way would recommend this film to any one of any age any race if you are human this is a movie for you a real lost classic not getting attention it deserves Mr savage is every bit the equal of deniro or pacino was never given vehicle to showcase his talent but is really great here not to be missed for any fan of great acting "}{"Title":"g state","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't remember a lot from this movie, but I do remember that a main character played for the Golden State Warriors, part of it was filmed at the Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum arena, and that some of the Warriors on the team at that time appeared in the movie. It also looked like it was filmed in the Oakland/Berkeley area (I wonder if the bar in the movie is in that area today It was cool to see a movie that had a real team back then, rather than the Pittsburgh Pipers, NY Knights, North Dallas Bulls, etc. It is also cool that it was not not a popular team like the Bulls, Lakers, Cowboys, Yankees and whatnot. I hope I can catch it on cable some time for I doubt that is available on DVD. "},{"Title":"good flick","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  good movie with some deep messages for those paying attention but also some good humor to pace the story "},{"Title":"Good acting and character relationships overcome lapses in credibility","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Inside Moves is a thoroughly charming film although not a perfect one.John Savage plays Rory, a man so empty that the first scene of this movie shows his suicide attempt as he leaps from a building.  He is left crippled by the attempt after months in the hospital.Rory lives in a rundown building in Oakland, California and frequents a bar in the neighborhood which is (a little too ironically) filled with every variety of handicap. David Morse is Jerry, a tall lug of a bartender whose crippled leg prevents him from being an athlete.Diana Scarwid plays Louise, a new barmaid with whom Rory is smitten, and Amy Wright plays Anne, Jerry's girlfriend who is also a druggie.  Jerry is drained by his relationship with Anne and she causes him further self-doubt.Rather Implausibly Jerry's leg is not only healed (with the aid of a pro basketball player who takes an interest) but he goes on to play for Oakland's very own Golden State Warriors NBA franchise.  Obviously physical impairments are rarely ever healed so easily, much less healed enough to enable someone to become a pro athlete.  Moreover, how does one find room for himself on the local pro team, much less ANY pro team.Nonetheless, the film triumphs for us as Jerry regains more than just his physical capabilities.  The films message, which isn't all that subtle is that the only true handicaps are the emotional barriers we put around ourselves by keeping the right people at a distance and the wrong people too close.The dramatics are all handled very well and the film only lapses into melodrama in one scene.  Otherwise this is a lovely film well worth viewing if you like stories about human relationships and interaction.  Scarwid was nominated for an Oscar for this film and it offers Savage his best role besides Hair or The Deer Hunter. "},{"Title":"Terminally boring and totally unrealistic .........","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Inside Moves does an excellent job of audience manipulation, with a group of misfit losers from Max's Bar, who eventually pull together for a real stretch of a cause. There is never a doubt that you are being led down a path of depressing characters on parade, in search of a happy ending. Unfortunately there is very little entertainment value offered. If you want to see an excellent movie that revolves around a bar, seek out Last Night at the Alamo. It has characters that are believable, at least a bunch of humor, and won't drag you down to the mat like Inside Moves. I wanted to like this, but found it terminally boring and totally unrealistic. I realize others on this board loved it, and that is fine by me, I just wanted to present my case for avoiding Inside Moves. - MERK "},{"Title":"Question - Is this a first?","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Is this the first picture to use the cliche that anyone who jumps or falls off a building and is scheduled to die MUST land on a car?  e.g., Die Hard.Nobody around here seems to know. "}]