[{"Title":"Alligator is punk rock","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has a superbly paced story and much style. It is great entertainment matched with wry comment from writer John Sayles witness the rich old man who locks his posh car, allows his friend to get eaten and is then pounded flat by the monster. This could so easily have been boring and run-of-the-mill. Although accomplished on a low budget, the film makers put in much effort and created something unique.   "},{"Title":"Great movie.  A creature-feature done right.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a classic.  I will admit that the main reason I watch so many horror movies is mainly because I can make fun of them.  I bought Alligator from a video store that was going out of business.  I vaguely remembered the scene where the alligator crashes the birthday party from when I was a little kid. Anyway, I remembered enough to pick it up, so I was expecting another movie that I could sit there and trash, but once I saw John Sayles's name in the writing credits, I assumed that I would be in for something more.  Instead of getting a movie that I could laugh at, I got one that laughs at itself for being a horror movie (about 16 years before that was cool).  The script is super-sharp, with witty lines and the direction is tight. We also get a great, charismatic Robert Forster playing the role of the burn-out cop and Henry Silva makes a HILARIOUS cameo as a hunter.  I don't know if his performance was intentionally bad or if he was just trying to be that bad, but either way, it worked.  I loved his character and the funny noises that he makes.  I'm sure it had to be intentional.John Sayles has done some great horror scripts.  Just check out Piranah and The Howling (the first one).  He scores another knockout with Alligator and it put Lake Placid to shame.  What that movie seemed to try so hard at (making a parody of sorts) Alligator pulls off with ease.  The special-effects (of course they're dated by now) are actually really well-done for the time and, in many ways, a helluva lot more convincing than most of the CGI crap that we're force-fed today.If you can find this movie, I highly reccommend it.  No, it's not scary, but it is very entertaining and a good time all the way through. "},{"Title":"Alligator is a GIANT classic","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First there was Jaws then Piranha both great movies and then in 1980 there was a giant Alligator film written by John Sayles who wrote Piranha and The Howling, using the urban legend of Alligators flushed down into the sewers and becoming giant due to the stuff in there they made a great B-movie with an Alligator twice it's normal size. Sometimes it's just a real Alligator in a small set to make it look big and other times it's a big rubber Alligator but that's what makes it fun.The atmosphere is creepy when in the sewers especially since the Alligator is prowling around ready to jump out and get them. The main characters are likable and the acting is good. Alligator is a classic B-Movie that's great and fun to watch. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Once Upon A Time In (Under) Chicago","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The best Corman monster flick Roger never made.This great B-movie unspools like a Sergio Leone revenge tale. Big mean Daddy flushes daughter's baby gator, Ramon, down the toilet. Sixteen years later, Ramon has grown up to be a 36-foot mutated maneater stalking the mean sewers of the Windy City. Daughter has grown up to become a 5'-4 herpetologist for the Chicago Zoo. You can just hear the haunting whistle of an Ennio Morricone soundtrack as the showdown looms.This monster flick's pedigree is a purebred B, written by Corman alumnus John Sayles (fresh from 1978's 'Piranha', on his way to 1981's 'The Howling') and directed by veteran Lewis Teague, who cut his directing and editing teeth on such Corman classics as 'The Lady In Red', 'Cockfighter', 'Crazy Mama', and the immortal 'Death Race 2000'.Casting for 'Alligator' was made in Cult Heaven, with Tarantino-fave Robert Forster as the bad-luck cop who gets between the girl and her gator. Future 'Stepmonster' Robin Riker makes her movie debut as the reptile expert. '50s sci-fi veteran Dean Jagger (looking, swear-to-God, like the dancing octogenarian in the Six Flags commercials) plays the dastardly industrialist who kills puppies and inadvertently creates the monster. Henry Silva seems to have fun skewering his cinema psycho persona. Even Hollywood tough-guy Mike Mazurki makes a cameo as the villain's gatekeeper.Injokes abound, with winks and nudges to infamous sewer rats Harry Lime and Ed Norton. Romantic foreplay includes heartfelt talks about male pattern baldness. The gator seems to have a Jones for men in blue. And Chicago can only be saved by the time-honored, foolproof solution of trapping oneself in an enclosed space with the monster and a timebomb.After 24 years, we rabid fans are still waiting for the obvious sewer creature clash, 'Ramon vs. C.H.U.D.' Keep dreaming ... "},{"Title":"Groovy Gator!","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the better 'giant monster' flicks to emerge from the 70s, this is in the same vein as Piranha campy, spoofy, but with a number of genuine thrills, too. It also shares the same writer as that film, John Sayles, so the tone is very similar. In this case the villain is, of course, a giant alligator, carelessly flushed down the toilet as a hatchling and somehow emerging in the sewer intact. Flash forward about 15 years and the alligator has grown to monstrous proportions, feasting on the carcasses of dead dogs that were used as guinea pigs for an experimental growth hormone. Well it's a good enough explanation as any, and it isn't long before the giant gator gets tired of slithering through the sewers and decides to come up for better feeding. Alligator has a nice R-rated nasty edge to it, with the gator munching on adults, kiddies, and even babies (in a scene that is mysteriously missing from home video presentations of this film, including the more current DVD version). The special effects aren't too cheesy, either. The full length shots that show the alligator are mostly composited shots of a real baby gator walking on miniature sets, but I felt they were very convincing, especially a great image of it walking down the middle of a street with a number of vehicles next to it so you can easily see how big it's supposed to be. The rest of the time, the alligator is only shown in bits and pieces, like a giant head or a mechanical tail. Still, it's not too shabby.Sayles's script has his usual tongue-in-cheek feel to it, and the actors are all campy in the best sort of way. As far as killer alligator (or crocodile) movies go, this is as good as the subgenre gets. "},{"Title":"A fun, entertaining film!","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"      When this film turned up on T.V. I was prepared for the worst. Much to my surprise this was a good thrilling monster movie with just the  right amount of tongue and cheek to make the far fetched premise acceptable; ie the idea that an alligator this big could slip in and out of the sewers with out being detected. Robert Forster as the detective out to track down the killer gator gives a good performance. ,real stand out is Henry Silva as the military man sent to destroy the monster gator. He plays him like a broad  stereotype of a general from some Latin American dictatorship.    FYI If you think the idea of a 36 foot plus alligator is impossible, there is a fossil skull on display in the American Museum of Natural History in New York of an extinct crocodile. The skull is over five feet long. Image that such monsters once did roam the earth! "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Sayles brings as another memorable horror effort that mixes horror and comedy rather effectively. Giant alligator is flushed down the toilet as a baby and grows to giant size in the sewers of Chicago. Not finding much food down in the sewer, gator brings his act to the street and begins to make lunch meat of the city's population. Violent flick has a killer pace and never has a dull moment. Beware of the awful sequel though. Rated R. "},{"Title":"From 6 inch pet to 36 feet long pest.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Get a grip on this good 'gator' flick. Some tongue-in-cheek dialog and gruesome special effects makes for an entertaining and fun movie to watch. A little girl's science project is flushed down the stool and a dozen years later grows to about 36 feet long living in the sewer system of Chicago. Sustained by a diet of pet carcasses used in an experimental growth clinic, this monster 'gator' is not going down without creating some terror and having a few snacks first. A very good mutant creature running amok movie.Very able cast led by Robert Forster and Robin Riker. Doing notable work in support are Henry Silva, Michael V. Gazzo and veteran actor Dean Jagger. The sewer scenes pretty well set a creepy atmosphere. My favorite scene is during a brief encounter with the munching menace...Do you think two sticks of dynamite will do? "},{"Title":"Jaws goes to suburbia","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the movie that Lake Placid wanted to be. After the massive wave (pun intended) of underwater horrors that Jaws had created, Alligator is the best in my opinion. Sure there were a number of others that deserve recognition (Piranha, Jaws 2, Orca), but Alligator swallows them all up. The reason is that its both sharply witty and frightening at the same time (which is a hard thing to achieve). The acting is good, with Robert Forster ringing the alarm bells about an over-sized gator living in the sewers. Our poor old gator was flushed down a toilet as a baby (you'd be a bit mad too...) and after feasting on some dumped lab animals grows to over 30 feet and is ready for some human munchies. As for the effects, they're done really well. Direction is very good and the script is way above average for this type of fare. TTKK's Bottomline - Alligator does for swimming pools (and suburbia) what Jaws done for the beach. Highly recommended for those looking for aquatic thrills. "},{"Title":"My favourite movie and I've seen plenty of stunning movies!","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this flick about 5 years ago and was absolutely blown away by it. The monster movie was nothing new, though and could have been easily dismissed as a Jaws imitation, but thankfully it has become a cult classic in its own right. John Sayles' sharp script, Craig Hundley's chilling soundtrack and a side-splitting performance from Henry Silva as sweet talker Col. Brock are just some of the wonders of this film. Alligator also benefits form being as hilarious as it is suspenseful with one particular involving a kid's party, the alligator in the pool and a prank gone horribly wrong. As far as I know, this was the first monster movie to the have the now cliqued ending of the baby monster being born before the credits roll. As a matter of fact, Aliigator remains one of the few Jaws inspired flicks to have a favorable response. Even the normally unfavorable Leonard Maltin awarded this movie a 3/4 and noted it for its good script and mix of Horror and Comedy. I am surprised though that the IMDb rating is only approx. 5.3/10. If you enjoy fun, scary or funny movies, watch this feature. If you enjoyed this movie, vote and increase the IMDb rating. "}{"Title":"Later, Gator...  ;=8)","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ahhh, one of the classic 80's Guilty Pleasure flicks, right up there with Humanoids From the Deep, and C.H.U.D..  Ramon, the cute little baby gator who gets flushed into the sewers of Chi-town eats some dead dogs on super-steroids, and becomes a giant, ravenous walking handbag with teeth. Chicago is terrorized, and only a handful of veteran B-moovie actors can save the day!  Robert Forster(The Black Hole, Delta Force, Satan's Princess) is our balding, square-jawed hero; Robin Riker(Buffy the Vampire Slayer tv series, Dead Badge)plays the snuggly herpatologist; Henry Silva(Chained Heat, Megaforce, Amazon Women on the Moon) plays a surly big-game hunter; Michael Gazzo(The Godfather II, Sudden Impact) is the over-worked police chief; Dean Jagger(Twelve O'Clock High, X The Unknown, Game of Death)is the evil corporate bigwig who gets smooshed in his own limo; Sydney Lassick(One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Shakes the Clown, Fast Walking)is a twisted pooch purveyor who gets pulverized. In fact, LOTS of people get chomped, stomped, and crushed by the mad gator, but it's all done with wit and enough sense not to take its self too seriously. Udders cowplain that Alligator is merely anudder Jaws rip-off, but fail to appreciate the film's tongue-in-cheek humor & fun.  Penultimate scene of the hungry gator running amok at a garden party is an all-time classic! Cud have been really stupid, but the film benefits from a smart script by John Sayles(w. The Howling, Matewan, Eight Men Out), and solid direction by Lewis Teague(d.The Lady in Red, Cujo, Navy SEALS).  Pretty good fx further cowplimant the moovie.  Not a perfect film, by any means, but a great choice to pop in on a dull Saturday night with a greasy pizza & some moo juice! Stop flushing those baby gators down the john!!  The MooCow says rent Alligator today! ;=8) "},{"Title":"I could bring my mother..she could talk him to death!","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A certain old urban legend that you may have heard of brilliantly takes on a life of its own in this underrated horror classic. There were scores of these straight-to-video monster movies that were made in the eighties and early 90's, and so many of them are so cheap and boring that they're barely memorable, and you watch this film and every scene has got the genuine charm and really great dry wit, the script is superb and the story terrifically-paced, most genre movies these days would take forty minutes to cover the same amount of ground that this one does in a quarter of an hour. There's no bulls**t, just flush, boom, and right into the action! To me it's just an extremely fun film to watch, a throwback to an old-fashioned great B-movie, in the best sense of it. I think it looks very professional considering how old it is, which you can tell, but I really wish more films would have been made like this, as I find its style more entertaining than most of the big-budget Hollywood monster films. I don't deny that a couple of hundred-thousand dollars more for special effects couldn't have hurt, but I don't know if that would have made it a better picture in the long run or not. I personally love the effects, there's a very effective mix of various practical effects and scenes where they'll have a real live juvenile gator crawling through a miniature set, and even as a little kid I could tell that's what it was. But it just works, the effect still looks pretty good, whenever they show the victims trapped in the huge jaws of the scaly beast it looks real! The models look a little funky at times but they fit the picture, and are used in a competent way that you buy into them. The sequence where I think they show way too much of the alligator is the big crazy wedding massacre which is too over-the-top and silly for me now, with the ridiculously obvious looped screaming in the background and oh no, not the wedding cake! And how long does it take for a crowd to clear one party? Apart from that, I'm glad they don't show the creature all that much. I find it far more frightening and sinister when it's mostly unseen and lurking in the dank darkness of the sewers... The parts of this movie that I enjoy the most are all the sewer scenes, they're so fantastically creepy and atmospheric, it makes me uncomfortable just watching those scenes! They combine the fear of water and the dark. Anyway less is often more when it comes to practical effect monsters. No matter how good a beastie they created, the more it's seen the less effective and interesting it becomes. You start to say, oh look how well designed and animated it is, but you're not afraid of it anymore, you become accustomed to it. When you look at something like Alien, where you never really see the monster, that's really scary and fun. I think about this movie and others like it from the time, that again a lot of them are far more entertaining than flicks like the 1998 Godzilla say, because it's about character,then humour, then the horror. It's not all about the special effects, and that's what makes this film endure where other films where they did all the perfectly planned special effects, they're soulless vacant kind of movies, and this one still really holds up. Especially when it comes to the characters. Robert Forster's burned-out performance delivers such a perfectly jaded, well-rounded likable gruff hero that you really want to see win and kick that gator's ass! His kind of dead-pan delivery was so spot on. And Robin Riker's nerdy yet sexy, cool and collected reptile expert who still lives with her mother is also solid. I found their romantic chemistry virtually nonexistent, but they still made a great team together. I just loved the lively old gal that played Marissa's mother! She was so natural, it wasn't even like it was acting, it was like the nicest lady ever, what'd they catch her on a coffee break and stick her in front of the camera? And also the tobacco-chewing Perry Lang was witty and gorgeous.. The picture basically exists to me as a horror thriller with overtones of comedy brought out by the characterisations. It just had comedic aspects to it, but never goes into downright parody. There's such a great balance between the horror and the humour. I find the scene where the little boy is made to walk the plank and is devoured very grim and disturbing. The way the mother turns on the light and reveals the hungry maw of the gator just as he's being pushed in, it's totally the stuff that nightmares are made of. And that was damn ballsy at the time, daring to kill a kid. Hell, even Friday the 13th had Jason spare a little girl! All you see is a cloud of blood, but it's still a horrific shock moment that's very memorable. I also loved the moment during the creepy sequence where Madison and Kelly are searching the sewers and when the torch shines behind them you catch a glimpse of the alligator for a second as it stealthily moves back and the light reflects off its eye, and it's one of the film's eeriest moments, and a very effective use of lighting effects. The movie is also aided by a fantastic score that does a great job of accentuating the fun yet scary tone, I find the theme that plays over the end credits seriously chilling. It's a monster movie that knows what it is and has fun with it. Always a true pleasure to watch again and again. Bless you Alligator!!! "},{"Title":"We were hoppin' and boppin' to the Crocodile Rock!","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Scaly scares from beneath Chicago's swampy sewers as signature (John) Sayles saga slithers onto the silver screen.  Toothsome, titan tale re. urban legend of what happens when you flush your petstore alligator down the toilet.  With perennial character actor Robert Forster, and a cameo by Lolita (Sue Lyon) herself!  Check out Knot's Landing's Pat Petersen as a terrified-yet-take-charge tyke who tries to tank the gargantuan gator (long before he himself was flushed by femme fatale Nicolette Sheridan).  But where is the immortal Beverly Garland?  After all, the casting director could have at least given her a walk-on as homage to her role in Alligator's grade B 60's predecessor The Alligator People (no one can scream like Beverly Garland, not even Janet Leigh!). On a scale of 1 to 10, this one slithers slickly to a slimy nine! "},{"Title":"The best giant alligator movie ever!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is the best damn giant alligator movie I've ever seen. They just don't make then like this anymore. Featuring very cool pre-CGI animatronic fx & a real live alligator. And any time a lil' kid gets eaten by the monster in a horror movie, you know that they're not messin' around.  "},{"Title":"So Underrated","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before crappy films like Lake Placid took the idea of a giant crocodile, Alligator came out in 1980, in which Richard Corliss of Time Magazine placed it on his top ten list. Alligator takes place in Chicago, in which a giant alligator that was flushed down in the toilet by a little girl's father, years later it terrorizes the city going on a rampage for anything it sees. Robert Forester who plays the city cop is the only one to stop it. Nobody else seems to know how to kill the animal except him and the female doctor. There's not that many stars that come on this movie except for Henry Silva who has a brief cameo as a alligator expert. None the less this is a fun popcorn movie to watch from beginning to end.Cool Movie!  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest monster movies of all time","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a series of mutilated body parts surface in the sewer system, a detective and a herpetologist discover a gigantic alligator living in the area and try to stop it before it escapes into the city.This was one of the greatest animal-on-the-loose films of the time and still ranks as one of the better ones anyway. What makes it work is the fact that there's just so much fun to be had from this one, from the blistering pace that generates tons of quality from the creatures' ambush attacks, the growing discovery of what's in the sewers and the eventual escape and ensuing rampages are all awesome action set-pieces that generate a great deal of fun with several scenes being quite exciting including the main attack on the mansion, the SWAT team stalking in the sewers and the ambush in the canal that leads to the finale, which has even more fun here. It's quite suspenseful at times with some impressive stalking sequences, a creepy location and effective lighting to make it pretty chilling when mixed with the high-quality action, gruesome deaths and absolutely fantastic animatronics work for the gator. While there's some shoddy work at the end with the real gator in miniature sets, it's not enough to hold this down and become quite fun.Rated R Graphic Violence, some language, and several scenes depicting and describing animal cruelty. "},{"Title":"A fun and funny monster movie that's a cut above the norm.","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Continuing the trend of the killer animal genre made popular by Jaws, Alligator is thoroughly enjoyable all the way. We can thank screenwriter John Sayles, then a writer for hire (his other genre credits during the period being Piranha and The Howling) for its wit and ambition, and Lewis Teague (Cujo, Cat's Eye) for the efficient, right-to-the-point direction and genuine thrills.It exploits the old urban legend of alligators in the sewers for maximum entertainment, telling the tale of a gator named Ramon flushed down the drain as an infant and making its home in the Chicago sewer. It grows to mammoth proportions after having feasted on dead dogs that had been injected with a growth hormone by a dubious pharmaceutical company. It's up to dedicated police detective, David Madison (the likable Robert Forster, in a perfect Everyman role) to find and destroy the out-of-control beast when other attempts by the police prove to be unsuccessful.Sayles shows here that the trend of referencing bits of pop culture most assuredly did not begin with Scream, as here he makes jokes referring to Ed Norton, the character on 'The Honeymooners' who worked for the sewer department, and Orson Welles's character from the classic The Third Man. He gets some great chuckles from some of his lines, and also adding to the humour is the performance of Henry Silva, as an egomaniacal big game hunter. Adding sex appeal is husky voiced redhead Robin Riker as the movies' reptile expert. A wonderful supporting cast includes swaggering Dean Jagger as the corporate creep, Bart Braverman as the pesky reporter, Perry Lang as an eager beaver young cop, original Lolita Sue Lyon as a TV reporter, Sydney Lassick as a pet store owner, Jack Carter as the sleazy mayor, and the hilarious, raspy voiced Michael Gazzo as Madisons' boss on the police force. Other familiar faces in small roles include Angel Tompkins, Royce D. Applegate, Simmy Bow, Stan Haze, Micole Mercurio, John Goff, and Mike Mazurki.Among the touches Sayles and Teague bring to the material are the idea of the gator eating its way up the socio-economic ladder, heading for the man who created it in the first place, and a willingness to treat many characters as fair game, even children. The sequence where the gator (brought to life by more convincing special effects than usual) first emerges into the outside world is a corker, as is the big set piece where it runs amok at a wedding; there are some amazing stunts during this sequence. The pacing never flags and Forster and Riker are an endearing main couple; he plays exactly the kind of hero for whom WANTS to root.Any monster movie fan tired of the routine cheese fests, featuring animated creatures, that come out nowadays, is strongly encouraged to check out this solidly entertaining little flick. They won't be disappointed.Followed 11 years later by a sequel.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Owes much to Jaws, but it has a certain spark of its own","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alligator is yet another creature feature that has its root in Jaws, but it is certainly not a blatant rip off. It is ridiculous but in a self-acknowledging way. Taking itself seriously is the mistake that Orca (the first Jaws rip off in '77) made. and although I can't say that it Alligator is necessarily more intelligent, the script it offers frequent enjoyable banner, and an attempt to make characters that you want to see live rather than become lunch. Topping all that, Alligator features one of the most frequent trade marks of the genre, an ending that opens the doors for a potentially worse sequel. It is something that seeming fly cannot be helped, even Jaws went that way. Sequel or not, check out Alligator if you can, it is better than it may sound.In the beginning, a girl buys a baby alligator at the zoo (well her mother buys it for her). She names it Ramona (after the Beverly Cleary books), but that is irrelevant, sorry. Next scene, her father in a moment of frustration takes his anger out on the six inch reptile and flushes it down the toilet to its doom (actually to its growth spurt) Jump forward twenty years and into the life of detective David Madison. He and his parter have begun an investigation of a possible illegal animal experimentation in a local facility. Their search for the bodies, takes them into the sewers. Madison's parter meets his end, and it doesn't take long before the creature manages to break out. All of a sudden the city becomes the site of an enormous 'bug-hunt' for a forty foot eating machine. Nobody really knows what to do except for Madison and his new girlfriend who is a reptilian specialist.Let me now point out right now that the most important trick to shooting a convincing monster, regardless of how much money you spend on effects is choosing your camera angles. This is something that Alligator does quite well. The beast doesn't look like a giant fabricated puppet, it looks like a scaly, fleshy reptile, actually sometimes it is. A number of wide shots were done with miniature sets and a juvenile gator about a meter in length. Something else worth noting about Alligator which helps is that, the plot not only acknowledges its absurdity but it tries to build on that with a certain sense of humor (although Lake Placid did this a little better). Sometimes however, it gets a bit too absurd. One scene in particular is especially ridiculous. Around the ¾ point, the gator crashes a garden party, and kills about twenty people. When I say kills I don't just mean kills and eats, I mean that it kills. The way the creature chomps on one person drops him in a puddle of blood and moves onto another person is scientifically incorrect. Also the way it flattens a limo with its tail is even more ridiculous considering the shape of its backbone. Then again to be fair, Jaws also had its share of scientific inaccuracies.Alligator does what it intends to do, which is offer campy fun in Jaws tradition. Considering what has come out since, the film actually works even better. From the bowels of the city to the bowels of a giant reptilians digestive track, Alligator is weird/quirky and occasionally bloody ride, which will sustain viewers for a good hour and a half. That for me would be considered a success. "},{"Title":"This is one monster movie with bite!","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For a creature feature made in 1980, 'Alligator' is a pretty good movie that doesn't rely on special effects to entertain the audience.In fact, 'Alligator' doesn't really have any special effects.The closest thing to special effects in this movie are explosions, car crashes, and the giant 30 foot alligator.If you're the kind of person who relies on special effects from movies like 'Hancock' to keep you entertained, then you might as well stop reading this review and forget that you have even heard of this movie because you will end up hating it.If you are that kind of person, then you really have issues.There is only one movie in the world that doesn't need special effects and happens to be one of the best movies of all time.The name of that movie is 'Jaws'. So know that this movie has some similarities with other monster movies, and that's why this movie is being called a classic by people who really know how to enjoy a good movie.'Alligator' may be no 'Jaws', but it does have enough potential to make this 87 minute monster movie a real pleaser. "},{"Title":"A delightfully lively and witty giant monster on the loose horror creature feature treat","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A 36-foot giant lethal mutant alligator that's the net result of 12 years of eating animal corpses with an experimental growth hormone in them which have been illegally dumped in the sewers by a nefarious big corporation comes above ground and goes on the expected grisly people-noshing spree in Chicago in this delightfully spirited tongue-in-cheek horror creature feature treat. Director Lewis Teague (who went on to do the superior Stephen King adaptations Cujo and Cat's Eye), working from a wonderfully witty script by the ever-dependable John (Piranha, The Howling) Sayles, crafts one dandy little low-budget fright film winner, expertly maintaining a swift, unflagging pace throughout, creating a suitably creepy atmosphere for the subterranean sewer sequences, tossing in a few sly in-jokes (one of the alligator's victims is a sewer worker named Ed Norton!), and staging the 'gator attack scenes with considerable aplomb (gory highlights include a little boy getting chomped by the bloodthirsty beastie and one luckless guy who has his legs from the knees down bitten off by the killer critter). The always excellent and engaging Robert Forster makes for a hugely likable lead as the rugged obsessive cop determined to bag the reptilian menace, with equally fine supporting performances by Robin Riker as a spunky herpetologist who helps Forster out, the gravel-voiced Michael Gazzo as a gruff police chief, Dean Jagger as a crooked CEO, Bart Braverman as an obnoxiously pushy tabloid reporter, Sue Lyon and Angel Tompkins as TV anchorwomen, Jack Carter as the jerky corrupt mayor, Sydney Lassick as an amiable pet store owner, and Perry Lang as Forster's ill-fated eager beaver rookie partner. Although all these folks turn in first-rate work, the top acting honors easily go to Henry Silva, who hilariously sends up his macho screen image as a cocky and racist big game hunter who more than meets his match in the ravenous over-sized monster. Moreover, the special effects are actually pretty good and the alligator itself qualifies as a truly cool creature. All in all, this baby sizes up as a whole lot of refreshingly breezy and unpretentious straightforward B-horror fun. "}{"Title":"Just what you should expect","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film when I was a kid & thought it was pretty good.  I saw it again recently and it's really not that bad.  It's very tongue in cheek - which is what makes it so enjoyable.  Not to be taken seriously, this is more in the tone of Piranha than Jaws.  By todays standards the Alligator looks incredibly fake, and the acting is pretty bad, but it doesn't matter. It's still great entertainment - if you like monster picks.  "},{"Title":"Horrors! A giant alligator in the sewers!","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just can't believe this great movie is rated so low! I thought it had great elements of horror and comedy. The acting was top-notch and the special effects,,,were effective. And by the way folks it did have a plot. If you like those giant animals movies which eat the local population, I highly recommend this movie.10 out of 10. Jaws in the sewers. "},{"Title":"Be careful of what you flush!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie as a kid, but I must have been desensitized to violence, because I cannot remember it being so scary. I recently had a chance to see it again and it really had me on the edge of my seat.  What really makes the film frightening is that most of it takes place in a dark sewer system below Chicago. Darkness is a horror films best friend and it works well here. If you have not seen it and are wondering if a 1980 film is worth watching or if you just want a good scare give `Alligator' a try. Some of the acting is overdone a bit, but it is still quite entertaining. "},{"Title":"Robert Forster before Jackie Brown, John Sayles before Lone Star, and other stuff","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fun, satirical horror flick reminding us of the dangers of flushing our aquatic pets down the toilet. In this case, a flushed alligator ends up in the sewer, where he gets exposed to a chemical and grows to behemoth size and moves above ground to look for people too stupid to pay attention to their surroundings. When will these dopey characters ever learn?! What I noticed when watching the movie was the presence of Robert Forster some years after Medium Cool and many years before Jackie Brown. I guess that he had to do something in between. And it may be surprising that John Sayles was involved with these sorts of movies early in his career, but I consider it perfectly justified; there were far worse movies with which he could have been involved.Anyway, it's a nice way to pass time. The sequel was lower but not dreadfully terrible.I wonder whether or not Sue Lyon (the ABC/NBC reporter) was the same Sue Lyon who played Lolita. "},{"Title":"Alligator","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alligator is a good film that has a good cast which includes Robert Forster, Robin Riker, Michael V. Gazzo, Dean Jagger, Sydney Lassick, Jack Carter, Perry Lang, Henry Silva, Bart Braverman, John Lisbon Wood, James Ingersoll, Robert Doyle, Patti Jerome, and Angel Tompkins. The acting by the actors is good. Forster and Silva was good. The special effects were good. The thrills are good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed Good as well. Same thing goes for the music. The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good and thrilling film. If you the the cast in the film, Monsters, Giant Animal films, Horror, Thrillers, Mystery, and interesting films then I recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"Picture Deadly Eyes (1982) Reptile-Style!","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Meet Ramon, probably the most adorable little baby alligator I've ever seen. His owner, a little girl named Marisa, loves him dearly... that is, until good ol' Pops flushes poor Ramon down the porcelain express, where he ends up in the city sewer system, surviving on the illegally dumped bodies of lab animals from a corrupt corporation above-ground, Slade Pharmaceuticals (Umbrella Corporation, eat your heart out). When little Marisa grows up, she becomes a scientist, and as for Ramon, he's grown up as well... literally. Those dead lab rats he's been feeding on had growth hormones injected into them, which accumulated in Ramon and made him huge, and now he's out for blood, heading for the snobby country club community. Oh, good heavens! >) What else can I say? I loved Alligator, it has a vague environmental message (which I don't enjoy since I'm pro-pollution), but it wasn't really enough to disrupt the movie. The effects weer cheesy but classic, I liked the soundtrack, and the acting was great! Let's face it, the story is original, and Ramon was so damned cool he's hard not to love right away. If you're a horror film fan, you'll definitely want to add this one to your watch list! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable monster B-movie","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alligator is one of those films that people will either love or hate. I doubt it was supposed to be very 'A-grade' when it was released back in 1980. Now, well over thirty years old, I was hesitant to see how well it's stood up to the test of time.I was pleased to say the answer is pretty well.If you can excuse the seventies haircuts (in an eighties movie!) then you'll find quite a tight little monster-munching movie. Lake Placid may have better effects, but Alligator still has its own special charm - think 'Jaws,' but with an alligator instead of a shark (oh, and in Chicago, rather than the sea, obviously).Basically, what little plot there is revolves around a little girl having her per alligator flushed down the toilet when it was still young. Once in the sewers, over a period of twelve years, it mutates, getting much, much bigger and basically comes back for revenge. Yes, revenge. It seems to have a natural instinct as to whose fault it was, but, hey, just suspend your disbelief and enjoy it.Alligator is played out on that fine line between 'tongue in cheek' and 'straight.' It has a foot in both camps and somehow it manages to pull both off.If you're a fan of general animatronics monsters eating man, woman and child (yes, child - you wait and see!) then give Alligator a go. It's just a shame that with a solid movie like this, the alligator himself didn't move on to better things. He was certainly the star and I was hoping to find him in a nice indie flick or even a romantic comedy. Well... maybe. "},{"Title":"Entertaining low budget romp","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A baby pet alligator is flushed down a toilet in the opening scene. Into the sewer system it goes and grows to huge proportions. A local lab is illegally dumping experimental dog carcasses with growth hormones down there that the gator is feeding on. Homeless people and other city workers begin to disappear and police officer David (Forster) has to team up with Alligator specialist Marisa (Riker) to try and stop the huge gator. In the mean time the gator is swallowing kids in swimming pools, destroying a wedding the Mayor is having and chomping a big game hunter (Henry Silva) who was called in to stop it, in bloody fashion. Director Lewis Teague keeps the action crisp and this never gets boring. John Sayles script is filled with black humor and stretches way more fun out of this 'B' picture than it has a right to. Forster is properly cast as the grizzled cop and seems to enjoy his role. This isn't the type of movie to pull genuine scares out of it. Instead it's a fun, and at times bloody monster on the loose film. "},{"Title":"Killer gator on Gatorade steals this 80's pic","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rats, Bells, now Alligator. A pretentious fun movie ride, with a not so bad story to back it up, I was impressed, as not seeing the movie for nearly thirty years. We have some moments early into the film, that are almost unbearably suspenseful, (the sewer walk) and a couple of other tense, hold your breath moments, later. Up close, this alligator is a terrifying view, and when you got cool cop Forster, (way before he was recognized for the bloody good actor he is) and sexy doc, Robin Riker, it only makes it all the better. Cruel daddy flushes little son's pet alligator down the dunny. It ends up in the sewers, where he feeds off lab rats and puppies that have been injected with growth hormones. The one reason I hated Sydney Lassick, as the bad guy, pet shop owner, who runs his own private operation, oblivious to the fact Forster's a cop, who buys a puppy off of him. The story eases along nicely, amidst a bit of romance, where we really get to know and care about the leads too, where we also meet some other heartless, fu...rs. too. Things really go into overdrive at the end, with the gator, literally crashing a big outdoor function, it's great cheesy fun, as the ending with Forster, scarcely escaping, when ending the fu..er. If you hate creature features, or have a lot of nightmares, this is definitely not your bag. "},{"Title":"Scary Film- No CGI Needed!","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well directed(by Lewis Teague) and written film has a young girl's baby alligator flushed down a toilet by her callous father, years later, that same alligator(after having survived and thrived thanks to the carcasses of genetically altered animals that had been thrown into those sewers) emerges as a thirty-foot monster that menaces the people of Chicago. Only policeman David Madison(Robert Forster, nice performance) can stop the rampage, with the help of a young reptile expert.Scary film effectively creates fear and tension in the sewer scenes, and the F/X on land hold up surprisingly well. Clever script has many jokes and satire to offset the tension, and result is a memorable film. "}{"Title":"This is the best alligator movie,and its very atmospheric","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember when i first saw this movie on the scifi channel back when i was in third grade,I was scared out of my mind.This movie is about a little girl that buys a pet alligator and names him ramon,then her father flushes the poor baby alligator down the toilet entering the sewers where he feeds on the corpse of dead animals that have undergone dubious hormone experiments,then mutates him in to a gigantic alligator eating anyone in the sewer that he comes in contact with. the cast of this movie was great and so was the acting especially Robert Forrester as the main character. the kills in this movie are great but they used the same scream whenever someone got killed. "},{"Title":"Over 30 years later... this is still one of the best in its genre. And Robert Forster still have same haircut.","Date":"3 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember I was little kid when I watched this film for the first time. I'm born in 1980, this film is made 1980. I simply loved this creature B-movie, and I must admit I was scared to death every time when Alligator was shown at the screen.A giant alligator is on the loose in Chicago. Chicago? That's great story. Ha? He was thrown in the toilet? Right... That's why we love B-movies. Anyway here acting was likable, especially from leading characters, directing was great, atmosphere was perfect.Today I watched this beautiful film again, I wasn't scared, but I had some great time.Alligator (8/10) "},{"Title":"Hyper-excite your metabolic rate on Alligator","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Giant alligator, long-time resident of the sewer systems of Chicago, enlarged on the chemically enhanced carcasses of puppies discarded following suspicious biological testing, begins to notice the occasional intruder, leaving little with which to identify the victim. Browbeaten detective (an understated characterisation by Robert Forster), already at odds with his colleagues over the death of his last partner, now has to convince the authorities that a massive, subterranean reptile was responsible for the disappearance of his current partner, after the two had descended into the sewers following the discovery of some unrelated body parts (one arm and one leg does not one corpse make &#x96; the coroner jokes about opening his own spare parts shop if the series of dismemberments continues).Witty script by John Sayles and action-packed suspense enliven this taut little b-movie, which is aided by an impressive looking, and surprisingly agile title beast that would rival any of the great monsters created for celluloid.Notable cast supporting dependable lead Forster, includes gravel-voiced Michael Gazzo as the anxious police captain, Sidney Lassick as the doomed pet shop owner Luke Gutchel, and, in an hilarious parody, Henry Silva, whose impersonation of an alligator mating call for the benefit of lusty newswoman Sue Lyons (in her last film to date), is just the kind of subtle, double-entendre that has become the hallmark of a John Sayles screenplay. Also amusing is Patti Jerome and her 'evil eye' gag.Countless, often graphic attacks leave a lot of legless victims, and, by contra distinction, a lot of limbs sans torsos, which will keep the bloodhounds both engaged and amused. In point of fact, the scene in which a child becomes the victim in a suburban swimming pool, after he's made to 'walk the plank' during a costume party, was trimmed down for subsequent video releases, perhaps considered too taboo by cinematic convention. Its distant relative of a sequel, belatedly conceived some eleven years later, has no parity to its thematic genesis, and is barely credible as a film, let-alone a derivative. Alligator, on the other hand, is funny, frightening and sure to entertain. "},{"Title":"Crikey...","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alligator is a fine example of the effectiveness of simplicity. Simple story, no overblown effects or gratuitous gore; but the delivery is right on target. The simplicity of it all, doesn't mean a lack of creativity in the suspense and scares. One scene has two characters looking at in a sewer, as they turn on their light brief flash of something sinister in the background... Much like Jaws the titular monster here only appears in full in the final act and despite the fact that we all pretty much know what an alligator looks like, the demon in the shadows idea here works quite well. After all, this isn't your normal everyday alligator.Also of note is the ruthlessness of the title creature... something missing from many horror films today that succumb to commercial viability in the form of the absurd PG-13 rating. Here, all are fair game and while the death scenes are in a way cheesy with some overly bright red blood... but it is still better than corny computer effects.All in all, a great creature feature, if not much more. --- 8/10BsCDb Classification 13+ --- violence/gore, terror "},{"Title":"Urban legend played out on the big screen.","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Either this film is based on an urban legend, or it inspired one. I'm not sure which. Alligator is a skillfully made horror film based on the premise of flushing a small pet down the toilet and it one day growing to an enormous size. The title of the film pretty much says it all. Though the film is creepy, and filled with gore, this is one of those horror films that knows its really kidding when all is said and done.The film kicks off with an alligator attack at a wildlife refuge park somewhere in the south. A daredevil in a pit with some alligators just about has his leg torn off whilst a frightened crowd looks on. Sometimes the gators win, the announcer points out over the loudspeaker after the victim is hauled out to safety. A little girl in the audience is so taken by a baby alligator that she buys one and takes it back home with her. One day her angry father, for no reason that I could discern, flushes the tiny gator down the toilet. Flash ahead twelve years later and....Body parts start turning up in the sewer system. A cop (Forster) and his partner take a look around in the sewer to see if there's anything wrong down there. Big mistake! The partner becomes gator food, and we finally get a good look at what the pet gator has become. It seems that for years, a local chemical company has been dumping the corpses of genetically enhanced animal test subjects down in this sewer system. The alligator from the beginning has been eating these animals for years and has grown to the size of a large sedan. Not including the tail! The police send a swat team into the sewer to find the beast, but all it does is drive him up into the city where he terrorizes anyone in his path. It is up to Robert Forster and a pretty biologist to find and destroy the gator before he eats up the city.The film is a decent mix of horror and humor. Some scenes, like a boy falling into a swimming pool and being eaten are absolutely terrifying. Especially since this kind of thing does sometimes happen in Florida and places in the deep south. Other scenes, like when the alligator breaks up a wedding reception, border on hilarious. Not only does this gator have a sharp bite, but he also can whip the heck out of you with his tail! He whips one unlucky guest right through the wedding cake! Then, he destroys and entire limo by just swatting it with his tail! You have to see it to believe it. The film has an abrupt, yet exciting conclusion. The acting is quite believable, and the cast is full of recognizable faces. Great support from Michael Gazzo, and Henry Silva! John Sayles of all people wrote this film, and you can get a feel for his intelligence and sense of humor at every turn. Lewis Teague, who was quite successful in the 1980s, gives great direction. Definitely worth a look. 6 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Ace alligator against people film","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had a good time with this endearing nature gone bad film from 1980. The most noticeable feature is the better than average script and acting. The script, by indie film making hero to be John Sayles is quality and the acting fine too, with Robert Forster making a charismatic lead and the bad folk suitably hissable. There's lots of wry humour, as well as quality alligator carnage. It is a ferocious beast, and the effects work is excellent, making the film a real treat whenever it gets down to business. Unfortunately the film is pretty predictable and though the script is fun, I feel that the film could have used a little more mayhem. Still, its entertaining stuff, and far superior to its sequel. The sequels pretty much only there for bad movie lovers. "},{"Title":"Cool gator flick","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a 4-yr old, this movie scared the living daylights out of me (laugh) so much, I didn't want to watch it. Then in 1997, when I was 18, our local TV station in Owerri, Nigeria, decided to air it again as a late-night movie and I thought what the hell. might as well see it, after all I am now grown up. And I was glad I did.Here's the story a little girl is impressed when an alligator wins a wrestling contest with a man and she decides to buy a baby gator. When she returns home to Chicago, she houses the cute little baby in a special glass tank and calls him Ramon. Then her animal-phobic dad flushes the poor thing down the toilet, but that's the beginning of future trouble 4 the whole city.12 years on, our cute Ramon has grown into a 36-ft. monster after feeding on the corpses of dogs that were injected with a growth hormone as part of a scientific experiment. As expected, he breaks loose from the sewers and into the city streets and lakes, leaving a trail of chaos, mayhem and dead bodies in his wake. It is up to Police Detective Madisen (Robert Forster) and the now-grown up Marisa Kendall, who bought the gator as a child, to stop the beast. As usual there are people who don't believe Madisen when he tells them that there's a giant monster-alligator loose in the city sewers. But in the end all the bad-guys are punished by Ramon, including the man who sponsored the experiments that helped make him what he is. The scene in which Ramon crashes the wedding party made me laugh so hard as the way people were running 4 their lives was so funny. And that's why the movie can laugh at itself; it's got humor. But it is also terrifying as well, a worthy mention is the scene where Ramon eats a little boy who gets thrown into a swimming pool where he (Ramon) is hiding. The horror scenes work well bcos the setting for them is usually in darkness. And when a horror scene for any movie in particular is done in the dark, then you know what to expect.Yes it's not the greatest movie in the world, but it was way above stupid flicks like Crocodile and Crocodile 2 Death Swamp. The latter movie annoyed me bcos the real bad guys were not punished as they deserved. This movie was entertaining as well as horrifying and thats what makes it cool. So if u are looking for a horror flick that has got a sense of humor, I'll recommend Alligator. It's got it! "},{"Title":"Little Ramon is all grown-up","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A young girl brings a baby alligator home to Chicago from Florida. Her father doesn't care about Ramon the alligator and promptly flushes him down the toilet. After 12 years of a diet that includes the waste from a growth hormone lab, little Ramon is all grown-up. In fact, he's now a 36 foot mutant giant of an alligator. When people start going missing and random body parts start showing up, the police correctly suspect that something is going on in Chicago's sewer system. A disgraced cop named David Madison (Robert Forster) and reptile expert Marisa Kendall (Robin Riker) team up to track down the killer before more lives are lost.I think I've asked this before, but I'll do it again &#150; how many Man vs. Nature movies did the success of Jaws inspire? Almost every animal I can think of took its turn stalking and killing man. Some of these Jaws-inspired movies, like Piranha for example, are at the very least entertaining movies. Others, like Devil Fish, are complete garbage. Alligator falls into the entertaining category with me. That shouldn't come as a surprise as the script was written by John Sayles, who was also responsible for Piranha. Sure, Alligator might not be the kind of movie to win an award or change the world, but it is a very fun way to spend about 90 minutes. Part of the reason is that Alligator doesn't try to pretend to be anything other than it is &#150; a simple story that attempts to cash-in on the success of Jaws. Everything from the similar music cues to the POV alligator shots as it attacks its prey to the way the alligator comes busting out of the sewer is eerily similar and reminiscent of Jaws. But can you really blame the people behind Alligator? It worked with a shark &#150; why not an alligator?But Alligator has more going for it than its unabashed Jaws inspiration that other similar movies often lack. Two that I'll mention are the acting and the special effects. Both Robert Forster and Robin Riker give nice performances. Forster, in particular, plays his character with a sense of reality often missing in these kinds of movies. I particularly appreciated the very human and real touches like mentioning his receding hairline. Nicely done! As for the special effects, the alligator looks as good as a mechanical alligator in 1980 could look. It's obvious that efforts were made to present a realistic creature. Lesser movies would have probably done it on the cheap and the end result wouldn't have been nearly as pleasing. Again, nicely done! "},{"Title":"One of Lewis Teague's finest.","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A mean father flushes his little girl's pet alligator down the toilet. Twelve years later the gator comes back&#150;36 feet long and real hungry. Robert Forster, a likable cop with a grim past, is called in to investigate when chewed-off arms and legs surface in the Chicago sewer system. Alligator attacks are frequent and splattery, with gallons of the gushing red stuff. The victims include crooked politicians, a slimy industrialist, a pet shop owner who sells puppies to vivisectionists, and a reporter-&#150;scumballs who deserve everything they get. Henry Silva has a hilarious and too-brief part as a sexist, racist Great White Hunter. Innocent gator bait includes a kid in a swimming pool and a cop lifted out of a canal with nothing left below the knees. The scene where the reptile crashes a wedding party is a real gem. To top it all off, there's a sewer worker named Ed Norton! Satirical, underscored with gallows humor, chock full of sight gags and in-jokes. Lewis Teague is a hit-or-miss director but he scores a bulls-eye this time around. Horror flicks like ALLIGATOR are enough to give exploitation flicks a good name. "},{"Title":"good giant gator flick","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alligator is a really good monster flick with a good cast,made on a low budget.the movie is based on an urban legend about alligators that get flushed down the toilet when bought as pets.remember they used to sell baby gators as pets years ago,bad move they don't make good pets,it will cost you an arm,and a leg.anyway this gator grows into a 25 foot monster due to eating dogs that have been experimented on by a researcher who works for a rich baddie played by dean Jagger(who plays a good villain)Robert Forster plays a cop who investigates the goings on. then there's henry Silva as a big game hunter.the rest of the cast is robin riker,Micheal gazzo(the godfather),perry Lang,Sidney lassick, comedian jack carter,angel Tomkin's,Bart braverman,and sue Lyon.this awesome movie was directed by john sayles who was a protégée of roger corman.the mechanical gator was later used by the Florida football team the gators in their parades.this was the best giant gator movie and it was done way before cg effects.8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Danger! Don't go down the sewers","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alligator is a 1950's type giant creature-on-the-loose movie that dates from 1980. I found this great.In Chicago, a girl buys a baby alligator but her dad disapproves of this and he flushes it down the toilet and it ends up in the sewers. 12 years later, body parts are turning up at a water treatment plant and it seems that this alligator has grown into a giant and is eating people. It has become giant through chemicals from dumped animals that have been experimented on. It eventually breaks through to the surface and starts going on the rampage through Chicago and is very hungry. Its victims include coppers, a young boy and a reporter. Best of all though is the sequence where it becomes the uninvited guest at a wedding reception, eating several of the guests and maids. It then heads back to the Storm Drains, dynamite is planted and is blown into lots of peaces. Another baby Alligator is then flushed down the toilet...Alligator 2 The Mutation followed in 1991 but that is certainly not as good as this.The cast includes Robert Forster, Robin Riker as the love interest and veteran star Dean Jagger (X The Unknown).If you are a fan of monster-on-the-loose movies from the 50's, then you should like Alligator. Excellent.Rating 3 and a half stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Alligator The Lost Classic.","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD!!!)When a little girl is impressed by an alligator who nearly kills a man a gator  wrestling match in Florida, she buys a baby gator (who she names Ramon) ofher own from some Redneck-looking guy. She houses the young crocodilian ina special tank until her animal-hating father flushes helpless Ramon down the  toilet and into the sewers, without even knowing what trouble he would causethe whole city.Twelve years later, Ramon has been feeding off the carcasses of dead dogs,Which were thrown into the sewers by the Slade Chemical Testing Facility. The  dogs had been previously injected with growth hormones and then rejected into  the sewers after the doctors were done experimenting with them. Ramon'sconstant feeding on these enhanced pooches caused him to mutate into a 36- foot long monster gator! Soon, Ramon breaks through a sidewalk (very coolscene) and makes life a living he11 for the city. He begins turning up inside dark  alleys, river fronts, swimming pools, and even a wedding!It is up to Officer David Madison and reptile expert Marisa Kendall (the nowgrown-up little girl who bought Ramon as a baby in the first place) to put an end  to Ramon's reptilian wrath!This is very hard movie to find. It is the best overlooked classic I have ever seen.  It ranks right up there with JAWS. Think of ALLIGATOR as JAWS and GODZILLAmeet urban legend. "},{"Title":"Ok-ish","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I decided to finally watch this movie on Sci-Fi, since it seems to be on there every weekend that Sci-Fi decides to show horror/thriller movies. At first, I thought it was going to be some lame movie where the alligator in the beginning after chomping on the alligator wrestler, was going to go on a rampage. I was wrong (Thankfully) and it's really about a little girl who buys a baby alligator, and her Father goes berzerk about it and flushes the thing down the drain. It starts to live and grow in the sewers. Nice chomp-em-up movie that at some parts made me slightly cringe(Like when the movie finally started to get good when the alligator ate people at the party.). The alligator looks a little realistic too. Some parts tend to drag on(Like horror movies.), but I can still slightly recommend it.RATING ** out of **** "},{"Title":"An Overlooked Classic.","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ALLIGATOR (1980) is yet another little known movie (as with DARK AGE). Whyever it is not very popular is beyond me. The alligator looks very realistic,  ALLIGATOR shows not all creature features need to depend on too much CGI,like LAKE PLACID and BENEATH LOCH NESS. ALLIGATOR is (obviously) similar to JAWS and BENEATH LOCH NESS. JAWSwas based on a book by Peter Benchely and an incident when a 7.5 foot greatwhite shark swam from the ocean and started raising cain in a local river.BENEATH LOCH NESS was based from the Loch Ness monster (Nessie)legend. While, ALLIGATOR is based from an urban legend, ever heard rumorsabout alligators living in the sewers?ALLIGATOR is a superb, overlooked, classic, horror gem, and should NOT bemissed by fans of the Beast or Horror genre; or ANYONE for that matter!  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest monster movies of all time","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Alligator' is the best of the post-`Jaws' imitators of the late 70's and early 80's and is one of the greatest monster movies ever.**SPOILERS**Detective David Madison (Robert Forester) is on a case where human body parts are turning up in a sewage filtration system. One of them belongs to a chemical research facility where the head, Slade (Dean Jagger) is giving orders to use puppies in experiments for gene growth. Since the attacks have been traced to have originated from inside the sewer, Madison and another officer, Kelly, (Perry Lang) venture into the sewers to investigate. They find the source to be a giant alligator that attacks them both, with Kelly being killed. Madison and his boss, (Michael Gazzo) visit a Dr. Kendall, (Robin Riker) a specialist on alligators. A reporter (Bart Braverman) investigating Madison's claims goes into the sewer to check, resulting in his death as well at the teeth of the alligator. However, he photographs the alligator during the attack, giving evidence of the creature's existence. A plan to flush it out of the sewers fails, as the alligator remains in the sewer. The alligator erupts from under a street and kills another policeman, then escapes into a nearby waterpond. A big-game hunter (Henry Silva) is brought in to find the alligator, but he is also killed. The alligator crashes a party at Slade's mansion, leaving the house in ruins and body parts scattered across the property. Madison and Kendall come to their sense to stop the alligator together when they realize that the alligator is the grown-up adult of the alligator Kendall thought she lost as a young girl. They lead him back into the sewer and blow it up with explosives.The Good News The movie is actually very quickly paced. There is a killing averaging almost every ten minutes, and they are all very violent deaths. There is a lot of gore in this movie also, as many victims are killed very gruesomely. The best death belongs to Burke the hunter, as he is killed very slowly and is actually eaten. You can see his body slowly sink lower in the alligator's jaws as he swallows him down. Also, the alligator `Ramon' is extremely convincing as a robotic prop. The detailing is amazing, as the skin looks like a real alligator skin. He has a wide range of moves that are natural and believable, for once making the reptile better on the screen than his human counterparts. Also, it is almost an action-film, as scenes have an action-ish appearance. The attack on Slade's mansion, the canal fight, the ending explosions, and the bombardment in the waterpond all come together to give it an action-style movie. That being said, `Alligator' is still a horror movie. The reason for the creature to be is a popular urban myth come true, and the chemical angle, while glossed over briefly, is an important one and fits with the movie. The main reason for this being a horror movie is the suspense. Being an 80's movie, I was shocked at how suspenseful it was. The killing of the animal control worker, the killing of the reporter, the false-revelation between Madison and Kelly, and the ending especially are quite suspenseful. The ending, where Madison is trying to set a bomb to kill the alligator, and showing the alligator's advance on Madison are effectively shot suspense scenes, and then after setting the bomb, Madison gets trapped under a manhole, then gets free in seconds real-time. Setting the film in dark, narrow sewer canals was also an interesting approach, giving the viewer an almost claustrophobic feeling.The Bad News Dear God, the acting here is atrocious. Riker and Forester have zero chemistry between them, and their scenes together are very wooden. As expected, though, the alligator does change sizes very frequently. Even the use of a real alligator was used in several scenes as the creature approaches Madison at the end, making the viewer sit-through several quick changes in the animal's size and appearance, as the alligator they use is oh so obvious a baby in a miniature sewer set.  The Final Verdict `Alligator' is probably one of the greatest creature-on-the-loose films of all time. It never makes you stupider after watching it, and it provides enough diversity in it to satisfy almost every kind of horror film fan.Rated R Graphic Violence, some language, and several scenes depicting and describing animal cruelty.       "},{"Title":"Great cast, fun story","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like James Cameron in most of his action films, John Sayles has written a love story disguised as a funny horror flick. Forster and Riker SHOULD be together and the audience is rooting for them all the way. Mix in some snappy dialogue, a cop-with-a-history good guy, a terminator in an alligator suit and you have an exceptional low budget film.Waiting for the special edition on DVD. Ramone Lives!  "},{"Title":"This is a Classic B Movie - but made in the 80s.","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a very funny movie, with horrible dialogue and some really great scenes.  The restaurant scene where the hero tells the heroine she must tell him whether she will sleep with him 'so as not to spoil his digestion through dinner' was truly memorable.  Similarly, the alligator 'chase scene' where the beast crashes the Mayor's party and focuses on chasing the Mayor was typical of this movie. Even after the Mayor gets into his limo (and people are running back and forth behind the car unprotected) the alligator remains focused on trying to extricate the mayor from the limo. Unbelievable - an all time favourite. "},{"Title":"One of the best monster movies ever!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lake Placid was good,but Alligator flys right over it! Robert Forster did excellent acting as a cop. Also the late Dean Jagger and Jack Carter had a pretty decent role in this film. Definently worth buying and watching over again! "},{"Title":"Mommy, can I have a pet-alligator too?","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alligator is an exciting and very entertaining monster movie that cleverly turns an urban legend premise into an effective horror topic. A young girl receives a tiny cute alligator as a present but her angry father flushes it down the toilet the day after. Twelve years later, this little creature has grown into a humongous and insatiable monster because it fed on infected dog cadavers that are constantly dumped into the sewers from a nearby laboratory. The impressive reptile eventually leaves the sewers to go on a rampage in the filled-with-food streets of Detroit. I liked this film a lot and Lewis Teague (Cujo, Jewel of the Nile) did a fine job directing it with the exact right amount of black humor. The screenplay reminds you a lot about the 1978 creature feature Piranha and that's no surprise, since they're both from the hand of John Sayles. Both films handle about icky animals that exaggeratedly work their way up the food chain but the people who were responsible for this enormous terror eventually die the hardest! Justice!!! The opening sequence, in which we see fragile young alligator struggle for survival on his way down the sewers, is pitiful and actually quite sad in case you have a heart for animals. The sympathy you develop in this scene disappears quickly when finding out that it has become a 36 feet long monster, twelve years later. The beast looks very impressive and there are tons of great gore effects! Like usual in this type of movies, there's an outrageous finale in which the monster perpetrates a social gathering. In this case, this is a dazzling climax with loads of blood, devouring and hysteria. Robert Forster is quite good in his lead role as the obsessive cop who wants to destroy the alligator at all costs, because it ate his partner. Robin Riker isn't a great actress but she looks nice and there's a glorious supporting role for Henri Silva (Thirst) as the egocentric Colonel Brock. This is good old-fashioned monster-movie fun blend with typical 80's cheese elements! Great stuff, check it out! In the early nineties, there also came an Alligator 2 but that one is not recommended! "},{"Title":"Better Than Just a Jaws Ripoff","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A baby alligator is flushed down a Chicago toilet and survives by eating discarded laboratory rats injected with growth hormones. The small reptile grows gigantic, escapes the city sewers, and goes on a rampage.Although the film gives the location as Chicago, the police vehicles in the film appear to have Missouri license plates. When the young Marisa returns home with her family from their vacation in Florida, they pass a sign that reads Welcome to Missouri. Later, the voice of a newscaster identifies Marisa as a native of our city, implying the location is a city in Missouri other than St. Louis. Script error, maybe? So, maybe this was a Jaws ripoff and maybe Ebert thinks it is only a 1 out of 4, but sometimes (though not often) Ebert is wrong. There was much more going on here, and just making the alligator flushed story actually make sense was well played. "}{"Title":"Not just another Jaws wanabee","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I must say that this film caught me by surprise. Having endured terrible Jaws ripoffs such as Tentacles and Devilfish, I expected very little from this film in terms of quality, but was gladly mistaken. This is a film that takes into account the potential similarities to Jaws and takes every opportunity to differentiate itself rather than delve into parody. Instead of upper class suburban New York we have downtrodden Chicago slums, and of course the titular crocodilian in place of a shark. Without spoiling any details, I can't point out much else. However, to anyone who may have passed on this film due to potential similarities to a certain popular Spielberg film, give it a watch. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Monster romp that really delivers the goods","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Sayles was a man responsible for writing some of the funniest, most affectionate monster movie follow-ups to JAWS. THE HOWLING is a mega-successful, universally-loved werewolf movie and PIRANHA one of the most purely entertaining B-movies of all time. ALLIGATOR is much the same as PIRANHA, a slightly silly, overblown B-movie with a large canvas, exquisite attention to detail and finely drawn characters.Usually with these monster movies you have to wait an age before the action begins but not so here. Things open in the thick of it as we're drawn into a murky conspiracy involving a pet shop owner selling dogs to an unscrupulous scientist at a research institute. The bad news is that he disposes of the genetically-engineered bodies in the local sewer system, where an alligator has been feeding on them for the past twelve years. Now the alligator is a huge, hulking monster ready to chow down on human flesh.Into this mess is thrown permanently bemused cop Robert Forster (VIGILANTE) in what is my favourite performance of his to date. He delivers a wry comic turn as the cop in way over his head, struggling to cope with stodgy superiors, an attractive female scientist sidekick and a receding hairline to boot. Robin Riker makes an impact as the love interest, far from the usual irritating sidekick we see in these films she's feisty, strong-willed and more than a match for Forster.There are a couple of notable turns from veteran performers, including an ancient Dean Jagger (X THE UNKNOWN) as the murky figure behind the conspiracy and a scenery-chewing Henry Silva, clearly relishing his role as an over-the-top big game hunter who's determined to track down the beast. Watching Silva gather together a trio of 'gang bangers' to act as his native bearers was a highlight for me. The rest of the film is of the usual type monster attacks, the authorities attempting to retaliate, then a pulse-pounding climax. Sayles shows a refreshingly realistic mean spirit here (a kid gets chewed after jumping in his swimming pool) and there are severed limbs galore.Director Lewis Teague should also be applauded for keeping his film lean and mean with a great pacing and some very well staged alligator attacks. These come in the form of full-size models plus a regular-sized alligator wrecking miniature scenery. I found the alligator scenes to be delivered with aplomb, especially the grisly attack on the wedding party at the climax which really delivers the outrageous goods. The sewer-based climax, with a sweaty Forster going up against the critter with a backpack full of dynamite, is very well handled too. You guessed it, I loved this movie, it's everything I could want from a B-movie monster flick. A sequel, ALLIGATOR II THE MUTATION, followed ten years later... "},{"Title":"An Okay Movie","Date":"9 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While on a vacation in Florida a young girl buys a baby alligator and takes it with her back to Chicago. Unfortunately, the father gets upset not long afterward and flushes it down the toilet. Twelve years later it has stayed alive by feeding on the carcasses of dogs which had been subjected to scientific experiments to increase their growth rates. Because of these chemicals the alligator has now grown to an incredible size and begins to feed on anybody or anything that enters the sewers. As a result Detective David Madison (Robert Forster) is assigned to investigate two separate incidents where human remains are found in or near the sewer. Helping him is a young woman named Marisa Kendall (Robin Riker) who specializes in reptile behavior and who was--as it just happened to turn out&#x97;the young girl who bought the baby alligator years before. Anyway, rather than detail the entire plot I will just say that this was an okay movie for this particular genre. While the special effects aren't anything to get excited about they were adequate for movies from this particular time period. Additionally, I would have liked to have seen a bit more of Angel Tompkins (who played a television reporter) than the very brief part she was given. But by and large I have no real complaints and I rate the movie as about average. "},{"Title":"Stay out of the sewers, lakes and pools.","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a typical 80s B-movie, a story where Chicago is terrorized by a larger-than-life alligator, who as a baby was flushed down the toilet and grew to over 36 feet long over the years by feeding on discarded lab animals injected with growth hormones.Robert Forster plays cop David Madison, who is leading the charge to track down and destroy the reptile, and Robin Riker plays reptile expert Dr. Marisa Kendall, who teams up with Madison in the hunt. The two have decent acting and good on-screen chemistry, and they carried the movie over the more campy supporting cast members (Michael Gazzo's Chief Clark character sounded like he smokes 20 packs a day and Dean Jagger's Slade character doesn't know the meaning of speaking clearly).There are plenty of alligator action (the special and visual effects for it were quite good), chomping its way through those unfortunate enough to get caught in his path, and plenty of spills and screams as the creature makes its way out of the sewers and into lakes and swimming pools. But, the plot went all over the place from the middle of the movie towards the end. Alligator scenes shifted back and forth quickly to scenes with Forster and Kendall courting, which I thought takes away the tension and thrills of the film. The cop's investigation scenes are interrupted by the unnecessary subplot with the Brock character (Henry Silva), which deviated from the story's momentum. He didn't have much screen time to serve an elaborate role in the movie.Overall, it's basically a monster-on-the-loose movie, with plenty of action, but limited suspense.Grade C- "},{"Title":"A rip-off, but it's fun!","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alligator wasn't the first Jaws rip-off that screenwriter John Sayles scripted - two years earlier, he wrote the enjoyable Piranha. This second rip-off proves to be just as enjoyable as the earlier work. Like Piranha, this screenplay is written to be slightly tongue-in-cheek. It's not to be taken completely seriously, and the gentle comic relief is very amusing. However, the movie does not forget that at its heart it is a monster movie. The attack sequences are pretty well done, with some pretty good special effects for what was a fairly low budget. It's all held together by a good performance by Robert Forster - he makes a very likable hero. If what I have said so far hasn't convinced you to see this movie, think about this What other movie puts in its cast not only Forster, but Dean Jagger, Henry Silva, and Sidney Lassick? "},{"Title":"Who cares about the alligator, Robin Riker is in this film!","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As the title would suggest, Alligator (1980) is a Jaws rip-off nature-runs-amok flick, but Alligator only plays it semi-serious and is, in fact, a semi-spoof of Jaws. You'll even hear Jaws-imitation suspense music as the creature approaches and attacks.THE PLOT A baby alligator is flushed down the toilet and mutates to great size from eating chemically contaminated dog carcasses in the sewers. A policeman and a beautiful reptile expert team up to kill the beast after it starts eating people.Alligator barely runs 90 minutes and is kind of boring for the first half hour, but the last hour perks up and keeps your attention. Unlike Jaws, which is completely serious and scary, most adults won't take Alligator too seriously or find it remotely scary. In fact, I busted out laughing numerous times when the creature would attack people. Some understandably compare Alligator to Piranha, which came out two years earlier in 1978, but Piranha takes itself a bit more seriously and is more entertaining overall. Actually, as far as creatures-on-the-loose flicks go, Piranha is a definite 5/5 Star piece.What makes Alligator a necessary purchase is the awe-inspiringly gorgeous redhead Robin Riker, who doesn't appear until half an hour into the story. After that she's featured prominently. Robin was 28 years old at the time of release but possesses such a mature and classy air (I mean that in a good way, of course) that she seems at least 35.Since the last hour of Alligator is worthwhile and fun I'll rate the story 3.5/5 Stars, even though it can't be taken seriously. Robin Riker, on the other hand, rates 5/5 Stars (actually there aren't enough stars in the universe!); hence, my overall 4/5 Star rating.Men join in with me Robin Riker, Robin Riker, Robin Riker, Robin Riker, Robin Riker, Robin Riker, Robin Riker (continue ad nauseam). "},{"Title":"Ocra, the Gator with Jaws","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the second half of the 1970s, and beginning of the 1980s, whenever a movie that blatantly ripped off Jaws never fully upset me for two reasons I loved When Animals Attack movies of that era and they only made me appreciate the masterpiece Jaws was all the more.To be fair, 1980's Alligator isn't a complete duplicate of 1975's Jaws. Alligator had its own ideas, settings and some clever ideas, but for the most part, it was the A-B-C of the When Animals Attack genre that Jaws pretty much shot to popularity.I'm no expert, but kids, or well, anyone, having a baby gator as a pet? Really? But, anyways, a child brings home said baby alligator and, rightfully &#x96; or not, per this movie's plot &#x96; the dad flushes the little man-eater down the toilet. Twelve years later, baby's grown up, way up&#x85;or, more accurately out?The movie goes through the typical in-the-shadows death here, questions there, cop from the beginning who asks all the right questions slowly becomes the sole hero, more shadowy deaths, finally people believe said hero and the beast emerges into the light for more terror.While not that bad, and sometimes scary, it's an effective way to get your 80s When Animals Attack fix. But, I must say this I'm a fan of Robert Forster &#x96; Jackie Brown's one of my favorite movies and he was born in my hometown (irrelevant, but still) &#x96; but, damn, please put back on your shirt you take off too many times here. You might have inadvertently given Harrison Ford, in his later years and roles, the wrong idea about when it's okay to bare a bland chest&#x85;It's never okay when the camera's rolling.* * * Final thoughts I honestly remember this movie, but I'm equally honest that I don't remember if I had seen it all the way through before. I absolutely remember the eerie opening when the dad flushes the baby gator &#x96; and in perfect 1980s, that one act terrifies me because the phrase Oh, this can't be good fits the mood. And I slightly remember the effective limo scene attack towards the ending. I had never, nor since, been afraid of alligators, but this movie certainly made an argument for me to be. "},{"Title":"Impossible not to enjoy","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's impossible not to enjoy this pulpy horror film. Taking what is ostensibly an urban legend (do alligators REALLY reside in the sewers?) and turning it into an enjoyably silly thriller is the triumph of director Lewis Teague & scriptwriter John Sayles. Teague is a fine journeyman director (he'd go on to make the visceral masterwork CUJO) and the script by Sayles is quite witty. There's not a ton to take seriously but it is played straight by the likes of Robert Forster, Robin Riker, Henry Silva and others. The oddball supporting cast helps a lot --- Sidney Lassick stands out and Michael V Gazzo is always great to watch. Despite the small budget ($1.5M), the special effects are terrific. Look fast for one-time LOLITA Sue Lyon as a news reporter. "},{"Title":"Alligator","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A giant alligator terrorizes the city of Chicago in this animal-terror flick. It all begins when a young girl's pet alligator is flushed down the toilet by her father, we see it make it's way down to the sewer. Twelve years later, we see that there are some experiments involving animal cruelty taking place. After the scientist is done with the corpses of the dogs/cats, they are dumped down into the sewer. That little baby alligator from years ago seems to have been feeding on the corpses, and has grown into a massive gargantuan beast. The alligator begins killing workers and other people who enter the sewer, and when the limbs start showing up at the harbour, our main character David (a detective) investigates and finds the monster. After a few attempts by the police/military to flush out the alligator, David comes up with a plan to end it's treachery once and for all.I am not a huge fan of these type of films normally, the giant animal attacks type of horror flicks. But 'Alligator' does it right for the most part! The alligator looks very realistic in the way the film-makers set it up, and the scenes in which the alligator stalks the city streets were done effectively as well. Where 'Alligator fails, like most of these type of films, is that it starts focusing on a scientific plot and explanation rather than focusing on the actual beast. We get the story in this one of the company who is dumping the animal corpses into the sewer, which results in the alligator growing so big. The film moves at such a slow pace during some of those scenes. And then we get the plot- line of the police/government officials who are covering up the hormonal experiments using dogs. It's just not something that grabs my interest to be honest.The acting is decent in 'Alligator'. Robert Forster and Robin Riker play our two main characters who spark a relationship, and they do a good job. Everyone else is pretty much filler for the movie. Some scenes are really effective like some of the sewer scenes when the alligator chases some of the characters. There is also the part where the alligator actually kills a little child, which was effective but sort of unnecessary. We also get some decent gore, mostly just arms/legs being torn off by the alligator. I'd recommend this to fans of these movies for sure.6/10 "},{"Title":"A GREAT looking alligator in an entertaining, simple movie","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alligator, an American eco-horror effort from 1980 is pretty far from the exploitative nature of a lot of earlier flicks in the genre. A simple but effective story provides basis for some nasty kills, mild suspense and some characters that you love to hate.Taking a lot from Jaws (Of course), the movie primarily follows the efforts of a homicide detective trying to convince the town that a giant alligator is killing people in the sewers. He joins up with a sexy redheaded reptile expert and they form a sort of Scully and Mulder partnership to track the beast down. Multiple children are eaten, and all of the most reprehensible characters get their just desserts by the teeth of the gator. The subplot involving the pharmaceutical company and the pet store owner is also pretty unique, as well as adding some shock value.I must say, the animatronic alligator in this movie is particularly well done, moving and looking pretty much just like the real deal. Also, who doesn't love seeing an angry alligator destroy a wedding banquet and eating pets? All in all Alligator is honestly nothing too special, but it definitely had me entertained from start to finish "}{"Title":"An urban legend brought to life","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" We all know the story of giant alligators living in the sewers and eating unsuspecting humans, and this movie brought it to the big screen. And while this is one of the many killer animal flicks that followed in the wake of Jaws, I found it to be enjoyable. The special effects were pretty well done, and the main actors are all good. The suspense was also done pretty well, and I think the reason for that was the sewer the alligator lives in. A sewer is a dark and scary place that contains hundreds if not thousands of tunnel systems. So it would be very easy to get lost and confused, and it gets scarier if you have a 36 foot alligator chasing you, and the alligator actually looked scary in those scenes, but the alligator doesn't stay in the sewer the whole movie, and the scenes that the alligator is out of the sewer weren't as good, and on top of that some of the acting was really bad and it didn't provide as much entertainment as other movies like Jaws did, but overall, it's a good monster movie. Watch this with a bunch of your friends. "},{"Title":"Don't go Down go down sewers!","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's Start with a Alligator being flushed down the toilet by a angry dad.Few years later, some human body part of be found in the water, local and media believe there maybe a killer on the loose.When one of the officer and one other crew members go into the sewer they found, what they really there and Officer partner is killed.Officer wakes up in the hospital but no one believes him until Reporter is killed by the Alligator.There are some good gory and bloody deaths scenes in this movie, This movie as some really good tense moments and there are some really good jump moments in this movie as well.This was a really good b-movie, Huge fan of killer Animals movies, this is one of the best ones from the 80's.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Okay, but needed more gator action","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Decent creature feature written by John Sayles. Like Piranha, which Sayles also wrote, this is pretty much another Jaws rip-off. Director McTeague treats the script with a little bit too much respect, as if he were as good a filmmaker as Spielberg. The best parts of the film are the alligator rampages, but McTeague generally keeps the monster off screen, only showing it in spurts, for the longest time. It is worth seeing for those rampages, however, especially the big one at a wedding near the end. It's awesome. I did read in the IMDb trivia section for the film how, much like with Jaws and its shark, they were having problems with their mechanical alligator, and that's why it appears so rarely. It's funny how those problems worked out for Jaws spectacularly, but make Alligator worse than it could have been. Robert Forster (Jackie Brown) stars. He's always a pretty good actor. Robin Riker is cute as the herpetologist whom he enlists to help him hunt the gator, and Henry Silva has too little screen time as another gator hunter. "},{"Title":"simple story but it works","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Sayles, the man who wrote Piranha gave us Alligator and not to forget The Howling. So we know that we are in for a good ride. But in our regions this movie isn't available anymore. But I told it once, go to sell outs of video libraries, most of the time they still have those movies on VHS and if you are lucky on DVD. And that for almost nothing. As I did with this one on DVD. Now I'm not into creature features like this but I have to admit that it is worth watching. Due the review in Fangoria last month it was time to have a view. The story is simple, girl buys baby alligator, father throws it in the toilet and flushes it into the sewer. Alligator feeds on dogs used as guinea pigs to test some growing hormones. And the rest is history. It's funny because what happens is a bit of a urban legend in some cities. Anyhow, bad cop solves the problem and falls in love but luckily that's not the main issue. Although that it is a low budget the effects were good for that time. They used baby alligators in sewer models to make the alligator look like an adult one. Sometimes you see that it is just a puppet alligator but the blood comes quickly when he kills his prey. The end scene is of course exaggerated with the gator attacking a wedding but look who he is killing. I have seen worser creature features but this one you really will enjoy, just be warned that it goes slowly, it's 30 years old! "},{"Title":"Cheesy fun","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As Roger Ebert said, It was inevitable that there was going to be a horror movie about Alligators in the sewers, and in 1980 it finally happened. First of all the effects in this movie are decent for a low budget film. Sure it is weird that whenever the alligator eats someone, you never see any part of the Alligator body parts except for the head. The acting, like the movie, is pretty corny. Same with many of the Eco horror movies that were getting made at the time, except for Jaws. Now the story is pretty much what you would expect. The Aligator starts eating people in the sewers, there's a guy who tries to tell everyone but they don't believes him, until the monster finally breaks out and runs a muck. Been there done that. In conclusion, If your in the mood for a cheesy popcorn Horror movie than I say give it a watch. It entertaining enough. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous, but fun.","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this film for several times, and I must say... it's quite interesting. Fun, a little bit boring, alas... funny. For starters... in the beginning tension is good, but later, when you see the damn animal, the tension turns into laugh. The special effects are funny (well, OK, this is a 1980 film, and those effects were like that back then... AND... it's a B movie). The sound effects were good, the animal roars were OK, movements were solid... but funny. In some moments, there is a dark atmosphere, which is fine and than, again, later it turns into laugh. The scenes where alligator eats his victims were laughable! The victim's screams, man... I couldn't resist... I had a nice laugh. Acting is fine for an 80s B movie, I found it very interesting to see Robert Forester in his younger days, I must admit, he is a quite a charmer here. Robin Riker did good, and I found her very sweet in this film, Michael V. Gazzo was a surprise in this film, I remember him from the Godfather Part 2, Dean Jagger... poor Dean, this was his last film. He was a great actor, well, perhaps he knew how old he is, and he decided to make this film. To mention also, Perry Lang... the director of Men of War, who appeared as officer Kelly.This is quite relaxing, funny and fine film. Just for fun, IF you like 80s large animal (monster) films. But... hehe... I just can't get out of my head... there's a scene where alligator crushed the wedding party and star to throw his victims all over the place... I tought, did that crocodile blow a damned hurricane all over the party!? If you are interested, watch it. It is tense in the beginning, but later... funny! "},{"Title":"A horror/comedy/Sci-fi film that's worth sinking your teeth into!","Date":"24 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After being flushed down the toilet twelve years ago, RAMONE the pet alligator of a now grown up heroine of the film, has grown to humongous size (thanks in large part to the amount of dead lab animals, products of a growth serum tossed into the filthy sewers where he lives) & feasts on the flesh & bones of those foolish enough to venture into the sewer system. Soon however Ramone grows tired of living down there & decides to come to the surface to hunt for food & there's more than enough human food in the city streets for him to snack on. With the help of a cop, the heroine attempts to stop Ramone from devouring more citizens, unless of course they wind up as more food for Ramone. ALLIGATOR is a film I have wanted to see for so long, having seen it at 9 years of age, I spent years hunting it down, but could not find a copy not even on DVD! until just recently when after an exhaustive search I was able to get my hands on a copy & it was well worth the hunt! ALLIGATOR is such a fun B movie with great special effects, acting writing & directing, there's plenty of laughs & edge of your seat thrills as Ramone stalks his prey. Highly recommended to fans, ALLIGATOR is a delight! Followed by ALLIGATOR 2 THE MUTATION**** stars "},{"Title":"It's snappy.","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After an irate father flushes down the toilet his daughter's baby alligator, the creature feeds on dumped animals that have been tested with a growth hormone. Thus the gator grows into a 36 foot long monster that promptly terrorises Chicago.With a rather witty John Sayles script, tidy effects work and Lewis Teague's knowingly B movie direction, Alligator turns out to be one of the better post Jaws copy-cats. Very much using a satirical slant, Alligator's gigantic horror is born out of dubious suit types involved in conspiracies. While the cheery pay back that comes the way of various git's responsible for the growth of super gator is rewarding to say the least. Peperred with in jokes as well, Alligator also benefits from having the considerable talents of Robert Forster and Dean Jagger in the cast. They may look a touch bewildered at times, more out of a sense of fun one feels, but they give it gusto supreme and carry the picture to the bloody and entertaining finale.A million miles away from Jaws of course, but this is a funny, enjoyable and different type of animal. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"You Never Know What Will Emerge From the Sewers!","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a decent film from the early 80's about a giant gator of course. This movie helped the predatory animal movie genre get to where it is today, along with JAWS and PIRANHA of course. Lots of similar movies have since emerged with better effects and plots, but Alligator still stands out as one of the classics of the genre.Basically, the baby gator was flushed down the toilet and ended up in the sewers years later as a monstrous beast. Well, once the food supply was gone from the sewers, to the streets of Chicago he goes, eating everyone in his path! No one is safe. No man. No woman. No child. He spares no one! This film is worth a look at if you enjoy this type of film. So if you liked Piranha, Jaws, Lake Placid, Anaconda, or any other similar movie, then you should check this one out too. Chances are you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 10","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Sayles brings as another memorable horror effort that mixes horror and comedy rather effectively. Giant alligator is flushed down the toilet as a baby and grows to giant size in the sewers of Chicago. Not finding much food down in the sewer, gator brings his act to the street and begins to make lunch meat of the city's population. Violent flick has a killer pace and never has a dull moment. Beware of the awful sequel though. The sequel isn't as good as this. The acting is not really good and the script is not that great. But this never really scares the audience. It was pretty dumb when I first saw it. I bought it for a buck and recorded it over anyway...Rated R. "}{"Title":"best line that wasn't in the movie","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this back in 1980, a double feature with Shogun Assassin. Good way to kill the Friday after thanksgiving. my favorite line in this movie wasn't even in the movie.Two guys were sitting about three rows ahead of me and my buddy. when the gator kills the cop in the burning squad car, the one guy looked at the other and said Man I need to gets me a pet like that. Good laughs 26 years later. Every time that movie is one, that's the one line I think of. It wasn't a bad movie either.It had Jack Carter, so you know it had credibility.Add to him, the guy, who played Swede Risberg in 8 men out.Plus Robert Forster did a great job as the cynical cop. Great fun. "},{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Giant alligator living in the sewers. It kills people who happen to run into it down there. This movie is a quarter of a century old but even to this day, the special effects look respectable; even if at times a little fake. I certainly wouldn't classify it as a 'B' movie for its day. One of the interesting things that you notice before the use of CG became common in monster movies like this is the split second attacks that are now so common. This movie uses the old style that might seem predictable to some but preferred by people like me who just don't like to be shocked to a near heart attack. Robin Riker looks absolutely lovely and adds that extra touch to an otherwise slightly dull, but fast-paced movie. Nothing really novel or exciting in this one but I'm sure it served as inspiration to some later flicks like Crocodile, Crocodile 2 and Lake Placid. "},{"Title":"Get the Point!","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think a lot of people missed the point with this movie. I have read too many reviews saying stuff like It wasnt scary and It was just too stupid...... Exactly the Point!!The same was said about Piranha which was also written by John Sayles. This is a guy who writes some of the most intelligent dramatic films of the last 20 years. 'Limbo' and 'Secret of Roah Inish' for example. Apply this knowledge to Alligator and you may see the whole joke here.Alligator is a camp creature feature that delivers the goods ten fold. Campy horror movies are fantastic when not taken seriously and this is one hell of a smart little beauty. As was Piranha. I wont say anything else other than, watch this movie in the right frame of mind and you will totally get it! It's Fantastic!I give it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"eat this","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A monster movie satire that works well and has some freaky dialogue playing off  some real good scares.A twelve year old girl gets a pet alligator and hr father flushes it down the toilet.  Whilst living in the sewers for a decade, living off radioactive dogs which have been secretly dumped down there, he grows into a 36 foot long man eater who rages a war on the upside world. An intelligent film that succeeds where a lot of other films in this vein fail. "},{"Title":"Overlooked gem","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's not hard to see why a slow tension builder, with competent effects, could be consigned to the movie backwaters these days, but this little classic, so wittily penned by John Sayles, and directed with admirable restraint by ,since vanished , Lewis Teague, is unfairly overlooked.After  seeing this film in 1980, on its initial release, i've always admired it, the friend who watched it with me had to leave before the end as he was suffering from tooth ache, and had a dental appointment booked, (given the films subject matter ,theres a  definite irony in that), i dont see the person anymore ,last i heard they had moved to New Zealand, the two screen cinema at the local shopping precinct has long gone, RETURN OF THE JEDI, was the last film shown there, so thats how long ago it was.Only being ten years of age at the time ,some of the films more subtle points have only become apparent in later years, the in jokes, the THIRD MAN reference ,etc. John Sayles continued to pen these types of entertainments, to to be able to make the films he wanted to BROTHER FROM ANOTHER PLANET , MATEWAN, as stated Lewis Teagues c.v has not been so auspicious unfortunately, NAVY SEALS, being the last project i'm aware he was involved with.Still bad choices not withstanding, as a B grade monster movie , with wry wit, superbly ironic script and performances, and a still relevant eco message, this film stands shoulder to shoulder with  its nearest relations,TREMORS and more recently EIGHT LEGGED FREAKS. "},{"Title":"Not Scary Are U Kidding Me","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie when I had just turned 14 years of age and when I saw the movie it was at a local drive-in theatre. Yes, at that time Chattanooga Tennessee was probably one of the major cities that still had a basic unique drive-in movie.  Well to me it was scary still is and I'm now 33. I have never seen such animaltronics come to life that would still scare the average teenager out of her shoes.  Say what you will about this movie being cheesy or whatever John Sayles know how to scare you so bad that you forget that you have to go down in a dark basement to retreive your clothes out of the dyer-now that's scary.  But the one scene that I did like was the part where the alligator hunter went into the dark depths of the alley-like he really had a chance but anyway he went down looking for Mr. Ramone, well he got what he bargained for there is an old saying be careful what you hunt it just might end up biting you before you explode the further details of whats on tonights menu.  So one word of advice to Mr. Sayles-keep up the good work and I will try to get a decent nights sleep after watching Alligator again for the millioneth time.  Thanks John. "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *  Death Spoiler  *I first saw this when I was six and I thought I would be scared to death about this one.  I wasn't really scared but I was freaked by the gore.  I'm OK with it now but then it was freaking messed up.  An Example of this                Two boys at a costume, birthday party who are dressed as pirates make another kid walk off of a diving board pretending it's a plank.  To plankboy's unluckiness, the alligator is in the pool! All you see is extreme blood float to the top and the kids are freaked.Now that's ruthless. I found that kind of funny.  Robert Forster does good as the lead role and his character is alright.Overall the movie is not that bad and VERY ruthless.  Rating 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of the best made monster movies ever","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The people involved in this early 80's monster movie, mostly went on to bigger things, but this movie does the job it's ment to do and it does it very well. Just try snuggling up on the couch with your partner with the lights out and pop on this movie. I guarantee it will make you jump, what every good horror movie should do. Not like the Digital Effects in your more recent horror movies this one builds up the atmosphere then POW! your on the roof. The script is never boring with plenty of tounge in cheek one liners as well as shocks. I'd go as far as saying it's in the top ten monster movies of all time. Highly Recommended "},{"Title":"In the style of PIRANHA (1978) . . .","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While films like GRIZZLY (1976), RATTLERS (1976), DAY OF THE ANIMALS (1977) and TENTACLES (1977) tried to outdo the magnificent JAWS (1975) and failed, this knowing cash-in goes for the funny bone and succeeds.A little girl's pet baby alligator, named Ramone, is flushed down the toilet where it resides in the dark, slimy Chicago sewer systems. After a hearty helping of genetically altered lab dogs turns Ramone into a bloodthirsty beast, it breaks free and begins terrorzing the city. A really witty, kinda' scary monster movie from the writer of PIRANHA (1978) and the director of CUJO (1982). Terrifying scenes of the gator rampaging through the streets and eating a poor little boy in his swimming pool are matched blow-by-blow by cheesy, silly moments like the gator attacking an outdoor wedding and a man selling gator souvenirs right after one of Ramone's attacks. Still, one of the best monster movies ever!    "},{"Title":"Great little exploitation","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  According to Quentin Tarantino, he casted Robert Forster for Jackie Brown after he saw this 1980 Jaws-esque horror flick. And he was right, because Forster's performance belongs to a major motion picture. He's a detective trying to solve mysterious murders in Chicago sewers, and at the same time, he's trying to start a relationship with a young reptiles scientist (Robin Riker). At the end, everything matches. Great dialogues (it's a John Sayles screenplay!!), and great supporting characters, like the scientist's mother, who thinks her daughter is still a little girl. Look for the great Henry Silva, and an older Sue Lyon (Lolita) like a TV reporter. "}{"Title":"there are a plethora of really enjoyable creature features out there,  but this one doesn't qualify","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's not much that can be done (or expected) with a movie unimaginatively titled Alligator. There's even less that can be done, expected, and achieved when you had as low a budget and as miserable a screenplay as this bland creature feature. Now, don't get me wrong. Personally, I *love* creature features. Even when they're cheesy. That's where the good bad movie theory comes into play. But Alligator is not a good bad movie. Could have been, but isn't. It's cheesy and hokey, but it's just a bad bad movie.The plot is just Jaws with a different location. Instead of Amity Island, there's a city and instead of the ocean, there's the sewer. That's right. Alligator is about a big unfriendly reptile living in the sewer system, snacking on dogs and people who decide to, for whatever reason, venture in. It's been in there for twelve years and no plumbers or anybody else sees it until all of a sudden. A detective (Robert Forster) goes in and discovers the truth and then....Ah, what the heck. Do I need to detail the plot any further? We've seen this movie. In fact, we've seen it a hundred times. There is nothing about Alligator that makes it stand out. It's a completely generic film and a very bad one as well. Again, I have no objections to a hokum film as long as it's fun to watch. I like creature features especially when they're dumb but fun. This is dumb and boring. The acting (even by Robert Forster and Michael V. Gazzo, who look embarrassed to be on the screen for this one) is rather poor, the dialogue makes you role your eyes, the directing is misguided, and even the photography is bad. Alligator is shot in a very amateurish cinematography style with uninteresting lighting and camera angles and montage. It looks like the filmmakers just settled for a basic everything. I don't think anybody was even trying here, except maybe the special effects people who did what they could with the budget they had. The alligator looks real (and sometimes is) but the attacks of the creature are so slowly-paced and badly put together that even unintentional laughs are seldom.Save for a fairly well-done ending scene (a clichéd one, but well-done) there wasn't much in Alligator that I did enjoy. As much as I was looking forward to it, I nevertheless ended up completely dissatisfied. With bad acting, especially by the actor playing the cliché big game hunter whose expression is colorless and wooden throughout the whole film, wince-inducing dialogue, dull cinematography, and even bad homages to its superiors (such as the scene where we get an attack from the gator's perspective and the music all too obviously imitates the iconic theme from Jaws) it's just a rather dull exercise. There are a plethora of really enjoyable creature features out there. This one doesn't qualify. "},{"Title":"makes LAKE PLACID look like Lake Flaccid","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one terrific little monster-on-the-loose flick!  Based on the old laughable premise that NY sewers are choc-full of crocodiles after being flushed down the toilets when barely hatched!Robert Forster, who has aged so well (when you see how he presents in JACKIE BROWN), plays burnt out cop David Madison who blames himself for the death of his former partner (don't they always?) After several people go missing, occasionally being found in pieces, Madison is put on the case. He has the misfortune to see his new partner taken by the monstrous alligator of the title, but by the final scene has restored his credibility, seen off Mr Big and won the girl.Some really fun special effects - particularly liked the party chewfest and the beast's demolition of the Caddy Limo! Total entertainment and total value for money! "},{"Title":"It should be spooky, but it is funny instead","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie should be some sort of a horror movie or a thriller, and it is in the first half. But the problem is that the alligator is bigger than a car, but it can hide at the same time in the streets of Chicago, how could that happen?The alligator attacks people in the middle of the city, and then it disappears. This part of the movie is funny, because it is made so bad, that you can only laugh. The movie tries to be as good as Jaws, but it isn't. I will give it 5/10, but it is almost 4/10. Watch it as a comedy, else you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"the best killer alligator movie ever (and that's no croc)","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back in 1968 a father flushes his daughter's pet baby alligator down the toilet, which cause a major problem 12 years later as the gator, not only survived in the sewer in the intervening years, but has grown bigger then a croc should. After a series of death, Detective (Robert Forster) is tasked with capturing the abnormally large creature. Forster is great in this movie, as he usually is & makes the movie far more enjoyable then it has any right being. Furthermore the alligator itself is pretty cool and could pulverize any of the lame CGI creature features of today. (for proof merely witness the terrific gator vs. wedding scene) This classic was followed by a sequel that just didn't have the same magic.My Grade B+ Eye Candy Robin Riker gets topless Region 1 DVD Extras Audio commentary by Director Lewis Teague and actor Robert Forster; 17 minute featurette (Alligator Author); Theatrical Trailer; and Trailers for Komodo Vs.Cobra, Swamp Thing, attack of the Sabertooth "},{"Title":"I Love My Sense of Humor","Date":"15 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't have to share it with anyone if I don't want to. Alligator is such a funny, poke-you-in-the-eye sort of horror flick that only the most deathly serious among us wouldn't get a chuckle from it. I remember, more than anything else, the relentless teasing that Robert Forster gets for his bad haircut. Really, haircut jokes? In a story about an alligator that gets flushed down the toi-toi and gets loaded up on growth hormones until, well, you get the picture.I saw Alligator on ABC shortly after it left its theatrical distribution with, probably, not a cent to its name. Yet, when I got to see it in VHS, I jumped at the chance. I honestly don't know if I'd jump again, but I have great affection for this cheap, fun drive-in fare. "},{"Title":"Alli-great-or.","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of all the 'animals on the rampage' films to emerge in the massive wake left by Jaws' Bruce the Shark, Alligator is one of the most accomplished, benefiting from solid direction by Lewis Teague, a fine cast, some effective gore, surprisingly good effects (achieved through the use of miniature sets to make a real alligator look huge, and with sparing use of an over-sized animatronic reptile for close-up chomping shots), and a superb tongue-in-cheek script by John Sayles&#x97;based on the age old urban legend about massive reptiles living in the sewers&#x97;that slyly acknowledges the cheesy genre clichés that horror fans have come to know and love.The film opens with an irate father flushing his daughter's pet alligator down the loo, the little critter surviving his wild ride through the waste pipes, winding up in the city's labyrinthine sewer system. Over the next twelve years, the alligator grows to immense proportions, feeding on a supply of steroid-riddled dead dogs dumped underground by a nefarious pharmaceutical company, and the occasional unlucky human visitor to his subterranean lair.When assorted body parts are pulled out of the city's water supply, bitter-cop-with-a-troubled-past David (Robert Forster) investigates, and with a little help from sexy herpetologist Marisa (Robin Riker), uncovers the truth behind the alligator's unbelievable size and huge appetite.Chicago's dark, dank sewer system provides the film with a wonderfully atmospheric location for much of the film, one which director Teague uses to great effect, the shadowy tunnels providing plenty of scope for tension and scares; eventually, however, the scaly star of the film emerges from his nest, and in time-honoured movie-monster fashion, terrorises the city, attacking assorted victims, including several cops, Henry Silva's hilarious big game hunter Brock, a small child at a kid's party, and loads of people attending a wedding reception, including the city's corrupt mayor, and the boss of the pharmaceutical company responsible for the whole damned mess in the first place.In a tense finalé, David chases the beast back into the sewers, where he blows it up with dynamite borrowed from the police department's evidence room. Of course, Sayles leaves no cliché left unturned, closing his film with a predictable cyclical ending that sees another baby alligator dropping into the sewers and crawling off to explore its new domain. "},{"Title":"Very predictable, but slightly entertaining","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alligator is one of those movies that's good for a select few people, but probably hated by movie fans.Story? An alligator is flushed down the toilet and ends up in the sewers, where it grows to a huge size and eventually ends up eating whatever it can get in it's mouth.They could have done a lot better with this concept, because sadly this movie fails on a few aspects.The attack scenes are very predictable. Despite a jaws-like music, trying to scare people, it just doesn't work. I think the gator eats at least 12 people in this movie. Most of them are on-screen too.Gore? Yes and no. Of course people get eaten and that gives blood and dismembered limbs, but they look really fake. Then again, this movie is from 1980, so it can be forgiven.There's one scene in particular that I found very annoying. When the alligator attacks a wedding party of some sort, you hear a woman screaming. Okay, nothing wrong with that. Except the same scream is repeated at least 10 times! I found that very irritating. I almost turned down the sound...The scene shifting is very abrupt and sometimes they don't connect at all. It's as if the movie jumps from one big moment to the next. There are no 'quiet thinking moments'. It's hard to explain, but if you have seen several good movies, you'll know what I am talking about.Most of the dialog in this movie is about the alligator. It's almost sad how obsessed people can get over a reptile...Alligator is not horrible, but it's certainly not a good croc (or in this case gator)-attack movie. Watch it if you like corny, cheap-gore movies.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great to watch on Late Night TV !","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I never saw it when it originally came out. But I have seen it numerous times on late night television. Wonderful to watch on late night TV! It was made for late night TV! The basic plot, basic acting, etc... all scream made for late night TV!Just something to watch, and keep you entertained, while passing the time until you feel sleepy enough to go back to bed again.The F/X are well done. Nothing cheesy. I personally like the beginning the best. Though the entire movie is good enough to be watchable. Just another what if monster movie. In the same vein as Squiggle (about monster worms!, THEM (terror Ants), terror bees, terror rats, terror birds, etc.... In this case it is a terror alligator!  "},{"Title":"Big trouble in the sewers.","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is as the title implies a movie about a giant alligator in the sewers, flushed down when it was just an infant. Now it is super big thanks to chemicals and it is on an eating spree. This movie is pretty good and a lot better than the giant reptile or whatever movies of today that primarily use cgi. Sure in some of the scenes you can tell it is just a normal sized alligator on a scaled down set, but hey who cares. I love the scenes in the sewer when the people try to get away from the gator, as they are pretty tense. There is also a great scene where this kids are playing around at a party and pretending to be pirates. They make this one kid walk the plank and push him in a pull and the gator is in the pool. Suffice to say what happens is a very good chomp scene. "},{"Title":"Oh-no! This can't be good.","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  * 1/2Starring Robert Forster, Robin Riker, and a big alligator.A giant alligator is in the sewers of Chicago, and Batman and Robin must save the day.  What makes this stupid is how people continuously go down the sewer and get eaten.  It gets worse when the gator actually gets in the city.  He's eating cops, maids, rich people, and little boys who happen to fall in a swimming pool at the wrong time.  I will give this credit that it's better than its sequel. "}{"Title":"A pretty good killer alligator movie","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a pretty good movie. It's not that scary, it's just a pretty fun movie. Not as fun as Jaws and Jaws 2, but still fun. I give Alligator **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Alligator","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Scientific hormone testing to enlarge animals so that the world can reap the benefits of a wider food market, leads to the massive size of an alligator resting in the Chicago sewers ready to munch on anyone who dares venture into his lair. A pet store operator/veterinarian brings a major scientific company abandoned puppies for hormone testing with the remains of the dead animals dumped in the sewers. Chicago detective David Madison(..an engagingly likable Robert Forster, good as always), reeling from a partner's death when he was a cop in St. Louis, is the man who must stop the alligator before it threatens an entire city. His superiors, Chief Clark(Michael V Gazzo, of Fingers fame)and the mayor(Jack Carter)make it hard on Madison after his investigation leads to the hormone testing company whose chairman has major political ties and the power to wield the detective's way. He enlists the aide, and soon falls in love with, reptile expert Marisa Kendall(Robin Riker)whose expertise come in handy as he pursues the location of the alligator. Madison's task proves very difficult as the gator, despite it's massive size, is often able to elude police officers searching for it. Soon the alligator surfaces above ground roaming the streets of the city looking for fresh meat. One of the major effects of the hormones that increase the size of those experimented on is an insatiable appetite and the alligator is always on the prowl for fresh victims. When the gator continues to kill, Madison is removed from the case and a respected, egomaniacal Great White Hunter, Colonel Brock(Henry Silva, who steals the film when he appears in one of his signature roles)is called in to get the beast. But, can anyone stop the alligator?It was a lot of fun re-visiting the wonderful creature feature from the early 80's. What doesn't this movie have? Great cast full of very likable and established characters, a very witty script, alligator carnage(..you get the gory goods as the beast munches down on humans), and a brisk pace. The alligator feasts everywhere in this film. There's a scary scene where Madison loses a policeman to the gator when the manhole cover wouldn't budge. There's a great sequence where the gator explodes from a concrete onto a street as kids with wide-eyes playing run in fear as a policeman's car crashes with the officer inside getting his leg bitten off. There's one harrowing scene where the gator is resting in a neighborhood pool when a child falls in accidentally and is eaten! Of course, those responsible for the gator's creation are attacked at a wedding reception where the hired help, and others, get chewed up and spit out(..not to mention, one getting smashed in his limo), and, equally memorable is Silva's fate in a street alley. Oh, and there's a great homage to Jaws where one man is trying to swim to a boat and gets both his legs ripped away by the gator. Silva has a marvelous scene where he finds gator poop. And, even a homage to The Third Man is thrown in for laughs. Suspenseful, smart, gory & funny..ALLIGATOR delivers the goods on all levels.I give a lot of love to Blue Underground and Lionsgate for a high-quality DVD transfer and very good interview with screenplay writer John Sayles. Monster movie fans should not be disappointed with this one. "},{"Title":"Just when you though it was safe.....to watch a b-grade movie","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the director who would later direct Cujo came a slightly larger set of jaws. Lewis Teague's film tells the rather fantastic story of an over-sized alligator that roams Chicago's sewerage system devouring unsuspecting victims.The plot is not only ridiculous, it's poorly written in every respect, failing to balance out or gain any credibility. The music (very derivative of Jaws) doesn't help much, nor does the pedestrian acting. This is a movie where all the bad guys get gobbled up, and the good guys become heroes.Just when you thought it was safe to take a walk in the sewer, they release a movie like Alligator. Real 'b-grade' stuff.Monday, June 21, 1993 - Video "},{"Title":"The sewers in Chicago ain't placid!","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Think Jaws, except lower quality and with a giant alligator instead of a giant shark and you'll already have a good idea of what Alligator is. This is actually a surprisingly good little monster flick that gets round its obvious budget restraints with charm and a story that manages to be entertaining for the duration. The plot clearly takes influence from the classic urban legend regarding baby alligators being thrown down the toilet, only to grow and live in the sewers beneath the streets. This film actually takes that concept a step further, as not only does this gator grow up in the sewer; he's been fed on animal test subjects, which means he's a hell of a lot bigger than the average gator! The central character is David Madison; a disgruntled cop with a somewhat shady past. The city he lives in is being plagued by a spree of grisly murders, and after the bodies found suggest that it may be an animal doing the killings, our policeman begins to investigate. He soon finds out that there's a giant alligator beneath the streets...but no one believes him, until it's too late...Perhaps the most notable thing about this film is the fact that the producers managed to find a real forty foot alligator to take the central role! Nah, I'm just kidding; the gator in this film is just about the fakest looking monster ever to grace the silver screen. But that's not important; even though it looks ridiculous, the alligator gives the film a lot of its charm and a real sense of fun, which you don't get with modern CGI effects. The obvious modern film to compare this one to would be giant crocodile flick Lake Placid, the main difference between the two (aside from a different animal) being that this one has an urban setting, and Lake Placid has a rural one. Personally, I think the urban setting works better. The acting is fairly decent for a B-movie flick, with Robert Forster leading the film well in the central role and receiving good back up from the cute Robin Riker, as well as cult favourite Henry Silva, who makes a brief but memorable appearance as a big game hunter. It's always quite predictable where the story is going, but its fun getting there and this film is definitely recommended if you just want to sit back and enjoy a good horror movie. "},{"Title":"Embarassingly bad","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film had one of the most limited theatrical releases ever. Its studio, Group 1 Films quickly went bankrupt and a cast of unknowns who stayed unknowns appear here. The not even close to being remotely believable story has to do with a deadly sewer alligator whose digestion of chemical plant fluids causes him to massively grow and become hungrier and more destructive than ever. It's Godzilla inspired and a plain rip off. Despite the film's poor box office showing and nonexistent cult following, it inspired a sequel, Alligator 2 The Mutation ten years later.  "},{"Title":"Fairly entertaining 'giant mutated animal on the loose' horror film.","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A young girl named Marisa Kendall (Leslie Brown) watches on as a gator wrestler (Jim Brockett) is attacked and his leg bitten by an alligator he was trying to wrestle. She manages to pester her mom (Patti Jerome) into buying her a baby gator. Unfortunately her dad (Robert Doyle) isn't keen on having an alligator around the house and unceremoniously flushes it down the toilet. It survives the journey through the twisting pipes and emerges deep in the sewer system. We are informed that it is '12 years later'. Detective David Madison (Robert Forster) is sent to investigate the discovery of a severed leg that has been found in the local sanitation plant. Luke Gutchel (Sydney Lassick as Sidney Lassick) is the owner of a local pet shop and is rounding up stray puppies and selling them to 'Slade Pharmaceutical'. An unscrupulous scientist named Arthur Helms (James Ingersoll) is experimenting on them with growth hormones with a view to solving the world's food shortage. Gutchel is also paid to get rid of the carcasses. He takes them into a local storm drain and dumps them into the sewers. However this time he is attacked and eaten by a giant alligator. Madison and a rookie cop named Jim Kelly (Perry Lang) head down into the maze like sewer system and discover the alligator. Kelly is eaten. Now it's personal for Madison as he tries to convince his boss, Chief Clark (Micheal V.Gazzo as Micheal Gazzo) who doesn't believe him. They both visit the leading figure on reptiles in the area, Marisa Kendall (Robin Riker), yes it's the same girl who's all grown up now, isn't that ironic? Meanwhile a nosey reporter, Thomas Kemp (Bart Braverman) who senses a story, heads down into the sewer by himself. He is eaten by the alligator as he takes pictures. His camera is found, the film developed and Madison has his proof. They decide to flush the alligator out of the sewers using the SWAT team. But the alligator has other plans and breaks through the sidewalk and out onto the street above to terrorise the city. Madison investigates where the alligator came from and how it became so big which leads him and Marisa to Helms and 'Slade Pharmaceutical'. The president of the company, Slade (Dean Jagger), uses his influence with the city's mayor (Jack Carter) to have Madison fired and taken off the case. An out of town big game hunter named Colonel Brock (Henry Silva) is put in charge. Madison and Marisa have a theory about where the alligator is headed and set out themselves to destroy it once and for all. Directed by Lewis Teague this is a fairly entertaining little horror film. The script by John Sayles is laced with humour and doesn't take itself too seriously. Although I felt it dragged a little and once the alligator actually broke out of the sewer it was somewhat underused and isn't given that much screen time. And it goes without saying it's all rather silly. Then again given the variable special effects that's understandable. There is some decent gore, bitten off and severed limbs producing the majority of on screen grue. And there is the inevitable scene of someone being rescued from the water only to find his legs have been bitten off. The film is generally quite well made, acting, photography, lighting and editing are all competent. A pretty good film overall, but maybe the alligator didn't quite feature enough for me and why can no one keep track of a 36 foot long alligator as it eats it's way through the local population? I mean it's not like someone would miss it walking down the street, would they? "},{"Title":"Just When You Thought It Was Safe To Hold A Wedding","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After body parts are found in the Chicago waterworks detective David Madison suspects a serial killer who is dumping the human remains . Asking for a uniformed volunteer Kelly they both investigate the Chicago sewer system and are attacked by a giant alligator This was written by John Sayles who after jumping on the bandwagon of nature strikes back started with JAWS wrote the supremely entertaining PIRANHA and has followed it up with this movie . It shares an identical plot structure with a protagonist who knows what is going on and trying to convince those in authority that a disaster is about to befall everyone . This probably isn't a criticism because ALLIGATOR is another entertaining movie with a tongue in cheek feel but after seeing PIRANHA it does lack a certain freshness Watching this in 2013 you're very aware that this was made before the advent of CGI and again this is not meant as criticism . It's nice to see a film where the monster is created by a team of hard working model makers who enjoy their job . The eponymous alligator isn't all that convincing in some shots but the on screen carnage done with a blackly comical feel does make for a film that as a low brow creature feature is very enjoyable "}]