[{"Title":"Roeg's forgotten masterwork","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"110 out of 135 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When BAD TIMING A SENSUAL OBSESSION emerged in 1980, its distributor dropped it like a hot potato. Sex! Surgery! Semen stains! Strippers rolling around on meshy overwire! It was all too much for the Rank Organization, a fading production empire with a long history of releasing family classics like GREAT EXPECTATIONS. (Curiously, Rank did sponsor a 'Win a trip to Vienna, location of BAD TIMING!' publicity contest at early bookings). The only reason they financed the picture, allegedly, was for its Freudian-tinged pedigree. When they saw the finished product, they labeled it 'a film about sick people, made by sick people, for sick people.'Deviant psychology is but one of the many twisted pleasures in this tragically neglected masterpiece from '70s visionary Nicolas Roeg. With iconoclastic films like WALKABOUT, DON'T LOOK NOW and MAN WHO FELL TO EARTH, Roeg pioneered a new kind of film language. He replaced traditional narrative storytelling with stunning photography, explicit carnality and a signature editing style of jump cuts, cross cuts and subliminal flicker cuts Mixmastered into a mosaic of multiple interpretations. (Unlike today's A.D.D.-inducing overkill, Roeg's fragmentary cutting technique always provided insight into character psychology.) To those of us weaned on art cinema in the '70s and energized by the limitless possibilities of the medium, Nicolas Roeg was (and remains) a god. No filmmaker since has picked up the maverick torch that this deity carried for more than a decade.Trying to encapsulate BAD TIMING's nuanced, character-driven plot is like describing Europe in a postcard. Essentially, it's about an eroticized interpersonal attraction that goes horribly awry, spiraling into jealousy, paranoia and (of course) sexual obsession. Theresa Russell's wild child Milena (the personification of Henry James' headstrong American girl abroad) is compulsively drawn to a fellow Yank stationed in Austria -- the buttoned-down, Freudian shrink/visiting prof Dr. Linden. Their passionate affair has led to a potentially tragic outcome, and it's up to a local police inspector (Harvey Keitel) to sort out what went wrong, why, and whether criminal malice was involved.What makes this relationship drama so compelling is Roeg's structure the film starts in the middle, jumps ahead to the end, then back to the prologue within the first four minutes &#150; and continues in a non-linear fashion until the final shot. It takes us viewers a while to get our bearing, but it also elicits our rapt attention to detail. Never are we certain if the cascading flashbacks are meant to be objective on the filmmaker's part, or the skewed perspective of one of the three main characters. Is Russell a victim, or a tramp? Is Garfunkel a creep, or is that just Keitel's projection? Is Keitel a sympathetic doppelganger, or a crafty manipulator? The stars turn in complex, though off-center performances. Keitel turns miscasting to his advantage; never has he underplayed 'menacing' like he does here. Garfunkel's lack of charisma will turn many viewers off, but he's 100% believable as a shrewd, unstable shrink. Yet it's Russell who's the revelation &#150; those who subscribe to the lazy theory that she can't act will be astonished here. What she may lack in formal technique, she compensates with fearless commitment. Hers may be the most passionate performance by a 21-year old ever captured on film.Tony Richmond's widescreen photography is particularly rich in color and composition (the film's look was based on the art of Gustav Klimt). He shows us a Vienna that's cold, academic, clinical &#150; but electric whenever Russell's on screen. There's a sequence in a university courtyard where he changes lenses, practically from shot to shot, to convey Russell's emotional collapse. (In the background, Keith Jarrett's 'Köln Concert' mourns her sad dilemma.) It's a heartbreaking passage, poetically surpassed only by the connecting shot of Garfunkel brooding through a polarized car windshield at daybreak. Frequently Richmond balances the stars' close-ups on the very edge of the screen, which is why the film's power is neutered on cable TV, where 2/3 of the image is lopped off. In that pan-and-scan atrocity, the screen is forever hovering on backgrounds and earlobes.The real tragedy is that BAD TIMING has never been released on any home video format, and I fear it may never happen. It was made at a time when music licenses weren't automatically cleared for home viewing. Considering the eclectic soundtrack incorporates Jarrett, Tom Waits, The Who, Billie Holiday, Harry Partch and others, the idea of renegotiating deals at this point would be any lawyer's nightmare. Even worse, Roeg himself believes the few prints that Rank struck are probably lost or damaged beyond repair, and one fears for the state of the negative. My overlong, effusive review here is a direct plea for a rescue operation. Is any entrepreneurial DVD-releasing outfit willing to salvage this forgotten treasure from obscurity and give it the best letterboxed release possible? Once people are able to see this film as it was intended &#150; for the first time in 24 years or more &#150; I believe its reputation will grow immeasurably. There is simply no other film like it, and, based on current popular trends, nor will there ever be.  "},{"Title":"intense work from forgotten master","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"47 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Bad Timing is not an easy film, but one that rewards effort. Art Garfunkel joins the line (Jagger, Bowie) of singers who produced career best acting performances for this director - the scene of him smoking while staring over a bridge into the abyss of his life is worth buying the dvd alone - and Theresa Russell is simply incendiary. The story is a relatively simple one of how two people who should never have got together become obsessed with each other, but is told in Nicolas Roeg's fluid, labyrinthine style with flashes back and forward and disconcerting edits. The sexual content is extreme for some tastes, but raw and painfully honest in a way which defies simple titillation. Intense work from one of the giants of British and world cinema, now sadly neglected, and one of a string of great films, Performance, Walkabout, Don't Look Now and The Man Who Fell to Earth which mark Nicolas Roeg out as a great director. "},{"Title":"Nicolas Roeg delves into erotic obsession in this film, with surprising results&#133;","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"31 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" His movie rates high in production value and acting and has an innovative approach to an old story&#133; The film is basically a character study&#133; Alex (Art Garfunkel) is a depressingly dark and shadowy American psychoanalyst living in Vienna&#133; Theresa Russell plays Milena, a resonant, carefree American girl&#133; They meet by chance at a party and are thrown into a roller-coaster ride of an erotic relationship&#133; He wants to smash her free spirit because he can't understand it, but she won't let him&#133; The result is a near-fatal break-up&#133; Roeg comes close to the story from the middle (obeying Jean-Luc Godard's authoritative saying, a film must have a beginning, a middle and an end, but not necessarily in that order. We quickly move to the different parts of Alex and Milena's relationship, moving through time as if it were Jell-O. The editing is intricate, but not confusing&#133; As we change location back and forth, we begin to see more clearly how these two unlikely lovers ever got together&#133; The motion picture is filled with exceptional images, and Theresa Russell is outstanding&#133; "},{"Title":"A Creepy, Riveting, Stunner!","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"33 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film will always have a soft spot in my heart because it introduced me to Tom Waits' music.  His song Invitation to the Blues brilliantly opens this unsettling story of a snobby professor's ravishing of a free spirit. I don't know why this film has never been released on video.  My viewpoints of the characters has changed over the years in this complex film.  Art Garfunkel's obsession with Theresa Russell feels more unnerving with each viewing.  It's probably the first and only sort-of mainstream film to represent near-necrophilia.  Harvey Keitel's strange motivation for wanting a confession out of Art seems more complicated as the film progresses. Theresa is brilliant in the female lead. "},{"Title":"Roeg's last great film a troubled picture about a troubled romance","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"30 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Seen a quarter of a century on, 'Bad Timing' stands out as one of Nicolas Roeg's most satisfying and complex films and yet it can be one of his hardest to discuss. It's a film I feel a little guilty about writing so little about, but even on a second viewing it's still rather overwhelming. It's interesting how it manages to be so genuinely multi-layered, more like a novel than a film - the way it mixes voyeurism, spying and emotional, psychological and legal investigation (with Keitel's investigation of the suicide scene placing him firmly in scenes as an unseen voyeur through Terry Rawlings typically brilliant editing) is remarkable enough, but the film manages to do so much more besides. And the performances are incredibly brave - how many leading men can you think of who would effectively (and quite deliberately effeminately) play the woman's role during the lovers' initial meeting? Russell in particular shows an astonishing range in what should be an impossible part, making her inability to find decent roles these days even more disappointing.True it falls apart in the last couple of reels when the performances don't quite ring true, but it's still the last great film Nic Roeg made before settling into prolific mediocrity. It's as a brilliantly edited post-mortem into a mutually destructive relationship rather than a police mystery that it really enthralls, even when it doesn't entirely work. Much more impressive than I remembered, it's not a feelgood movie - if anything it's the date movie from hell - but it is a remarkably ambitious and accomplished one.So why is the film so little-known and perhaps even less-seen? Well, that seems to be down to some bad luck and bad timing of its own.In the US it hit censorship problems and in Europe it had major problems with its distribution. It was one of Rank's last full slate of British productions, so should have been guaranteed a circuit release on the Odeon chain in the UK. Unfortunately, the head of Rank Theatres was so disgusted by the film (the Rank Organisation was originally started to make religious films and many of the old guard were still in place in 1980) that he refused to book it into a single one of their theatres - the only Rank film to be so 'honored' (although he wasn't much enamoured of Eagle's Wing either). The second biggest circuit was owned by Rank's biggest rival, EMI, who weren't interested in helping out their balance sheet, so it ended up on Lew Grade's very small Classic chain. Rank's distribution in Europe was no more enthusiastic.(Of course, Roeg's next film and most expensive, Eureka, had even bigger problems, being pulled a couple of weeks after opening due to a libel lawsuit that kept it on the shelf for years. Since then, despite the not really successful brave try with Cold Heaven, he seems to be little more than a director for hire on a slew of disappointing pictures and cable movies.) As a result, it's hard to track down, but worth the effort if you're looking for challenging fare. Carlton have released a budget DVD in 2.351 in the UK which is an acceptable transfer, but the film remains as elusive as ever elsewhere. "},{"Title":"The psychology of sexual obsession artistically exposed","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Art Garfunkel in his one great role as an American college psychology professor lusting after student Theresa Russell somewhere in Austria set in the late 70s. The camera work is amazing and keeps the same pace as the subtle plot lines and aesthetically deft sound score. Harvey Keitel plays a systematically intense police detective who has to unravel the near death of Russell following a harrowing sexual attack and drug overdose. Garfunkel is moody, and sophisticated, while never controlling as much as he is controlled by Ms Russell's ingenuous charms. Quite a psychological thriller, and a movie completely in it's own fresh mold. Anybody coming upon this film for the first time will find themselves drawn into the amazing weave which will entice them, and engage self-sexual questioning that is quite capable of opening one's own sexual subconscious. And, just for a treat. . . it almost seems as if every frame of this film is an art-piece in and of itself. "},{"Title":"Complex and shocking and riveting","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film when it was originally released and it still ranks as my all-time favorite. From the opening strains of Tom Waits' gritty Invitation to the Blues (which is cut off by the wail of an ambulance!) every aspect--music, scenery, the astonishing acting--melds together into a masterpiece.Theresa Russell is simply a knockout as Milena, a woman who refuses to be owned. She's beautiful, sexy, carefree, and absolutely infuriating to Art Garfunkel's psychologist Dr. Linden. His compulsion to control her leads to disaster, and Garfunkel's performance is absolutely astonishing. The expression on his face in the final scene is unforgettable. It haunts me still. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary, powerful movie - a masterpiece","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"28 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is Roeg at his best.  Incredible script, stellar camerawork, dark and convoluted plot.  Exquisite exposition of the nature of obsession.  I believe the rapid cuts between the emergency room and sexual passion were off putting for many reviewers, and they couldn't see Theresa Russell's magnificent performance in that scene for what it really was. Roeg is never easy, but neither is Franz Kafka. "},{"Title":"If we don't meet, there's the possibility that it could have been perfect","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Based on an obscure Italian novel, Nicolas Roeg's upsetting and brilliant film details the doomed affair between a cruel psychoanalyst and a melodramatic free spirit. The film begins with the girl comatose and a detective investigates the circumstances. Through flashbacks, the audience learns a terrifying love story has ended with a criminal act.What makes this film so uncomfortable is that it relentlessly focuses on a time in our lives that most of us would like to forget- that is, the time when you know is relationship is doomed, but you have to wait until it hits rock bottom before you finally part ways. Roeg understands that people can't divorce themselves from their emotions, even when they know intellectually that something is wrong.Although Theresa Russell as Milena is the undoubted star of the film- she simply overpowers everything with her vivacity and directness- special mention must be made of the miscast male leads. Art Garfunkel gives a superb, selfless performance as Alex Linden. Alex is not a sympathetic character. He's a controlling, possessive person who gathers data on his unpremeditating mistress. Even an innocent game (the Luscher color test) ends up as part of a psychological profile that's handed in to a security agency. He's resentful as he watches Milena kiss other men but doesn't confront her about it until she's helplessly sprawled on the floor. He never relaxes except in post-coital moments and he becomes frustrated that Milena is untamed, unmarriageable and has a past that she won't share or give up.Harvey Keitel is very charismatic, if unconvincing as an Austrian detective. His performance as the moralistic Inspector Netusil (the name refers to somebody who knows everything who knows one small detail) does not soften the arrogance or the self-righteousness of the character. A thorough investigator who knows that there's more to the case than a suicide attempt- he says plainly How, Dr. Linden, do you account for a girl getting in such a state- drugs, depressions? Milena is somebody who has no idea who has no idea what she wants out of life, sees pleasure as an end in itself and is prone to bouts of melodrama and selfishness. The best scene in the film is her drunken outburst at her uncaring lover We are celebrating the death of the Milena and the birth of the Milena you do want. It's a powerful sequence, but it begs the question- why would this beautiful, intelligent girl let herself get so messed up? Beautifully shot by Roeg's regular cinematographer Anthony Richmond and filled with small, telling moments (e.g. the handwritten note that says I wish you understood me less and loved me more), this is a picture that demands multiple viewings. Roeg at his peak made the busiest films of all time- they're bursting at the seams with ideas and this film, often shocking and heartbreaking, is one of his most accessible. It's unfortunate that this brilliant movie is not more well known- maybe Roeg was right when he said people don't like it when you hold a mirror to their face. "},{"Title":"loved it... and struggled with it","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really couldn't accurately describe the contents of this movie. It's about a destructive love affair between a man played by Art Garfunkel and a woman played by Theresa Russel. Russel has attempted to commit suicide. In the hospital they're fighting for her life as Garfunkel is interrogated by a detective (Harvey Keitel) about what really happened. Slowly the real story unfolds and the viewer learns about the darker sides in both characters.Roeg switches back and forth in the chronology of the story and that makes Bad Timing an intriguing but difficult movie. The secrets that are uncovered are very shocking but one can still 'empathize' (if not sympathize) with the characters.In my opinion it's about stretching the line between good intentions and evil doings. The good part is that you can't really tell in which moment the line is crossed.See it and then see it again. "}{"Title":"Doubts that Bind","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Love is internal. It is sustained by questions of doubt, tension, expectation. The solidity of the hand is strengthened by the slipperiness underfoot.So suppose you wanted to make a film about the fields that animate your anchor relationships. You couldn't do what everyone else does deal with the tokens the looks, the physical moving away of bodies and then re-entering. You want it to have the passion it deserves, which is a tricky thing the passion in the relationships between the film and the viewer has to be based on the same field of passion between lovers. That field requires faith to overcome doubt. This need for investing in love as a counter to the doubts about love is what drives us, with religion and tribalisms as mere side effects.Roeg wanted to do this. During a certain sweet spot in his career, he could shape any story into this, a story about what makes story. And to do it all by cinematic misdirection. This isn't Last Year at Marienbad, which is abstract. This is internal, subconscious, but with the real fleshy stuff we actually dream in.Some viewers will think this is a simple detective story. Bad guy lies; insistent detective catches him. It is all about sequence, the timing of the title. What happens first; how the thing is explained.But I believe this is something much more important. Like Roeg's other films, these are dreams. The things that happen here &#x97; that we see &#x97; drift close to what actually happens, and then away being more like imagined fears. It is all about urges; the grandest passions rest on a collection of urges, most of which slip into uncontrollable futures.I will advise you to approach this as something that goes on in the character's soul. Polanski and Kiesloswki have the same relationship to reality, but here we work closer to image and the uncontrollable ends. The overall shape of thing is a love affair, one that is deep and all-consuming. The hero/filmmaker's mind has some tools that allow us to enter the world of dreams&#x97; He is a research psychoanalyst in Vienna. This is the most unlikely of cities for intellect, and even today produces ideas that fold in on themselves in tightly wound ways. Roeg quotes The Third Man a bit, and assembles a number of Austrian artifacts, all having something to do with control. It is Wittgenstein in his first period.&#x97; He is a spy. He lectures about spies. He spies on patients as a theorist of obsession. He literally works for a spy agency, spying on the woman, who in other identities he is falling in love with. This is Wittgenstein in his second period, having renounced the genius of his knotted mind and theories of word play as mazes.&#x97; He is a detective, instanced as a second being, a sort of Fight Club alter ego that examines himself from the outside. This is Wittgenstein in his third, suicidal period, where his work was on himself. He literally builds a container, a house, here a film. Harvey Keitel since Taxi Driver understood the idea of playing and imagined other. Garfunkle's cluelessness as a person and actor is overwhelmed by him, just as that part of the character's mind is.These three fight for control of self over a woman. The film is so effective, and so energetically unsprung that there is a fourth layer outside. Roeg himself developed an obsession over this woman, falling deeply in love with her. (He would marry her.) The visual storytelling, the editing, the timeshifting, the identity swapping, the depth of texture could not have been as effective were he not obsessively in love in the three ways of the doctor.The genius of starting with Tom Waits and ending with Jarrett's Koln concert is by itself enough to make this an essential experience.Ted's Evaluation -- 4 of 3 Every cineliterate person should experience this. "},{"Title":"A psychological journey with most of the milestones missing","Date":"8 October 2008","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In the 1970s Nicolas Roeg had a reputation as something of an experimental avant-garde director whose style was noted for non-linear narrative, extensive cross-cutting involving the juxtaposition of contrasting images and a brooding sense of menace and foreboding. His first two films as sole director were both excellent ones, Walkabout from 1971 and Don't Look Now from 1973, but I have never cared for his third film, the overlong, confusing and self-consciously arty The Man who Fell to Earth.Bad Timing, made in 1980, was Roeg's fourth film. The narrative is non-linear in the extreme. It opens with a young American woman, Milena Vognic, being rushed to hospital in Vienna after a drug overdose, probably a suicide attempt. In a series of flashbacks we learn about Milena's past- her marriage to her older Czech husband Stefan, from whom she is estranged (it is not made clear whether they are actually divorced), and her stormy relationship with her boyfriend Alex, an American-born lecturer at Vienna University. Intercut with these are scenes showing Milena lying in the hospital and showing Alex being interviewed by a detective who suspects him of foul play.Roeg suffered the misfortune of seeing his film disowned by its distributor, the Rank Organisation, who denounced it as a film about sick people, made by sick people, for sick people. (I say misfortune, but I suspect that actually a lot of art-house directors would regard criticism like that as a badge of honour). What upset them was presumably the explicit sex scenes, although Rank really should have known what to expect from Roeg. He was, after all, the man responsible for Don't Look Now, with its controversial love scene between Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie.In one respect, however, Rank's criticism is accurate; Bad Timing is indeed a film about sick people. Milena and Alex are clearly, psychologically speaking, damaged goods. Their relationship is essentially a sadomasochistic one- not physical sadomasochism but a form of emotional sadomasochism involving both mutual desire and mutual loathing. The film can be seen as a psychological case-study; it is significant that psychology is the subject which Alex teaches, and also that the film is set in Vienna, the city of Freud.I have nothing against non-linear narration in principle; it can often be an effective (sometimes the most effective) way of telling a story. It is, moreover, not necessarily a modernist or avant-garde idea. Those who think of it as an invention of the French Nouvelle Vague of the sixties should watch John Brahm's The Locket from 1946, a film with a particularly intricate flashback within a flashback within a flashback structure. (That film was also a psychological case study). In the case of Bad Timing, however, the film's narrative structure makes it confusing and difficult to follow. Although it aims at a psychological study of the two main characters, we do not learn enough about them to enable us to understand them. I was left wanting to know more about the background to Milena's relationship with Alex (and, even more, about her rather mysterious relationship with Stefan). As the critic of Variety put it, most of the milestones are missing from the characters' tortuous psychological route.Another criticism I would have would be the casting of Art Garfunkel as Alex. Much as I admire Garfunkel for his musical achievements, he was not, on the evidence of this film, much of an actor. Roeg clearly liked using rock stars in his films, because the leading role in The Man who Fell to Earth is taken by David Bowie, an equally unsuccessful piece of casting. (To be fair to Bowie, he was to give better performances in some of his later films).The gorgeous Theresa Russell, who was later to become Roeg's wife, is better as Milena, and, as is often the case with Roeg, there are some striking visual touches. Overall, however, Bad Timing is the sort of experimental film which reminds us that not every experiment, whether in science or the arts, is a successful one. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Two Neurotics Duke It Out","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"31 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Director Nicolas Roeg has managed to take a half hour story and extend it for 129 minutes.  What you see in Bad Timing is a series of contests between two of the most neurotic lovers outside of Damage from 1992. The main characters are a professor of psychiatry, appropriately, and a young woman who demands that others allow her to live for the moment.  Scene after scene we watch these two attempt to dominate each other.  Their sexual couplings make the bed into an arena of emotional endurance. The loser is left crying or pleading and the winner, always unsatisfied, wants still more.The film, rather than having a plot, is a process.  We watch -- my excuse was to wait for a plot -- this sickness for over two hours and find no redemption for the characters nor for us.  No reward exists at the end of the shabby rainbow.As for mechanics, Art Garfunkle, who plays the professor, has the depth and spice of a soda cracker. He attempts to play a passionate playboy, but I can never quite get The Sounds of Silence out of my head.  Funky and quirky Jeremy Irons, would have been a perfect choice for the part. The talented Harvey Keitel, here a sadly dysfunctional police detective, is wasted with lines dripping psycho-babble as he pleads with the professor during an interrogation.  Theresa Russell, who plays the object of the professor's obsession, is given the only good lines in the film.  Her role is so well-portrayed that her character occasionally engages our sympathy.If you are in the mood for some pretentious nonsense, or want to give Art Garfunkel one more chance, check this one out.  Otherwise, get neurotic on your own. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film about emotional instability, love, hate, madness and crime.","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I can't wait to see this masterpiece again. I hate slushy romantic flicks but this is not one of them.The world of people with extremely unstable emotions is brilliantly evoked in this film.I love the way they are both *so* messed up. There is no happy ending, this is no fairy-tale romance. The constant breakups, the creepy, almost stalking behaviours, the outbursts, the attacks and counter-attacks and violence and general hell that is borderline personality - it's all there.Russell's character is a complete mess - drunk, angry, crazy - she has a string of boyfriends with whom she rows constantly, she smashes things up, she smashes herself up and generally goes completely ape.Garfunkel is brilliant - he has much the same trouble as his girlfriend but he *seems* more subdued, although he hides it better, he keeps coming back to her because *he's the same*.Keitel's detached, manipulating cop who tries to unravel the whole thing is probably his best ever work. He's either the consummate professional, calmly picking up the pieces after some crazy and damaged people have been desperately trying to destroy themselves and each other, or he's a crafty, manipulating, evil so-and-so - you're never quite sure.If you like seriously messed-up movies, this film is for you! "},{"Title":"Art Garfunkel surprised me in this one","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When this movie was shown on television a couple of days ago, I had never heard of it before, but given the fact that it has received less than 600 votes until now, even though it is already from 1980, means that I'm not the only one who didn't know of its existence. Apparently some things went wrong with the distribution and the dark content of the movie was probably not what they were used to see at that time either. Does that mean that it is a bad movie? Far from it, the story for instance is multi-layered, interesting and quite impressive.It all starts with a young American woman who is brought to a hospital in Vienna after a suicide attempt by overdosing on pills. But the police detective that investigates the case suspects that there is more going on than what her lover, an American psychology professor, wants to admit. As the doctors do everything possible to save the woman's life, the professor is thoroughly interrogated by the detective. Through a series of flashbacks, we see how the relationship between the two started and evolved and what that had to do with the suicide attempt. Everything will be shown their passionate sexual relationship, her drinking problem, the numerous affairs that both have, her hidden marriage...As I already said, this is a multi-layered story. For me, that makes this movie only more interesting, but I have the feeling that not that many people can cope with it, as today we are only used to see straight and easy stories which don't demand too much of our brains. This movie combines all kinds of aspects like espionage during the Cold War, romance, thriller, drama,... but always feels like one solid film. That only proves the skills of the director and the screenwriter of course. It was the first time that I saw a movie from the hand of director Nicolas Roeg and Yale Udoff is a complete stranger to me as well. But together they made the entire story work.The fact that this is such a solid movie also has a lot to do with the good acting. Not that I expected anything else from people like Harvey Keitel and Theresa Russell, but Art Garfunkel certainly surprised me. Normally I don't like all those singers / would-be actors who only appear in movies to get the movie a larger audience (not that it worked this time) and not because they know anything about acting. But when their performance is OK, I'll be the first one to admit it as well and so I say here that Art Garfunkel was really very good in this movie.Overall this is a very good movie with an interesting story and some very fine acting. It's too bad that it isn't better known, because it certainly deserves to be seen by a much larger audience. I give this movie at least a 7.5/10, maybe even an 8/10. "},{"Title":"BAD TIMING (Nicolas Roeg, 1980) ***1/2","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" BAD TIMING is the one Nicolas Roeg film (from his initial period of peerlessly brilliant movies) which had so far eluded me; actually, for some reason, I had missed out on its one and only TV screening in my neck of the woods.Following in the footsteps of Mick Jagger in PERFORMANCE (1970) and David Bowie in THE MAN WHO FELL TO EARTH (1976), Art Garfunkel was the third pop star to be engaged as an actor by Roeg. Harvey Keitel, on the other hand, was not Roeg's first choice for Inspector Netusil the role had previously been offered to Albert Finney and Bruno Ganz (both of whom turned it down) and Malcolm McDowell (who was unavailable). While their casting is indeed eccentric, contrary to the general opinion, I found them both very good in their difficult roles. Despite her young age and the complexity of the character she was playing, the stunning Theresa Russell - who turned down SUPERMAN (1978) to do this but, ironically, is now currently engaged on SPIDER-MAN 3! - is simply astonishing in the film and she should by rights have become a huge star because of it; as it is, she ended up being criminally underused and her career has subsequently been disappointingly uneven.While the film's working title was ILLUSIONS, its eventual title could be referring to the chance meeting between Garfunkel and Russell at a party (had either of them left earlier, they might never have met), to Garfunkel's inexplicably sluggish movements on the night of Russell's suicide attempt (which are under Keitel's dogged scrutiny) or even to estranged husband Denholm Elliott's reporting of Russell's recovery just as Garfunkel is about to break down under Keitel's relentless questioning and confess to his ravishment of her while she was practically comatose. Tragically, Garfunkel's plight in the film was eerily mirrored in real-life towards the end of shooting when his own girlfriend Laurie Bird - whose brief acting career included two films for Monte Hellman, TWO-LANE BLACKTOP (1971) and COCKFIGHTER (1974) - committed suicide in their apartment. Clearly one of Roeg's most personal films, BAD TIMING is not only a harrowing study of male-female relationships or more precisely l'amour fou, but is also another depiction by Roeg (as had been the case with all his previous pictures) of characters stranded in a foreign land, in this case two Americans in Vienna. In hindsight, the tumultuous and almost deadly Garfunkel-Russell relationship is mirrored in the one between Garfunkel and Keitel, especially in the film's latter stages when the interrogation and subsequent revelation take center stage; the latter sequences, then, are capped by an enigmatic ending - due to Elliott's nick-of-time appearance and subsequent dematerialization - could this be a figment of Garfunkel's agitated state of mind? BAD TIMING is shot in Roeg's typically fragmented style which, this time around, can perhaps be explained by the fact that the narrator (Art or Theresa) is under a lot of emotional (Keitel's interrogation of Art) and physical (Theresa's life-saving surgery) strain. In another sense, BAD TIMING can even be seen as a sophisticated precursor to the erotic thrillers so prevalent in filmdom from the late-80s onwards.For the third consecutive time, Anthony Richmond serves as director of photography for Roeg and the film also boasts a splendidly eclectic soundtrack - Billy Holliday, Keith Jarrett, The Who, Tom Waits, not to mention some typical Viennese zither music a' la THE THIRD MAN (1949) - an inspired choice to be sure but, ironically, the prohibitive rights issue costs were also one of the reasons why BAD TIMING has been out of the public eye for so long.The Criterion DVD is therefore a very welcome introduction for me to this essential film. Intriguingly, it transpires that the film's backers, The Rank Organization, dubbed BAD TIMING a sick film by sick people for sick people and subsequently not only dropped their famous gong logo from the credit titles but refused to show it in their chain of theaters! Interestingly, the outline of the story emerged from an aborted collaboration between Roeg and famed Italian producer Carlo Ponti. Disappointingly, unlike Criterion's other Roeg DVDs, WALKABOUT (1971) and THE MAN WHO FELL TO EARTH, there is no Audio Commentary to be found here although Roeg is in a jovial mood in the accompanying interview. Also, a couple of the deleted scenes were quite good, particularly one in which Russell crashes a party and embarrasses Garfunkel with her drunken and lewd antics. For the record, during the four-year hiatus between THE MAN WHO FELL TO EARTH and BAD TIMING, Roeg had been connected with several high-profile projects which were eventually helmed by other people, namely FLASH GORDON (Mike Hodges, 1980), HAMMETT (Wim Wenders, 1982) and OUT OF Africa (Sydney Pollack, 1985). Unfortunately, Roeg's decline has proved to been one of the saddest in recent memory but his two current productions - PUFFBALL and ADINA - sound promising at least and hopefully they will come to fruition eventually! Actually, after this viewing of BAD TIMING, I regret not purchasing Roeg's previous film, THE MAN WHO FELL TO EARTH, when Deep Discount DVD had their recent Criterion sale. However, I should be giving Roeg's subsequent film, (also starring his then wife Theresa Russell) EUREKA (1984), a first look via my VHS copy; actually, had it not been for the recent interview with the still gorgeous Russell conducted for the BAD TIMING DVD, I wouldn't have known that Roeg and Russell had separated! "},{"Title":"Never great, often excruciating","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I will admit that Bad Timing is well directed by Nicolas Roeg, a master of visuals - from his cinematography of The Masque of the Red Death (1964) to the enchanting Walkabout (1970). The use of music is effective if not as good, I suspect, as it could have been . The film falls down in three areas the script, the acting and the length. The script is repetetive, often incoherent and tends towards the insular and melodramatic. The theme of relationships is done to death there is no hinterland, just a monotonous unpersuasive intensity. The acting is a mixture. Not enough is made of Harvey Keitel and Denholm Elliott's talents. The crucial part is handed to Art Garfunkel, who, while not awful, is barely adequate. What was Roeg thinking there? Theresa Russell, however, gives one of her finest performances as an unstable woman. Where the film finally fails is in the way it drags on and on, with no real point and certainly few memorable scenes. The viewer is battered into submission by the repetitive, droning unsavouryness of it all. Not by any stretch of the imagination an enjoyable film. Rating- ** 1/2 (out of *****) "},{"Title":"My Life","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've just returned after seeing this movie and it has messed your dude up. This was my life for the two years I spent with my Milena. The parallels are uncanny. I am kind of nerdy just like Garfunkel...same pathetic physique...but like Garfunkel I have a certain magnetism. Garfunkel's not exactly a wimp...there's some steel in his gaze. My Milena was just as magnetic and beautiful as Theresa Russell...really. My Milena also lived in a sordid, messy, sexy aerie with a big bed, overfull ashtrays, half-read books everywhere. The alcohol? Check. The infidelity? Check. The suicide attempts? Check. The much older other man? Check. The sleazy, disgusting party friends? Check. The late-night drunk calls that may or may not have been suicide attempts? Check. The intense sex that regularly turned into something twisted? Check. Just like Garfunkel I was hooked...just like Garfunkel I had a together life...my God, I even study psychoanalysis...and just like Garfunkel there was more than a hint of bad faith in the togetherness I opposed to my Milena's sloppiness. Like Garfunkel, the idea that Milena had other lovers made me crazy...like Theresa Russell, my Milena needed secrets...lies...she couldn't breathe without her lies and secrets.The scene where she sets Garfunkel up with her fake suicide attempt only to loose the full force of her hysterical cruelty on him...check...down to the blows and the broken bottles...and it marked the moment our love died, even if things dribbled on for a while after that. Anyway...you get the picture. You know a movie is good when it shows you things about YOUR OWN life that you hadn't noticed before. That's the secret of a great movie you feel like it's talking to you and to you alone. I have a feeling I'm not the only person who walked out of the cinema feeling like he had just seen his own life on the screen. Almost everything is perfect. This film is even more disturbing than DON'T LOOK NOW. That is saying a lot. The one wrong note for me was Harvey Keitel. I liked the contrast of his healthy virility with Garfunkel's nerdiness...but Keitel got something wrong. Not sure what...it was certainly a tricky role, and he wasn't exactly bad, but something was wrong. "},{"Title":"Intriguing and underrated","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I first became aware of this film a few weeks ago, when IFC was doing an IFZ weekend homage to Z Channel (watch the documentary if you get a chance). Anyway, they showed the film a few times, but something always interrupted me from seeing it all the way through. So I bought the DVD from eBay and watched it in its entirety--I HAD to know what happened. WOW! My heart was pounding like a jackhammer during the denouement, and I was absolutely blown away by the film as a whole. It certainly demands multiple viewings, as I finally was able to piece things together that I had not before. I'm sure if I watch it again I'll catch even more subtlety. The character studies are fascinating, and Garfunkel and Russell are just stunning. It's a story that anyone that has been in a messed up relationship (hello, who HASN'T?!)can relate to--especially unrequited first love/obsession. "},{"Title":"Invitation To The Blues","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A cigarette, said Oscar Wilde, is the perfect type of the perfect pleasure. It is exquisite, and it leaves one unsatisfied. Bad Timing's psychologist Alex Linden (Garfunkel) would no doubt describe his ex-lover, the brazen blonde Milena Flaherty (Russell) in exactly the same glowing terms.It's also a charge critics have levelled at Bad Timing since 1980 (they usually leave the 'exquisite' bit off), citing its pseudo-intellectualism, along with a subplot featuring Denholm Elliot that runs out of wool - though he does comically pop his head round thedoor at the end, in yet another case of 'bad timing'.But back to the cigarettes for a moment this film is absolutely choking, fair reeking in ciggie smoke; over 40 cigarettes have the life sucked out of them during the two-hour running time. I wanted them all to smoke, said director Nic Roeg. Nervousness. Smokers (who ought not to attempt a Withnail And I-style 'smoking game' lest they pass out and choke to death on their own nicotiney vomit) are advised to watch it from the comfort of the living room with an enormous ashtray to hand.The cigarettes aren't just a handy visual shorthand for obsessive compulsion, which is the meat and potatoes of Bad Timing, they also form a crucial part of the evidence that will damn Alex. Having discovered a suicidal Milena (Russell) expiring from a booze and pills overdose, a very advanced toxic condition, as the medics have it, why would he (apparently) pass the time puffing away, filling her ashtray with butts for over an hour before calling the ambulance round? It's the job of Inspector Netusil (Keitel), Alex's inquisitor-cum-conscience, to find out what really happened in that mysterious 60-minute window.What Netusil intuits, and what is finally revealed to us - no lesser voyeurs than the characters herein - is predictable if unflinchingly graphic (you may never hear 'Bright Eyes' the same way again). The cause of the film's one-time censorship (Bad Timing's sickened producers Rank banned it from their own Odeon cinemas) was succinctly summed up by Big Audio Dynamite in their unlikely chart hit 'E = MC2', Mick Jones' homage to Roeg's films She's my flame too hot to hold, had to settle for her cold. Set in Vienna, the birthplace of psychoanalysis, Bad Timing has been described as Freudian cinema with a vengeance; Hitchcock with knobs on. Alternately draggy, horrible, then almost unbearable to watch, it's permeated with the kind of decadence, anguished eroticism and self-analysis (cue much poring over the Lüscher Colour Test) associated with fin-de-siècle Vienna the paintings of Freud's contemporaries Gustav Klimt and Egon Schiele are featured heavily, as is Roeg's trademark non-linear, free-associative direction, less effective here than in Don't Look Now.Depending on one's tolerance for shouty, duvet-chewing acting, the lead performances will either grimly fascinate (perhaps evoking happy memories of past doomed relationships), possibly amuse, or most likely irritate beyond belief, until you're seized by the desire to violently bang the heads of everyone involved together.As Alex, Garfunkel is a modern monster. A neat freak and control freak-turned-voyeur (early in the film, he observes to his student class that a guilt-ridden voyeur is usually a political conservative) his idea of a chat-up line is, If we don't meet, there's always the possibility it could have been perfect. Or, on the lovers in Klimt's 'The Kiss', They're happy... because they don't know each other well enough yet. It's a wonder he manages to get anyone in the sack, alive or half-dead.For Alex, who desires to dominate with rationalism, Milena is simply another case study to be observed, enjoyed at leisure, tagged and ultimately cast back into the community on a long leash. He's only a masochist's idea of a bridge over troubled water. Fortunately for Alex, Milena is just such a masochist neurotic, chaotic, living for the moment and prone to hurling beer bottles off the windowsill in a drunken fury while dressed as a kind of prostitute-clown.A pivotal, and pretty representative exchange, sees a hopeful Alex nipping round, our blousey anti-heroine atypically fending him off as she's not in the mood, Alex storming out, Milena chasing after him and offering herself to him on the apartment stairs. Wasting no time, our shrink plunges straight in, then saunters off without a by-or-leave, while Milena trudges miserably back indoors. As a sympathetic Netusil, like the chairman at a male assertiveness meeting, despairs, They're dangerous creatures, to themselves and others... they try to drag us into their confusion and chaos. Poor old Alex can only seethe unhappily at his shoes, as an unconscious Milena gets a bloody tracheotomy pipe plugged into her neck.This is one of the bleakest films in Roeg's canon, which is saying something; ushered in to the grizzled strains of Tom Waits' 'Invitation To The Blues', and closing with Billie Holiday's 'The Same Old Story', via Daltrey and Townshend's 'Who Are You' - although Elvis Costello's 'Two Little Hitlers' would have worked just as well Two Little Hitlers will fight it out until/one little Hitler does the other one's will. "}{"Title":"inside out","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Roeg has a troubled mind. Or at least is fond of entering troubled minds. His biggest quality is something i value a lot in a filmmaker he paints his canvas, but he also designates where we seat to look at it. He builds the atmosphere and makes us a spaceship to enter it. That's our feeling. But than there's something more interesting he does. We think we are comfortable as the designated watchers of what he depicts, but what he does, mostly through camera work and editing (which is great in this film) is trying to push us into the game, and going through the same risks and trouble of the characters in the film. That will to place the viewer at the center of what matters is commonly tried these days, but i think Roeg was a visionary in his days, and that includes this film.We have a psychoanalyst, which is a shortcut for saying he is someone who works relations inside out. He is obsessed, has retroactive jealousy, and the film is the evolution of how he fights himself to make a convenient story that allows him to be with the woman, something he eventually fails to do. We know how the thing ends from the beginning, so the film uses the form of allowing us to know the ending point and than driving as in flashback to that point. The editing is frantic and somehow psychedelic, something Roeg might have learned in his London 60' experience. And the intention was precisely to make our visual mind work like the troubled mind of Garfunkel's character.An extra significant point, something Ted Goranson really likes to notice, and which i'm starting to fall for is the empathy Roeg has with the actress, Theresa Russell, which would lead to marriage. You really can understand that. Her character is not the center of the story, it's all about Garfunkel, but we miss that unless we think about that. Garfunkel's character was at this point a representative of Roeg's urges for this beautiful woman.The film that best portrays this relation, and simultaneously is Roeg's best, to me, is Insignificance. This Bad Timing is one of his most celebrated, but it has minor power compared to the other one. It's a good experience, but i suggest you use it as an introduction to the other.My opinion 3/5 http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com insignificance "},{"Title":"Excellent Film, Excellent Russell Performance","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Theresa Russell plays her character with an amazing degree of depth and variety in this film. She's sexy, vivacious, fun-loving, wanton, capricious, headstrong, and yet vulnerable to the soulless, self-serving shrink portrayed chillingly well by Art Garfunkel. Theresa's character is very lifelike and (despite the character's flaws, both obvious and subtle) also quite sympathetic.This is not an easy film to watch. For one thing, it's rather non-linear, and flits around between several different times and places. Rather than telling a story as such, it's more of a jigsaw puzzle, the pieces of which are revealed and placed one at a time. For another, it's actually rather unnerving to watch the process of her dissolution, both due to how realistically it's shown and the fact that we want to like Malena (or at least I did).If you're at all a fan of Russell, I think you'll find that this is one of her best performances ever, and the direction and staging are first-rate.(It was also a bit weird to see Harvey Keitel with long hair.) "},{"Title":"Here's to you, Mrs....I mean, Mr....","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who could sing 'Bridge Over Troubled Water' with such spiritual clarity must have other talents and so it proved. Harvey Keitel is the actor with the heavier rep but he is often horribly stagey here. Art Garfunkel's performance however, remains authentic and true to life right till the end with an extraordinary level of concentration. He is brilliantly able to show simply thinking, often looking off screen in a state of enigmatic contemplation. It is one of the all time great screen performances and he sadly became an untapped resource in the business.The constant smoking in the film was rumoured to be an early example of product placement (thanks, I only smoke these) but the director subsequently denied this, claiming it was meant to dramatise the nervousness of the assortment of neurotic characters. I think it would have been more effective if we hadn't seen what ultimately transpired between the two leads in the film, leaving us to speculate as to whether a line had been crossed into moral horror. This unwillingness to trust the audience and go for the explicit in order to shock is one of the great failings of modern cinema. some commentator at the time described 'Bad Timing' as 'a sick film, made by sick people for sick audiences', but although it's often meretricious, the adults depicted are recognizably that of the real world. It is truthful in many respects. See it as a reminder of the days when British films could be half way decent.  "},{"Title":"The dark side of the human psyche","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nic Roeg is simply the finest British director alive.  He has developed his own unique style of cinema. Very dark at times, but always compelling.  A sense of space, silence and beauty pervades, even though the film deals with the dark side of a very destructive relationship.  Given his immense directing skills, he should really be held in much higher esteem, and I urge anyone reading this to give this and all his other films a viewing.  "},{"Title":"The film has some faults, but Theresa Russell's performance is riveting.","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This story about a wildly sexual love affair gives an excellent picture of the torment these people suffer.  The flashbacks were intrusive at times but eventually they made sense.  I can't understand why the Rank people refused to release the picture, nor can I figure out why I never heard of Theresa Russell.  She's great in this film. "},{"Title":"Art Garfunkel goes bad!","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  At first this film seems completely impenetrable, the start of the film has heavy use of flashbacks and flash forwards which can result in disorientation.  But after a while the narrative begins to settle down, although there are always moments of chronological confusion.The film centres around Art Garfunkel's character who has an unhealthy obsession with the character played by Theresa Russell.  Most of the film takes place in flashback as Art tells the story to Harvey Kietel's character, a cop.  The plot is fairly thin, and the ending inconclusive but the film does have its moments.There are some unplesent moments and there are times when you just want to stop watching because the narrative hurts so much.  But it's worth seeing just so you can see nice guy Art turn bad.After seeing this film you can't help but wonder, If Art Garfunkel's hair, and Harvey Kietel's hair had a fight, who would win? "},{"Title":"Neurotic relationship as horror story","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I just saw this film -- somehow in the last 25 years it just never made it on to my must see list. I mean, Art Garfunkel???However -- it is an amazingly effective depiction of emotional reality within a neurotic relationship. The histrionic Theresa Russell is inexplicably in love with the narcissistic psychiatrist played by Art Garfunkel, who is sexually obsessed with her. Or is it Russell's character who is obsessed? As an acting amateur, Garfunkel's lack of expressiveness works well to demonstrate his self-involvement and absence of interest in his partner as a unique individual. Surprisingly, he communicates sexual fascination most effectively. The chemistry between the two personalities -- one hot, one cold -- is gripping. It seems that an intense and mutual sexual bond is what keeps these two disordered personalities coming back for more craziness.The climax of the film reveals the psychiatrist's deadening ambivalence towards his lover. Ultimately, Bad Timing is just as much a horror story as Roeg's Don't Look Now. Fully realized from the first minute to the last, it is a movie by adults for adults. "},{"Title":"A magnificent work.Well worth watching!","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Bad Timing is a unique work.This is portrayed through its well crafted magnificent use of colour,flamboyant style and its laid back calmness.This makes the film very watchable and easy going on the eye.The films strange and almost abortive plot keeps you enthuised right through till the end.I would highly rate this film and recommend it to anyone.If its a high paced film your looking for, this film is not for you.Just sit back relax and enjoy the magic of this outstanding work. "},{"Title":"A Special Masterpiece","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is a rare gem that has very fortunately been restored by Criterion so now we have appropriate access to the film and an excellent remaster of it. The film is better than I original anticipated. It is a timeless film. The story and themes are relevant today, arguably even more relevant to today, the year 2015. I can think of a couple films like it from more recent years, but this one is like the master of them all. The lead characters are all very well crafted and all the performances are excellent. Arguably, the casting could not have been better. This film was ahead of it's time. Even the sense of humor it has is just modern. There's a lot of depth in the meanings. Definitely a film that must be seen again and again to fully absorb what's being communicated. It should make one wonder. May this film go down in history and live on. "},{"Title":"Another Masterpiece From Nic Roeg","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The setting is Vienna. A young American woman (Theresa Russell) is brought to a hospital after overdosing on pills, apparently in a suicide attempt. A police detective suspects foul play on the part of her lover, an American psychology professor (Art Garfunkel).Although his is only a supporting role, we must single out Harvey Keitel -- this is a great role for him and he exhibits some nice hair. I think younger audiences (myself included) might know him more as a gangster... this was a pleasant departure from that.Garfunkel's character gives a lecture on the connection between voyeurism, spying and politics (and says conservatives do it but feel guilty). I feel like there was something important here, not just to the film but as a social criticism at large. Unfortunately, I am not entirely sure what it is.Lastly, I loved The Who recurring motif. "}{"Title":"Always liked Theresa Russell...","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" so when I saw this on NetFlix I figured it may be a decent film, suspense set in Vienna.She looks lovely, just prior to minor fame from Black Widow (starring with Debra Winger and Terry O'Quinn) where she was excellent as a gold digger and murderess.The sites are intriguing, she is a party girl who leaves a former older lover to date Art Garfunkel, psychiatrist. Yes, its dated in that Garfunkel is not exactly leading man material, even in the early 80's I do not think he was, but anyway.Basically as Milenia, Russell is enjoying her travels, and merely wants to party and have fun, sensual escapades and no strings. Garfunkel however begins to have contempt for her as she will not commit to being only with him.Some cinematography in Tangier is beautiful and sensual. The overall story doesn't work, but you may find it watchable if you are a fan of Russell. There is a twist at the end as well. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A grim and fragmented film from Nicolas Roeg","Date":"29 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Nicolas Roeg has never exactly been a conventional director. Bad Timing is one of his most complex works. It's a multi-layered and fragmented story about a relationship that gradually goes out of control ending horribly. As is the way with Roeg, editing is hugely important. In this instance the editing is used to cut and paste the narrative in a very non-linear fashion so that the story comes at us with contrasting jarring emotional changes. It's overall a very intense film to watch. One of those that only really settles into your mind once it's over. It's a very adult film with frank sexuality and complex psychology going on throughout. At times it's very unpleasant and it isn't really very surprising it met with some censorship issues. It's equally not too hard to see why it was a commercial failure too. While admittedly the distribution problem it had could not have helped, it's not really a film that has any lightness to it. It's an unremittingly bleak story with almost no humour. This isn't intended as a criticism just an observation.The two principal actors do well with pretty difficult material. It's often sexually very explicit although never erotic. It must've taken some bravery for the leads to act these roles. Although I do expect sexually frank imagery from Nicolas Roeg, on the other hand I wasn't entirely prepared for seeing Art Garfunkel's gonads. But as I say this material is never sensationalized although it does ultimately end in a sex scene that is certainly very grim indeed. However, the main thrust of the narrative, such as it is, is the exploration of a mutually destructive relationship. Roeg's style of bold editing is very well suited to tell this fragmented story. Despite the subject of young lovers it's certainly not a romance. It's way too downbeat for that. If you've just started dating someone, this is not the film to watch together. "},{"Title":"The psychologist as life-denier","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Nicolas Roeg anatomises a love affair, and then re-arranges the pieces to create an affective display. The film is visceral, poetic, dizzying and provocative, moving, sexy and repulsive by turns. It features brilliant performances from all of the cast, most notably Russell - few actresses can achieve the kind of freewheeling and real sensuality that she achieves so seemingly effortlessly here.Set mostly in Vienna, the film takes the psychologists need to control and coral the instincts and life force of a living human woman to be ultimately murderous. One is never quite sure whether Harvey Keitel's detective is a manifestation of guilt and the super-ego or a real on-the-trail policeman; in the end it doesn't matter, as the man in question is forced to face his own reality as a life-denying entity.The ending, as with Performance, shows a fragile human consciousness being driven off to their doom in a car which appears to be the manifestation of a post-modern world in which they are desperately lost. "},{"Title":"my kind of relationship drama- and I am NOT a sick person!  I think...","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Bad Timing is Nicholas Roeg's film about a relationship that is fueled by an obsessive passion, more or less, on both sides, and ends in a kind of mutual destruction. This has been fodder for many an independent film, but Roeg and his screenwriter attempt the material with a twist (Roeg, perhaps in his own distinct sensibility as an auteur, more-so). They're attempting to dissect it by a manner that goes along with how a mind works through a relationship after the fact, through memories of what worked, what didn't at all, what's foggy, what's crazy, subtle bits that connect more directly to others, and essentially reveals as much as any one person can think about the individuals in their link. Throw in a little detective/criminal mystery entanglement, some trademark Roeg editing and narrative technique, and sprinkle some of the most appropriately steamy (and appropriately disturbing) mature sexual context in a movie since Last Tango, and you've got a sort of cult classic.It's the kind of work that, as someone who loves getting a filmmaker who approaches things from a skewed perspective almost like an intellectual, is nearly inspiring. I didn't gain mind-blowing Bergmanesque insights into the realm of a torn relationship, but it's enough to squash competition that might show up late at night on IFC. It deals with a psychology professor, Alex Linden (Art Garfunkel, the most unlikely of male leads for a sexually charged and complex individual, but out-does his previous turn in Carnal Knowledge as a subtle performer of a man in total emotional crisis), and his romance with young Milena (the extraordinary Theresa Russel, arguably her best performance to date, soul pouring out like it's her one and only chance to shine), who is possibly already married to a much older man across the Vienna border (Denhalm Elliot, great in his few scenes).They have powerful lust and some good times, even in Morocco of all places, but... they just don't click, due to Alex not being able to let go of what Milena does, almost in a every breath you take style (watch as the Who's Who Are You is used in the most stirring effect imaginable). Without saying too much, something terrible happens to Milena, a hospital stay occurs, and an investigation (overnight, of course) happens between a detective (long-haired Harvey Keitel, compelling even when it's only in the smallest, two-note spurts) which leads to a test of pure existential upheaval. But Roeg firstly approaches the style like it's a shuffleboard of images and scenes, moods and thoughts, and it's a wonderful experiment in subjective approach. Many post-modern filmmakers only wish to try and make a film dealing with genre (i.e. crime/gangsters) like this, but Roeg does it sometimes subliminally, cut-aways implying sexual interaction and obsession that go the opposite way of the pondering style of a Last Tango (i.e. the operation scene, a cut-away between a tense gynecological exam during surgery and sex).The other thing that Roeg wisely does, as he did do sort of in Walkabout, is to let the actors play up to their strengths. While it was trickier to to as a director, and to actually notice in the finished product, in Walkabout, in Bad Timing there are countless scenes where we see the actors tapping into the characters full-throttle, and revealing little layers in the script that wouldn't be present in a more conventional treatment. It's simple to say this kind of material would get shut out at the door in Hollywood. Sure it would; it's a tale where lurid details (and truly disturbing ones, more-so for how they linger in the mind than how they're shown) seem to mask the more vulnerable shades of the story. But it's difficult to say that it might have more appeal than the one infamous quote a sick movie made by sick people for sick people seems to suggest.It is rough going at times, and not your grandmother's story of love gone awry. But it challenges perceptions and tries to pierce through certain concepts of what men expect from women and women expect from men the lies, the hiding, being open, being free, being who we are in front of one another. At the end, what is the bond in a relationship? Do we know one another really? Roeg leaves it up to us to decide... in his sick way. And it's one of my favorites of 1980. "},{"Title":"So beautiful, it doesn't matter.","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is an unpleasant film that makes little sense. And it stars the director's  wife. And a pop singer. But, along with Hitchcock's Under Capricorn and Polanski's Chinatown I find it simply beautiful in its use of colour.There is something quite wonderfully arresting about a film like this that fully embraces the artifice of cinema, in which the actors are less flesh than painted, animated, aluminium mannequins. "},{"Title":"Invitation To The Blues","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A cigarette, said Oscar Wilde, is the perfect type of the perfect pleasure. It is exquisite, and it leaves one unsatisfied. Bad Timing's psychologist Alex Linden (Garfunkel) would no doubt describe his ex-lover, the brazen blonde Milena Flaherty (Russell) in exactly the same glowing terms.It's also a charge critics have levelled at Bad Timing since 1980 (they usually leave the 'exquisite' bit off), citing its pseudo-intellectualism, along with a subplot featuring Denholm Elliot that runs out of wool - though he does comically pop his head round thedoor at the end, in yet another case of 'bad timing'.But back to the cigarettes for a moment this film is absolutely choking, fair reeking in ciggie smoke; over 40 cigarettes have the life sucked out of them during the two-hour running time. I wanted them all to smoke, said director Nic Roeg. Nervousness. Smokers (who ought not to attempt a Withnail And I-style 'smoking game' lest they pass out and choke to death on their own nicotiney vomit) are advised to watch it from the comfort of the living room with an enormous ashtray to hand.The cigarettes aren't just a handy visual shorthand for obsessive compulsion, which is the meat and potatoes of Bad Timing, they also form a crucial part of the evidence that will damn Alex. Having discovered a suicidal Milena (Russell) expiring from a booze and pills overdose, a very advanced toxic condition, as the medics have it, why would he (apparently) pass the time puffing away, filling her ashtray with butts for over an hour before calling the ambulance round? It's the job of Inspector Netusil (Keitel), Alex's inquisitor-cum-conscience, to find out what really happened in that mysterious 60-minute window. What Netusil intuits, and what is finally revealed to us - no lesser voyeurs than the characters herein - is predictable if unflinchingly graphic (you may never hear 'Bright Eyes' the same way again). The cause of the film's one-time censorship (Bad Timing's sickened producers Rank banned it from their own Odeon cinemas) was succinctly summed up by Big Audio Dynamite in their unlikely chart hit 'E = MC2', Mick Jones' homage to Roeg's films She's my flame too hot to hold, had to settle for her cold. Set in Vienna, the birthplace of psychoanalysis, Bad Timing has been described as Freudian cinema with a vengeance; Hitchcock with knobs on. Alternately draggy, horrible, then almost unbearable to watch, it's permeated with the kind of decadence, anguished eroticism and self-analysis (cue much poring over the Lüscher Colour Test) associated with fin-de-siècle Vienna the paintings of Freud's contemporaries Gustav Klimt and Egon Schiele are featured heavily, as is Roeg's trademark non-linear, free-associative direction, less effective here than in Don't Look Now.Depending on one's tolerance for shouty, duvet-chewing acting, the lead performances will either grimly fascinate (perhaps evoking happy memories of past doomed relationships), possibly amuse, or most likely irritate beyond belief, until you're seized by the desire to violently bang the heads of everyone involved together.As Alex, Garfunkel is a modern monster. A neat freak and control freak-turned-voyeur (early in the film, he observes to his student class that a guilt-ridden voyeur is usually a political conservative) his idea of a chat-up line is, If we don't meet, there's always the possibility it could have been perfect. Or, on the lovers in Klimt's 'The Kiss', They're happy... because they don't know each other well enough yet. It's a wonder he manages to get anyone in the sack, alive or half-dead.For Alex, who desires to dominate with rationalism, Milena is simply another case study to be observed, enjoyed at leisure, tagged and ultimately cast back into the community on a long leash. He's only a masochist's idea of a bridge over troubled water. Fortunately for Alex, Milena is just such a masochist neurotic, chaotic, living for the moment and prone to hurling beer bottles off the windowsill in a drunken fury while dressed as a kind of prostitute-clown.A pivotal, and pretty representative exchange, sees a hopeful Alex nipping round, our blousey anti-heroine atypically fending him off as she's not in the mood, Alex storming out, Milena chasing after him and offering herself to him on the apartment stairs. Wasting no time, our shrink plunges straight in, then saunters off without a by-or-leave, while Milena trudges miserably back indoors. As a sympathetic Netusil, like the chairman at a male assertiveness meeting, despairs, They're dangerous creatures, to themselves and others... they try to drag us into their confusion and chaos. Poor old Alex can only seethe unhappily at his shoes, as an unconscious Milena gets a bloody tracheotomy pipe plugged into her neck.This is one of the bleakest films in Roeg's canon, which is saying something; ushered in to the grizzled strains of Tom Waits' 'Invitation To The Blues', and closing with Billie Holiday's 'The Same Old Story', via Daltrey and Townshend's 'Who Are You' - although Elvis Costello's 'Two Little Hitlers' would have worked just as well Two Little Hitlers will fight it out until/one little Hitler does the other one's will. "},{"Title":"earlier (and better) than Basic Instinct","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Without being a masterpiece this is a surprisingly good film in its genre, and one of the first taking into account that it was made in 1980 and it may be considered one of the fist erotic thrillers. The story of an attempted suicide of a woman (Theresa Russell) and the following investigation where his boyfriend (Art Garfunkel) faces the suspicion of an obsessed detective (Harvey Keitel) is set in a Vienna filmed with taste and style and told in a non-chronological manner that builds the story in an a series of interleaved present and flashback scenes. The best parts of the movie are these where the actors are left to rather freely build the relationship of lust and mis-communication between Russell and Garfunkel, and the suspicion mind-game between Garfunkel and Keitel. Less convincing is the plot itself, it looks like after setting the story and putting the characters in motion the director and script writer did not really know how to end it at the level of interest they succeeded to build. Garfunkel itself in the middle of the story looks a little uncertain, this is by far his most important role on screen but his lack of confidence fits well a character who is supposed to look like he cannot make his mind in a relationship. Although this film came a little too early it set the rules and establish the ground for a niche genre that has developed a few years after it, and despite the aging of some gadgets and equipment and the intense smoking that looks now so outdated -) by its characters it does not look too tired or rusty, quite the opposite. Actually if I am to compare it with Basic Instinct (certainly with the second one, but maybe also with the first) Bad Timing is a better movie. "},{"Title":"A Viennese whirl","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'Bad Timing's jagged format, beautiful Viennese setting and Keith Jarrett-led, opulent score create a movie thats as mysterious as it is menacing. A plot comes, is alluded to, told intermittently in flashbacks and arcs and splutters to conclusion but its very much a film of photography and technique. Roeg's structureless style overwhelms a perhaps miscast Harvey Keitel, a struggling (as always) Art Garfunkel (the one pop-star casting Roeg didn't get spot on) and a ravishing Theresa Russell but ultimately wins out as the film lingers long and tantalizingly out of reach long after viewing. The fifth of five in Roeg's golden period and in many ways the most intriguing. "},{"Title":"Roeg and Russell at Their Best","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film drove me crazy with lust for Theresa Russell when I first saw it, and a recent IFC showing brought back that first reaction in a hot flashback.The scene between Art Garfunkel and Russell on the stairway never fails to make me crazy. But you have to give Russell credit for her candid and powerful performance in this film, a contrast to Garfunkel's not particularly attractive coolness. What you keep wondering watching Bad Timing, is what the heck Russell sees in him.Garfunel agonizes over deep existential questions despite his own lust for Russell -- and forgive me for not using the character names, for I'm only talking about their roles, not their reality. At one point, they're on an exotic vacation in a steamy mid-East and he agonizes. Look at where we are, she tells him, although he remains oblivious. This film makes An Affair to Remember, and assorted Nora Ephron films look like the pablum they are.Similarly, in that scene on the stairway, she lifts her skirts and tells him, This is what you want, isn't it? Sometimes things are both simpler than we think and more complex at the same time. I'm reminded of Freud's alleged statement that Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar. We can coat anything with a veneer of verbal paint without seeing the true color of the underlying timber. This movie is about lust and how it sometimes drives us even though we paint it in technicolor rationalizations. This film gave me an enduring crush on Russell, who married Roeg. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A woman (Theresa Russel) tried to commit suicide. While her life is fought for in a hospital, (Art Garfunkel) the man who called the ambulance is being questioned (great cutting!) about his relations to her.The rest is to save for people who haven't seen the film.Way ahead of it's time cutting, acting, photography, directing, made this story, which is almost impossible to tell, plausible and makes the film full of suspense.  "}{"Title":"Stylish, Provocative, and Hypnotic","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Stylish look at a obsessive relationship and how it leads to the self destruction of both people.  Garfunkel plays a college professor who becomes compelled to posses a very provocative Russell.  She is flirty and seductive, yet when he tries to take control, she pulls back. This slowly leads to some very dark aspects of their personalities.  Eventually culminating with a rather startling conclusion.The story and scenes are told in a fragmented style that never completely comes together.  The characters are never really fleshed out or likable.  Yet this is what actually makes the film work.  At no time is Director Roeg impling that he has a answer to what makes these people tick.  After all who really does.  All we can do is explore this destructive relationship and try to make some sense of it.  Which is what Roeg does in a very hypnotic and kinetic way.Although a great singer Garfunkel is very weak in the lead.  He has almost no presence and seems to be 'calling in' his performance. Yet as the film progresses this seems, to an extent, to actually fit.  After all this is a weak character that is controlled and detached not only from Russell, but also himself.Russell, as the seductress, is expectantly alerting.  She seems reminiscent of Lana Turner in THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE. The screen literally drenches in sexuality every time she's on it.  Even, in a twisted way, when she's in the hospital room.Director Roeg shows a complete awareness of his craft.  Everything from music selection to visual construction.  It's all moody and evocative.  He even makes a overhead shot of a messy room seem intoxicating.  "},{"Title":"Strikingly ...","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While saying anything like This director is the best one in the world ever is always controversial, I have no qualms about calling Nicholas Roeg one of the top ten, and absolutely no trouble calling him my favorite. The more I see from this master of cinema techniques, the more impressed I get.Bad Timing makes an awkward sort of Musician Trilogy with Performance and The Man Who Fell to Earth. Each movie is completely different and deals with completely different issues, but each of them star a musician/rock-star in a role that couldn't be done by anyone else. In this case the star is Art Garfunkel, who plays an obsessive psychoanalyst who's powers of understanding the mind help him in no way understand the free-spirited woman he's fallen in love with.Coming 15 years before Pulp Fiction, this movie is edited out of chronology. It's not the first use of this device (some accredit Kubrick's The Killing to creating the approach, but it's honestly appeared throughout cinema history), but it's one that came well before the late 90s when it became popular and, in some cases, cliché. The approach has a completely different use, as well... besides slowly revealing the events leading up to the tragic ending, it also creates a presence in the form of Harvey Keitel's investigator (again?! Is he always to be one in some movie or another?) throughout Alex and Milena's relationship that foreshadows the downward spiral it is going to take.Roeg's previous movies tend to have cuts with very sharp edges to them, and this one is just a bit more reserved. It seems he's learned how to use the zoom he favors so well with the discontinuity editing he's developed to a more subtle and undertoned pace, which is fantastic! I personally prefer the sharper editing of previous features, but to see someone grow as a filmmaker and not be stuck in one particular approach is a good thing. And like all of his movies, Bad Timing is saturated in allusions and symbolism not easily recognizable upon the first viewing. Indeed, half a second after this movie ended, I wanted to watch it again... just like Performance and Walkabout.Another point of interest the dialog during the scene where Milena was drunk and kept asking Alex Is this what you want? What do you want from me? is a bitingly acute representation of interrelationship conflict. It stands with the taxi scene in New York, New York as one of the most blatant and straightforward visualizations of a couple's dysfunction I've ever seen.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"a stimulating movie","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  a stimulting movie , because you have what i consider to be an honest perspective on a human relationship . to wit , a beautiful woman , wayward/rebellious ?? , with her own ethos on living her own life , and her own individuality , becoming embroiled in a relationship destined to cause her harm  due to her emancipation/individuality . mixed in with this , we have the cultural (klimt etc) undertones (as evidenced in the interpretation of his pictures and , from an art point of view , colour arrangement )and the psychoanalytical infusions (ie freud etc) - sex as a factor in mental development - ego and id - but why is the protagonist , a supposedly intellectual guy who is fully aware of the psychoanalytical arguments , drawn into the primaeval role ? roeg juxtaposes all these elements , in the manner to which he is renowned , to produce a complex character study with many layers to appreciate . all that , and an opening track from tom waits and    harvey keitel to boot!! "},{"Title":"3 stars","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, certainly a macabre movie with little sense and therefore intriguing; which is what I think the producer wanted to convey. However, the cinematography is excellent and the leading and supporting cast is good. Art Garfunkel slips effortlessly in the character of a sexy psychoanalyst who loses his grip on things when he falls in love(or whatever it's called here) with a care-free,adventurous young woman (Theresa Russel). He feels threatened by her power over him and tries to hide it from her. Also to be noted is the performance of Harvey Keitel in his younger acting days. Altogether a good European production worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Only one reason to watch this flick...","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...& that is the incredibly sexy desirable Teresa Russell. Roeg was apparently not yet married to Russell in 1980 but his lust & passion for her are palpable in this film. Teaming her with quintessential nerd Garfunkel & wimpy Elliot is the crowning touch. Russell is the sexiest female ever in film in my book. The many shots of her in various states of love-making deshabillé are true homages of a man totally enamored of his mate. No Viagra needed for this long-time union.The most interesting way to watch this is as a kind of post-modern Liaisons Dangereuses. "},{"Title":"Bad casting","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Last night on the ABC I saw movie I've wanted to see for a long time &#150; Nic Roeg's Bad Timing. It's basically a doomed romance/sexual obsession flick, think Betty Blue for genre.The good news is that it's quite entertaining, and it looks great, in spite of the fact that the broadcast version was a pitiful pan & scan presentation, whereas the original is apparently widescreen, which must be stunning. As in all Roeg's films, the editing is brilliant.On the negative side, I'm sure that mine wouldn't be the first review entitled Bad Casting. Art Garfunkle is hopeless in this role. It's not so much his acting, but his appearance and thin whiny voice makes it difficult to believe that a hottie like Theresa Russell would fall for him. Russell's performance, however, is sensational.The third lead, Harvey Keitel, is good as the detective, although the principals' complete disregard for appropriate accents meant that I didn't realise for quite a while that the film is actually set in Vienna.Similarly, I was very surprised to find that the film was made in 1980 &#150; I would have pegged it at about the same time as Performance and Walkabout (i.e. circa 1970). In part this might be due to the fact that the film might hold the world record for the number of cigarettes smoked on film. When Theresa Russell receives a tracheotomy, I half-expected the doctors to stick a smoke in her tube! "},{"Title":"Not lusty or sensual...just perplexing","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" British drama from director Nicolas Roeg, an enigmatic filmmaker who prides himself on turning out jigsaw-puzzle movies intended for specialty audiences. Those who aren't especially impressed with Roeg's technique may say that his films are constructed in the editing process, not before or during the film's production, and that this leaves his pictures feeling empty or choppy (but always artistically choppy!). The plot of Bad Timing has something to do with flirtatious, troubled Theresa Russell and her relationship with an odd young psychiatrist. Ugly to look at, aloof and tiresome; the film did get some sterling notices in 1980, but most curious viewers will be satisfied after an hour. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Bad casting and meandering story","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If it wasn't for the always fascinating Theresa Russell this film would be another Bobby Deerfield. Russell and the gratuitous nudity really are the only things that are worth watching. First let me say that I do think Art Garfunkle can act and is a good supporting actor like he was in Carnal Knowledge but as a leading man in a slow moving film he's in over his head. I've also been a big Nicolas Roeg fan and Walkabout is one of my favorite films of all time. He's always been a patient director but this film seems to crawl at times and the script goes way to long when the film should have ended. At times the film becomes confusing when the two break up and then start spying on one another. They say leave me alone and the next minute their sitting in their car overnight watching the whole time. Make up your minds! Even Harvey Keitel seems out of place. This film does have its admirers from some prominent critics but you'll have a lot of explaining to get me to understand why. The whole thing seems to be a lot about very little. Thank god for Theresa Russell to make it watchable. "},{"Title":"A waste of celluloid but for two minor redeeming qualities","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those movies that you have to force yourself to sit through - and ultimately the experience is almost completely unrewarding.The use of cross-over dialogue (most of which seems ad-libbed) becomes tedious and tiring. The repetition of lines and phrases is quickly irritating.Art Garfunkel gives a limp (no pun intended), lifeless performance. We end up with no sympathy for his character (which may have been the intent), little concern for the character's fate, and absolutely no understanding of his motivations or behaviour.There are only two reasons for tuning in Harvey Keitel gives another stand-out performance (his character is probably the only interesting and sympathetic one in the film, and physically reminiscent of John Travolta in Pulp Fiction); and Theresa Russell's attractive and very watchable body is given ample exposure on numerous occassions. If only Art Garfunkel kept his clothes on a little more ...How to improve the movie? Less Garfunkel, more Keitel, and more of Theresa Russell's body. Oh, and a script would have helped.  "},{"Title":"Bad Timing","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  With a more capable male lead, this could have been an exciting film, but with Garfunkel in the role, the film seems stagnant and dull. Russell is sensual, but cannot act. Keitel is grossly miscast as the police inpsector. Director Roeg has the elements to that of a Hitchcock classic, but his use of camera and of editing are so amateurish that the master himself would shriek at the sight of it.  "}{"Title":"This was erotic?","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't get this movie. 'Its a screwed up world and everybody has their problems' is the theme of the movie as far as I could tell. Garfunkel was extremely dull in the movie. Russell is better. Keitel isn't too convincing as the inspector. Also a 'cold war' vibe to the movie. Shown in flashbacks and sometimes confusing imagery. I wouldn't say don't watch it. I didn't like it but judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"Not Bad Timing , it's Bad Movie","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I don't agree with the title of the movie. The most appropriate title for this movie would have been 'Bed Timing' as on an average every fifteen minutes the movie shows a steamy bed scene. Next suitable title could have been 'Bad Movie' as this really is a bad (I mean it, nasty bad) movie. I won't categorize this movie as either drama or mystery; as a matter of fact the most suitable category for this movie is soft porn.Performances wise also we don't have a very bright report at hands. Theresa Russell is sexy, convincing, revealing and OKAY but Art Garfunkel had a baaaaaaad timing. Subplots and side stories are disastrous and out of line with the main movie. The destructive love affair between Doctor Linden and Melina finally ends up in a waste of over two hours. Melina insists on freedom and Alex is jealously possessive and becomes obsessive and irrational. Director has tried to present rape as a murder but has finally achieved rape of the movie. The jumbled mixture of mystery and sex is awful. Bad timing is not a sensual obsession, it's a mental torture. Director switches back and forth in the chronology of the story and I found the links between present story and flashback sequences intelligent and well matched. Vienna also seemed like a beautiful place. Overall look and feel of the movie was also not that bad, but as a whole the movie didn't do much good. "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is not really a proper review, as I only watched 3/4 of this film. I warn you all now if you want to watch this movie you MUST watch it from the beginning, else you just won't understand it and you'll be trying to guess what the hell is going on here! Art Garfunkle plays someone whose lover has just attempted to kill herself. Harvey Keital plays the cop who is investigating the suicide attempt, and who believes that Garfunkle has more to do with it than he is admitting to.That was the basic gist of it from what I could gather. I can see the makings of a good film here artistically. the way in which it switches from past to present is interestingly used. But it is confusing to those who go into the film after the beginning, as I did.Having said that, I continued to watch it, and I was gripped by the performances of Keital and Garfunkle.5/10 "},{"Title":"Did anyone keep a straight face during the filming of this?","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this in  an artsy theatre with an artsy companion. I can recall walking out and saying to my companion what the hell was THAT all about?! Just as I had 10 years before after seeing The Last Picture Show. However, as with the Last Picture Show, I find something earily fascinating about this movie. I have a copy (taken from a movie channel at 300 AM some dreary morning in the mid 80's) and I view frequently. Art Garfunkel is hilarious. He makes smoking a cigarette a dramatic exercise, drawing in  the smoke like opium from a hookah - and his acting looks narcotized as well - but he's fascinating to watch. Harvey Keitel must have loved doing this one! What a ham!! Great performance, however; His 1000 Yard Stares at Art are classic and for the ages.  The lead actress, the Susan Blakely look alike, whatzername? We get to see her naked a lot - that was good. Hmmm, what else? The problem is, I have this movie and I view it frequently, just as I do The Last Picture Show because the meaninglessness of both is complete. The camera angles, the up close ups, the expressions on the faces of the characters. For everything else it is or isn't, its still not bad as long as you don't take it too seriously or, at least, as seriously as it takes itself.   "},{"Title":"Goof grief!","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" All I have to say is that if the hair on your butt looks just like the hair on your head, you probably shouldn't be in any sex scenes The movie was OFF enough without the porn like scenes with art Garfunkel. I would call this a horrible flick that is a must have for any cult film collector. I wasn't even sure if the film was foreign or not thru most of it. I kept thinking to myself what the... All in all, I want everyone to see it if only so I don't have to be the only one. I will excuse Harvey since he later made a few flicks that were a bit more bearable than this one was. Even still, I hope everyone over the age of 20 sees this flick. Just so they can sat they did. "},{"Title":"Pretentious, sick, pointless and boring","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This art film came out in 1980. It was slapped with an X rating (for nudity and sex) which director Nicholas Roeg complained about nonstop. When it opened in Boston it had an R rating which was turned into an X three weeks into it's run (???). There was a little stir created by this. Unfortunately this movie was so bad nobody much cared.A man (Art Garfunkel) brings a woman (Theresa Russell) to a hospital. She has just tried to commit suicide and he's questioned about how he knows her. The movie chronicles their relationship and obsession.This movie drones on endlessly for a little over 2 hours. I really tried to pay attention but I kept dozing off. The two characters are basically boring and (in Russell's case) severely sick. Garfunkel's acting is terrible and Russell is so over the top that I didn't know HOW to take her! Roegs' constantly arty direction (he seems to go out of his way to point out that this film is ART) gets annoying REAL quick. And one particularly sick scene has Garfunkel having sex with Russell AFTER she has tried to commit suicide and is lying there slowly dying.This film is (deservedly) unknown today. The only good thing about this is a great musical soundtrack--but that's no reason to sit through this. Avoid. "}]