[{"Title":"Surreal, bloody, erotically charged odyssey","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"42 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When you compare what Brian De Palma was doing in the 80's to what passes for entertainment today, his films keep looking better and better. Dressed To Kill, Blow Out, Body Double, Scarface and Carlito's Way are all superb works of a cinematic craftsman at the peak of his powers. The guy had a long run of better than average films. This is pure Hitchcock with an 80's dash of lurid perversion, an affectionately told tale of lust and murder with plenty of twists, huge helpings of style, a stunning Pino Donaggio score, and a trashy, giallo-inspired plot. De Palma's love of complex camera-work and luscious, blood-smudged visuals helps overcome the logical holes while the terrific performances of Dennis Franz, Keith Gordon (a good director in his own right), Nancy Allen (De Palma's wife at the time) and Michael Caine make every scene special. Let the virtuoso take you on a surreal, scary, erotically charged odyssey and you'll enjoy every frame of Dressed To Kill. "},{"Title":"Worth viewing, but it hasn't aged well","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"62 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Kate Miller (Angie Dickinson) is having problems in her marriage and otherwise--enough to see a psychologist. When her promiscuity gets her into trouble, it also involves a bystander, Liz Blake (Nancy Allen), who becomes wrapped up in an investigation to discover the identity of a psycho killer.Dressed to Kill is somewhat important historically. It is one of the earlier examples of a contemporary style of thriller that as of this writing has extensions all the way through Hide and Seek (2005). It's odd then that director Brian De Palma was basically trying to crib Hitchcock. For example, De Palma literally lifts parts of Vertigo (1958) for Dressed to Kill's infamous museum scene. Dressed to Kill's shower scenes, as well as its villain and method of death have similarities to Psycho (1960). De Palma also employs a prominent score with recurrent motifs in the style of Hitchcock's favorite composer Bernard Herrmann. The similarities do not end there.But De Palma, whether by accident or skill, manages to make an oblique turn from, or perhaps transcend, his influence, with Dressed to Kill having an attitude, structure and flow that has been influential. Maybe partially because of this influence, Dressed to Kill is also deeply flawed when viewed at this point in time. Countless subsequent directors have taken their Hitchcock-like De Palma and honed it, improving nearly every element, so that watched now, after 25 years' worth of influenced thrillers, much of Dressed to Kill seems agonizingly paced, structurally clunky and plot-wise inept.One aspect of the film that unfortunately hasn't been improved is Dressed to Kill's sex and nudity scenes. Both Dickinson and Allen treat us to full frontal nudity (Allen's being from a very skewed angle), and De Palma has lingering shots of Dickinson's breasts, strongly implicit masturbation, and more visceral sex scenes than are usually found in contemporary films. Quite a few scenes approach soft-core porn. I'm no fan of prudishness--quite the opposite. Our culture's puritanical, monogamistic, sheltered attitude towards sex and nudity is disturbing to me. So from my perspective, it's lamentable that Dressed to Kill's emphasis on flesh and its pleasures is one of the few aspects in which others have not strongly followed suit or trumped the film. Perhaps it has been desired, but they have not been allowed to follow suit because of cultural controls from conservative stuffed shirts.De Palma's direction of cinematography and the staging of some scenes are also good enough that it is difficult to do something in the same style better than De Palma does it. He has an odd, characteristic approach to close-ups, and he's fond of shots from interesting angles, such as overhead views and James Whale-like tracking across distant cutaways in the sets. Of course later directors have been flashier, but it's difficult to say that they've been better. Viewed for film-making prowess, at least, the museum scene is remarkable in its ability to build very subtle tension over a dropped glove and a glance or two while following Kate through the intricately nested cubes of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.On the other hand, from a point of view caring about the story, and especially if one is expecting to watch a thriller, everything through the museum scene and slightly beyond might seem too slow and silly. Because of its removal from the main genre of the film and its primary concern with directorial panache (as well as cultural facts external to the film), the opening seems like a not very well integrated attempt to titillate and be risqué. Once the first murder occurs, things improve, but because of the film's eventual influence, much of the improvement now seems a bit clichéd and occasionally hokey.The performances are mostly good, although Michael Caine is underused, and Dickinson has to exit sooner than we'd like (but the exit is necessary and very effective). Dressed to Kill is at least likely to hold your interest until the end, but because of facts not contained in the picture itself, hasn't exactly aged well. At this point it is perhaps best to watch the film primarily as a historical relic and as an example--but not the best, even for that era--of some of De Palma's directorial flair. "},{"Title":"Stunning exercise in audience manipulation,possibly even MORE effective than it's model,Psycho","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"48 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho may be one of the most influential movies ever-for a start it was at least partially responsible for the whole subgenre of 'slasher' movies and the shower scene has inspired more homages than you can count. Brian De Palma's thriller Dressed To Kill is basically a semi remake of Psycho,right from the structure of it's story to it's villain right down to certain specific scenes. It's also an absolutely stunning piece of audience manipulation and perhaps more importantly a cracking thriller. Watch this film knowing about the Psycho element and as long as you don't mind some graphic sex and violence you should have a whale of a time. In fact,to a modern audience it may very well be more effective than Psycho and this is coming from a big Hitckcock fan.De Palma's intentions are apparent right from the beginning,which shows a naked woman, played by Angie Dickinson 'enjoying herself' in a shower,with huge close ups of her breasts not Angie Dickinson's though. A man suddenly surprises and assaults her. Than we cut to Angie and her husband having loveless sex on a bed. This whole opening sequence has it all-the Psycho reference,the slight twisting of that reference,the dreamy eroticism,the sudden shock,the surprise. It shows De Palma,more than anything else,playing with his audience,manipulating them like puppets on strings. Yes,like Hitckcock,but sometimes going further. Basically,if you like this opening sequence,you will enjoy the rest of the film.While there definitely IS a plot quite a familiar one,but you should know this by now,it is Dressed To Kill's set pieces that stand out,that show De Palma's brilliance. There's a dreamlike and subtly erotic sequence in an art gallery where Dickinson is picked up by a stranger,an incredible murder in a lift which is shocking without showing THAT much blood,a thrilling chase in an underground train station where the heroine is pursued not just by the killer but for a while by a gang of youths,a very scary ending about which I won't go into except that it features another shower scene!but where the tension is ramped up to an incredible degree. Here,De Palma is BETTER than Hitchcock.Although the best scenes are those without dialogue,where De Palma just lets Pino Donnaggio's lush,darkly beautiful score take over the sound,there is quite a bit of fun to be had in the often deliberately humorous dialogue,and the really rather cute relationship between nerdy Keith Gordon and tough as nails Nancy Allen,who make a great team. The identity of the killer is not exactly hard to spot,perhaps more work could have been done here,but going by the cheeky attitude of the film in general this may have been intentional. When Dressed To Kill originally came out it was heavily criticised for being misogynist,especially with the first third of the film just in case you HAVEN'T seen Psycho,I won't go into detail. I've always believed that this part of the film is about the possible dangers of indulging one's fantasies. De Palma is NOT a misogynist anyway really,think of the many memorable heroines of his films. Even if you disagree, see Dressed to Kill to see an oft criticised but occasionally brilliant director at the height of his powers. "},{"Title":"Sleazy, Predictable But Very Entertaining","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"47 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A great suspense movie with terrific slow camera-work adding to the dramatics makes this a treat to watch and enjoy. Director-writer Brian de Palma does a super Hitchcock-imitation (many called it a ripoff) with this film and the 2.351 widescreen DVD is a must to fully appreciate the camera-work (and several scenes with people hiding on each side which are lost on formatted-for-TV tapes).The downside of the movie, at least to anyone that has some kind of moral standard, is the general sleaziness of all the characters, including the policeman played by a pre-NYPD Dennis Franz (who has hair here!). The opening scene is still shocking with a fairly long shower scene of Angie Dickinson that is quite explicit, even 25 years after its release. The film has several erotic scenes in it as Dickinson (if that is really her on the closeups) and Nancy Allen are not shy about showing their bodies.There is not much dialog in the first 20 minutes and no bad language until Franz enters the picture after the murder. The first 36 minutes are riveting and even though it's apparent who the killer is, it's still very good suspense and fun to watch all the way through, particularly for males ogling the naked women. "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"31 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Dressed To Kill, is one of the best thrillers ever made.  Its dealings with sex and violence make this a film for adults.  Brian De Palma, once again, proves why no other director can match his use of the camera to tell a story.  He directs many scenes without dialog, and he tells much of his story, strictly through the use of his visuals, and Pino Donnagio's brilliant score.  Filmed in Panavision, the film MUST be seen in widescreen, as De Palma uses the entire width of the film to tell his story.  Cropped, on video, Dressed To Kill, is barely the same movie.  Solid performances from its cast, superb direction, and, perhaps, the finest film score ever written, make Dressed To Kill a must see.  "},{"Title":"De Palma's best known, but not best Hitchcock homage. Style triumphs over substance but it's still good fun.","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  'Dressed To Kill' was Brian De Palma's third Hitchcockian thriller, and his most successful. I don't necessarily mean artistically successful, but it still remains one of his best known movies, and is the one on which his reputation as that Hitchcock guy mainly rests on. De Palma has made all kinds of movies in his long career but it says a lot for the impact 'Dressed To Kill' had on audiences for him to be stereotyped like that by many movie lovers. In 'Sisters' De Palma paid tribute to 'Rear Window', in his underrated 'Obsession' it was 'Vertigo', and this time around 'Psycho' is the major inspiration. Some critics of De Palma complain he is more interested in style over substance, and in 'Dressed To Kill' there is some truth in that. You will probably guess the murderer after the first 20-25 minutes, then think to yourself no, that's just a red herring and there will be an unexpected twist later on. You might then be a bit let down when the your initial guess turns out to be correct after all, but there are enough thrills and dazzling sequences throughout to keep most thriller fans happy. Michael Caine and Angie Dickinson are both pretty good in their respective roles, but Nancy Allen ('RoboCop') gives the real outstanding performance in the picture. De Palma would subsequently give her another good role in 'Blow Out' opposite John Travolta. Also strong are Keith Gordon (who went on to star in John Carpenter's 'Christine') and Dennis Franz ('NYPD Blue') in supporting roles. Personally I don't think 'Dressed To Kill' is as good as 'Sisters', but I still think it's first rate exploitation thriller and definitely worth watching. Not De Palma's most interesting movie by a long shot, but still one of his most watchable. "},{"Title":"De Palma is in his element here.","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed to Kill is an intense, dreamy, erotically charged thriller, and clearly another of filmmaker Brian De Palma's homages to the works of Alfred Hitchcock. It manages the neat trick of being fairly classy and rather trashy at the same time, as De Palma brings all of his directing skill to bear. This may not be his best but it's certainly one of his most well known, thanks in no small part to the excellent star trio of Michael Caine, Angie Dickinson, and Nancy Allen; Allen, of course, was married to De Palma at the time.Caine plays an eminent psychiatrist, Dr. Robert Elliott, and Dickinson portrays Kate Miller, one of his patients who's not getting any sexual fulfillment in her life. Unfortunately, once she is able to experience an afternoon of passion the satisfaction is short lived, as a tall, cold looking blonde woman in sunglasses and trenchcoat slashes her to death with a straight razor. (This has to rank as one of the scariest ever elevator rides captured on film.) A witness on the scene is high priced call girl Liz Blake (Allen), who's accused of the crime after stupidly picking up the murder weapon. So she ends up working with Kate's son Peter (Keith Gordon) to try to identify the woman, who Liz and Peter guess to be another of Elliott's patients.In the opening minutes of his film De Palma shows you what you're going to be in for, showing Dickinson pleasuring herself in the shower (intercutting shots of Dickinson with those of a body double) until a male stranger materializes behinds her and starts forcing himself on her. The combination of sex and danger is always stressed in this movie; as we will learn our killer has some severe psycho sexual problems. There are some highly memorable sequences, such as an extended seduction taking place inside an art museum, that being followed by a steamy coupling in the back of a cab. Other aspects that make it effective are Jerry Greenberg's editing (this was the man that cut The French Connection, after all), Ralf Bode's widescreen cinematography, and Pino Donaggio's haunting music.The actors each get an impressive showcase; both Dickinson and Allen look amazing to boot. Included in the cast are Dennis Franz as the investigating detective, David Margulies as the psychiatrist who explains everything for us in the end in case we didn't already get it, William Finley who does some uncredited voice work, and Brandon Maggart in a brief bit as a john.Overall, the film has a definite ability to get under one's skin. It's often genuinely spooky and could easily shock more sensitive viewers due to the level of sexual frankness on display. While subtlety may be in short supply, it's hard to deny the ability of Dressed to Kill to manipulate us into a state of excitement and expectation.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Brian de Palma Tour de Force","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed To Kill is a visually impressive psychological thriller which contains moments of suspense, humour and violence and also numerous twists and bizarre developments. Its story is delivered in a way which is extremely elegant, fluid and well paced and also features enough unexpected elements to keep even the most demanding viewer fully engaged throughout.Director Brian de Palma is generally recognised as a disciple of Alfred Hitchcock and this movie is clearly influenced by Psycho. There are numerous direct similarities including the style of the murder, the type of weapon used and Angie Dickinson's role fulfilling the same function as Janet Leigh's. It's also interesting, however, that the Hitchcock influences don't stop there. The choice of the back of a taxi as the location for a steamy encounter involving Angie Dickinson's character and a stranger is undoubtedly inspired by one of Hitchcock's widely quoted anecdotes which related to his preference for leading ladies who might initially appear to be cool or remote. The amount of audience manipulation used is also a characteristic of Hitchcock's work.Brian de Palma is so technically adept that his work on this movie ensures that it never becomes mere pastiche. An extended segment of the story which is told without dialogue is immensely impressive and the split screen sequences are also very effective.Kate Miller (Angie Dickinson) is a frustrated middle aged housewife who discusses her problems with her psychiatrist, Dr Robert Elliott (Michael Caine) and in the course of their conversation comes on to him. He resists and later she goes on to have a fling with a complete stranger before being brutally murdered. The only witness to the crime is a high class call girl called Liz Blake (Nancy Allen) whose story isn't believed by the police and she becomes their main suspect and also the killer's next target. She then sets off to find the real murderer and joins forces with Kate's teenage son Peter (Keith Gordon) who is an inventor with a precocious talent which he puts to good use in trying to ascertain the identity of the killer.The quality of the acting is consistently high with Angie Dickinson being particularly good at conveying her feelings during the sequence which had no dialogue and Nancy Allen being equally successful at portraying her character's streetwise attitude and vulnerability. Dennis Franz is also amusing in his support role as the crude and insensitive Detective Marino.The exceptionally beautiful score by Pino Donaggio is haunting and absolutely perfect for this particular movie. "},{"Title":"prime form, trite contents","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"22 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In France, it's considered polite from French critics to genuflect to the apparently cohesive chain of films Brian De Palma left behind him. However, a good proportion of his films are marred by bombastic effects Carrie (1976), the Fury (1978) Scarface (1983) without mentioning his borrowings from Hitchcock. Here, in Dressed to Kill, it's impossible not to think of Vertigo (1958) for the long sequence in the museum while the key moment in the lift makes inevitably think of the shower anthology sequence in Psycho (1960). About our involved film, I don't want to revive the old debate does De Palma rip off Hitchcock? Instead, i would tend to be generous and to classify Dressed to Kill in the category of De Palma's winners alongside Sisters (1973) and Obssession (1976). With however some reservations and they're the ones I previously enumerated which fuel the bickering between De Palma's rabid fans and his detractors.If there's one sure thing in Dressed to Kill which can generate general agreement among film-lovers, it's De Palma's virtuosity in directing. He wields his camera just like a filmmaker expert is supposed to do. His sophisticated camera work brilliantly fuels the suspense which entails a rise of the tension and a discomforting aura. The audience is easily glued in front of the screen. This is helped by the use of several long silent sequences during which everything depends on looks and gestures. By the way, in Psycho, there were also long silent, suspenseful parts...But the main drawback in De Palma's 1980 vintage is that the quality of the plot can't be found wanting and appears to be a rehash of many formulaic, corny ingredients pertaining to an incalculable number of murder stories. The prostitute is the sole witness of the crime. Then, she's suspected by the police and has to act on her own (with a little help from the victim's son from the scene in the subway onwards)) to track down the murderer and to prove her innocence. Apart from the fact that De Palma uses a type of character who for once isn't demeaned at all, it's a menu which smells the reheated. And the filmmaker ends his film on a sequence that echoes to the opening one. Yes, it's superbly filmed but when one discovers its real function, one figures it's almost gratuitous filler. Perhaps De Palma wanted to stretch his film beyond one hour and a half when at this time the viewer knows (and even before) who the killer is.The two central mainsprings in De Palma's set of themes articulate hinges on manipulation and voyeurism. The latter theme is well present in Dressed to Kill from the first scene onwards which makes the film almost look like a soft porn movie. And the filmmaker isn't afraid to film his main actress and wife Nancy Allen in her underwear. I find his approach about this theme rather doubtful. But maybe the first sequence was conceived to be a mirror of the viewer and De Palma wanted to stir his peeping tom side.I don't want to demean at all De Palma's work. His prestigious work in directing which entails a communicative treat to film redeems the global weakness of the story and its doubtful aspects. Twenty six years after, the controversy he aroused amid movie-goers isn't ready to subside. "},{"Title":"Life's a drag","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma's early films all portrayed little gender wars. Along these lines we had sororicide in Sisters, in which Feminized and Masculinized twins jostle for control, and incest and matricide in Obsession, in which a father usurps his wife to be with his daughter. Next came Carrie, in which telekinesis becomes a little girl's means of fighting off various groups of monogamists, nymphomaniacs, romantics and repressed fundamentalists, all in an attempt to assert her own sexual independence. De Palma then released The Fury, in which the guilt-ridden narrator of Carrie (Amy Irving) represents the monstrosity of adolescence, of potentiality. That film ended with the return of the Repressed, and the ridiculously orgasmic destruction (John Cassavetes becomes a raging erection who explodes at Irving's new-found whims) of the conservators of an inhibitory adult order.Even De Palma's first features, Greetings and Wedding Party, portrayed gender as being a performance and white male heterosexuality as needing to be rigorously, continuously reenacted in order to be maintained with any coherence, often by repeatedly destroying that which it defines itself against (homosexuality, femininity, the Other etc).De Palma's sleazy Dressed to Kill continues this obsession with gender construction. Here Michael Caine plays Robert Elliot, a trans-gender who is psychically possessed by a feminine personality (anima), a possession which causes him to kill women in order to prevent his masculine personality (animus) from being aroused. Thematically, the film's reference point is Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho. Visually, it's Vertigo and North by Northwest on cocaine.In post-McCarthyist America, the rigid enforcement of anti-communism frequently meant the assertion of a masculine totalitarianism, which often targeted sexual deviants and posited them as sexually perverted bogeymen out to destroy society/family. These fears eventually gave way to a post 1960s resistance directed against centralised power and the pressures of conformity. Released in 1960, Psycho's Norman Bates (the name's a pun nor man, norma and normal) &#x96; a transsexual who identifies his Mother/the Feminine as the source of the phallus &#x96; was essentially made murderous through the interior colonisation of the American subject by pseudo-Freudian beliefs in essentialization and the medicalization of gender and sexuality (medical understandings of the gay/transsexual have relied on a collapsing of sex and gender, viewing both as the same thing). Norman's rebellion against masculine power was crazy, but the dominant order itself emerged as being insane.Dressed continues this cultural unease with traditional gender alignments, but focuses on a post 1960s trend amongst transsexuals and certain strains of feminism to essentialize gender. Here, Elliot's male body is literally possessed by Bobbi, a feminine personality which desires a sex reassignment operation so that Elliot may become a woman with the right body. In other words, transsexuals are victims of a society which equates the genitalia with gender behaviour and confuses the organ with the signifier; ridding themselves of the organ they can thus supposedly be rid of the signifier which divides them. Dressed then enters Scarface territory. Rather than accepting the status of symbolic subject, the transsexual, like the normal subject, searches for illusory wholeness which he/she believes will be attained by altering the body in order to possess it, the it which in American society is invested with the meaning of the subject's whole being. Unsurprisingly, in real life, transsexuals more frequently wish to be girls rather than women; an attempt to ward of self-fragmentation and to establish a pre-social self. The incapability of achieving discursive mastery is itself a common De Palma theme, the subject continually floundering in the dark to sustain his identity. For De Palma, traditional male subjectivity is predicated on the notion of male wholeness and feminine lack, whilst Woman serves as the Other for the male subject, a place where he projects and disavows his castration. As inadequacy continually feminizes the male subject, the cycle must be continually repeated (partially why action movies start looking gay, camp or homo-erotic after a couple years).Though deemed misogynistic, Dressed really highlights how individuals are bent by a larger cultural discourse. Bobbi has been trained to equate the male body with negative dominant and violent behaviour. She represents a strand of feminism which reduces gender roles to the same binary logic they had always been subjected to (only reversing them male=bad; female=good). In her desire to make herself the politically correct sex/gender (riding between cars is prohibited, a cunningly placed sign states, referring to Bobbie's refusal to allow for gender ambiguity), Bobbie then emerges as the vulgar, dark side of late 1970s feminism, man-hating, repressive, murderous and essential-minded. By essentializing gender roles, certain feminists, like transsexuals, replicate hegemonic ideas.Bobbi then targets Kate Miller, a woman whom she murders with a phallic shaving knife. Kate's a figure of sexual independence, capable of her own desires/fantasies. Bobbi kills Kate to silence feminine desire, eradicating all who complicate traditional, bio-cultural gender roles. Supporting her is Detective Marino, a foul-mouthed, sexist, aggressive cop. In her way is Peter, the only positive male character in the film, a sensitive, accepting male. Kate's iconic courtship ritual in a museum (see Vertigo, De Palma's Bible), with a man named Warren, is itself an intricately staged game of shifting power, Kate wavering between masculine aggressiveness/overt sexuality and feminine respectability/passivity in this sequence; pursing and pursued, pushed and pushing, spectator and object.Another character, Liz, ignores telecasts which mention individuals with penises being supposed to develop masculine identities. She understands that gender is a masquerade, a position one assumes, and is seen discussing her stock-market investments (traditionally masculine) and dressing in both masculine and feminine clothes. She has moved beyond the essentialist logic of Elliott/Bobbi. 8.5/10 - With its baroque visuals and flamboyant camera work, Dressed To Kill remains a De Palma classic. Worth multiple viewings. "}{"Title":"A modern classic","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"27 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Dressed to Kill has been more or less forgotten in critical circles in the past 20 years, but it is a true American classic, a film which is much more than just a glossy thriller.I sincerely hope the DVD release will give more people the chance to hear about it and see it.  "},{"Title":"Amazing music and camera movement","Date":"18 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" For early 80' this movie deserves respect. Brian De Palma present story that keep's your attention to the last minute. I usually start napping after barely half of movie's today but he's movies keeps me focused. What i like in this and on movies by Palma i watched is-unpredictability. Good movie, worth of watching, seriously.It can be better of course but it's good. Long as keep your attention, driving you into story, stopping you from thinking. You just lie and let movie drives you into a story, enjoying a good trip to the end.Acting is so natural, almost like in real life behavior. Characters in this movie are very natural. I like that. "},{"Title":"Strangely Satisfying Thriller!","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have read about the controversy this film created back in 1980, but it wasn't until now when I viewed the film that I can see why. This is a sharp, twisty thriller that borrows effectively from Alfred Hitchcock trademarks. But upon viewing it, Dressed to Kill is a strangely erotic film that is almost like a soft porn movie. Some of the scenes made me think that I was watching a porn film, but this film will succeed in holding your attention.This film, directed by Brian De Palma, is about a woman named Kate Miller who has a sexually frustrated life and she sees a therapist named Dr. Robert Elliot. But sometime later, she meets this guy at a museum and they have sex. But she finds out he has a sexually transmitted disease and in her haste, she leaves without her wedding ring. But when she reaches the elevator, she is brutally murdered by a razor. From there on out, confusion ensues as people try to track down the killer.The acting is really good. Michael Caine shines very well as Elliot and I wish he had more screen time. Nancy Allen was very effective and had the best overall performance. Angie Dickinson was also really good, but she hardly had any screen time.Overall, Dressed to Kill is a very smart, though erotic thriller that gives off a similar feel to a Hitchcock film. The tension is high and it can also be scary at times. So in other words, it effectively delivers the thrills. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Dressed to Impress","Date":"30 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I just watched Dressed to Kill on Netflix. I have to say I really liked the movie a lot. I was surprised because Brian De Palma's movies tend to be hit or miss for me. If you like suspenseful movies, there's no reason for you not to like Dressed to Kill. It might come off as a little bit of a Psycho ripoff at times, but since I've heard De Palma was a big fan of Hitchcock, I think any similarities are intentional and in homage to Hitchcock rather than trying to rip him off.I only had one minor complaint about the movie, I feel like they REALLY went into detail at the end to make sure you knew what happened, which was OK, but I feel like they didn't have to explain it as thoroughly as they did. It's almost like the filmmakers were afraid the audience wouldn't pick up on what was going on, or if they did, were afraid they wouldn't understand why what happened did happen.I think had they had a little bit more faith in the audience's ability to understand what was going on it would've been just a bit better, but like I said it's a minor complaint.I give it an eight out of ten! Check it out! It's worth seeing if only to check out sexy looking Nancy Allen! "},{"Title":"Heavy On Influence, But Still Really Distinctive","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed To Kill is one of Brian De Palma's earlier thrillers, one of his heavily flawed but incredibly entertaining suspense films. It, like Body Double, pathologically mimics Hitchcock's classics. Its plot, if not practically a sexier, 1980s-style remake of Psycho, is at least cut from the exact same cloth. The way we're made to think we're watching a completely different kind of movie right up until the big turning point happens, the transsexual element, etc., are all in homage to Psycho.De Palma, even when immersed in Hitchcock's influence, can't help but keep his movie as distinctive as possible from your average suspense thriller. His style is completely his own His split-screen effects that, instead of being phone conversations, are perfectly timed simultaneous events; his subtle background details that can often times be very creepy; his POV shots; his constant use of mirrors and reflections.Michael Caine, as one would expect from any movie he's in, steals every of his scenes from the rest of the cast, whose performances lean towards the corny side, even spankable Nancy Allen, who I liked a lot in RoboCop, Carrie, and her surprise bit part in Out of Sight.Whatever typical trappings of average 1980s suspense movies this one happens to have, and whatever silliness the plot suffers from whilst tra-la-laing in Hitchcockland, it's easy popcorn entertainment. I would say it's one of those movies that's good to happen upon when flipping through channels if it weren't so edited. The TV version is incredibly lame, butchering the movie to Lifetime or Hallmark status, and the R-rated version detracts from most of the creepy effect of the murder scene. Be sure to see the unrated version. "},{"Title":"*** 1/2 out of ****","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sure, Dressed to Kill borrows from Psycho, but it certainly has the power to stand on it's own.  De Palma adds his trademark visual stylings to a fascinating and disturbing plot.  Some truly magnificent set pieces - De Palma's strength is in his ability to tell a story with just a camera, and little dialogue.  The script is very good, and Michael Caine delivers his usual excellent performance.  However, the main reason why this film is so great is because it is superior filmmaking, pure and simple, by a man who knows how to make films. "},{"Title":"Not appreciated enough.","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really think this movie deserves more credit than the reviewers on this site are giving it. Really, everyone should write a letter of apology to Mr. De Palma for their unnecessary comments on him ripping-off Hitchcock. Okay, we all know Hitchcock was one of the most talented directors that ever lived and his thrillers are almost all classics. He showed great camera movements, impressive shots, and terrific stories. So then a guy comes along and makes a film that matches the guys work, and what happens? He's a cheap rip-off. Okay, call me crazy, but if this guy made a movie that can even be compared to Hitchcock, doesn't that make it GOOD? If Hitchcock was so talented and this guy made something in his league, isn't making a comparison between them a COMPLIMENT? Not many people I know can make a film like Hitchcock if they tried. De Palma did, and he's cut down for it. Not right. First of all, I assume that from now on anyone that uses an artful approach to camerawork and comes up with some really neat ideas is going to be bombarded with calls of Hitchcock wannabe. What, since the guy was so great no one can make a movie that matches his talent anymore? Every director HAS to steer clear of ANY Hitchcock shots and themes or the audience will crucify him? WHY? I found myself asking this. Clearly, De Palma made a great movie here with nice visual storytelling and remarkable shots. These were HIS OWN shots. Not Hitchcock's. Hitchcock never choreographed a straight razor murder in an elevator or half the stuff De Palma directs so well here, so where did he rip it off from? I liked this movie because it was very riveting, flowed nicely, and often kept me on my seat in suspense. The gore was plentiful (another thing Hitchcock DIDN'T do) and the only time anything in here mirrors Hitchcock are the times when the first victim is killed and the revelations at the end. And even then, they're loosely based. Basically, I think De Palma delivered a great movie, full of great things, only to be shot down by devout followers of The Master who probably can't bear to face the fact that someone else out there has talent to give Hitchcock a run for his money. Sounds like someone's jealous to me. I hope this film gets more widely appreciated and seen as time goes by. Then maybe all the newer generations who didn't grow up with Hitchcock will stop cutting it down. Time may be the only justice to this great movie. "},{"Title":"Interesting, Shocking, Stylish Thriller","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had been very eager to see this film, after seeing some of DePalma's other early, Hitchcockian films. Sisters was okay, a little rough around the edges. Carrie, while not Hitchcockian in the sense of an homage, like the others, was absolutely amazing, and is one of the best films made in the 70s. I also sort of liked Blow Out, though I had to see it on FX, and the commercials were a constant interruption. I even saw some of Cult Movies....God, was that bad. But anyway, what I really wanted to see was Dressed to Kill. I had heard constant rave reviews, and it seemed like a great film.We all know the Psycho-like plot A woman (Angie Dickinson) breaks from her reality into seemingly another world, meeting a mysterious man in a museum, and subsequently going home with him. As she leaves that evening, she is murdered violently in the elevator, and found by another woman (Nancy Allen). Blah blah, you've heard the rest, and what a terrible synopsis this is, anyway. I wanna get down to the review, though, so let's move on.Dressed to Kill is an amazing film. I saw the uncut version, with all the nifty extras mentioned in the Alternate Versions section. The opening shower scene is REALLY shocking, and the violent murder in the elevator is ruthless. Unlike the shower murder in Psycho the scene is so often compared to, this one is not as brutally quick. It takes its time, and while at first it's a little disappointing, as it progresses and the DePalma style sets in, the whole scene is terrific. In the uncut version, there are very close shots of Bobbi slashing the knife down Kate's face and I think slashing her throat as well. I'm not saying I like this sort of stuff, just that it's that much more horrific. I love when Liz (Nancy Allen) sees Bobbi's reflection as she stands in the corner, waiting for her, and, of course, everything is in perfect slow motion, pulling you right onto the edge of your seat. Unlike Psycho, after Part One (when the star is killed) the movie keeps up the pace and the tension. The scenes where Liz is pursued in the subway are tense, and a less-raw version of the horrifying scenes in Maniac. (A sleazy, but oftentimes very scary movie!) Sure, the gang that Liz angers gets a little silly after a while, but DePalma seemed to be showing that there are other dangers in this world other than the central issue, and it's a creative idea.The greatest scene, though, is the Vertigo-like scene in the museum. No dialogue, all music...yet so much is said, just in facial expressions and changes in the soundtrack. Pino Donaggio has a way of using very calm, beautiful music in such a way that it terrifies the audience. (Note the pre-pig's blood prom scenes in Carrie for more of this.) The scene is like poetry, and moves along beautifully well. I liked how Kate was wearing white, and the mysterious stranger was in dark sunglasses and clothes. Hitch did the same thing with Marion's lingerie in Psycho.The climax is a little cheesy (don't miss Liz's line about assistance--hysterical!) and throughout the movie, the killer is painfully obvious. Also, how did Dennis Franz find out so much information about Kate and her soiree with the man in the museum? *shrugs* I can suspend my disbelief. The acting is all-around pretty good. Michael Caine is great, as always. I loved Angie Dickinson--she deserved an Oscar for this very realistic, wonderful performance. She's not in the film much more than forty minutes, but she steals the show. Nancy Allen has her moments, but she's usually pretty weak in delivering her lines. Still, I liked her. Keith Gordon, as Kate's vengeful son, was very likable, but needed a haircut. Dennis Franz once again plays a detective, but he does it well, as always. The rest of the cast is barely in the movie, and Kate's second husband (can't even remember his name) is, I think, a purposely inaccessible character, perhaps to feel the way she does. He's even cast really low on the list. (By the way, Mary Davenport, also seen as Jennifer Salt's quirky mother in Sisters, is cast here as Woman in Restaurant--where was she?!)DePalma is an excellent director, and I wish he'd go back to making films like this, even though Dressed to Kill could only be made in the early 80s. He can master quiet horror (ie the strangely horrifying discovery Kate makes from what she finds in the drawer of the mystery man's desk) and can pull off a full-blown scene of terror (ie the elevator murder) equally well. He always puts together great casts of characters, and has a lot of great tricks up his sleeve. This is definitely one of his best films, and one of the best thrillers made in the 80s.     "},{"Title":"Erotico Psycho.","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed to Kill is directed and written by Brian De Palma. It stars Michael Caine, Angie Dickinson, Nancy Allen, Keith Gordon and Dennis Franz. Music is by Pino Donaggio and cinematography by Ralf D. Bode.Brian De Palma continues his commitment to Hitchcock thrillers with this erotic and lurid slice of entertainment pie. Plot in short order finds a razor wielding blonde woman on the loose in the city. A high class prostitute, a psychiatrist and the son of a victim try to solve the mystery before they themselves fall to the blonde killer.De Palma throws it all at the audience here, merrily pushing people's buttons as he goes. He uses all the tools and tricks of his trade for maximum impact, blending a number of genre staples and churning out a hyper stylised neo-noir that gleefully toys with audience expectations. Oh the plot is bonkers, deliriously so, but De Palma is a crafty pro who deftly marries up the excesses of the plot with virtuoso camera work, and not content with that he then brings Donaggio's musical score into play to ensure the viewer's senses are tingling.Unsurprisingly for the director, Dressed to Kill is sexually charged and violent, from the steamy beginning that ruffled feathers in a number of quarters, to the outrageous coda at the end where De Palma homage's himself, it's a film revelling in its schlocky being. However, it still has time for dramatic suspense and dangerously sensual mysticism, reference an extended section of film that sees Allen's hooker pursued relentlessly through the perils of the subway system, and a sequence played out at an art gallery without dialogue as we become Dickinson's disoriented eyes. Then there is the key murder scene, a dizzying array of slashes and cartoonish blood, it's purposely excessive and followed by screw tightening suspense that sets up the rest of the movie.De Palma and his on form principal cast members are having fun, how could they not with such trashy material to work from? Is Dressed to Kill phobic and misogynistic? Well plenty of people think so, in fact there was quite a fall out when the film was first released, when De Palma was subjected to the ire of a few minority groups. Judge for yourself is the only way to go really, but personally in amongst the schlock I feel there's comment on the dangers of fantasising beyond your realm, or of unfaithfulness, maybe even that America is itself irresponsible for its treatment of women on film? Of course it could just be De Palma at his most playful? Sitting there giggling to himself as others lose their cool&#x85; 8/10 "},{"Title":"Shower scenes; a gender confused maniac; the supposed star killed off half-way; an entire scene devoted to explaining the murderer's motive remind you of anything?","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Star of TV's 'Police Woman' Angie Dickinson plays Kate Miller, a bored housewife who is murdered in an elevator shortly after partaking in some extramarital hanky panky with a total stranger. Nancy Allen is Liz Blake, the gorgeous, high-class escort girl (who I have no doubts is worth every penny) who catches a fleeting glimpse of the killer in an elevator mirror before the doors close, and in doing so becomes a target of the maniac herself.With the help of Mrs. Miller's geeky son Peter (Keith Gordon), Liz discovers that the murderer is a patient of the dead woman's psychiatrist Dr. Elliott (Michael Caine) and decides that the only way to uncover the killer's identity is to sneak a look at the doctor's appointment register, a task that might well cost her life.If Dario Argento is the Italian Hitchcock, then Brian De Palma must be the American Argento Dressed To Kill emulates the themes and plot structure of Hitchcock's seminal classic Psycho, but also utilises the stylised camera-work, clever editing and bloody violence that typifies Dario's brutal giallos. The result is an audacious psycho-sexual horror/thriller that sure takes some swallowing, but which delivers more than enough sleaze, violence and stylish visuals to compensate for any shortcomings in logic.The frequent soft-focus nudity and sex, vicious cut-throat razor attack on poor Kate Miller, and impressive array of directorial tricks employed by the director go a long way to ensure that Dressed To Kill is never boring, but for me, the film's biggest selling point is the very tasty Nancy Allen, who not only strips down to sexy black underwear in an attempt to seduce Dr. Elliott, but also finds time to take a shower in a completely pointless, but very much appreciated final shock dream sequence (ala De Palma's Carrie). "}{"Title":"Designer knockoff...","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It is difficult to know just how to judge Brian DePalma's films. He is undeniably talented, and is capable of creating masterful works of kitschy dark humor like CARRIE and THE PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE, elegantly stylized suspense thrillers like OBSESSION and slick colorful popcorn epics like THE FURY and THE UNTOUCHABLES. Yet, much of his filmography is dominated by cheesy trash, marked by sloppy plotting, self-consciously showy set pieces and sometimes embarrassingly awkward drama. Often, too often, he focuses his attention on one or two sequences on which he can sate his penchant for flamboyant camera stunts and the rest of the film is slapped together with narratives and scenes that are as rickety as a rope suspension bridge from an old jungle movie.His tendency to plagiarize, er, uh ... pay homage to Alfred Hitchcock is well known, but he is not all that discriminating in his thefts. He steals the set up for DRESSED TO KILL from Hitchcock's PSYCHO, imitates a bit of VERTIGO and even shoplifts from FAMILY PLOT, but the bulk of the film has no great respect for the master's work. It is like stealing the crown jewels to use the gems as trinkets on a dime store charm bracelet. The bits and pieces of Hitchcock that DePalma flashes on screen are meant to be nothing more than little trophies.Like PSYCHO, the film is a two-part story; part one being a personal drama about a woman in emotional turmoil and the second half a thriller. But one of the reasons DRESSED TO KILL doesn't work is that DePalma doesn't seem to get what makes PSYCHO great and he totally fumbles act one. In PSYCHO, Hitchcock carefully structured the Janet Leigh story to be a compelling, self contained drama, separate, yet firmly connected to the Anthony Perkins thriller that followed. DRESSED TO KILL gives us this long and ultimately pointless shaggy dog act one involving Angie Dickinson as Kate Miller, a desperate housewife looking for some hot sex in the afternoon. DePalma has never shown any intrinsic gifts for comedy, yet he repeatedly goes for ill-considered humor to no real effect. When Kate serves up a smirky sexual innuendo to her teenage son, you can't help but cringe. Her discovery that she might have been exposed to a venereal disease seems aimed at getting a tasteless laugh, Even her lurid masochistic sex dream comes with a punchline.The film treats Kate like a pathetic joke and introduces her to one humiliation after another, before disposing of her and her story entirely. Unlike Leigh's Marion Crane, Dickinson's Kate Miller is pitiable, but not very sympathetic. Despite a nice performance by Dickinson, her character is nothing more than a trivial plot device. Yet, this disposable beginning is the best thing about DRESSED TO KILL. Though it is treated with all the subtlety of second-rate soft-core porn, this part of the film at least provides some guilty pleasure sleaziness to it. When the film gets to its slasher movie core, DePalma clumsily stitches together a lame series of sequences involving a cross-dressing killer, improbable coincidences and a vaguely homophobic plot littered with treacherously illogical holes and punctuated with embarrassingly bad dialogue. And the less said the better about the almost comatose performance by Michael Caine as a compromised psychiatrist and the creepy work of Dennis Franz in what would be the first of many stereotyping roles as a vulgar, unpleasant police detective.When the film came out in 1980, it was greeted with mixed reviews, though a good number of top critics embraced it on purely stylistic grounds. And on one viewing, without much time for thought, the film moves along nicely if improbably from one contrived moment to the next. But great, or even good thrillers should be able to endure repeated viewings; knowing all a film's secrets should not lessen the enjoyment of watching it more than once. Indeed, the more a film like PSYCHO reveals about itself the more there is for the viewer to enjoy. But the striptease that DRESSED TO KILL does over repeated viewings only prompts the viewer to see that the pseudo-sophisticated style DePalma drapes over his tale is only meant to hide an already lifeless mannequin. "},{"Title":"A Bad Hitchcock rip off","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSBrian de Palma is a director who made very good movies like THE UNTOUCHABLES and CARRIE,but DRESSED TO KILL has got none of the tension and good acting of those films.The film is a remake of Hitchcock's classic PSYCHO but it also has copied scenes of VERTIGO and,very strangely,CARRIE.The acting is not good,not even Michael Caine gives a good performance.The movie starts like a cheap erotic flick and goes on like one.Fans of De Palma will probably say that this is good but I think that it perverts Hitchcock's work,in which the sexual references were much more subtle and therefore,in the end,much better worked out. The museum scene is overlong and a definite copy of the scenes with Kim Novak in VERTIGO.The killing of Angie Dickinson is a copy of the shower scene in PSYCHO as is Dickinson's character(a woman who is prominent in every scene until she gets murdered half way).The scene in which Caine's motives are explained is literally a copy of the final scene in PSYCHO.The final scene is a copy of De Palma's own movie CARRIE,why did he do that,you ask.The tricks,that are numerous in the film,are not necessary.They are just to show of.No,this isn't a good film.  4/10 "},{"Title":"It's a rip-off, but a stylish and mostly enjoyable one.","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"24 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ** 1/2 out of ****Director Brian De Palma has never helmed a truly original film his entire career, but let's face it, he's just as good as anybody else when it comes to crafting palpable suspense, and it's this talent of his that makes his more blatant rip-offs immensely watchable. Dressed to Kill is one such example. Taking a few cues from Alfred Hitchcock, it's an erotic thriller that (mostly) emphasizes character and suspense over sleaze.Angie Dickinson stars as Kate Miller, a sexually dissatisfied wife (though quite loving mother) who needs some things to spice up her personal life. She relates her problems to her psychiatrist, Dr. Robert Elliot (Michael Caine), to the point of almost prodding him to sleep with her, but he refuses. On a random day in an art museum, she encounters a mysterious man with whom she plays a little game of cat-and-mouse. Following him to a cab, they enage in a tryst inside the taxi, all the way to his apartment, where they proceed to go at it for several more hours. Then as she awakens to leave, she finds out through a little note by the health department he's got STD's! In a panicked state, she runs to the elevator, but is brutally murdered by a tall, blonde woman brandishing a razor blade. The rest of the film focuses on Miller's son, Peter (Keith Gordon), who teams up with a gold-hearted prostitute (Nancy Allen) to find his mother's killer.Dressed to Kill doesn't get off to the best start. For the first half-hour, the sexual frustrations of this middle-aged woman are less than captivating, and until the elevator scene, this is a snoozer. But the remaining 2/3's or so of the picture is often first-rate entertainment, delivering an abundance of suspenseful moments and shocking violence.The film improves drastically when it focuses on the relationship between Gordon and Allen. Both deliver good performances, and there's a non-sexual chemistry between them that works superbly. Too bad De Palma doesn't really focus on this interesting couple until the last half-hour.The last five minutes are among the film's most suspenseful (and you get to see Allen naked!), though I think we're all in a little agreement when we say that the final shock is a bit gratuitous. Also excessive is the film's resemblance to a certain Hitchcock film. Even without that resemblance, though, Dressed to Kill would still have been predictable. I mean, come on, I knew the identity of the killer in a heartbeart. You'll figure it out just as fast, too.Pino Dinaggio's score is chilling and among his better works. De Palma graces the screen with his usual camera work, there are a lot of uninterrupted shots and split-screens. A lot of people see Dressed to Kill as a have safe sex message, which I could kind of agree with, even though Dickinson's character would still have been offed in a horrible manner even without that tryst.The first of De Palma's two erotic thrillers, Dressed to Kill happens to be the weaker of the two. Yeah, it's often suspenseful and entertaining, but Body Double stands out more, with better pacing, suspense, and direction. My advice, take a look at both and decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"Well made, oddly superficial, with a big twist of course, and great atmospherics","Date":"6 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed to Kill (1980)A nifty little thriller. The opening shower scene with Angie Dickinson showing all to the world was something of a sensation at the time, but I don't know that it makes much sense to the movie. It's all for the starved men in the audience, or maybe for the audaciousness of it, to let you know that this is going to be a stylized, almost fun, thriller.And it is fun! De Palma is a director who knows how to needle the viewer. His fans like being needled, I think (or like knowing that other people are being needled). Examples abound&#x97;Carrie and Body Double come to mind&#x97;where the sensational plot is partly an excuse to unleash some good old male voyeurism and sexism. Which is why the movies work so well for a certain audience.And they are well made, certainly, and edited with a clipped economy. Dressed to Kill has the advantage of Michael Caine in a leading role (though underused, for a two hour film). The rest of the cast is mediocre, frankly, holding up the character types needed for the main conflict.Oh, if you have any feelings for transgender issues, this movie will only reinforce the old stereotype that people with mixed or cross gender issues are sick and need help. Too bad, and shame on you, Mr. De Palma, for perpetuating that kind of thing. 35 years later, I know, but really.Final word&#x97;there are many brilliantly made sections of the movie, including a long stretch near the start in the museum that is a kind of hyped up Hitchcock style (Vertigo). Indeed, Hitchcock is being made love to all along here &#x97;Psycho with this movie's main character's double nature, and even Rear Window with the peering through windows. Which makes it a movie very much worth seeing. Caveats in place. "},{"Title":"Classic DePalma stuff","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The 'Pure Cinema' approach deployed here also evokes the best work of Dario Argento, though De Palma clearly has his own agenda. His script attends the fall-out from a terrifying attack on a frustrated housewife (Angie Dickinson) by a razor-wielding maniac who then turns his/her attentions to the sole witness, a streetwise hooker (Nancy Allen) who teams up with Dickinson's teenage son (Keith Gordon) when she becomes a suspect in the case.After a slow first 25 minutes, Dressed to Kill is filled with unbearable suspense for the next 75 minutes. The last 3 minutes of the film are particularly nerve wracking. There are so many great suspense sequences that work throughout the entire film, all the way from the elevator scene to a chase into the subway. Those scenes should give any viewer a good scare. It's certainly what one would describe as edge-of-your seat suspense. I know those sequences freaked me out, and those last few minutes in the film is a true heart-pounding nerve jangler. This is what De Palma is good at and he should make more films like this.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A classic homage and not a rip off","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I read somewhere that Hitchcock was reportedly unhappy with the extent to which De Palma's previous thriller, Obsession (1976), borrowed from his acknowledged masterpiece Vertigo. If this is true, the master should have saved up his vitriol for the next de Palma work in the genre he made famous - Dressed to Kill, which raises serious questions about the line between homage and rip off, if such a line exists at all.As a big fan of the movie, de Palma's best pure suspense work of all, I believe that its feet are firmly in the homage camp. De Palma had style of his own to spare; his movie doesn't rely on our familiarity with Psycho to carry itself along rather it's a treat for fans of the 1960 classic as it wears its influence on its sleeve, but develops into a different beast.Dressed to Kill - and this is not a slight on Psycho - goes further with some of the themes of the 1960 film. Transexuality was hinted at in Hitchcock's film; here it is actually explored. The killer's sexual motive is also more fully explored. A mere rip off would not bother trying to juggle these themes it would give them a nod to make sure we caught them and leave it at that. Rip offs take laziness; proper homage takes dedication and research. We get them both here.It is also true that the movie uses another sublime Hitchcock touch which we also saw in his first thriller, Sisters - the character presumed to be the protagonist meets a surprising end and the movie abruptly shifts gear as a new, entirely different kind of main character is introduced.There are an infinite number of ways in which a filmmaker or storyteller can substitute one protagonist for another. The master did it particularly effectively, yes, but the technique is too broad in its applications for us to claim it as his own entirely.Lastly, a word about the casting, and its sexual implications. The surprisingly graphic opening scene, with an ageing Angie Dickinson in the shower, shows us perhaps more than we wanted to see. It is a blessing, then, when she is replaced by Nancy Allen's call girl, who has a few scenes that make this one of the sexiest movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Bizarre Sexual Thriller Looks and Sounds Terrific","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed to Kill (1980) *** (out of 4) Brian DePalma's surreal thriller about a psychiatrist (Michael Caine), a hooker (Nancy Allen) and a victim's son (Keith Gordon) who try to find a female killer stalking them.If that plot description sounds really stupid then I do apologize but I'm going to try and protect you from spoilers. DePalma's DRESSED TO KILL is pretty much a remake of a certain movie but I'm not going to mention that movie, that movie's plot or that movie's filmmaker just to prevent major and obvious spoilers. Once you've seen this film you'll undoubtedly know what movie I'm talking about. It's funny but DRESSED TO KILL really divides fans and critics because some call it a masterpiece while others call it a piece of trash that hides behind that other film.For me personally, I think there's a masterpiece hidden here but sadly there are enough flaws that really keep it from being a great movie. I will start off with the flaws but the screenplay itself and the story are quite stupid and at times you really have to shake your head. I'd argue that the story really doesn't make too much sense but I honestly believe DePalma knew this and didn't care one way or another because his main goal was to create a visual, sexual and sensual thriller that packed a punch and the film certainly does that.There are really three stars to this picture and it's DePalma, the music by Pino Donaggio and the cinematography by Ralf D. Bode. The three of them work so perfectly together because the film really is just a sympathy of thrills. Again, the story really doesn't matter as it's so far in the background. The real magic and tension comes from the countless silent moments where the camera just glides around to the music and DePalma works to build up suspense. There's the sexuality of the opening sequence. The surreal nature of the art museum. I won't even get started on the three endings to the picture.DePalma certainly paints one of the more beautiful thrillers of the decade and throw in the weird sexuality and you've got quite the picture. The performances are also quite good with everyone filling their roles nicely. Allen is charming as the street-wise hooker. Caine is believable as the doctor. Gordon plays a nerd like no other actor in history. Angie Dickinson brings a certain flare as does Dennis Franz as the detective.DRESSED TO KILL could have and should have been a great movie but as it stand, the film is quite powerful in its own right. "},{"Title":"De Palma in peak sexy and stylish form","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" High-class call girl Liz Blake (a winningly sweet'n'sassy portrayal by Nancy Allen) witnesses the savage murder of frustrated adulteress Kate Miller (luminously played by Angie Dickinson) in an elevator by a mysterious blonde woman. Liz joins forces with Kate's whiz kid inventor son Peter (likable Keith Gordon) to figure out the killer's identity.Writer/director Brian De Palma brazenly (and brilliantly) copies both classic Hitchcock and lurid Italian giallos with a giddy audacity that's quite a wickedly entertaining joy to behold The shocking abrupt dispatching of Kate clearly recalls Psycho while the vibrant color scheme and aberrant sexuality are more redolent of such Italian maestros as Mario Bava and Dario Argento. Naturally, De Palma pulls off several bravura set pieces with breathtaking aplomb and assurance An elongated sequence sans dialogue in a museum depicting Kate being picked up by a handsome stranger, the startlingly brutal elevator murder, and a thrilling subway chase are all sterling examples of De Palma at the top of his game. Better yet, De Palma's twisted take on gender issues and sexual identity was certainly ahead of its time, with the subject matter on transsexuals in particular retaining all of its topicality today. Michael Caine does his customary excellent work as reserved psychiatrist Dr. Robert Elliott, Dennis Franz amuses as coarse sleazeball Detective Marino, and William Finley provides the extremely creepy and unsettling voice of the deranged Bobbi. Further graced by Ralf D. Bode's fluid cinematography and a lush score by Pino Donaggio, it's a must-see for both De Palma fans and thriller buffs alike. "},{"Title":"De Palma is the Master of the Macabre.","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When Alfred Hitchcock died in 1980, there was only one person that could take over for the thriller genre. And that was Brian De Palma. De Palma, at this point in his career, was already making movies since the early 1970's. So far, he's made 3 feature length movies, including Sisters, from 1973, Carrie, from 1976 and Obsession, which was also released around the same year Carrie was released. Now, he brings an brand new thriller to the table.Dressed to Kill is an exceptionally well made Hitchcockian thriller that's filled with erotic charged imagery and well-written characters that make the movie work well. Angie Dickinson plays a sexually frustrated housewife who can't seem to find satisfaction in her life. Her teenage son, (Keith Gordon), is a science geek who can't seem to fit in with his mother since his father left them for another woman. Dickinson's character even visits a local psychiatrist in New York City, played by Michael Caine. At first, Dickinson tries seducing him, but it fails. That night, after visiting a stranger in a museum, she decides to stay with him for the night. But, as soon as the night is over, she's brutally murdered in a elevator by a tall, blonde, woman, wielding a straight razor.While all of this is going on, an call girl, (Nancy Allen), is questioned by the police since she witnessed the murder right in front of her. Meanwhile, the son wants revenge on his mother's murder. So, he and the call girl decides to track down the killer whatever means necessary.Like other Brian De Palma's thrillers, Dressed to Kill renders on the Hitchcockian genre. The murder scene reminds us of the shower scene in Psycho with its portrayal of shock and awe, but what's interesting about this film is that it doesn't rip off that famous scene. What I expected out of Brian De Palma's other works is that he simply takes several Hitchcock's films and flips on its head. Even though there're several plot holes in this movie, I enjoyed the style more than the story.As for the performances, Michael Caine does a good job, playing Dickinson's therapist. As for Angie Dickinson, she particularly steals the movie by giving us a very good performance as the troubled housewife. What I like also about Dressed to Kill is that Dickinson doesn't seem to be playing a helpless victim in this movie. Various people protest about the violence against women in this movie. But, to make things very clear, this movie is a lot more better than a dozen of slasher movies. This is an enjoyable thriller that does have a lot of style, but for the story, it does suffered a slight bump in the road for me. The music score by Pino Donaggio is quite splendid and beautiful at the same time. As I watching this movie, I could see that De Palma was trying so hard to make this movie closer to a Hitchcockian thriller and to tell you the truth, he does succeeds. Not only for this movie, but for another movie that he made four years later after this one, Body Double. With the pieces almost fitting together, Dressed to Kill is an frightening, erotic thriller with style and substance. ★★★ 1/2 3 1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"Sexy older woman","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'Dressed to Kill' is a fascinating and entertaining film. It has to stand alone for having one of the sexiest scenes in cinema history - the taxi scene - where hardly any flesh is shown and all is imagined- unlike her 'wham-bam' dawn-breaker with her husband. Angie was nearly 50 years when she made DTK and it is testament to Brian de Palma that she wasn't thrown over for a younger model( esp. in 1980). The 'cat and mouse ' museum scene is riveting and interesting that her 'pick-ip' doesn't speak a word in the film - which seems to make him more alluring/desirable. The film has been alluded to having a Hitchcockian influence and the knife /wig are testament to that. But I would posit that the film has an Italianate influence ie agony and ecstasy intertwining. (comparable to the latter is 'Last Tango in Paris.')Examples are the early shower scene wherein Angie is blissfully soaping herself when an unknown man savagely takes her from behind. Note also in the murder/lift scene Angie's dress provocatively showing her legs when she is dying. The sub- plots of the son's scientific interests (pertinent to the film) and the call-girl's activities (Nancy Allen seems so believable that she could pass for the 'girl next door.') maintain the interest/momentum.I love the humorous asides eg Dtv. MarinoWhat sort of a building is this? everyone getting laid after lunch!Margaret Reines "}{"Title":"DePalma & Caine are Genius! End of 70's cinema at its best!!","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Get ready for an intense ride-an end of the 70's golden age of cinema style psycho-thriller! I first saw Dressed to Kill in my teens in the 80's and the story & visuals has stuck with me to this day. I am normally a non-fiction engineer numbers guy but appreciate 70's movies like this!The slow building tension is a visual-psychological feast that will suck you in! Watch with the lights low on a dark rainy night...The movie has such a great cast set in the days of the gritty yet refined but still only in NYC setting. Using the NYC setting as a great part of the tension which would not be believable in today's NYC...Caine, Allen and Dickinson are an incredible cast at the height of their dramatic acting skills. "},{"Title":"Watch to Thrill!","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed to Kill (1980) Dir Brian De Palma / Cast Angie Dickinson, Michael Caine, Nancy Allen, Keith Gordon, Dennis Franz Fascinating erotic thriller with explicit violence. Title refers to the act of murder and the attire of the killer. He is a transsexual named Bobbie whose mental state crumbles leaving threatening message on his psychiatrist's answering machine. Plot regards three individuals entrapped in a series of events involving transvestism. Michael Caine plays a psychiatrist assisting Angie Dickinson with uncontrolled lust. This leads to a fantastic museum sequence told entirely by music where she connects with a stranger and awakens in his apartment where sexual satisfaction is replaced by guilt. Caine becomes further involved when a patient is murdered using his razor. Nancy Allen plays a prostitute entangled in a murder investigation when she discovers a body in an elevator. Slick filmmaking by Brian De Palma who is quoting from Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho. Dickinson is wonderfully imprisoned by her own lust until she is unable to turn back. Caine is excellent as the threatened psychiatrist whose razor is missing. Allen shows guts and brains as a prostitute on the run. Dennis Franz is commanding as a cop whose best scenes are when he interrogates Allen. Keith Gordon plays the victim's clever son doing his own investigation. Tense dark view of sexual disorders and its fatal seduction. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"love De Palma's style","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Kate Miller (Angie Dickinson) is a sexually frustrated NYC housewife with science nerd son Peter (Keith Gordon). She goes to psychiatrist Doctor Robert Elliott (Michael Caine). She has an affair with a stranger and then is killed in the elevator by a tall blonde woman with a straight razor. Call girl Liz Blake (Nancy Allen) sees the killer in the elevator and picks up the razor. Detective Marino (Dennis Franz) investigates as she becomes the main witness, a suspect and the next target. Marino gives her 48 hours to find her out of town client who ran away after seeing bloody Kate.I love director Brian De Palma's split screen style. He does it not only with actual split screens but also by splitting the action between background and foreground. There are three amazing high tension thrill scenes. The subway scene, the thunderstorm scene and the final bathroom scene are so memorable. They are all terrific. Dennis Franz is over acting as the hard-talking cop. Also I wasn't as concerned about the transgender serial killer stereotype back in the day when I first saw this movie. I think these are minor missteps that this thriller more than make up for. "},{"Title":"A fashionable mystery thriller.","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A classic mystery thriller starring Angie Dickinson as Kate Miller, a sexually frustrated psychological patient who gets into an affair with a man she met at a museum. After their rendezvous, Kate is murdered by a blonde woman, who subsequently goes after high-class call girl Liz Blake (Nancy Allen), who witnesses the crime.It's an alluring mystery that blends in lust, drama and thrills from beginning to end. The first part of the movie with Dickinson is pretty mesmerizing as we learn of her character's psychological and sex life issues. It then leads to the enthralling lengthy museum scene, where she follows a stranger around, hoping for a rendezvous. The plot continues to keep you engaged when Nancy Allen comes on screen as the call girl, teaming up with Kate Miller's son Peter (Keith Gordon) to track down the killer.While the second half of the movie does have some thrilling moments, I thought that it drifted away from the main Kate Miller plot too much. Also, some of the characters weren't emotionally connected to the story, especially when Kate's husband seemed unphased his wife's been murdered and her psychologist (Michael Caine) has not offered a I'm sorry about your loss to the son. Even worst is the detective investigating the case (Dennis Franz), who acted like an unsympathetic a-hole to all those affected by the tragedy.Overall, though, it's a good, entertaining thriller that, for the most part, is well-paced and intriguing.Grade B "},{"Title":"The most American-Giallo. Stylish, sexual, violent, and inventive.","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Fantastic entry in the Giallo sub-genre from Director De Palma who knows perfectly his references, mainly Dario Argento, although he has denied to being influenced by the Italian maestro. This film is very sexual, violent, and creative in terms of plot. It also features plenty of humor courtesy of the young son of one of the killer's victims because of his investigation techniques (ahead of their time).The acting is stellar, the plot very intriguing, and the gore is fantastic although is only present in one scene. Dario Argent should be proud of the elevator scene.A great addition to the Giallo sub-genre. "},{"Title":"A stylish if not altogether satisfying thriller","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Bored housewife Angie Dickinson cheats on her husband and pays the ultimate price --- she's killed by a maniac who looks an awful lot like her. While this is certainly a stylishly made thriller, its script is a bit bit hollow. Nevertheless, Dickinson gives a gutsy performance; she's well matched by Michael Caine as her psychiatrist. As a hooker who witnesses the murder, Nancy Allen almost steals the film and Keith Gordon is very good as Dickinson's highly resourceful son. Director Brian De Palma keeps things moving with his never stopping camera, aided by a pulse pounding score courtesy of Pino Donaggio. The editing by Gerald B. Greenberg is fairly astounding. It's become a classic despite the fact that it's not particularly satisfying. "},{"Title":"Dial M for More Violence","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  De Palma's finest shocker... the director emulated Alfred Hitchcock in this more urban-sophisticated version of Psycho, giving us the actual skin cutting instead of the mere suggestion of it (courtesy of the currently available DVD Unrated version).  The carnage takes place the first third of the film, and you'd be advised not to get too settled in this one because, who knows, there are more victims' lives to claim, and the straight razor is still missing.Angie Dickinson does an admirable job, and says a few interesting things in one of several documentaries included on the DVD.  De Palma is just now really getting his due as a director of considerable merit.  It wasn't always so, especially since Dressed to Kill outraged (and shocked) many people when it was first released... female or not... and the reverberation from its violent impact is still felt by audiences today. Again, violent and shocking. I liked this one immensely, but make sure you possess steel nerves before watching it.      "},{"Title":"De Palma's problem with his Father","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's always interesting for a movie enthusiast to look about for references. The Hitchcockian references in Dressed to kill are so numerous that it tends to be a psychotherapy for little de Palma to show he is as strong as his father.Most de Palma's movies are full of such long-drawn-out references. Sisters and Obsession for instance are based on Psycho and Vertigo. Dressed to kill uses both to a wide extent. But neither did it avoids technical or visual clichés of the 70s.(SPOILERS TO COME) The main idea for de Palma was to recycle the starting point of Psycho which is to get rid of the main character before the middle of the movie. Angie Dickinson's death is not so shocking as Janet Leigh's. Her wandering is just about sexual affection and even before she gets gored she is threatened by a possible venereal disease infection. This is much too heavy. Of course there is a shower scene at the beginning. Erotic the way 70 movies thought would be artistic (hazy-ach so). The museum scene is a nice homage to Vertigo (I dare use that word because there is much of a reference) but it turns into something breaking the visual pace. Something leading to unsafe raw sex. With the menace of the stranger tailing her.De Palma appears to be less self-assured once he achieves part.1 the Hell with my main character. There is no such mystery as after you get flabbergasted under the shower in Psycho. The investigation revolves around Michael Caine's character. As with Norman Bates. He dresses like a woman. But he is quite original with his razor (reminds me the lift-shower scene is also a reference to the glasses reflecting the murder in Strangers on a train. Then the razor becomes a suspense key as was Robert Walker's lighter).The final part is also made of references to Vertigo and Psycho. I shall add Rear Window since the peeping nerd is closer to the impotent Jimmy Steward sending Grace Kelly for a crime evidence. Anyway what Nancy Allen does inside Caine's flat is close to Kim Novak's ambiguous character in Vertigo. Then let's finish as we started with Psycho. Caine's arrest is similar to Norman Bates' but above all, after a lovers'meal without Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman, we go to asylum. Here we find the murderer more terrifying than ever with his interiorized insanity. Those last images are great and I have to acknowledge de Palma knows how to finish (Sisters'last images already made that good impression upon me). (END OF SPOILING SESSION)Nevertheless this is a patchwork. Having seen previously the major Hitchcock movies I am surely very tough on that movie but I do not think it deserves leniency for there is little creativity in it. Not bad, sure but de Palma's directing is heavy with his industrious references. Go and see the original Hitchcock movies. I'll refund you twice the difference. "},{"Title":"A sex twist on Psycho (SPOILERS)","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brian De Palma tries his best to be Hitchcock and succeeds greatly in this brutal, intense and sometimes brilliant shocker. Great music score pervades this story about a teenager who tries to solve the murder of his mother, along with the help of a hooker who witnessed it. While it borrows heavily from Psycho (The apparent heroine is killed halfway through the film, and the killers motive is explained by a doctor in an almost identical way to the doctor explaining Norman Bates motive) and the dream sequence at the end is too similar to De Palma's Carrie, this is an intense and entertaining sex-thriller. 8/10. "},{"Title":"a walk on the sleazy side","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the first movie for the first time when I was about thirteen and it instantly became one of my favorites.  Throughout the years, I've shown to all my family members and friends who, on the whole, have been much less enthusiastic about than I am.  Seven years later, I can recognize that the movie has flaws.  It's derivative(with a plot taken from Hitchcock's psycho), the rape fantasy scene is misogynistic, the scene of the hooker being pursued by street thugs is racist, the slow-motion scenes are excessive and melodramatic, and the resolution is an offense to transgendered people everywhere.  But you know what...I DON'T CARE, I still love this move.  I don't love it for De Palma's heavy-handed direction, which no longer impresses like it did when I was kid.  I certainly don't love it because of the great acting although I think nancy allen (Mrs. De Palma at the time) never looked or acted better than she did in this film. This may not be saying much since, aside from the films she made with her husband, the highlight of her career has been the Robocop movies. However, I love this movie because, to me, it perfectly captures the mood and ambience of the sleazy underside of the New York city in the late seventies and early eighties.  Outside of soft-core porn, you'll not find a better evocation of those grimy, trashy, sexually promiscuous porno chic days.  Before Aids and before Times Square was turned into a Disney tourist attraction, New York city represented everything that was dirty, uncontrolled, and dangerous in American society and human sexuality. Since I wasn't an adult at the time, I guess I shouldn't romanticize an era that most people don't seem to looking back to but I can't help it.  To me, De Palma's Dressed to Kill is a time capsule of a time and era when there were still taboos being broken and a lot of people were doing very bad things.   "}{"Title":"a dark and intelligent mystery thriller that  is brilliant","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian DE Palma has always been A controversial director for his usage of violence and nudity in his films, and some people consider his films trashy and sexist. But in my opinion his films have a really deep meaning than a lot of people think. His films are violent and they do have nudity and sexuality but he does not use it just for the sake of having the kind of content he uses it in many ways like to explain something about A character or how much to characters feel about each other. but for some reason many people think this film is a Alfred Hitchcock rip of and to me that not true. Brian De Palma gave the film A style of its own that separate's the film for A Hitchcock thriller, like in the way he tells the story and the way the characters develops throughout the film. Dressed to kill has a wonderful cast with famous actors like Michael who gives A wonderful and memorable performance, And Angie Dickinson who is just wonderful in her role, I also love Nancy Allen in this film because She brings A feeling of realism to her character, I think everyone in the film brings the same feeling to me, Brian DE Palma has a style that to me completely separates him from Alfred Hitchcock. Pino Donnagio's score is gorgeous and unforgettable he is to me one of the best composers of his time. in the end dressed to kill is one of Brian DE Palmas greatest achievements of his long and wonderful career and established him as one of the master of suspense. "},{"Title":"Good girl gone wild","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hey, my first congratulations for this movie is the way it developed until it revealed who was the woman in black. Considering this kind of movie rarely let you know who it is by giving you some hints, I didn't hardly try to figure out the lunatic. However, even if I did, I am convinced I wouldn't think that Batman's majordomo was the one. One thing to comment is how hardly my heart started beating in the infirmary hugging scene-- you'll know what I'm talking about. Furthermore, Brian De Palma surely made a GOOD movie with smart development, atmosphere and twist, but we have to admit he was very inspired in 1960's Psycho and the way Hitchcock used to make his movies. If it wasn't this lack of originality, I'm pretty sure this film would be much more recognizable. Dressed to Kill entertains, thrills and scares whenever it wants, showing how skilled director is. Recommended! "},{"Title":"DePalma explores sex, violence, and gender identity to maximum cinematic effect","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed to Kill, which many viewers seem to have dismissed as a mere riff on Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho, is actually an excellent film in its own right. Director Brian DePalma establishes a disturbing, highly sexualized atmosphere right from the surreal opening, which explores the nude body of a showering woman at length as she eyes a towel-clad male companion expectantly. Suddenly, her expectations are shattered by the entrance of a murderous interloper. This scene, with its mixture of sexuality and violence, prefigures the film's main narrative. The plot combines the formulas of the slasher film and the detective film. The slasher character exudes menace while the detectives, amateur and professional alike, exhibit just the right amount of quirky personality. The film's genre mishmash makes it rather similar to the giallo films of the 1970s, which were themselves greatly influenced by Hitchcock. Yet DePalma proves to be in a class of his own as he uses unconventional visual techniques such as split screen to build tension and suspense. At the same time, DePalma's mastery of more conventional shots helps Dressed to Kill transcend the work of his contemporaries and influences alike. Thematically, DePalma deals with some of the same issues that Hitchcock explored in Psycho, specifically gender identity and violence caused by repressed sexuality. However, whereas Hitchcock was overly concerned with spelling out new concepts and reducing them to textbook abnormal psychology tidbits for his audience, DePalma is content to leave a certain aura of mystery to the actions of his killer. Even a slightly stilted expository scene in a police station is all but forgotten in the wake of the film's stunning ending. "},{"Title":"Captivating!","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma's 'Dressed to Kill' is a captivating & atmospheric film, that leaves a lasting impact. It's terrifying, engrossing & very nicely executed.'Dressed to Kill' Synopsis A mysterious, tall, blonde woman, wearing sunglasses murders one of a psychiatrist's patients, and now she's after the prostitute who witnessed it.'Dressed to Kill' has moments that scare, it has moments that captivate & it has moments that are simply note-worthy. De Palma's Direction, from start to finish, is haunting & very investigative. I loved the way he has executed this erotic-thriller. His Screenplay, on the other-hand, is twisted & unexpected. Cinematography is well-balanced. Editing & Art Design, are nice.Performance-Wise Sir Michael Caine is awesome, as always. Angie Dickinson is flawless, while Nancy Allen is absorbing. Keith Gordon, Dennis Franz & David Margulies leave a mark.On the whole, 'Dressed to Kill' is among De Palma's most accomplished works. Try not to miss this one. "},{"Title":"The best Hitchcock impression","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The plot = A lonely housewife Kate Miller (Angie Dickinson) has a day like any other day she visits her doctor (Michael Caine) and then attends a museum, there she meets a man and begins a torrid sexual encounter with him, meanwhile she's being followed by a mysterious tall woman in shades and a long black coat.Released in 1980 and directed by Brian De Palma, was very much controversial due to it's violence and nudity. But in my opinion Dressed To Kill is one of the finest of thriller/slasher movies of it's time with fine performances from each of the main cast and its ability to keep me interested all the way through, beginning with the first shocking murder scene right through to the shock ending, which really surprised me when I first watched it, I mean wow I did not see that one coming.Okay this movie has obviously borrowed inspirations from Alfred Hitchcock movies, but it's copied with true style, like making you think that Angie Dickinson is the main focus of the movie up until her death and then the main focus switches to Nancy Allen the eye witness and new target of the killer. I also enjoyed the remainder of the plot and the artistic directing and a cat and mouse between the killer and Liz, who is assisted by Peter Miller, the son of Kate, who is awkward, virginal and not remotely macho. DePalma throws in a genuinely tense chase on a subway train which is all great viewing. There are also several scenes which echoes Psycho, but that doesn't make this movie in any way bad.The acting Michael Caine although slightly underused was excellent especially towards the end when his true colours are shown. Nancy Allen has the ability to combine sensuality and intelligence in a manner which I find incredibly alluring. Keith Gordan also does well playing the geeky son and Angie Dickinson really shines in her short screen time showing vulnerability and making you feel for her when she gets it.All in all Dressed To Kill is easily the best film that De Palma has ever made along with such greats as (Sisters, Obsession & Blow Out) and is as effective back then as it is today. "},{"Title":"Dressed to Kill (1980) ***1/2","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Former Police Woman television star Angie Dickinson portrays Kate Miller, a middle-aged wife and mother, sexually frustrated and riddled with doubts as to her own self-worth. Her husband is inconsiderate of her needs and her computer savvy son (Keith Gordon) is locked away in his room with his own gadgets and gizmos. Kate seeks solace from her sympathetic Manhattan psychiatrist Dr. Elliott (Michael Caine) for consolation and possibly even sexual gratification. She ponders whether an intimate liaison is worth ruining her already shaky marriage. At the same time, Dr. Elliott is receiving menacing telephone messages from a psychotic transsexual patient, who steals a straight razor from the doctor's office and threatens to carve up a pretty call girl (Nancy Allen). Detective Marino (played by NY cop actor par excellence Dennis Franz) becomes involved when the twisted stalker in heels and blonde wig draws first blood.That's about it for a synopsis, since it's virtually impossible to explain DRESSED TO KILL without risk of spoiling the whole movie. Brian De Palma presents an intensely erotic, sensual thriller. His poetic camera glides across every moment, creating a titillating world of surreal perversity. The musical score by Pino Donaggio perfectly bathes the proceedings in grandeur, adding even more polish to an already luminous picture. De Palma is the first to admit that he admires the film technique of the acclaimed Alfred Hitchcock and that he is unashamed to borrow from one of the best directors of all time. While I personally would never stoop to such a level if I were a major director (homage or no homage), I thank my lucky stars that De Palma went that route for DRESSED TO KILL; it's one of my all-time favorite suspense films, and for me is as fulfilling a movie-going experience as PSYCHO, which it certainly tries to emulate. As much as I admire DRESSED TO KILL, I would refrain from calling it perfect, as the passage of decades has now taken some of its edge off, and Nancy Allen (who was married to director De Palma at the time) was not the most capable actress here. I also think some of the dialogue and police investigations have a tendency to sound unintentionally humorous. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Nerve-Wracking, Expertly Directed, Razor Sharp Slasher Thriller","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Kate Miller is a bored suburban housewife who embarks on a risky amour fou and then gets sliced up in an elevator by a psychotic blonde. But the crime is witnessed by Liz, a hooker, who teams up with Kate's son Peter to try to find the killer. It isn't long however before the killer has found them &#x85;This is the middle film of DePalma's three remakes of Psycho (the other two are Sisters and Raising Cain), and is perhaps the best movie in a fine slasher triptych. It isn't exactly original - as well as Hitchcock it also cribs from Dario Argento, Claude Chabrol and even DePalma's own work (for example, the last shot is identical to the one in Carrie). But as with so many of his films, it's the style that counts and this is a nerve-shreddingly tense, ultra-elegant thriller, with a crafty and devious where-the-hell-is-this-leading storyline to absorb even the most jaded mystery fan. The only requirement of a good suspense movie is to keep us on edge and if ever there was a classic nail-biter this is it - DePalma's NYC is an urban jungle with menace in every corner, every sidewalk, every alley and doorway. We know Kate is gonna get it somehow, and once she does we instantly transfer all our anxiety onto Liz; the movie plays with images of sex and horror and mines that oldest of all clichés - we are always at our most vulnerable when we're undressed. It's an adult film in the true sense, in that it deals with all our sexual fears and neuroses, and its currency is blood and horror. DePalma is the master craftsman here, his camera gliding around the art gallery, the subway tunnels, the lunatic asylum, the steamy bathroom, as we wait for something to leap out of the shadows at us. His tricks of the trade - slow motion, reverse shots, split-screen, slow pans - are employed with stylish finesse. His characters are just as original and intriguing; a libidinous middle-aged Mom, a psychotic psychiatrist, a call-girl who needs all her cunning to get out of a trap, a whizz-kid who uses his smarts to do what the cops can't. What other movie features such an unconventional line-up ? I also love Pino Donaggio's sultry, sleazy score, which seems to have been just dripped over the visuals somehow, alternately soothing and screeching, and in its own way is just as scary as anything we see. This is probably Allen's best role (she was Mrs DePalma at the time) but everybody is good in it. This cast shouldn't fit together - traditional Hollywood glam girl, British impresario, independent art movie kid and no-nonsense method actor - but somehow they do, and their characters are rich and varied, despite largely being cogs in a brutal story arc. One of the best crazy thrillers of the eighties, and a must-see for slasher fans. Trivia - the voice of Bobbi The Killer belongs to cult favourite William Finley, star of many of DePalma's early low budget flicks. "},{"Title":"Very good thriller...  Over the top and suspenseful... Vintage DePalma...  Fans of the director won't be disappointed.","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian DePalma's attempt at paying homage to director Alfred Hitchcock and his movie Psycho,among others, comes across more as a blatant rip-off. However, despite this I ended up liking the film. I never felt bored. Actually, some of the reasons why I did enjoy the movie as much as I did were in part because of DePalma and his directing style.I found the movie to be captivating even though it got increasingly silly as it went along. DePalma's over-stylization and brazen references to Hitchcock kept me wanting to watch more. His self-indulgent tracking shots did become annoying after awhile, but these flourishes are to be expected from him. All the wild plot twists, excessiveness and over-the-top presentation of the whole thing made the movie even more entreating. Sure, it's trashy, lurid and exploitative, but these elements sets this movie apart from other thrillers. It's a good film that's fun to watch. Michael Cane's scenery chewing performance was great to watch. It's too bad Brian DePalma hasn't directed a half-decent film in years. "},{"Title":"A great psycho-thriller from De Palma","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" De Palma does it again. In this great psycho-thriller, De Palma pays homage to the supreme master of suspense, Alfred Hitchcock. Remember the museum scene in Vertigo? De Palma got it, recycled it and delivered one of the best scenes of the movie history. It's incredible the De Palma's ability to tell a story without words, simply using images, a technique that he declared that he learned form Hitchcock's works. And the famous elevator murder scene? Everything in that scene is great camera work, acting, music, just flawless! It's as great as Argento's and Psycho's murder scenes. Yes, it's violent, but no one can deny the power of that moment.As always, another wonderful from De Palma's mind, this vastly underrated author, that deserves much more kudos than he has got. If you still haven't watched this real gem, go rent it or, better, buy it, I'm pretty sure it deserves every cent of its price! Classic! "},{"Title":"Dressed in Argento","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Always loved this movie, always will. Gorgeous, dream quality cinematography (metaphorically and literally). Have problems with the Great Director though. Forget about ripping off Psycho and Hitchcock. I just saw The Bird With the Crystal Plumage and was shocked how close DTK is to almost every aspect of that earlier film. DTK is practically a remake of Bird. Right down to shot compositions, costumes and even actors gestures. For example, when Angie is on the elevator floor reaching out to Nancy Allen. It is the exact same scene recreated from Bird. No wonder Dario Argento hates DePalma. I can no longer give Brian the benefit of the doubt as an auteur. Everything he does is somehow derivative. I used to think Dressed To Kill was something you could point at when the naysayers mocked him. Used to. He is the Knock-off king of American Cinema. Yes, he can make a damn good movie, or should I say, remake. If only he weren't so god damned arrogant. But I guess you have to be an asshole to claim your work is original when it absolutely is not. "}{"Title":"Effective Brian dePalma thriller with edge of your seat thrills...","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There are so many tributes to Alfred Hitchcock's type of storytelling on display throughout DRESSED TO KILL, that it staggers the imagination--and yet, DePalma has pulled off one of his best directorial efforts. For sheer suspense and a terrifying nightmare of a climax, he has outdone himself.Nowhere is the story predictable. Not even the opening scenes suggest the horror to come--and when things do happen, the fast camera cuts and editing is so well done that you know you're in for one scary ride before the chase for a serial killer is over. And even more creepy is the theme that transexualism is at the heart of the story with the murderer in drag committing the horrendous crimes.There's a nightmare quality to the revelation of the killer, but beyond that I can say nothing without giving the plot away. MICHAEL CAINE as a therapist, ANGIE DICKINSON as his oversexed patient, and NANCY ALLEN as a witness to the elevator murder are all excellent.Without a doubt, one of the most stylish murder mysteries from the '80s and it hasn't aged a bit. "},{"Title":"Sexy, Scary, Smart, and Fun all in one!","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Yes, this movie truly has something for everyone... but of course you have to watch the UnRated version.Okay, after a seemingly normal woman is killed in an elevator by an unknown blond assassin, the cops suspect a blond hooker who was found holding the bloody murder weapon. But she is not the killer, and she gets tangled into the web of mystery along with the victim's doctor and son.Okay, let's start with the three 'S'es Sexy- The opening scene is a great moment in sexy cinema (Shower Scene) and the hooker's speech will most likely stick in yous guys' minds.Scary- Threatening voice mails, vicious attacks, bloody murders, stormy nights. Perfectly spine-tingling.Smart- Twisting and turning plot twists, interesting spy gadgets from the victim's son, a real thinker.And the three 'S'es compile to make the 'f' word. No- not THAT 'f' word Fun!- This movie is just plain fun from beginning to end Do you not normally watch old movies and you're afraid this will drag? Well don't fear! It's fun! I recommend it to you all. "},{"Title":"De Palma's Psycho-clone still packs a wallop...","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There was a time where I was of the school of thought (yes, back in an era when I hailed Stanley Kubrick a genius, even though my nagging conscience correctly insisted otherwise) that dismissed Brian De Palma as nothing more than a blatant Hitchcock imitator. Granted, at the time I knew very little of Hitchcock, save for the signature Psycho and bits of Frenzy and North by Northwest. Years later, and with a considerably diminished view of Hitchcock (there's really no way around it, folks--you praise him because you want others to think you're an uppity band of glowing intellectuals), I have re-visited De Palma's Psycho homage, Dressed to Kill, and am pleased to report it as being as potent and effective as when it was first released.Sure, it's a none-too-subtly-veiled riff on Psycho, but its construction might be more brilliant and clever. De Palma not only conveys a keen sense of organization in how the plot unravels, but shows a cool calculation in his staging a dialog-free 'chase' through a museum; a brutal murder in an elevator; and a rain-and-lightning drenched conclusion that is as erotic as it is terrifying. Every move seems charted in advance, and the viewer is just along for the roller-coaster ride.Kate Miller (Angie Dickinson), a middle-aged woman unhappy with her upper-middle class lifestyle (not to mention her husband's weak output), enlists the services of Dr. Elliott (Michael Caine); sexual repression flashes like a big neon sign, to the point where Kate has a tryst that ends on a peculiarly ironic note (tapping into AIDS paranoia before it even surfaced) that quickly takes a turn for the horrific. A lethal blonde in dark sunglasses is stalking the streets, taking aim at promiscuous females with Dr. Elliott's straight razor, and it is up to a call girl (Nancy Allen, from Carrie) and Kate's son, Peter (Keith Gordon--Christine) to unmask the killer.Sexual repression, cavalier adultery, prostitution, transvestism, psychosis, and the allure of eroticism that climaxes in violence are issues that pervade to this day, which suggests that Dressed to Kill was ahead of its time. That its content--from the frankly sexual to the disturbingly violent--still provokes a reaction speaks volumes for its longevity (especially in comparison to how poorly time has treated Psycho's coy psychoanalysis).While 'erotic thriller' would be a fitting categorization for Dressed to Kill, it would also cheapen a film that is not luridly exploitative Cinemax fare, but shockingly tasteful and very mainstream. While De Palma wants more reaction for the visceral and less for the emotional is a weak spot (as prurient thrills fade), I cannot fault him for a job well done. Additionally, the film is buffered by strong performances and a menacing score by Pino Donaggio (Tourist Trap) to create an atmosphere that is at once moody but also completely manufactured (another weak point).In many ways, Dressed to Kill--with its focus on gender, sexuality, and murder--can be favorably compared to the Italian 'giallos' of the 1970s. Certain set-pieces (the elevator murder in particular) echo Dario Argento's skilled work; some of the graphic prosthetic makeup FX recall Lucio Fulci's New York Ripper (1982); and even Lamberto Bava (son of Mario) gave his own thinly-veiled homage to Dressed to Kill with his suspenseful slasher A Blade in the Dark (also 1982).6.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Superior Thriller, Hitchcock Style.","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed To Kill is centered around a series of murders committed by a transsexual in New York City. Kate (played by Angie Dickinson), a married woman, has a one-night-stand with a mysterious man. After discovering he had contracted an STD, she quickly leaves his apartment. While in the elevator, she realizes she forgot her ring in his apartment. On her way back down, the elevator door opens, and in comes a razor-wielding transvestite, and he hacks the poor woman to death. A call-girl, Liz (played by Nancy Allen) just finished with one of her clients, and witnesses the brutal murder while waiting for her elevator to arrive. As more and more murders occur within the area, the identity of the transsexual killer becomes the main focus of the film.I have to admit, the elevator scene of this movie was pretty intense. DePalma really pulled off the sequence well, it definitely made me uneasy when riding in elevators. The Hitchcockian twist-ending of the film was pretty surprising, and it fit well. The film really reminded me of Psycho in many ways. The elevator murder was reminiscent of the shower scene that Janet Leigh's character suffered, and the audience sympathizes with her ill-timing and bad luck. The shocker of an ending was quite similar to Psycho's conclusion, too. The film was well paced and had some clever action scenes. The murderer with the sunglasses and blonde wig was a very creepy costume. The acting was excellent, and there were some genuinely creepy scenes in the film, including the subway scene and especially in the finale between Caine and Allen.Overall, Dressed to Kill is an excellent horror film, and I enjoyed it. If you like films of this type or are a fan of DePalma, you definitely need to give this one a look, you will more than likely enjoy it. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Good thriller, with great moments","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" May contain minor spoilers.Dressed to Kill, having just seen it for the first time the other day, is a movie with some terrific sequences, some decent performances, and a nice, though obvious Hitchcock ripoff, plot twist at the end. It's just too bad certain things, quite obvious, prevent it from being a classic.Dressed to Kill deals with a mystery of a killer who has slain at least two women (could have been more but the movie never tells us), and the search for the killer by three people a brainy kid whose mom was a victim, a lively hooker whose the only one who can identify the killer, and a psychiatrist whose patient was the slained brainy kid's mother. There are a host of well done performances including Nancy Allen as the hooker Liz, Angie Dickenson as the sexually frustrated victim Kate Miller, and Micheal Caine as Doctor Rober Elliot whose has more hidden than meets the eye; though by no standard is anyone really outstanding. On the other hand Denis Franz, later to be a great character along the same lines on the hit show NYPD Blue, is embarrassing as an over-exaggerated, ruthless, hateful detective, though he takes little screen time so it doesn't hurt the movie that much. Keith Gordon, the brain child, is decent, but is almost too smart to really be believable.What sticks with me the most in the film are the tense sequences. The scene with the sexually frustrated mother at the museum is gripping and well done, as is the later sequence leading to her untimely death. I also love the sequence at the doctor's office, that reveals the identity of the killer, which really makes the whole film come together at once. And there's a split screen scene that I thought was almost classic. Still there's another situation when Liz is on a train, running from what may be the killer, that gets taken in directions it should never had with almost embarrassing racial stereotypes. As a thriller it's tense and quite often believable. As a crime drama it often falters, especially with the incomplete, ridiculous explanation of everything that happened in the end. There's also a needless, and way too long, dream sequence at the end, in which they had the audacity to shoot someone's foot for what seemed minutes at a time. This was an up and down experience; one scene would catch me by the heart and mind with enticement, and the next would make me squirm and ask why. At more than 100 minutes this could have been under 90 and been a better film.Scary movie fans should like this. It still stands as a better film than most of today's slasher flicks. Maybe it was a better film in it's time, but having just seen it recently I can say I enjoy it, and it is worth watching for my three favorite scenes alone. "},{"Title":"Indeed, a tragedy","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Pino Donaggio's soft, and stunningly exhilerating score opens the doors of this tragic thriller about psychopathic sexualis! This film can be viewed as many points. With all the chasing, and the sneaking and the spying...simple. A creepy thriller! It does, however, take a little more looking than that to see what this could really be. The golden lights of a starlit bathroom set the scene for a paradise shower, as a beautiful woman (Dickenson) masterbates over the fantasy of a young body, hers, being devoured by the ultimate dream man! After random encounters, she is the object of a total nightmare! Nancy Allen is definitly up to snuff as the street smart hooker, looking for a better calling, but not before she is caught in the crossfire of a really gruesome murder. Tense development, and terrific camera work, will double the thrills in this classic! Did I say tragedy??? Yes, I did. It is one film that leaves you feeling sorry for the characters...or maybe that is the score by Donaggio, but anyway, I see the people in turmoil as victims. Murder is not funny, and neither is death, but a real tragedy... I see one in this very movie! Almost tear jerking...in a way. "},{"Title":"Slow-Mo","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ******SPOILERS****** Extremely long, or did it just seem that way, movie about a woman Kate Miller, Angie Dickinson, who has problems with her marriage and goes to pick up a stranger Warren Lockman ,Ken Baker, at the local museum. Kate after engaging with him in a 100 meter dash for extra curricular activity find out that he's infected with a venereal disease. Later Kate ends up getting slashed to death in the elevator of his apartment building, all this in the first half hour of the movie. The murderer seems to be one of the patients who goes to the same psychiatrist that Kate was going to, Dr. Robert Elliott, Michael Caine. To make the story even more interesting Liz Blake, Nancy Allen, a call-girl opens the elevator door and not only sees the body of the badly slashed Kate but also the murderer who happens to drop the murder weapon, a straight edge razor, right into her hand making it look like she did it! All this is seen in an excruciatingly and endless slow motion sequence. After being grilled by police detective Marino, Dennis Franz, Liz is allowed to go home not realizing that the police are using her as bait to catch the killer. Liz later teams up with the murdered Kate's son Peter, Keith Gordon, to find out who the killer is after Peter saves her from a gang of thugs who chase her through the subway. Liz running into the hands of the murderer Peter sprays with some kind of pepper solution that he invented; he couldn't buy one at the local convenient store? Both Peter and Liz spy on the patients of Dr. Elliott with a hidden camera and find out who the killer is, or so they thought, that leads to the final confrontation at the end of the film. After you find out who the murderer is and what was the reason for killing Kate the movie goes on with what seems to be some kind of dream sequence. Were also given an in depth and x-rated explanation of the killers motives and problems that left us in the audience more confused then it already was. There were some very long sequences in the movie especially in the museum where Kate gets fixated on someone who looks like Leonard Nimoy's Mister Spock from Star Trek. The ending scene with Liz in a shower seems to last as long as the entire movie Psycho which it obviously was copying from. There's also in the movie a really weird and long scene in a mental ward with a nurse getting strangled to the cheers of the people in the gallery! I couldn't really tell if they were inmates or doctors or medical students? The scene looked like an out-take from the movie Glen or Glenda. Then there was also a chase scene in a taxi that had Liz running into the subway where she was attacked by a gang of thugs! This was so unconvincing that you almost expected the director to yell cut and say let's do it over nobody in their right mind is going to believe this. I do have to say that the movie was stylish and that Angie Dickinson, for the short time that she was in it, did evoke tremendous sexuality with or without her clothes on but once she was killed off the movie went straight down the tubes. "},{"Title":"A Hitchcock ripoff? Oh, lord, yes. But what a ripoff.","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've always counted Brian De Palma movies as guilty pleasures, and none of his films lives up to that designation as much as DTK, a labored but gorgeous contribution to the straight-razor fetish school of cinema. It certainly isn't his best film (Carrie, for example, is far better in virtually every respect), and for those who want to seek out its flaws it wears them proudly on its sleeve, but I've always had a fondness for this one; I even have a fondness for the moments I wince at bad dialogue or cloyingly elaborate camera setups.But to respond truthfully to this movie, I have to admit something I'm not terribly fond of Hitchcock movies. Yes, they're technically masterful, but so often they're icy, mechanical and coy. If I were to go to a hypothetical video store and have to choose between DTK and Vertigo which one I want to see, I'll pick the ripoff; like a Dario Argento movie, you know that you're in the presence of somebody who lets their reach exceed their grasp, and it's kind of refreshing not to have to see so much control. And speaking of Argento, it's not unrealistic to believe that De Palma saw a couple of his movies before conceiving this one. I think it's safe to say that once one accepts that De Palma's plots and technique are not entirely unique, it is still possible to appreciate them on their own merits, and dismissing them out of hand as Hitchcock ripoffs is a copout.DTK is fittingly dressed up. All of the main characters are bourgeois, outwardly civilized and fashionable, which plays off of the inherent sleaziness of the plot mechanics and visual excesses. Of course, there's also De Palma's trademark callousness (after her murder, Dickinson is more or less totally forgotten, except for a few fleeting references...in particular, the character of her son seems notably non-distraught) and a great deal of narrative contortions that do not stand up very well to inspection. But De Palma's self-indulgence is a harmless, fun kind of self-indulgence, a genre film fan making genre films for genre film fans. It's there in the long, LONG, but hilarious museum pursuit scene; in the subway chase (OK, how did the killer know she'd be there? Never mind.); in the curiously effective split-screen and split-split-screen shots which are almost unique to De Palma; in Nancy Allen's disarmingly unconflicted prostitute; in those yes-all-right-we-get-it-now shots of Michael Caine looking into mirrors; in the climactic shower stalking (that nurse must have had really big feet). And it looks bloody terrific the whole way through. "},{"Title":"Stylish","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I like a number of things about this film-The lack of dialogue in the opening quarter-The beautifully filmed murder scene-The score-Nancy Allen-The way in which Bobbi resembles Joey Ramone-The 'hoods' on the subwayWhat a deft touch--starting and ending with a shower scene....; having said that, Dressed To Kill should be considered more of a homage than a rip-off to/of Hitchcock. Best viewed in the dark and with the volume up.7/10  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Hitchcock homage","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING SPOILER ALERTDressed to Kill, one of the most famous thrillers from the '80s, divides opinions even 20 years after its release. There are some people who think this is nothing but a blatant rip-off Psycho, including the guys of Razzie Awards, who gave this film three stupid nominations- worst director for Brian DePalma, worst actor for Michael Caine and worst actress for Nancy Allen. But other people think this is a magnificent homage to many Hitchcock pictures, but still having an unique tension and great directing. I stay with those. Dressed to Kill is an intelligent, intriguing, very tense and memorable classic of the suspense, with terrific homages to the master named Alfred Hitchcock.The story... Well, I really don't want to spoil you, but it's about the investigations of the murder of a middle-aged woman named Kate Miller (Angie Dickinson), committed by a mysterious woman inside an elevator. The only witness was a prostitute named Liz Blake (Nancy Allen), who saw the murderer by chance during a blink of eyes. Kate's son, Peter (Keith Gordon), starts to help Liz to discover the identity of the killer, probably one of the clients of Kate's psychiatrist, Robert Elliott (Michael Caine), named Bobbi, who is in fact... Watch to find out!While watching the film, I tried to find all the references to Hitchcock, but maybe I didn't find them all. The first scene, showing Kate dreaming that she was being killed in the shower, is obviously a reference to Psycho, the most referenced here. Bobbi, the man dressed as a woman to kill, is Norman Bates here. The cops discussing the murders in the end was also in Psycho. The identity crisis also... and much more. As you can see, a much more creative, intelligent and interesting thing than what Gus Van Sant did. But if you have some Hitchcockian knowledge (I wish I had more), you can establish a link between the scene with Dickinson in the museum and Kim Novak in a museum looking at the picture of Carlotta Valdez in Vertigo. And it's not just those references that are homages to Hitchcock. The long shots, the silent scenes (Dickinson in the museum), some characters who just pass by (the little girls in the museum and in the elevator) were also used in many pictures of the master. As you can see, Dressed to Kill is a real gift to Hitchcock fans as I am. I'm sure he would have been proud of Brian DePalma.But Dressed to Kill doesn't stay just as a pure homage, but also as a tense, suspenseful, terrifying film. The elevator scene is one of the most memorable of the '80s, the murders are chilling and the suspense takes your to the edge of your seat. Mr. DePalma didn't deserve a nomination for the Razzie Awards, but for the Oscar. In a certain moment, he even divides the screen to show two parallel scenes happening at the same time. Both of them are important and you have to choose which one you will watch. It was, for me, a preparation for Time Code, but just shows how brilliant and well-crafted this film is, and how clever Brian DePalma is.The only problem of Dressed to Kill is that the end is kind of predictable, but this is not a big complaint in a film where you can't take your eyes off the screen.9 out of 10 = EXCELLENT "}{"Title":"De Palma's Contribution to the Slasher Outbreak of the Early 80's","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Its De Palma's most maligned and censored film of his career.  Dressed to Kill(1980) was controversial due to the film's tough mixture of sex & violence.  This movie seems more closer to the films of Dario Argento and Mario Bava then the works of Alfred Hitchcock.  It is like Pyscho mixed in with Six Women for the murderer(1964), Hatchet for the Honeymoon(1969), and Deep Red(1975).  The white dress that Angie wears is similar to one worn by a woman in Mario Bava's Bay of Blood(1971).  Dressed to Kill(1980) was released in the same year as Friday the 13th and Maniac.In my opinion, Dressed to Kill(1980) is one of the director's masterpieces along with Sisters(1973), Carrie(1976), Blow Out(1981), Scarface(1983), Wise Guys(1985), and The Untouchables(1987).  Angie Dickerson is both alluing and sensual as the main lead.  Michael Caine is terrific as always and Nancy Allen is very arousing as the murder witness.  It has a couple of scenes that are scary and truly marvalous.  Its not as good as Tenebre(1982) or The New York Ripper(1982), but it is still one of the director's macabre and sensual films.  Dressed to Kill(1980) shows that on any given day Brian De Palma(although inconsistent) can be as good as Martin Scorsese and Steven Speilberg. "},{"Title":"A great tribute to Alfred Hitchkock's psycho","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brian DePalma is a great fan of Hitchcock. In all of his movies, you could find a tribute to a masterpiece of the master of suspense. With Dressed to kill, he made a present to the ghost of his master, like he did with Body double. "},{"Title":"Law and Sexuality","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" No one could think this is simply a murder mystery. Brian De Palma's film, of course, revolves around a killing and the efforts of several characters to uncover the culprit. Nevertheless, Dressed to Kill is actually a complex metaphor on law and sexuality.What does law have to do with sexuality? It won't be necessary to observe the obvious legal nature surrounding certain sexual plateaus, id est, prostitution or sexual reassignment surgery. No. What matters the most is the foundation of society itself which relies heavily on heterosexual normativity. As Judith Butler elucidates in Bodies That Matter On the Discursive Limits of Sex, the law not only forbids and restricts, but also forces sexuality in a given direction.Traditional psychoanalysis has often interpreted the male homosexual as a 'feminized fag' while the female homosexual was a 'phallicized lesbian'. This simplistic division has proved useful when degrading homosexuals or simply accusing them of indulging in the vilest crime a man could commit refusing masculinity. That's why homosexuality represented, and perhaps to this day still does, the 'abject' in the minds of many.In Dressed to Kill an elegant woman is murdered in a building; later the only witness of the crime (a high-class prostitute) describes to the police what she saw a blonde woman with big sun glasses and rough features. Although it's not made evident one can easily assume the murderer is, in fact, a transvestite. The identity or the motives behind the crime, however, will be revealed as the film progresses.Police officers at first apparently include the prostitute in the list of suspects. But also Michael Caine's character, a prestigious shrink, raises a few doubts. And why wouldn't he? After Hannibal Lecter films, one can only grow uncomfortable around such shrinks. No one else has seen this mysterious women with sun glasses, which some might consider a leitmotiv in De Palma's work (let's remember the disguised woman at the beginning of Snake Eyes, blonde wig and sun glasses). Although police investigators point out that one of Cain's patients could be the killer, and indeed that's the most probable alternative. But what about the man who had just engaged in sexual intercourse with the victim? Sex and law seem to be rather present in the film. If the social rule is to forbid homosexuality, what happens when the forbidden becomes eroticized? After all, a taboo is always highly erotic whereas that which is common and normal can only get boring after a while. For Jacques Lacan homosexuality was the interdict, was it simply because anything that would defy heterosexuality could revoke the social contract (the same one that appears on the good book be fruitful and multiply)? In what conditions and according to what rules is homosexuality the living perspective of death? Since the beginning, the viewer might suspect that the not so sassy transvestite will at the very least get the capital sentence. Even more so if one remembers that this is not a regular criminal, but it's also an individual that threatens the very heterosexual normativity, which after all can be even more sacred than life and death.Judith Butler also helps us define performativity. The reiteration of hegemonic norms can only be possible if someone performs. What are laws? Are they mere words written on documents? No. absolutely not. The law is the exercise of the law the law doesn't exist, it happens. When a judge stands in court, law is happening. When the law sits restful on the penal code it doesn't exist. The court of law is important as an institution because it brings about the actual practice of law. However, the judge doesn't create the law, he quotes it. And by quoting it the judge reinterprets it A long time ago, the law would claim that every citizen could vote. Of course, only white men would vote as only they were considered citizens. As time went on, through the performativity of law, judges reinterpreted the legal codes until black men could vote too; and after some time, they would reinterpret the law so that women could also vote. Did the law change? Not really, it had always been said that every citizen could vote, what changed was who could be considered a citizen, and this was only possibly throughout what Butler calls performativity. It's this same performativity which will allow in the future gay marriages and other civil rights long time overdue.As usual, authority is invested upon a certain individual. That's what the prostitute learns when she's attacked by a group of petty delinquents. When she encounters a cop all threat vanishes at once. She demands the police officer to be present at all times, or else no one will uphold the law. Nonetheless, law can also be subverted through performativity. And that's what being a transvestite is all about first the heterosexual normativity is quoted, in the same manner the judge would read a legal document, and then the transvestite reinterprets the rules. In this case, if it's mandatory for a man to love women exclusively, then the transvestite places himself as the woman. Thus the 'code' remains intact but everything else has changed. In De Palma's film, the transvestite is an exscinded subject, he is a man but he is obsessed with transforming into a woman. By wearing women clothes and a wig, he becomes that which nullifies his masculinity a woman. Except he's not really a woman, he's the transfixed metaphor of sexual interdiction and subversion. Once again, everything about sex is about law. "},{"Title":"I'm afraid to shave","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Few people have a lukewarm opinion of Brian De Palma's films. His public usually divides between adulation that ranks De Palma with the likes of Alfred Hitchcock and repulsion that tags him as a derivative, misogynistic hack. When emotions are running this high, every film put out by such a director will be hot to handle and 'Dressed to Kill,' a 1980 thriller using De Palma's own screenplay, is no exception.'Dressed to Kill' is a film that borrows from earlier sources, most obviously Hitchcock's 'Psycho' and Dario Argento's 'The Bird with the Crystal Plumage.' What raises 'Dressed' above knock-off status, however, is the means by which De Palma uses cliché to explore other possibilities. The film may be derivative, but it's not a plain carbon copy; De Palma, with his American viewpoint and tongue-in-cheek style, puts bizarre spins on old ideas and joins together a superb piece of exploitation cinema.De Palma's screenplay uses a plot line modeled after 'Psycho' that tracks the activities of one woman before splintering off into numerous characters who are given equal weight. The woman in this case is Kate Miller, a suburban New York housewife played by Angie Dickinson. In the film's opening scenes, it becomes clear that Kate is trapped in an unsatisfying relationship with her second husband; we witness an imaginary sequence in which Kate is taken hold by a strange man in her shower, followed by her faking of an orgasm during a real (and quick) meeting in bed.Afterwards, Kate visits Manhattan psychiatrist Robert Elliott (Michael Caine) and expresses her urge to have an affair. Kate then enters the Metropolitan Museum of Art to have lunch with her mother-in-law, instead picking up a male patron (Ken Baker) for an afternoon fling in unconventional places. Suffice it to say that Kate's fling has dire consequences and brings prostitute Liz Blake (Nancy Allen, Golden Globe-nominated), Kate's teenage son Peter (Keith Gordon, eyeglasses and hair predating Harry Potter by two decades), and New York City detective Marino (Dennis Franz) into a twisted murder investigation.While elements of Hitchcock are present, 'Dressed to Kill' actually feels closer to the Italian giallo and, indeed, comparisons have been made. Part of what gives Italian thrillers charm (á la Argento and Mario Bava) is how one film puts customized 'touches' on material used in another. 'Dressed to Kill,' while American, operates in similar ways; Kate Miller, for example, dies in a Psycho-like manner and composer Pino Donaggio's scoring of her death is modeled after Bernard Herrmann. We all want originality in film, but it's also difficult to revitalize old ideas, which De Palma achieves repeatedly. To rank De Palma with Hitchcock may be stretching matters, but he is certainly a director with vision and a distinct style.'Dressed to Kill' would fail totally if not for the strong performance of Angie Dickinson. Dickinson is the center of attention for an entire half-hour and she generates more than enough sympathy to care about what is happening on screen. She is particularly impressive during moments of facial expression and no dialogue, which are moments when De Palma is at his unquestionable best. Michael Caine is the outstanding male lead, playing a seedy role with focus and intensity. Also watch for Dennis Franz's police shtick that carried over to 'Hill Street Blues' and 'NYPD Blue.' Nancy Allen, who was nominated for a Golden Globe and Razzie in the same year (?), gives a strong effort and is quite likable; I just wish her delivery were a little more forceful.The strongest technical element of this film is Pino Donaggio's music. Donaggio's score is breathtaking and one of the few I've heard that can be judged as a self-contained work of art. The music is at times sweepingly romantic, at other times frantic through its chromaticism and impassioned triplets. 'Dressed to Kill' was nicely photographed by Ralf Bode ('Saturday Night Fever,' 'Gorky Park') and Oscar-winning editor Jerry Greenberg ('The French Connection,' 'Apocalypse Now') constructed the film to maximum dramatic effect.While 'Dressed to Kill' has its share of lovers and detractors, MGM Home Entertainment seems to view the film with unusually strong regard. In 2001, MGM released a 'special edition' DVD that no fan of the movie can be without. The film is given widescreen presentation (2.351 aspect ratio) with a choice of enhanced Dolby 5.1 English audio, the original English mono track, and French 'dubbing;' subtitles are provided in French and Spanish. Edited before its U.S. release to avoid an 'X' rating from the MPAA, Dressed to Kill's disc supplies both the theatrical and uncut versions for comparison. Extras include a 45-minute documentary on the film's production; a featurette comparing the uncut, R-rated, and network television versions; a featurette on the censorship and negative reaction faced by De Palma; a photo gallery using Donaggio's music; a gallery of advertising materials; and the theatrical trailer.The film's visuals are generally okay, with strong, distinguishable colors. I am not a fan of audio enhancements when the original track was in mono; for 'Dressed to Kill,' I went straight to its mono option because I wanted to hear the film as it sounded in 1980. For some reason, the film has not been restored completely. There is frequent grain, occasional print damage, and noticeable debris such as hair. The extras, however, make up for these problems. De Palma, his crew, and his cast (without Michael Caine) discuss their experiences, including the director's unpleasant situation with the MPAA and feminist groups. It's disappointing not to hear from Michael Caine, but the disc is in need of little else. Filmways Pictures was heading into extinction by the time 'Dressed to Kill' hit cinema screens, but survived long enough to bring De Palma's cult classic into the world.*** ½ out of 4Roving Reviewer - www.geocities.com/paul_johnr "},{"Title":"American Giallo","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian DePalma's Dressed to Kill is often described as a slasher movie. And that is fair enough. However, I think it more accurately can be labelled a giallo that happened to be made in the U.S. This film clearly owes more of a debt to Italian movies like The Bird with the Crystal Plumage than to the later American slashers like Halloween. Many of the ingredients of the Italian giallo movie are present in this film - the psycho-sexual undertone, the androgynous black leather clad killer, the fluid camera work, the prominent musical score and the mystery element (whereas in slashers we often are fully aware who the maniac is). If Dario Argento had made a movie in America at this time, it might well have looked a lot like Dressed to Kill.Also, similar to the Italian prototype, the film is not strong on narrative or script; some of the dialogue is very clunky indeed. However, this not a movie that is too concerned about such things. Dressed to Kill is, first and foremost, an exercise in cinematic style. DePalma has often been accused of ripping off Alfred Hitchcock and in this movie more-so than most. While the shower scenes that bookend the film are clearly homages to Psycho, DePalma adopts the approach, first advocated by Mario Bava in Blood and Black Lace, of stripping away as much of the story as possible and, instead, focuses even more on cinematic style and violent imagery.DePalma is a master of potent imagery and there are a number of extremely effective set pieces here. The opening and closing shower scenes are both beautifully shot and very sinister indeed. The gallery sequence is masterfully choreographed and expertly shot. And most striking of all, is the elevator sequence, especially where Nancy Allen appears and is witness to the murder; the use of mirrors, closeups of eyes, the flashing blade and slow-motion photography all combine to produce one of the most unsettling but bravura short sequences imaginable. All of these scenes mentioned are also notable for having absolutely no dialogue in them at all. This just re-emphasises the point that this film is not about the writing but about the look and the atmosphere.Don't check this film out if you like water-tight plotting - there are some obvious plot holes here (there is even a bit of a cheat regarding the killer's identity in one of the split screen sequences). Also, keep away if you require good dialogue. However, if you like movies that are frightening, lurid and beautifully shot then Dressed to Kill is a must. It is where exploitation movies and high artistic visual flair collide in a beautiful and bloody fusion. "},{"Title":"Pity Policewoman","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have renamed Dressed to Kill as Angie Dickinson's Very Bad Day. She's got a husband who's a dud in the sack. Her shrink rebuffs her advances. She loses one of her fancy Isotoner gloves in the museum. Gets dissed by a guy who she's cruising in the museum. Loses another of her Isotoner gloves. Runs into the guy on her way out of the museum, who gives her a big O in a cab (Her day is looking up!). Sleeps with the guy all afternoon (Multiple Os!!...this is going to be a good day after all!!)Writes him a nice Thank You note, only to discover that he gave her VD along with all those Os (aw crap)...runs out, only to forget her wedding ring (aw crap, part deux)...turns around only to get slashed to death by a very ugly woman (Bummer)...to make matters worse, the last person she sees while alive is Nancy Allen (Hey, I'm Policewoman! What's this hack doing in my movie!!). And even after death, poor Angie continues to have a bad day as her murder is being investigated by Sipowitz from NYPD Blue in a very bad leisure suit and gold chain.All in all, Angie Dickinson's Very Bad Day is a decent thriller. Stylishly done in parts (the museum and subway scenes are excellent). Feels a little dated, though. It's fairly easy to figure out where this one is headed, but it's an enjoyable ride nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Voyeurism And Obsession With Death","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS AHEADSomeone with a superficial knowledge of the Italian giallo cinema, Hitchcock and De Palma's own movies previous to Dressed To kill will see how all the pieces in the movie add up to create what is an otherwise enjoyable thriller. It's not as bad as I expected it to be upon reading previous comments. It is a movie that owes a lot to the history of cinema, that's for sure, and perhaps a bit to De Palma's persona life - I understand Peter Miller and his recording equipment are based on an episode in De Palma's life which has somewhat transpired a bit into all his films via voyeurism.The plot is a straightforward mystery story about a transsexual psychiatrist who's adopted the persona of &#145;Bobbi' and is murdering female patients for reasons concerning his sexuality.  Michael Caine performs this role with his natural talent. Nancy Allen plays a prostitute who becomes Dr. Elliot's next victim after she witnesses his first murder. Again, Allen also does a good job. And we have Dennis Franz as a rather stereotypical detective, and he's somewhat okay. Unfortunately their performances are restrained due to the screenplay which isn't awe-inspiring. The characters - especially detective Marino - do some illogical thinking and actions in the movie, like forcing Liz to commit illegal things to clear herself out of any suspicion&#133; even though he knows she's innocent. There are convoluted things like this going on throughout the movie.In between the plot De Palma overemphasizes the sex and gory violence in the movie, very seldom feeling necessary. This, I'd assume, is the giallo influence revealing itself. The ending is De Palma emulating Carrie's ending, which feels just a fill-in. And yet there's a scene I love in it a nurse is checking a bed-ridden Dr. Elliot, who wakes up and proceeds to strangle her; then he starts undressing - and this is all happening while above him, in several balconies, an audience watches with glee and applauds. This morbid interest in death is perhaps a reflection of the viewer's own voyeuristic interest in seeing this bloody story being told, which is not unlike Hitchcock's Rear Window. I recently read an internet article about a doctor recently made a public autopsy with an audience present, reminiscent of the old medical sessions where a teacher would cut up a body while his class watched the operation. There is modern interest in watching death, and perhaps for that Dressed To Kill is more relevant today than in 1980 the whole movie reeks with the notion of voyeurism and sensory information and the fascination with death, and perhaps demands from the viewer introspection as to why he wants to see these bloody movies. "},{"Title":"Brian De Palma's masterpiece.(Spoilers)","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Dressed to Kill is surely one of the best horror/thriller movies ever made.It's taut,stylish and extremely suspenseful mixture of sex and violence.The acting is pretty good,the orchestral score by Pino Donaggio is unforgettable and there's plenty of surprises to keep thriller fans intrigued.Dressed to Kill is a murder mystery that involves a sexually frustrated housewife(Angie Dickinson),her teenage son(Keith Gordon),her psychoanalyst(Michael Caine),and a high price call girl(Nancy Allen).The murderer in the film is a transsexual named Bobbi who is also one of Caine's patients.The film is full of breathtaking momentsthe infamous elevator murder scene is extremely stylish and pretty gory as well.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"One of De Palma's best","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  DRESSED TO KILL (1980) *** Michael Caine, Nancy Allen, Keith Gordon, Angie Dickinson, Dennis Franz.  Brian De Palma's continued salute to The Master in this effective blend of terror, sexuality and brutal mind-tripping in this atmospheric Hitchcockian  homage to `Psycho' with brainy nerd Gordon and smarter-than-she looks hooker Allen teaming up to solve the nasty murder of Dickinson (steamy indeed).  Workmanlike filmmaking that many say, and I'm hard to press, De Palma's masterpiece.    "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  `Dressed to Kill' was an OK movie.  The camera work was inventive and the story, though derived from `Psycho', was enough to hold your interest.  Angie Dickinson was good as the frustrated wife.  Her body double should have been a bit older.  I watched the unrated version on DVD and didn't really see the big deal about the censored version.   The only information gleaned from the unrated version was that razors cut and that the cuffs and collar matched.  Big deal.   Michael Caine did a competent job and Dennis Franz did his New York crude cop routine.  Nancy Allen was OK.  She won't win a best actress award but she is attractive and has an appeal. "}{"Title":"Better than Psycho- much better.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well,   there are some similarities between Psycho and Dressed To Kill but the scenes,   dialogue,  characters, music,  but the feel is almost completely different.  The characters do not act the same,  they do not encounter the same scenes or scenarios,   the music is more beautifully graceful with a score written by Pino Donnagio opposed to the much more aggressive scores by Bernard Hermann.  I am sure people can dig for similiarities but Psycho is extemely different than this film-except when the police sum up the crime.   The movie does contain two shower scenes but who ever made it official that every single time someone is taking a shower they are ripping it from Psycho--that's like saying everytime someone has sex or work in a kitchen or telephone booth they are copying it from a different place.    When I watched the opening shower scene and Angie Dickinson was washing herself--the film looked much more like it was Sissy Spacek taking a shower from Depalma's Carrie--not Hitchcock's Psycho. Another viewer wrote that the two shower scenes were pointless because they are just dream sequences--but dreams create imagery about the characters inner feelings,  fears,  thoughts,  and desires regarding to their real lives--and the scenes add suspense.  I watched the un-rated version and the main reason why it is unrated is because it shows Angie very naked in the beginning- everything else in the film is fine for an R rating.    Someone commented that gore and violence is like Friday the Thirteeneth when there was actually only one bloody spot,  and that wasn't even really graphic--maybe Psycho and this do have something in common because both seem to lie incredibly on suspense--at least this film got it right.  Some of the cinematography such as the museum sequence was excellently handled and Nancy Allen is funny,   sexy,  and really easy to like.  A split scene was used for no particular reason just to overwhelm the viewer into trying to listen to two conversations at once--  it seemes like Depalma added it just to experiment where in Carrie he used it to maximun advantage of horror.    Some really sexy and chilling scenes are when Nancy Allen is naked talking to the doctor trying to get his journal where lush strings create a mood of daring desire and a chase sequence where Nancy is running from subway guys and Bobbi.  Great acting overall and the music, cinematography, and mood was perfect for a movie that i'd consider a sexual thriller(not horror).    "},{"Title":"A Hollywood giallo Argento would be proud of!","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" DRESSED TO KILL, despite a rather superficial reputation, turns out to be considerably more complex than it's generally given credit for and it's obvious Brian De Palma enjoyed expressing an unabashed admiration for Alfred Hitchcock and, apparently, Dario Argento. If The Master Of Suspense had made a giallo, it would be very similar to this delirious fever dream and the movie owes as much to the Italian horror movie sub-genre as it does to PSYCHO. The trope they share (the vivid colors, the sex, the gender confusion, the set piece slaying, the evocative score, the quirky characters, the shocking off-the-wall solution to the crime) make the connection unmistakable and a few particulars bring it home. For instance, Angie Dickinson's white-on-white look (cotton-candy bubble blonde hair, white clingy dress with matching coat, gloves, and shoes) can be found in Mario Bava's BAY OF BLOOD and a savage straight-razor murder in the elevator of a high-rise apartment building by a monster in sunglasses, floppy hat, trenchcoat, and leather gloves also takes place in Argento's THE BIRD WITH THE CRYSTAL PLUMAGE. De Palma's stylish (a trait often associated with good gialli) 'psycho'-sexual thriller opens with an erotic dream and ends in a nightmare of similar ilk -and in-between nothing's what it seems. Duality aboundsThe respectability of an upper-class house-wife's life hides a cat in heat while the oldest profession is just a front for a naked capitalist but the kind, caring Kate and the hooker with a heart of gold, good women both, are up against a twisted inversion of their outward selves a psychiatrist (a fiendish Michael Caine) who's a man on the outside and a woman on the inside, a professional in a position of power who's supposed to help -not hurt- his patients. Then there's Kate's son- in the beginning he's a computer geek, a nerd, but at the end of the day he's the fearless hero, solving his mom's murder and saving the hooker while the cop who appears to be an appallingly wrong-headed boor is actually anything but, knowing a lot more than he let on. De Palma's oneiric opus compares favorably to PSYCHO in at least one respect -it has a character the audience comes to care a lot about in a very short period of time. Like Janet Leigh's Marion Crane, Angie Dickinson's Kate dominates the first half hour and their pursuit of happiness opens a Pandora's Box that causes a sexual psychopath to run amok. Kate's affluent life-style is riddled with loneliness and lack of fulfillment and a mid-life crisis sets the chain reaction of murder and madness in motion. The seductive pick-up sequence in NYC's Museum of Modern Art is one of the most pantingly romantic prowling sequences, ever. With a near-swelling musical score replacing the spoken word, Kate's emotions are conveyed on her face and in her expressive brown eyes hesitancy, hope, fragile bravado, and finally wistful resignation. The sexual satisfaction, when it finally happens, is immediately followed by sobering shock, guilt, and regret that spiral out of control and with a final agonized scream, Kate's life ends in one of the most vicious sex murders ever seen in a mainstream thriller (similar to Marion Crane's in PSYCHO). The superb Angie Dickinson has only a brief half-line of dialogue (as she's pulled into the cab) during the final twenty minutes she's on screen except for one orgasmic cry of ecstasy that rises to blend with mid-town Manhattan's blaring traffic and her name is only spoken once (during the investigation) -she's referred to mostly as 'Mom' by her teen-age son. Having seen hope and sadness in her eyes and insecurity and vulnerability flicker across her face -and later, sheer terror- it's easy to feel as heart-broken as her son was sitting outside the detective's office when she's murdered. There's many who think Brian De Palma's masterful multiple homage is merely a derivative doppelganger but who cares? It's an unforgettable Hollywood Giallo and I give it a 10/10! "},{"Title":"Sex and Danger","Date":"6 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Most people criticize DePalma's movies as simple vapid, sensationalistic trash with a highly developed cinematic sense. Few acknowledge, judgment in depth aside, what makes him truly worthwhile in the field of celluloid. Not only proves DePalma, in most of his films, to be an entertainer with a penchant for extreme violence, voyeuristic sexual overtones and enough baroque camp, but also a virtuosic master that out-Hitchcocks Hitchcock in the use of vicious audience manipulation for the sake of thrills, dread and edgy eroticism. His 1982 thriller ''Dressed to Kill'' is a visually entrancing and highly entertaining foray into spiky territory the urban aura of deviance and perversion that jeopardize women as they follow their innocent, hermetic sexual desires.The first act of ''Dressed to Kill'' reads like a lavish and genuinely eerie Freudian nightmare, set against a silently menacing and sexually dynamic Big Apple. The film follows a day in the life of Kate Miller, this film's Marion Crane, a candent and well-kept housewife who is reaching a middle-life crisis and has the nagging conviction that there must be better sex out there. One sunny Manhattan morning to be spent in errands, she goes to the modern art museum with the hope that the visit will accompany in her aroused state of mind. One of the most perfect and stylish in the history of suspense, the museum sequence is a masterstroke of ascending sexual tension, distilled in subtle, sweeping gestures. It begins spatially unsettling, almost Antonioni-like, as our subject sits silently on a bench, almost crushed by the pressing stillness of the room as she gauges placidly at the paintings and the accompanied observers. That's until she notices a stranger in shades that exudes an eminent air of attraction and sexual advancement, and the scene takes a heart-thumping turn. The cat-and-mouse chase between Kate and the stranger, played against Pino Donaggio's lush score, is a masterpiece of staccato, deliberate pacing, breathtakingly orchestrated by DePalma's clinical, taut use of cinematography. One can almost feel Kate's excitement and horror at her new intrepidity and her internal tug-of-war as she searches the maze-like museum for signs of the elusive man. Her chic gloves become the ultimate ticket to an arousing yet lethal reality that takes her a bit too far from the repression and insecurity she has been feeling all this time.The brilliantly luring, suggestive first act and its set of perfectly choreographed scenes, filled with delicate visual technique that only accentuate the feeling of trepidation and a gory, misogynistic scene that still retains its visceral elegance, gives into a second act that plays like a typically svelte, agile-paced whodunit. DePalma's muse Nancy Allen is brilliantly effortless as Liz Blake, witness and prime supect and a frivolous, easygoing call girl with a street-smart sense of humor who is the opposite of Kate Miller,seeing sex as a mere transaction and being effortlessly adapted and knowing of the deviance and violence that lies within the big city. She makes a generation-gaping and curiously endearing team with Peter (Keith Gordon), Kate's science whiz son, who helps her lead their own investigation into the identity of the transsexual who brutally murdered Kate. Again De Palma seems to better Hitchcock in the handling of suspense scenes that avoid the typically weighty, macabre execution proper to some giallos, to focus on an urban dynamism that is more rousing than menacing, and that adds a sprightly, gossamer feel that in scenes like the subway one, proves to be also thrilling and masterfully effective.The killer is not the stereotypical lurker but an easily noticeable one, making him have a proximity to the audience that has more the vertiginous feel of an ongoing chase than the unexpected assault of the masked murdered. Although undoubtedly the film develops into something more vi brant, Brian de Palma's neo-Hitchcockian vanguard never loses its guard,using numerous split screens, mirror reflections and other voyeuristic tricks to install an intoxicating sense of danger in the gliding life of Liz. The identity of the killer, although not that surprising, is supervised with expert precision by DePalma, only letting the vague assumptions culminate in a final resolution that is a staggering proof of his technical virtuoso. Began as a hypnotic spellbinder of a first act and continued as a whimsical action thriller of a second one, the film's true nucleus resides, however, in the first half. Kate's sadomasochistic dream in the film's very beginning plays like a romantic reminder that even the most forbidden, dangerous and arousing of sexual fantasies and desires have a greater vulnerability amongst the shiny surfaces of New York City, and its corners filled with psychos, degenerates and unprotected men. Her fatal mistake was not only to trust too much in the men around her but of believing she would find the mysterious, sadistic hunk of her dream somewhere in the journey. Ultimately that idealized hunk is in reality someone that resides in the much sordid, confounded level of sexuality and whose murdering instinct not only fulfilled Kate's fantasy but ultimately, as the final scene proves, touched another woman who thought she was shielded from the danger of sex. "},{"Title":"An incredible thrill ride","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What do you get if you mix equal parts Alfred Hitchcock with Dario Argento? Answer Brian De Palma's Dressed to Kill. I suppose you could categorize Dressed to Kill as an American giallo. This is one of those movies that would be difficult to discuss the plot without ruining a good portion of the movie, so I won't even try. If you really must know more about the plot, read it here http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0080661/- I had not seen Dressed to Kill in about 20 years. I had completely forgotten what an effective movie it is. Several particular moments stand out. The first is the art gallery scene. It's basically a long drawn-out game of cat and mouse. Angie Dickinson is at first pursued and later pursues an unknown man. The way De Palma takes the camera around the twists and turns inside the gallery with only the briefest of glimpses of the mystery man is very effective at building tension. It is amazing that he is able to build this tension and then just let it go without the expected payoff.- The second scene that I find particularly well done is the famous elevator scene. Unlike the art gallery, there is very little in the way of build up. An elevator door opens and ...well you know what happens. The brutality on display in this scene rivals that of the best Italian giallo. The elevator scene was heavily influenced by Hitchcock's Psycho. And, the Hitchcock influence goes beyond the actual murder. It includes the whole idea of killing off your star within the first third of the movie. It must have taken real guts to tell the studio that now that you've hired Angie Dickinson as the star, you're killing her off before the movie is half over.- The third scene that I'll discuss (or not discuss) is the finale in the doctor's office. As I stated at the beginning, I don't want to give away too much of the movie. It is all but impossible to discuss this particular scene without doing just that. I'll just say that it's a joy to watch as De Palma plays tricks on the viewer. Not cheap tricks, but tricks that fit within the story.- The only real negatives to the movie are the scenes that take place immediately after the doctor's office finale. The need to explain everything in the finest detail is not necessary. Any viewer with an IQ of the average houseplant already knows what happened. These scenes just feel tacked on and hurt the overall flow of the movie. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In short, Dressed to Kill is a masterpiece of modern horror.  People complain that it pays too much homage to Alfred Hitchcock, and sure the idea of the killer dressing up in women's clothing is like Psycho's Norman Bates.  Nonetheless, when you are watching Brian De Palma's Dressed to Kill, you hardly seem to care.  It's absolutely terrifying, and it's fun!  One suprise after another until, wham-bam special!  The suprises turn into shocks!  The ending is absolutely terrifying, because it suggests the possibility that the victim's ordeal with the killer may not be over yet.  Very ambiguous, and a touch of genius!  I have seen all those psycho-killer flicks before, about a man stalking a woman, or the other way around.  I knew all that, and I knew that Dressed to Kill wasn't going to have anything new.  Yet it's so Goddamn scary, that the old-stalker plotline doesn't seem boring or old anymore.  I tried to do my homework after watching it, but it was just too much for me.  I had to get some air and take my mind off of it.  It would be cool to see this on the big screen.  The split-screen segments and beautiful camerawork can only be appreciated on the big wide screen.  So if you are walking around in the video store, and you come across Dressed to Kill, don't think.  Just pick it up, rent it, and have a blast!     "},{"Title":"Taut Suspenseful Masterpiece From Brian De Palma With Amazing Performances All Around!","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a taut suspenseful masterpiece from Brian De Palmawith amazing performances all around!. It's extremely suspenseful, and often scary, and the score is fantastic, plus all the characters were awesome. Yes it rips off Psycho a lot, however it's still a brilliantly made horror/thriller, with a fantastic opening and a shocking and unpredictable finale!. This is unquestionably one of the best horror/thrillers i have ever seen, and the elevator scene is one of the most memorable scenes ever, plus Michael Caine is simply amazing in this!. The ending is excellent, and the hospital scene near the end is absolutely terrifying, plus the end twist shocked the hell out of me!. It never failed to creep me out, and the stalk sequences are absolutely brilliant, plus Nancy Allen and Keith Gordon had fantastic chemistry together!. This is a taut suspenseful masterpiece from Brian De Palma, with amazing performances all around!. The Direction is Incredible!. Brian De Palma does an incredible job here, with Amazing camera work, incredible angles, fantastic use of colors, awesome zoom in's and zoom out's great POV shots and keeping the film at a very very fast pace!. There is a bit of blood. We get bloody stabbings, knifing's, bloody gunshot wounds,and 2 bloody slit throats.The Acting is amazing!. Michael Caine is AMAZING here, he is amazing in the acting department, creepy, is very likable, was mysterious, and really just did an amazing job overall i Loved him! (Caine Rules!). Angie Dickinson gives a memorable performance here, and was quite beautiful, and had good chemistry with Caine. Nancy Allen is STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS!, and is fantastic here, she is extremely likable as the hooker, had excellent chemistry with Keith Gordon, and put on a tremendous show!. Keith Gordon is very good as the kid, he had excellent chemistry with Nancy Allen, and was very likable!. Dennis Franz is good as the detective. Overall this is unquestionably one of the best horror films ever made, and i say drop what your doing immediately and go see it!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"masterclass in making thrillers","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Michael Caine is a psychiatrist. One of his patients is not satisfied with her married life and feels that her husband is not very concerned for her, sexually. She hooks up with a stranger in a museum(beautiful scene,only music no dialogues) and then is murdered by a mysterious blonde woman. Thus begins this absorbing and gripping thriller by the erstwhile master of suspense, Brian De Palma. Caine has a short but effective role. The story is pretty good and reminds you of the Argento thrillers of the 70s and early 80s. Palma maintains tension and delivers thrills till the last frame. There is surprisingly a very high degree of nudity and expletives in the movie considering that it was made in 1980(was X rated then). Thriller fans should definitely check it out. 3.5 out of 5 for this. "},{"Title":"Angie Dickinson in a slasher movie!","Date":"15 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a glorious thriller, centred on Angie Dickinson - at least to begin with - a woman bored and frustrated by a largely dull marriage. She fantasises in the shower while watching her husband get ready for work, then recounts her problems to her psychiatrist.On visiting her psychiatrist (Michael Caine), who encourages her to give voice to her feelings, she ends up in an art gallery. Making eye contact with a man who sits next to her, she ends up following him round the gallery, before then being pursued by him. None of this is particularly relevant to the plot, yet oddly enough, is in fact far more compelling than the plot. There are numerous close-ups; Angie looking surprised, Angie looking shocked etc.It's all very glossily done, and very entertaining. But when she emerges outdoors everything turns, very briefly, into a sort of sex comedy.Lured into a waiting taxi by her mystery man, she duly gives in to his advances. For Dickinson, very nearly fifty, the scene is one which will have you either laughing or groaning. Losing her panties, she ends up on the floor of the taxi, hard at it while in full view of the cab driver. As her mystery man brings her to a fast and furious climax, she ends up having an orgasm so loud it drowns out the car horns in the traffic. It's a hoot.Later, in the man's apartment she wakes up and decides to make a quick exit while she can. But while dashing about stark naked, she can't find her panties (they are still in the taxi) before she then remembers she's left her wedding ring in her lover's bed (Whoops!). To top it all, she then finds out her mystery man may be carrying VD.As the film lurches into violent murder, which dominates the second half of the picture, the characters, as watchable as they are, simply fail to convince as much as Dickinson's. This dizzy blonde, eager to put some passion into her life, and then suddenly stunned at the price of her actions, is both compelling, funny, sexy, and totally sympathetic.For an actress about to hit fifty, I was intrigued as to why Angie Dickinson took the role. But then this is Hollywood. She was clearly ready to do the nudity - even going full frontal - and though the film does not quite match her talents, there is enough on show here (if you pardon the pun) to satisfy fans of both the slasher genre and those leaning to an earlier era of crime. "},{"Title":"Brian De Palma's Psycho","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma has often been cited as 'the new Hitchcock' and 'the Ultimate Master of Suspense'. Although I don't like to compare his films to Hitchcock, this is a direct homage (or some might say, rip-off) to Hitchcock's classics, specially - Psycho. As a matter of fact, Dressed to Kill can be seen as a modern update on that film, set in 1980's New York filled with Dario Argento overtones and an overall gialli feel, and it actually succeeds! Dressed to Kill is such a fascinating film, and works on every level. The story, the visuals, the score (by the great DePalma regular Pino Donnagio), nice kills and gore (the elevator murder scene is one of the classic moments of the horror and thriller genres) and the pace is very good. The film never gets boring, always keeping you on the edge of your seat. The use of black humor is a great addition to the film as well. Another thing that I like is how uneven the main characters are a adulterous middle aged housewife (in many ways, a parody of Janet Leigh's Marion Crane from Psycho), a nerdy teen and a prostitute. They are all very well developed, and just because they are so unusual, we sympatize with them a lot. It was a wise move from DePalma. Overall, although it is not my favorite DePalma film (my favorite would be the criminally underrated Phantom of the Paradise), Dressed to Kill is an excellent film. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Well done with a very good puzzling ending","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A great classic in the genre of the compulsive killer. It is well done though definitely easy. In many ways it is a remake of Hitchcock's Psycho, yet it is pure New York and it has some kind of a flavor, that of the modern cop-film. The cop is both arrogant and negligent and he runs risks via other people. He goes to a football game or some sports event with his children while someone is running the risk of being killed, and he knows it. So we have the inventiveness of a teenager and the tenacity of a hooker and they both manage to find the killer and even more or less trap him, though they could have been killed in doing so. The final touch though, the punch line of the film is a real twist in the fabric of logical thrilling. And what about having had it wrong all along? Entertaining indeed.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "}{"Title":"Classy Hitchcockian homage","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Intriguing psycho-sexual thriller allows director Brian DePalma to combine all of his obsessions (sex, Hitchcock, violence) into one nifty package making this his most fully realized film outside of The Untouchables. Film opens with a sexual fever dream from frustrated suburban housewife Angie Dickinson, who jumps at a chance encounter with a stranger in an effort to escape her stifling marriage and ends up causing all hell to break loose. Without ruining anything, there is a shocking murder and various characters find themselves inadvertently thrown into the mix, including sexy high-class prostitute Nancy Allen, aloof psychiatrist Michael Caine and geeky computer expert Keith Gordon. In truth, the identity of the killer is easy enough to figure and the storyline is relatively conventional. However, DePalma's magnifies the suspense with various Hitchcock-ian devices and cinematic tricks. He once again utilizes the dream imagery done so well at the climax of Carrie and split screens to showcase the actions of two separate characters at the same time. Pino Donaggio's hypnotic score adds to the atmosphere and DePalma's set-up in the museum between Dickinson and her future paramour is superbly choreographed. Highlights include the elevator attack and the train chase. Caine is relatively underused here, but Dickinson makes a strong impression as the bored housewife, Allen makes a lively and resourceful damsel in distress and Gordon is a winning foil. Also interesting to see Dennis Franz as a loud-mouthed NYC cop years prior to his break-out role on NYPD Blue. A bloody, suspenseful, and classy treat, where one actually does not feel cheated by DePalma's trademark manipulations. "},{"Title":"Museum Sequence is Awesome; Puns abound in Film!","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS ALERT***For all its sleaze, Dressed to Kill is one heck of a fascinating film, and De Palma pulled out all the stops.The museum sequence is one of my favorite passages in any film ever made. It ends with a hot taxi ride, but not before we see almost subliminal shots of the killer in the black trench coat outside the museum and who takes the second glove in extreme close-up when Kate gives up too soon the game. But let's rewindAs best as I recall Kate Miller (Angie D.) walks around the NYC/Philadelphia museum dressed all in white, then sits to stare at the huge canvases in one room while getting ideas (nuts from Reclining Nude, for example) for her shopping list. A little girl inches away from her parents and tries to run off and play, business as usual in an art museum.Then a man dressed all in black with sunglasses sits down next to Kate and that wonderful Pino Donaggio music begins, cellos cascading in unison, almost lamentingly so.De Palma wanted to do the gay underworld film, Cruising (which Friedken got), but this is one heck of a cruising sequence between a man and a woman! Kate is fidgety, turned on, sexually frustrated by her lackluster second husband, but she removes a glove and flashes her big diamond. The guy gets up and leaves, but then she gets up and swivels on her heels and unknowingly drops the glove to follow him. Not one word is ever spoken in this sequence.The mazelike camera work here is superb, very much as Alfred Hitchcock, with the many POV shots sliced between Kate's puzzled face and she tries to catch up with the man she now desires. The music is swirling and pounding and quite loud as Kate goes back to the first room to retrieve her lost glove. But it is gone! And so is the mysterious man, as Kate shrugs with great disappointment and the music ends on a large chord. I never tire of this scene.Outside, waiting for her, is her stranger waving her lost glove, beckoning her to join him for that cab ride!Another pointThe man's apartment is stylish but filled with omens the news magazine cover with a political cartoon and the words Teddy Chips Away; the canvas in the dim bedroom with its grotesquerie skull; the digital clock warning us that time is running out; Kate's pulling on her gold bracelets again, her chains, as it were, as her anonymous lover sleeps, who she will discover in a few moments in another, almost ear-splitting sequence, is hiding a secret in his drawers. Yes, puns abound in the film.And how awful for Kate when she enters the elevator, as guilt wells up in her from the staring girl, that she's forgotten her wedding ring at the man's apartment. Now Liz Blake (Nancy Allen, De Palma's wife) intersects with the story as does the killer, who has followed Kate, and lurks in a red-lit stairwell behind the door. The music will certainly change dramatically!Yes, it's sleazier than masterpiece Psycho but a satisfying film regardless. On US television, the film was edited, of course, and the horrifying murder is tempered by a red filter. "},{"Title":"DTK is in my top ten movies!","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed to Kill is one of my favorite movies. It is also in my top 3 Depalma films ever. This is extremely suspenseful but is also very stylish. The cinematography is amazing with scenes like Dickinson in the art gallery. Here's the plot Angie Dickinson is in New York with her son played by Keith Gordan. She goes to her psychiatrist played by Michael Caine (who is a convincing shrink) She has sexual problems and tells him about them. After she is done with the meet she goes to an art gallery and hooks with a guy she likes. As they leave you can see a figure in a crowd of people in a black trench coat and sunglasses. At his place they sleep together but when she leaves she looks at his files and she realizes in horror he has a venereal disease! This scene takes you by shock and takes you full extent. She gets to an elevator and soon when the doors open the woman in the coat slashes her with a razor. She is in dread but she is trapped and the killer has forced her in. She slashes Dickinson across her torso and hands and face and the razor slits her throat.Nancy Allen is waiting for the elevator with a client and when it opens he sprints off in shock. But Allen goes to help Dickinson who is reaching for Allen. You see the killer in right by the doors. This is my favorite scene in the movie as you can see the killer and know that Allen is risking her life but you can't do anything to help. She can see the razor flash and pulls away seeing the figure in the mirror of the machine. The doors close and Nancy Allen grabs the razor that had been left. But now the killer gets a new victim to eliminate. After this the police suspect Allen but Dickinsons son investigates the killing and is able to save Allen when the razor wielding villain attacks her at a subway. Together they get a plan and suspect Caine. Allen seduces Caine and he leaves. She looks for Gordan outside the window but then the killer in the coat returns and tries to kill Allen but she is shot and the sunglasses and wig leave the body to reveal that Caine is the slaughterer! This is a perfect movie in my beliefs and I highly recommend this mystery horror! "},{"Title":"Dressed to impress","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I agree with one of the other users who stated that Hitchcock's Psycho had already been remade, much earlier than Van Sant's ill-advised 1998 effort - and yes, it was entitled Dressed To Kill. Here we have De Palma at his most affectionate - or audacious, depending on your viewpoint - take on Hitchcock, reselecting, reshuffling and repolishing most of the latter's trade tricks to considerable effect, a clear sign that what audience wanted was now exactly what it was going to get. The end result is uneven but hardly without it's own merit compare, for argument's sake, the two blatantly related sequences in the two films, the bathroom stabbing of Janet Leigh and the elevator slashing of Angie Dickinson - although humbly derivative, the latter works equally as well if not better, wisely split in several parts, its perverse time elongation elegantly adding to the intensity of terror (we can see Bobbi at work in much more gratuitous detail than Mrs Bates, and she really goes for it, revelling appallingly as she slashes away) - all this achieved by means of clever editing, use of slow motion, nifty camera work and good application of music - and all of which admittedly may seem a bit dated to a younger viewer. On top of that, the museum chase sequence - only in broadest of terms lifted from Vertigo - has a life, visual language and some languid, desperate beauty of it's own. Elsewhere, the film is littered by clever details, sometimes too subtle to notice first time around - for instance, Mama Dickinson is really being tailed by Bobbi, and Bobbi can indeed be seen following her on the edge of vision - outside the museum as well as in the taxi behind. The gawping little girl in the lift is an emotionally subtle moment, as is Kate Miller's initial light-hearted word play with her son (confidently brought to life by Keith Gordon). There's memorable one-liners too (What kind of a building IS that? Everyone's getting laid after lunch! - snaps Dennis Franz). However, there are also scenes in the film that are quite simply wrong - no self respecting black street thug would be listening to the sort of music heard on the ghetto blaster in the subway sequence - almost a factual mistake, even in 1980. And no other director would be so willing to flaunt his own wife's private bits on screen - but then that's De Palma for you - a Mr De Fetish to the proceedings. Personally, I've no problem with that, as Nancy Allen is good in this, half naked or not - in contrast to Michael Caine's inexplicably absent-minded performance - was John Lithgow unavailable at the time? Pino Donaggio's sub-Morricone music score is largely adequate but within the confines of its regular uneven self, while other aspects of production live up to expectations, technically at least if perhaps not pushing the envelope artistically. Oh, and that strangled nurse must have had some really big feet, for Michael Caine to be supposedly able to slide into her shoes for the film's unnecessarily drawn-out coda. At least Norman Bates wore his own. But hey, Brian, we forgive you. We love ya, really, as much as you love Sir Hitch. And Coppola. and, erm, Argento. And Polanski. And Antonioni. And others.... "},{"Title":"A Decent Thriller!","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" My favorite scene is Angie Dickinson's character in the film being murdered. It was strange maybe that is why I liked it not to sound morbid or bizarre but it was one of the most interesting and unforgettable scenes. They have stellar cast including Sir Michael Caine, Keith Gordon, Nancy Allen who was married to director Brian De Palma, Dennis Franz, and of course, Angie Dickinson. The writing could have been better but the acting was stellar. There are enough twists and turns to make you watch this film until it's conclusion. By the end, you want more too. I loved Keith Gordon and had a crush on him since I saw him in Christine. Anyway, the film is overall good not excellent but worth watching during the Halloween season. In fact, if you watch it with those election commercials, you wonder what is more frightening? the commercials or the film. If you say the commercials, well you are probably right because nothing is more frightening than political commercials during a horror festival of films. "},{"Title":"De Palma Steps in to a New Decade","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In this film Brian De Palma shows that he is ready to move forward with his film-making and grow into a legend and not just a go to guy like he was in the 70's and late 60's. This is his only horror effort of the decade and his next to last that he has done of this writing, the last one being 1992's Raising Cain. I am somewhat glad De Palma left the horror field behind as it did not really suit his visual style. I love Carrie, and Phantom of the Paridse, but see The Fury as a mess and 1973's Sisters as a travesty of wasted film. De Palma's skills are more well suited for action and dramatic suspense, not Horror suspense. This is not to say that I do not love the horror genre, believe me I do, I just find that Brian De Palma has fared much better with his action and personal stories better than the horror. Dressed to Kill, is a good movie that falls somewhere between the greatness of Carrie and the dullness of The Fury. In parts of Dressed to Kill like when Angie Dickenson finds that she may have contracted an STD and all the suspense that surrounds that and what leads up to her death are all good scenes. Some of the Kieth David stuff is intriguing but I find him not to be a very good actor and am glad he is pretty much gone from the scene now. The only good performance he ever gave was in Jaws II and look how little he does in that film. He is better as a sidekick and not a star. Nancy Allen is wonderful and hot as always. This is during the prime of her career and when she was married to De Palma and could still generate good jobs. That all ended after her turn in the Robocop series. Michael Cain is superb as always in this film. It's nice to see him as the villain for a change and not as the old British dude that turns up in every film now to give it integrity, even if the film does not deserve his talents. De Palma him self does a good job on this getting past the crap fest that was The Fury and tries to bring a faster pace to this one. He sorta succeeds. His next effort Blow Out would be a worse movie than this, but 1983's Scarface the follow up to that would ultimately be one of De Palma's best. I feel he learned how to please 80's audience with the fastness of this film and somewhat good story of Blow Out combined with a drug scenario and made Scarface the crowning achievement it is. Watch Dressed to Kill to see a master grow, Nacy Allen, and a nice turn by Michael Cain. "},{"Title":"Longer on technique than story","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" De Palma's technique had hit its high maturity by the time of this film, which is a wonderful showcase of his classic techniques, though unfortunately, as with many of the films written by De Palma himself, the story serves the meta more than the interests of putting forth an emotionally compelling tale. The story opens with a CRAZY scene in which Angie Dickinson masturbates in a shower while she looks at her husband. She is then grabbed and raped while he husband stands obliviously near&#151;-and the whole thing is revealed to be Angie's fantasy as he husband is pumping mindlessly away at her in bed. She has a short scene with her son, a dead ringer for Harry Potter, which concludes with a joke that she'll tell grandma that he is playing with his peter. She then goes to her therapy session, where she complains about her dead marriage, before attempting to seduce her therapist, Michael Caine. He refuses, and she is hurt and feeling unattractive and unfulfilled.Then begins a bravura 22-minute nearly wordless sequence that is perhaps the highlight of the film. Among the many things De Palma gleaned from Hitchcock is the understanding of film as a purely visual medium of telling stories&#133; and in typical De Palma fashion, he turns this into a way to show off his formidable skill. The problem, for me, is that in this instance one begins to feel that scenes are being needlessly protracted simply to further show off the director's skill. The sequence begins with Angie at an art museum. She watches strangers, all involved in sexual or family activities, then begins to get turned on to a man sitting next to her. De Palma very skillfully tells an extremely complicated narrative without a single word about Angie's attraction, embarrassment, retreating, and finally finding and submitting to the stranger in the back of a taxi cab, all set to a wonderfully lush score by Pino Donaggio, who also scored Carrie.In the second part of the sequence Angie has slept with the guy, and gets up to return to her husband. Again De Palma crams a ton of narrative in without a word of dialogue uttered, as Angie realizes that she doesn't have her panties, that her husband is already home and no doubt wondering where she is, that she has probably contracted a venereal disease, and that she has lost her engagement ring somewhere in the shuffle. It's all very admirable, but one begins to feel a little strung along as we are forced to do things like take a long elevator ride down from the seventh floor, then up again, almost in real time....Spoilers from here on out! When Angie reaches the seventh floor again, she is killed by a big woman with blond hair. The woman hacks away at her until she reaches the ground floor, when the door opens and Nancy Allen sees her there. There is a wonderful slow-motion sequence as Nancy reaches into the elevator, Angie reaches up toward her, and the killer's blade is held poised to slash Nancy's hands. Then follow some electrifying shots as Nancy looks up and sees the killer in the elevators convex mirror. It's all good, and by the time we have some dialogue again, you think; Woah, that was just 22 straight minutes of purely visual narrative! Or maybe you don't, but I do.A younger Dennis Franz has a great part as a sleazy and tough New York detective who would rather that everyone else do his work for him. He Interviews Michael Caine, making the outrageous implication (though it passes as commonplace) that Angie WANTED to be killed. Angie's son is there as well, and he hooks up with Nancy, and they set about to spy on Caine's therapist and find out who the killer is.Once again there is a strong tie to a Hitchcock film, in this case Psycho (just as Obsession is a re-working of Vertigo). You have a woman who we are supposed to understand is secretly a slut, who gets killed in the first 30 minutes in an enclosed space, in this case an elevator rather than a shower. Then the relatives of the deceased conduct an investigation, which reveals that the killer is a man who dresses as a woman to kill. De Palma even throws in a doctor at the end who explains the psychology of the whole thing. It is very interesting, but at the same time a viewer can begin to feel a bit jerked around, and that is my primary reservation about this film. It is definitely essential viewing and showcases some of De Palma's greatest setpieces, but that feeling that the story is running a solid third behind the need for De Palma to show off and his somewhat unseemly sexual fantasies makes it hard to look back on this one with whole-hearted affection.--- Check out other reviews on my website of bad and cheesy movies, Cinema de Merde, cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"A Cautionary Thriller","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Much has been said about this movie as a homage (or slick rip-off) of Hitchcock's Psycho.  Basically DePalma changes the various plot devices and set pieces in that classic (although the film has two shower scenes, the big murder occurs in an elevator), ups the ante in the violence, sex and perverseness categories, and drops a whodunit plot into the mix.  POSSIBLE SPOILER  I found it to be more of a cautionary tale, as Marion Crane in this movie is not a troubled woman who rips off her bank, but a middle-aged, seemingly happily married, successful but sexually frustrated woman who flirts with her psychiatrist, tries to pick up a complete stranger at a New York museum, makes out with him in the backseat of a taxi (this is set in New York, after all) and winds up in his apartment.  Is she asking for it in the elevator?  You have to remember the film came out in 1980, four years before AIDS made the headlines.  It came out the same year as Cruising, another New York set thriller that would probably have a hard time finding an audience today.  In a way, these two films make a good double feature. Seen today, Dressed to Kill has its moments (including a bravura sequence set on a subway--years before DePalma would master train and train-station set pieces in The Untouchables and Carlito's Way).  Angie Dickinson does a wonderful job.  Unfortunately I can't say the same for Nancy Allen, who DePalma employed in several films (she had the luck of being married to the man), but was better as a tough cop in RoboCop vs. scared, wise-cracking hooker in this film.  Michael Caine also just seems to be going through the motions.  The music is haunting, and all in all it's a tight, slick thriller, that frequently asks the audience to suspend their disbelief.  The second in DePalma's non-consecutive series of Hitchcock tributes (and I'll call them tributes over rip-offs).   "},{"Title":"Decent thriller","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER!!!! I've never quite understood why Angie Dickenson's name appears so prominently as a star in this film. She gets herself murdered pretty early in the film and thus isn't really a factor in the film. This is a pretty good one though, a thriller about finding her murderer before he/she strikes again at the lone witness. Michael Caine also stars along with a young Dennis Franz. Altogether and enjoyable film that should keep your interest all the way through to the end. "},{"Title":"De Palma Keeps You Jumping and Off Guard","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is an excellent thriller featuring Michael Cane, Nancy Allen, a young Keith Gordon, and a very steamy performance by Angie Dickinson (with the assistance of a body double).  The movie has many intense moments create via the use of camera angles, music scores, and every day normal props like mirrors, showers, steam, and rain.  This movie doesn't go over the top with blood and gore, but does leave you guessing as to who the murderer is throughout the film.  The misdirection used in the movie is excellent and makes the climax of the film that much better.  Its an excellent movie if you like disturbing thrillers that don't give away the whole movie in the first 30 minutes. "}{"Title":"One of De Palma's Best","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It has been noted by many that Brian De Palma is an unabashed Alfred Hitchcock imitator and certainly this is true. What is not often acknowledged is that he is a pretty good Hitchcock imitator. 	1980's Dressed to Kill is an excellent example of this. Here, the Hitchcock influence is indeed strong. We have not one but two shower scenes. We have the lead female player, (Angie Dickinson), taken out of the story fairly early on. There is wry humor, voyeurism and an almost suffocating tension building up to a violent climax. 	Kate Miller, (Dickinson), is a bored, sexually frustrated middle-aged housewife looking for excitement and meaning in the wrong place with the wrong partner. As she sheepishly leaves the pad of a man she barely knows after an adulterous encounter, she is violently slashed to death on the elevator by a mysterious woman in dark glasses and leather coat. The plot quickly becomes interwoven with De Palma favorites Nancy Allen, (she of the angelic face), as the call girl Liz Blake and Dennis Franz, in a pre- NYPD Blue role, as the sleazy, sarcastic cop Marino. Marino and Liz form an uneasy truce to investigate Dr. Elliott, ably played by Michael Caine, who had been Kate's psychiatrist. Liz also allies herself with Kate's electronic genius son Peter, (Keith Gordon), after he saves her from becoming the slasher's next victim. I do not wish to say anymore about the story except the climax is sudden and not entirely unexpected if you are a student of Hitchcock's work. If you have not seen Dressed to Kill I do not wish to spoil it for you.    	Comments about Brian De Palma  I find his work during this period sort of an interesting cross between Alfred Hitchcock, the acknowledged `Master of Suspense,' and Fellini turned sideways, for most of his films contain a quirkiness that A.H. normally did not offer. His films contained both strong sexual tension plus the mystery and apprehension so common to Hitchcock. (I wonder, had A.H. been active in our more permissive times, would his films have been more sexually explicit?).1984's Body Double is another of his works that comes to mind. Nancy Allen was usually the sweet-faced `bad' girl in De Palma films and the message comes across subtle but clear with her presence, that people and the situations they find themselves in are often not what they seem. Brian De Palma has never been given credit for doing something that is hard to do; that is, putting his own flavor on pictures that are in many ways copycat imitations.  	Most reviewers have not been kind to Dressed to Kill  and that is a pity, for although it is no masterpiece, is interesting to view.  De Palma does what I would do were I film director make a film interesting to the viewer, not necessarily to the so-called expert film reviewers.	Accept this one for what it is; an entertaining suspense story with much of the mood and tone borrowed from somebody greater than the director. None of De Palma's films are true masterpieces and certainly Dressed to Kill is not. View this one after dark with the curtains drawn, perhaps with a glass of wine in hand to steady your nerves.  "},{"Title":"slow at first.","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is kind of slow until the first killing, and then it really picks up.  I have to say that I was pretty hooked, and couldn't call the ending even with the little clues that were thrown in.  The only thing that this film suffers form is some of the corny mugging for the camera during the nude scenes.  Also, the first killing doesn't really hold up as well now, but if you can get past that, this is not a bad way to pass the time. "},{"Title":"I borrowed your razor...","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers!!!!This Brian De Palma thriller was one of the first grown up movies I watched as a child. It scared the heck out of me then, and it still packs a punch today. Both the scary parts and the eroticism (which I didn't understand back then) are very compelling.The story centers around the brutal murder of a housewife by the female personality of her shrink. It seems Dr. Elliott (Caine) is having some type of serious identity crisis. He wishes to become a woman (operation and all) but his male side is still aroused by attractive women. Whenever he becomes aroused by a woman, his feminine side named Bobbi attacks the woman with a straight razor. This is truly an original story. I really wish I would have thought it up first.The movie is beautifully filmed and well acted. The film's atmosphere is it's driving force. Logic kind of takes a back seat to it all. There are plenty of erotic moments, and the musical score will be in your head for quite some time after the movie is over.The only major drawback to this film is the lack of mystery about who Bobbi really is. There are plenty of dead giveaways that she is really Caine in drag. The whole story would have been better served if this would have been kept a secret until the very end. That said, this film still has plenty of suspense to keep your blood pumping.Speaking of keeping your blood pumping, how about the women in this one? We all knew Angie Dickinson was a classic beauty, but who would have thought Nancy Allen looked that good with her clothes off? I suppose De Palma knew since they were married at the time!4 1/2 of 5 starsSo sayeth the Hound.  "},{"Title":"Still great after 20 years","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this film at the cinema when it was first released and having just seen it again on TV 20 years later, I had forgotten what a powerful and great piece of film making this was. From the opening scene panning round the house to the shower with that great haunting music is fantastic and the whole of that now 'infamous' shower scene with Angie Dickinson is pure magic. The film's next great point is what i consider to be one of the best pieces of filmmaking ever - the museum. No dialogue, some music, great camera work and excellent acting from Angie Dickinson without even saying one line. This scene is so clever, it has you on the edge of your seat, willing her to make contact with the mysterious stranger. SPOILERS AHEAD - Then Brian de Palma does something to his audience which quite frankly blew my socks off - he kills off the main character one third into the film. I must admit, watching this again I was taken aback that Angie Dickinson was written out so early, but now realise that this was a master stoke as it is totally unexpected and has more impact than say a stranger getting murdered early on in the film. With Ms Dickinson gone, it's up to Nancy Allen to take over the main female lead. A great actress she is not - but does her best with the script she is given. The film starts to race away with its twist's and turns and when the finale comes and the killer is revealed, we are then treated to one last truly shocking scene. Thoughts of my cinema visit came flooding back with that one last shocker. I would like to point out that in response to so many other comments on this site, I did not for one moment think that this film was a ripoff of Psycho or in fact any other Hitchcock film - you could say that about any slasher thriller. I still think that this film was gravely underated when it was released and can only hope that now (especially with the DVD release) that this will now be seen and appreciated as one of the great films of the early 80's.  "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"     This film is a fascinating mixture of Hitchcockian suspense and 80's splatter film gore. The performances are very good, especially by Nancy Allen, Michael Caine (as always) and Keith Gordon. There is a great deal of suspense, and the final twist is fantastic for its unexpectedness. Also, there are a few scenes which add a bit of welcome soap opera to the film. The only discordant notes are the excessive nudity, but what can one expect. "},{"Title":"Classic slasher suspense from Brian de Palma","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the foundation for movies like Basic Instinct made over a decade before, it stands as a very well thought out, photographed, and acted film. I own the unrated MGM DVD and I can say it is well worth it.  The movie is about discovering the identity of a serial killer who is viciously slaying people.  Nancy Allen stars in one of her few good movies, the others being Robocop and Carrie.  This movie is definitely not for the squemish or those offended by sex and nudity, while the violence are by today's not to graphic, the sexual scenes are still very strong at least in the unrated version they are.Unrated  some graphic violence, very strong sexuality and related dialogue, and for language.  "},{"Title":"A little slow but makes up for it at the end...","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Micheal Caine leads the one of the most spectacular performances in this spectacular thriller from Brian De Palma.Angie Dickinson plays the mother who is killed near the beginning of the film by a man who needs and wants sex change to satisfy himself.The mystery is who is the man dressed as the woman which will keep you guessing right through until the end.The killer is stalking then womans son and the hooker who witnessed the murder.It takes a while to get into but I reccomend that it is worth staying for the epilogue. "},{"Title":"The Next Step Is Surgery...","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Two things took centre-stage upon the initial release of DRESSED  1/ the disturbing poster, featuring an anonymous figure (intentions unknown) about to enter a bathroom inhabited by a woman denoted by pair of shapely legs. & 2/ the film's supposed exploitative content, in particular, it's treatment of women.  Seen today, DRESSED is the kind of film recommended to those too timid for the downmarket excess of MANIAC or NEW YORK RIPPER; more stalk than slash.  The film has often been compared to PSYCHO & unfortunately shares it's flaws - after a brilliant half-hour (or so) DRESSED becomes too mundane as it's focus shifts from the individual to the ensemble. The masterful gallery sequence is some of De Palma's best work as non-verbal cues, expectations & perceptions take on subtle shifts of tempo; the visual equivalent of a good piece of music.  However, counter to this brilliance (and a great performance by the under-appreciated Angie Dickinson...) is The Parade Of Predictables  selfless sexworker with heart-of-gold, inventive revenge-driven teen, cynical disco cop - blah.  Far more interesting are the various subtexts - camera vs. reality, mirror as transitional cue, appearance as deception, split-screen as mental division & the various social masks we ALL assume.  Has the same glove/blade fetishism as most of it's type & the longest shock ending in film history - though one element - the perfect bodied nurse in expensive lingerie - is a bit of a give-away.  Highlight  Nancy Allen's strangely arousing restaurant conversation.  Well worth the effort. "},{"Title":"This one is SCARY","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you decide to see this thriller you must be prepared to become afraid. I mean... the long and totally terrifying sequence in the gallery at the beginning beats almost everything I've seen in my life. My heart was really beating faster and faster. De Palmas camera work is so intense and unpleasant... but of course in a good way.De Palmas early 1980's thrillers are still in the top of the scarier movies of all time. I think so anyway. Many people compare him to Hitchcock, and sure... there is some sense of Hitchcock, but De Palma is De Palma. He is in some ways unique. Movies like Dressed to Kill, Blow Out and Body Double can't leave anyone unaffected.Dressed to Kill is a masterpiece with an excellent cast and a terrific score by Pino Donaggio. I recommend everyone to see this horror classic. "},{"Title":"De Palma Faithfully Follows Hitchcock","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Writer-director Brian De Palma is best known for his string of films that have been called, somewhat unfairly, Hitchcock imitations. Contrary to popular belief, De Palma doesn't rip-off Hitchcock; he borrows story or character elements that may have been seen in a Hitchcock film and then expands on them in a more violent, modern way. Like Hitchcock, De Palma is known for mixing blood-soaked death with macabre humor.Dressed to Kill, made way back in 1980, is, perhaps, De Palma's most well-known Hitchcockian film, and it's probably his best as well. The story involves a cross-dressing serial killer stalking both a burnt-out housewife (played by Angie Dickinson) and a street-wise hooker (played by Nancy Allen).Yes, it will remind you distinctly of Psycho, but De Palma's flick is just as technically ingenious and darkly creative. The museum sequence is particularly well-scored and edited; the elevator stab scene is also one of the most uniquely shot murders ever put on film. Dressed to Kill may not be a complete original, but I'd say it's definitely worth your time. Rated R. 105 minutes. 9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"a top-rate thriller from De Palma","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Brian De Palma's thriller Dressed To Kill is a film that stands up for all his filmmaking he has done. It has (1) his usual Hitchcock plot or semi-plot. (2) It has his usual nudity, and I mean explicit-even pornos don't have what the unrated version of this movie has, and yet his movies are taken seriously. (3) His high blood tolerance is put to effect in this movie. (4) His Bernard Herrman type score, wonderfully composed by Pino Donaggio. This movie has one of the best music scores in history. (5) His leading blonde, and sophisticated actor, in this case, Angie Dickinson and Michael Caine. (6) His usual casting of Dennis Franz, which happens no more, but you usually see his name in the also-starring part of the credits. And last but not least (7) His split-screen scene in each movie, almost every one of his movies has used this sometime during the running time, and it is one of the only original trademark he gets credited for that doesn't have anything to do with Alfred Hitchcock. Dressed To Kill has some elements from Psycho, it's quite obvious that the elevator scene was based on the shower scene,and transsexuals instead of transvestites, and an explanation by a doctor at the near-end even repeats lines from Psycho's same scene. And for some reason the end sequence where the killer was walking up to the house was a clone from Halloween. But it is a top-rate psychological thriller, and you have to appreciate the great performances by Keith Gordon, Angie and Michael, Nancy Allen, and Bobbi-Oh, I forgot, I had to borrow your razor.   Don't watch this alone! "},{"Title":"I took the Psycho similarities with a grain of salt","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although Dressed to Kill definitely does have several elements that are the same as elements of Psycho, I still really enjoyed this film.  I believe that these similarities were often used to tribute the Hitchcock classic (such as the scene where the cops sum up the crime).The main reason that I liked this movie so much is that it scared the hell out of me.  This could be one of the only films that I've seen that I can say actually made me jumpy without resorting to gore or jump-out-of-your-seat techniques.  The tension was built perfectly and I applaud DePalma for having the eye to pull off the suspenseful directing that he did in this picture. I just wish that he could be consistent because he tried a similar style in Snake Eyes, and he bombed. "},{"Title":"Scary, Thrilling and Funny!","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" On Fridays we used to grab a tucky and video from our local Revolver. Imagine the surprise when I got home one week and realised that the guy had slipped me a porno by mistake instead of Brian De Palma's Dressed To Kill! I really wish I could turn back the clock.......Anyway enough of my school days. Dressed to Kill is one of my favourite thrillers. It's packed full of suspense and features a rather intelligent schoolkid.De Palma's humour is evident throughout. This really did fly over me when I was young. Now I laugh over the small touches!Pros - Suspense, Suspects, Suspicion, SuspendersCons - Er .... suspenseOverall - Wasn't Pepper Anderson great in Police Woman! "},{"Title":"Summers of Sam","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Even in 1980, I heard people guffaw that DRESSED TO KILL was the worst movie I've ever seen in my life.The truth is, it's both really bad, with flashes of brilliance. For one thing, DTK takes a satirical tone -- deliberately or not -- cheesily burlesquing the seedy sexual flavor of so many films from the late-'70s.I'm not sure that it's possible for that to really work all that well cinematically, without the project being marred by the baseness it's portraying, as did all such projects at the time.Even though I'm very fond of the 1970s (and it got a bad rap during the endless revisionism of the '80s) there was a definitively sleazy, gutter undertone to the latter half of the decade which worked its way into even mainstream movies. (CRUISING seems a prime example which, while not graphic by today's standards maybe, nonetheless tapped into the sordid, carnally apocalyptic tone of the day). Likewise, the period seemed the apex of real life serial killer zeitgeist somehow.DTK struggles to parody and indulge in all of that simultaneously, and it achieves an uneven balance.And yet the museum sequence, although silly at times as well, can't be ignored. Still, believing Angie Dickinson can't get laid seems a stretch. DTK one of those late-'70s (as I always say, 1980 was the last year of the '70s) urban sleaze kinds of films like LOOKING FOR MR GOODBAR and CRUISING and CALIGULA and (my absolute favorite) EYES OF LAURA MARS where the period plays a key role in why they don't entirely work -- and yet why they do work.The '70s had a melancholy, breezy, sexy thing going on which defined the decade, yet the last half of that decade also had an odd gutter-smarm undercurrent which is hard to describe but at the time was hard to miss... It wasn't the only era to give us real life serial sex murderers, but -- gee! -- no other era seemed to fit it so well.Movies tapped into this vibe as well. And if it was going to do so effectively, you had to wind up getting a bit queasy during or after watching it. And that was these films' strengths as well as their vulnerability to partly-valid criticism.Curiously, motion pictures can get much more explicit today, but few of them feel so utterly fetishistic as those from the late-'70s (or, technically, 1980).These films were repellent in many ways, largely on purpose. But the sordid-beyond-belief flavor was absolutely part of the zeitgeist of the time.I remember sneering at DRESSED TO KILL in 1980 when I was a teenager, and (as I stated above) I heard people say, that was the worst movie I ever saw in my life and I understood their disdain for it (and, subjectively, I don't like seeing Angie slaughtered so meticulously) and found the score both effective and, in places, inappropriate... And yet the silent museum sequence grew on me with time and, like many of those late-'70s snuffy-sleaze pictures, I retained an interest in them without fully condoning them.They're period pieces, essentially. And valuable for that reason. And they sort of define that old, over-used idea that it's so bad it's almost good. "},{"Title":"Brian De Palma's most effective and intense suspense film.","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed to kill is by far my favorite Brian De Palma movie because it has superior suspenseful scenes than Blow out or Carrie. The visual is very important in this movie, it really tells a story by the images. The faces of the characters , their movements. It has a much more effective mysterious and menacing atmosphere than blow out. The music of Pino Donnagio gives tremendous power and energy to the images, a beautiful, scary and inspired composition. There are many mysterious characters in the movie. Michael Caine is very good, Angie Dickinson is expressive and touching and Dennis Franz is very funny (What kind of place is this, everybody 's getting late after lunch) and plays very well the inspector. This is the perfect late night horror movie. Brian De Palma did a very intelligent movie, the images are very intense, meaningful and he delivers the scares and tensions better than he has ever done. "},{"Title":"Showers and Suspense","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Never let it be said Bran De Palma can't direct. Okay sure, he has produced bad movies (Black Dahlia, Snake Eyes), but he has also directed underrated gems (Raising Cain, Body Double) and even, GASP!, good films. Dressed to Kill is one of those good films. No wait, its one of those films, the type of film that you'll be thinking about well after the credits. Why would you think of this film? Well the layman would say the Shower Scene, but I say its this one scene in an art museum with our protagonist Angie Dickinson. She's on a bench looking around the scene like a nervous grandmother (she was fifty at the time). Then she notices a man and nears him to get a closer look. He notices her and walks away. She keeps following and then he starts to follow her in a weird cat and mouse game. Why is the scene effective? Well, there's no suspense and no grand payoff; its just the look on Angie's face as she follows the man. Its a look of sadness as she slowly realizes that she is getting old and not as attractive anymore (not true). For all those who've seen the movie know that Angie dies a horrible death in an elevator. So why is she the protagonist? She's the first character we're introduced to and the story revolves around her. After her sad death, we are left with three characters her son, an escort and her psychiatrist. Her son is a technical wizard who dabbles into voyeurism. I make it sound silly, but De Palma pulls it off along with the actor. Nancy Allen is the hooker who witnessed the crime and Michael Caine is Michael Caine playing Michael Caine. These three are finding the answers to Angie's murder. There's is also another scene I want to point out before I end this. Nancy is being chased by the killer in the subway. The suspense builds to the point where she can't see the killer anymore and relaxes. Unfourtanately, she ends up bothering a few men who try to rape her. Many of De Palma's detractors say he is to excessive in his films. This is true and this scene indicates that. Why did she have to be chased by the men? I don't know and I ended up laughing, but it got her on the train and she meets Angie's son and thats that. De Palma knows what he's doing. "},{"Title":"De Palma's masterpiece of pure, unmatched visual storytelling.","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Rating **** out of 4.Director Brian De Palma has made a career out of borrowing from the great master Alfred Hitchcock. In his earlier works, like SISTERS and OBSESSION, De Palma borrows to the point of nearly remaking some of Hitchcock's techniques and sequences; OBSESSION itself was a near-remake of the masterpiece VERTIGO. But if imitation is really the sincerest form of flattery, then this man and his movies are the finest example. As a Hitchcock fan (he's my favorite director), I must say I have grown a fondness for De Palma's works; that his movies almost reminds me too much of Hitch's own works is actually a plus. His 1980 slasher thriller DRESSED TO KILL took some heavy criticism upon release, aimed mostly at the fact that the film borrows from Hitch's masterpiece PSYCHO or that the movie's gory sequences seem to suggest violence toward women. But time has been kind to DRESSED TO KILL, and finally it is seen as the underrated masterpiece that it is.Giving too much of the story away would be criminal, but just to give you the heads up, the story follows sexually-frustrated housewife Kate Miller (Angie Dickinson), who's married life is loosing its passion. During the opening sequence, we see her fantasizing about being raped in the shower while having a passionless wham-bang lovemaking with her husband. When its over, he pats her on the cheek as if to tell her she did a good job, leaving Kate wanting. Questioning her own sexual worth, she regularly sees her shrink Dr. Robert Elliot (Michael Caine). But the good doctor has problems of his own. A patient of his named Bobbi is on a murderous rampage using the doctor's own razor as the weapon of choice. Nancy Allen is back playing another hooker, but this time as one of those heart of gold types, named Liz Blake. In bit performances, Kieth Gordon plays Miller's nerdy but courageous son and Dennis Franz in one of those cop roles as the cantankerous Det. Marino.DTK may have veered a little too close to PSYCHO, but according to the words of the great New Wave French director Jean-Luc Godard It's not where you take things from - it's where you take them to. And with regards to De Palma, he has used PSYCHO as the ground work for his skills at visual storytelling and mise-en-scene. Combine De Palma's superb skill at setting up shots and orchestrating set pieces, excellent cinematography by Ralf Bode (though frequent collaborator Vilmos Zsigmond would have done just as adequate a job), and a memorable score by Pino Donaggio (here at his finest; a score that Hitch himself would have been proud of) and the result, among other brilliant sequences, is the film's classic museum scene, a beautifully shot and mysterious sequence that might have been something out of VERTIGO and may not be too much a big deal to the story itself, but its pure cinema at its finest. It's just...amazing! There a number of set pieces that are just as outstanding, including the gruesome elevator scene that recalls the classic PSYCHO shower scene, but is a classic scene all its own.Beautiful set-pieces, a haunting score, some fine acting, some biting moments of black humor (the PSYCHO-inspired psychological-babble is followed by a hilarious send-up of it) and sarcastic satire (the scene set in the subway, where a couple of black thugs harass Allen's character, are a clear critique on the racism of the day) and above all a talented director at its helm. What a classic! DRESSED TO KILL may be one of De Palma's finest works, and I'd argue that its certainly his signature work. "},{"Title":"Don't make me be a bad girl again","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Please note that the following review contains spoilers for both 'Dressed to Kill (1980)' and Alfred Hitchcock's 'Psycho (1960).' Brian De Palma has always been one of Hitchcock's greatest disciples, and here he plunders every trick ever used by the Master of Suspense. 'Psycho' is referenced with particularly frequency; for example, this film contains &#x96; not one &#x96; but two shower scenes! This borrowing of ideas and visual cues might have seemed superficial, but De Palma really does seem to understand the principles of why Hitchcock's films worked so brilliantly. 'Dressed to Kill' doesn't aim for cheap surprise scares, except perhaps for the moment in the mental institution, but even this is foreshadowed by the scene's smotheringly-dark ambiance.In every suspenseful moment of De Palma's film, the audience is privy to the presence of an attacker, allowing several breathless seconds of foreboding before the inevitable assault. This all harks back to Hitchcock's classic lesson of the bomb hidden beneath a table for example, when watching 'Psycho,' I've always found that the tensest moment of Janet Leigh's murder is not the attack itself, but the heart- stopping seconds as the audience watches the bathroom door creak open. The entirely-wordless final act of 'Dressed to Kill' is particularly tense, the main character's mortal peril signaled by the image of a single motionless leg. Though De Palma doesn't hold back on the violent imagery, his visual style is incredibly vivid, every blade glinting handsomely in the light.Hitchcock's 'Psycho' explored the correlation between sex (and sexual voyeurism) and violence; Norman Bates committed murder to stem his sexual desires towards women like Marion Crane. Michael Caine's psychiatrist, Doctor Elliot, similarly suffers from issues of gender identity, and his murderous tendencies &#x96; executed through his female alter-ego, Bobbi &#x96; are directed towards those who arouse his heterosexual male lust. As in Hitchcock's film, the central female character is not virginal, but quite sexually aware (even though De Palma casts a rosy-cheeked Nancy Allen in the role). 'Dressed to Kill' doesn't really explore these issues with any greater complexity than Hitchcock's film, and is occasionally clumsy in its approach certainly, the confrontingly-gratuitous opening sequence is merely there for titillation. "},{"Title":"One of De Palma's Best Works","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is movie was a wonderful horror/thriller in the style of Hitchcockian storytelling and even, in some way, is a tribute to Hitchcock's Psycho. That's why I think that Dressed to Kill is one of De Palma's best works of modern horror but why is it that this movie was so controversial and gained so much critical response?This movie is a dark look into human sexuality, where few people are what they seem and the movie is driven by erotic visuals and sexual violence. It is because of these themes this movie was subject to much ridicule and criticism especially from Feminists. This is one of the first mainstream erotic thriller movies to have been such a blockbuster success and what's interesting enough is how acclaimed it later was considering how risky it was for its time.The acting in the movie was so-so but what made this movie so memorable was the technical aspect and the 'interesting' character development. From a cinematic standpoint, De Palma uses a wide variety of techniques that he used in his early work such as split screens, sound layering, voyeuristic and canted camera angles all of which are used to manipulate the audience. What we get in the end is a roller-coaster ride of emotions.There are so many themes of sexuality, gender roles and stereotypes/profiling to fit into one review although what I can say, without hesitation, is that this movie is one of De Palma's best work. "},{"Title":"Dressed to Kill","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Along with Body Double, De Palma's definitive homage to his greatest influence, Hitchcock, an answer to PSYCHO, brilliantly tongue-in-cheek from the daft title to the answer of who the killer REALLY is, the director is at his very level best, crafting one incredible set piece after another. The contemporary theme of gender politics is utilized beautifully here and the whole idea of why the killer commits the grisly razor blade murder(..and stalks a second victim, played by Nancy Allen)is quite brilliantly executed. Unfortunately, like Hitchcock's masterpiece PSYCHO, De Palma's cat is out of the bag and everyone knows the identity of the killer. MAJOR SPOILERS Watching it for the first time in years, I grinned so many times at little sly moves conducted by De Palma in word and visual image, setting up the twist at the end so wickedly. Such as how bored house-wife, Kate Miller(Angie Dickinson)discovers after her sexual encounter with a complete stranger that he has a venereal disease, rushing deliriously in panic from his room. It's a sly move because you are horrified at the fact that she harbors that sin disease, believing this discovery will move throughout the rest of the film, only for her to meet her doom at the hands of a female with blond hair, black coat, and shades, slicing her with a glimmering razor blade. But, the way the tryst itself is executed was a wonder to behold. The way De Palma expresses on the side of the screen images of various items Kate lost along the way, them returning to her mind(..glove in the art museum, panties in the taxi, wedding ring left in her lover's room), how she initiates contact with the potential exchange with the lover without saying a word, how she attempts to slightly fight away her desire for the tryst, and her eventual terror for even instigating the frivolous sexual encounter at all. The way the transsexual killer's identity is discovered is also one hell of a doozy. We watch as Kate's psychiatrist, Doctor Robert Elliot(Michael Caine)listens to a feminine voice from his answering machine, a client on how she will be seeing another doctor, plans to have a sex change, and admits to borrowing his razor, threatening something criminal. Elliot has this recording, must meet at the police station with a hot-head, very disgruntled police detective, Marino(..De Palma regular, Dennis Franz, perfectly cast), and conceals her identity..why does he do this when it's basically a confession? The exciting race against time angle, involving prostitute Liz Blake(..the gorgeous Nancy Allen, in a role tailor made for her, who charms in a winning performance, bringing an amazing likability to a provocative character)who is told by Marino, in a very hostile way, that she is the chief suspect because of accidentally grabbing the murder weapon at the scene of the crime(..in the wrong place at the wrong time, she was at the elevator with a male client, who runs away, as the doors open to reveal Kate reaching out for help, the killer hiding). She has 48 hours to save her skin..to find evidence of the mysterious female killer, Kate saw in a mirror(..cleverly established by De Palma), while also being hunted by the psycho herself. There's an amazing set piece where Liz is stalked by the killer to a subway where she also is confronted by a gang of thugs and is painted into a corner when a police officer, a none-too-friendly exchange between these two, exits, leaving her to potentially fall prey to either one or the other. Her blossoming friendship to science wiz, Peter(..Keith Gordon, in a role he's often typecast, a brainy geek with some nifty inventions that come in handy along the way), the son of the slain Kate, is also a marvel of plot convention..together they are able to discover the killer's identity in a thrilling climax as Liz infiltrates Elliot's office, disguising herself as a new client in need of counseling(..her attempted seduction produces a smoldering sexuality Allen easily conveys)to retrieve a patient's name from his appointment book. I recognize that many will always consider De Palma nothing more than a rip off artist with considerable skill, deftly able to use the cinematic toys at his disposal, but films like DRESSED TO KILL are so entertaining in their own right..it's the bravura way De Palma concocts his ideas and unleashes the surprises in such a heavily stylized way, executed with marksman's precision, understanding how to cleverly/cunningly use gimmicks to tell developing stories. Like Hitchcock, De Palma uses visuals to communicate with the viewer, but unlike the master director, is able to incorporate seedier elements and enhance his films with the color/allure of more provocative characters and settings(..such as New York City, and the people who live there). Like this cheeky title, De Palma perhaps used BODY DOUBLE as a joke regarding his use of such a person in Dickinson's steamy shower scene. Two scenes rather bother me(1)regarding the protracted explanation of why the killer murdered and the psychological events that brought it about(..obviously a direct homage to the similar sequence at the end of PSYCHO)and (2)the nightmare sequence at the end..I felt neither is really needed, although these are ways to engage the audience, giving them extra when all is over, said, and done. "}{"Title":"A Classic!!","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I just saw this movie for the first time this evening and I have to say this was a totally incredible classic movie. I can't believe that I hadn't ever seen it before. Actually, the only reason I even wanted to see it was because it was referenced in an episode of my favorite TV show, The Golden Girls. In that episode, Dorothy says to Blanche ...this from a woman who tells her dates that she was Angie Dickinson's body double in 'Dressed To Kill. So I was kinda curious to see this movie after that, however I was never very active about getting a copy of it until I stumbled across it on Blockbuster.com and ordered it immediately. I must say, this movie has a ton of sex appeal, even tho the cast members aren't too terribly sexy here. If you haven't seen this movie, I HIGHLY recommend it as it is probably one of the most intensely created movies I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Brilliant De Palma","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is without a doubt my favorite De Palma film (and one of my favorite films, period). It's been said this film is total style over substance, which may be true, but that doesn't detract from how outrageously entertaining it is. The story concerns a young computer nerd (Keith Gordon), a prostitute (Nancy Allen) and a cop (Dennis Farina) all searching for the identity of a mad transvestite slasher in Manhattan. Really the plot, as involving as it is, is really just an excuse to hang a number of truly impressive cinematic sequences; my favorite consists of several tracking shots depicting the flirtation and subsequent misunderstandings of one of the (female) main characters and a stranger she sees in a museum. There are just so many elements that are like candy to me the fun Nancy Drew quality of the jaded prostitute and the nerd teaming up to solve the mystery, the humorously antagonistic relationship between the cop and the prostitute, the terrific suspense set pieces and just the overall trashy quality of it. An absolute must-see! "},{"Title":"Someone's out there...","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed to Kill (1980) is a mystery horror film from Brian De Palma and it really works.The atmosphere is right there.The atmosphere that makes you scared.And isn't that what a horror film is supposed to do.All the actors are in the right places.Michael Caine is perfect as Dr. Robert Elliott, the shrink with a little secret.Angie Dickinson as Kate Miller, the sexually frustrated mature woman is terrific.Keith Gordon as her son Peter is brilliant.Nancy Allen as Liz Blake the call girl is fantastic.Dennis Franz does his typical detective role.His Detective Marino is one of the most colorful in this movie.There are plenty of creepy scenes in this movie.The elevator scene is one of them.There have been made comparisons between this and Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho (1960).There are some similarities between these two movies.Both of these movies may cause some sleepless nights. "},{"Title":"unrated version","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i just finished watching Dressed to Kill,which is written and directed by Brian De Palma.the DVD had both theR rated version and the unrated version.i chose the unrated version.since i have yet to view the R rated version,i can't be completely sure of the difference.there is however a very graphic graphic female nudity including a scene of explicit expression of self gratification in this version.i guess you could call this scene soft core porn.if this sort of thing may offend you,i would suggest you view the R rated version.but i digress.Any comment from here on refers to the unrated version.this is a murder mystery/ psychological horror/suspense movie.there is very little violence and blood.there is however one death sequence of note.the act of the killing itself is fairly graphic.however the blood it self does not look real.it is reminiscent of how a 70's slasher film would look.i believe this is done deliberately to offset the violence of the act itself,to give the scene a low budget feel.most of the violence,or rather possibility of such,is implied.the film is very well paced.as far as i can tell every scene had a purpose,which i find very rare when compared to many of today's films. anyway,i also thought the acting was good,especially Angie Dickinson.and Micheal Cane turns in a quietly understated performance in his role,which works brilliantly in this case.the movie also has one great twist in it,in my mind,although some people might find it predictable.the only complaint(and it's really more of an observation)i have is that i thought the character played by Nancy Allen could have been fleshed out more,especially considering she has a fair amount of screen time.but i think she does a good job with what she is given.and this doesn't really take away from the quality of the film.the film also has a strong moral to it,which is even more relevant today.but the movie doesn't hit you over the head with it.i also really liked the musical score,composed by Pino Dinaggioi felt it was very similar to the music in the original Psycho.to me,this music really elevated the movie.i thought this movie was brilliant.for me,Dressed to Kill(1980)is 10/10 "},{"Title":"Good killer thriller.","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed to Kill starts off with Kate Miller (Angie Dickinson) having a sexually explicit nightmare, later on that day she visits her psychiatrist Dr. Robert Elliott (Michael Caine) for a session in which she admits to be sexually frustrated & unfulfilled in her current marriage. Kate then visits a museum & picks up a stranger, they go back to his apartment for casual sex, when done Kate is set to leave but is attacked & killed in the buildings elevator by a razor blade wielding blonde woman. Prostitute Liz Blake (Nancy Allen) discovers the gruesome scene & sees the killer but manages to escape. Detective Marino (Dennis Franz) says he suspects Liz as being the killer as there are no other witnesses so Liz teams up with Kate's son Peter (Keith Gordon) to track down the real killer, clear Liz's name & see that justice is done...Written & directed by Brian De Palma I thought Dressed to Kill was a good solid psychological murder mystery. The script is measured & slow at times but it likes to focus on the character's so you really know them, the entire first twenty minutes is just developing Kate as a character before she is suddenly killed off, then the film switches it's attentions to Liz & no one else gets a look in. This way Dressed to Kill is quite absorbing & engaging, unfortunately the character's themselves aren't exactly likable. I found some of the dialogue quite funny at times, especially the dirty talk that Liz spouts occasionally. The killers motives are somewhat plausible but I guess you'd have to be pretty messed up to do anything suggested in Dressed to Kill. It's a good film but it didn't excite me that much & I didn't really find any character to root for or like. The film tacks on a needless & unnecessary twist ending that I didn't really see the point of.Director De Palma directs with style & visual flair, from the art museum sequence to a car chase & as a whole it's impeccably filmed throughout. I'd imagine that every shot in Dressed to Kill had a great deal of thought put into it. I felt the film was a bit flat & uninspired at times though, nothing about it really excited me that much. There is a fair bit of nudity, some sex & rape along with a few bits of gore & violence, Kate's murder by razor blade in the elevator being the highlight, if that's the right word. However, it's by no means as shocking or controversial when viewed today as many would have you believe.With a supposed budget of about $6,500,000 Dressed to Kill has that glossy high production value feel of a Hollywood film. The New York locations are nice, the cinematography is good & as a whole it's extremely well made. I thought the music was inappropriate & was far to loud & intrusive. The acting is OK but despite his top billing I didn't think Caine had that much screen time. Allen was married to director De Palma at the time Dressed to Kill was made, interestingly out of the four films she appeared in made by De Palma in two of them, this & Blow Out (1981), he cast her as a prostitute... A body double was used for Dickinson as she pleasures herself in a shower at the start.Dressed to Kill is a good thriller that is well worth watching but I didn't think it quite lived up to it's lofty reputation. Good but not brilliant. "},{"Title":"A spectacular movie!!!!!-Must see","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Caine is a therapist ,whose knife is stolen by one of his patients out of his desk.This patient needed his authorization in order to receive a sex change operation.*SPOILERS_It's then used to kill one of his other patients(Angie Dickenson).Which happens in a elevator(TERRIFYING,SCARY,DISTURBING)Like in the movie (PSYCHO). As i was watching,I thought he would stop after a few stabs and the fact that Angie's character was begging,But he kept on slashing away.I didn't expect her to get killed 30 minutes into it.Her death made way for another actress(Nancy Allen) who plays a call girl who just happens to be entering the elevator at the same time she is being killed. She sees the killer and picks up the murder weapon as the door closes.So her fingerprints on it-shes's a suspect. The cop on her back is no other than NYPD BLUE'S SIPOWITZ played by Dennis Franz who has played in a lot of Depalma movies.The killer finds her on subway train(A nicely directed scene )-as others in this film.Angie 's character son comes to the rescue played by (Keith Gordon) So they join forces in order to catch he or she?Well,I won't tell you what happens from there.You gotta watch to see. I watched this for the first time 3 months ago and was very much entertained. I definitely became a DePalma fan with this one.I now have 12 of his movies on DVD/VHS. It's stylish provocative,Sexy. Nancy Allen And Angie Dickenson are as sexy as can be. They label DePalma a Hitchcock rip-off,That's a compliment I would say. Depalma said on the documentary on the DVD feature of this movie. If you wanna be the best you gotta learn from the best.2 thumbs up.5 ***** out of 5. 10!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"If Hitch were still alive, I think he'd be honored....","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (**** out of *****)--Possible Spoilers--Maybe this is a bit classier than most slashers, but it still is, at heart, a slasher, so I've included it on my growing IMDB Slasher List.  Borrowing a little here and there from Psycho (most of De Palma's better movies borrow quite liberally from Hitchcock, in fact -- but he does it well, so more power to him), this tells the story of a troubled nymphomaniac (Angie Dickinson) who has a fling with a total stranger she meets in an art museum one afternoon and pays dearly for it when she runs into one of her psychiatrist's homicidal, razor-wielding patients in a terrifying elevator sequence.  This is easily one of De Palma's best movies and is as sexually explicit as it is graphically violent (maybe even more so).  It also stars busy actor Michael Caine as the enigmatic psychiatrist, De Palma then-regular Dennis Franz as the wise-cracking cop on the case, Keith Gordon (from Christine) as Dickinson's son and Nancy Allen as the high-price call girl who helps him solve his mother's murder.  Very erotic, very suspenseful, and very scary -- a first-rate thriller.HIGHLIGHT  The extended, wordless sequence in the art museum that leads up to the violent elevator murder is beautifully directed and a highlight of De Palma's career. "},{"Title":"Good, but somewhat overrated","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  DePalma's infamous Dressed to Kill is a triumph of film technique over content. When one looks at the story in a dispassionate manner, it's obvious how absurd everything is. Yet, it works better than it has any right to, due to directorial flair. The legendary elevator scene is still potent after more than twenty years. Employing slow motion, close-ups, and careful editing, what could have been a standard slasher scene is transformed into a tour de force of terror. This segment alone is worth the price of admission, and actually rivals the shower scene from Hitchcock's Psycho.Also of notice is the sequence of events leading up to the killing. The museum chase, in which Dickinson pursues a handsome stranger, is pure visual cinema, telling the story with little dialogue. I also admired the use of split-screen in certain scenes. It's a sorely underused device in modern cinema; this film reminds us that movies are a visual medium, despite their literary roots. From an acting standpoint, both Dickinson and Allen are solid as flawed but strong women who evoke our sympathy, although we might not approve of their actions. Caine is good as a psychologist who may be hiding one of his patients, responsible for the murder. However, Gordon's nerdy character is unconvincing, and Franz's Detective Marino is little more than a shallow caricature. It is impossible to discuss the film without recalling the intense controversity that met its original release. Vilified by feminist groups, DePalma has often been accused of being a misogynist. I must question the validly of this argument. If that were the case, I think he would have made his female characters weak and submissive; objects of scorn. Finally, I tend to agree with Internet critic James Kendrick, who argues that the material was never intended to be taken seriously--although too many people did just that. Judging it purely based on craftsmanship, Dressed to Kill is not a masterpiece. It's unevenly paced, and the dialogue could have used some tweaking. Still, there are enough good moments to make it worthwhile.Rating *** (out of ****)Released by Filmways Pictures "},{"Title":"DEPALMA'S BEST FILM","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Dressed to Kill is Brian DePalma's best film, an absolute thrill ride of suspense, humor and style that remains unrivaled today. DePalma has a bum rap in Hollywood, as most people claim that he rips off Alfred Hitchcock. He does not. Hitchcock could only dream of what DePalma shows in his thrillers.Sadly, the original uncut version of Dressed to Kill is no longer available on video. The current copy released by Goodtimes is the Jack Valenti approved R rated cut. But some copies of DePalma's original cut still exist. It is the one distributed by Warner Home Video, in both a green cardboard box with Angie Dickinson on the cover, or in a black clamshell case  with the theatrical poster on silver lining. These are the ones to get, if you can find a copy. I have the green one and it is among my treasured possessions.Anyway, back to the story. Dickinson plays Kate Miller, a sexually frustrated wife who is being treated by Dr. Robert Elliott ( Michael Caine) for her obsessive fantasies. While on a trip to the museum (a real tour-de-force for DePalma in terms of camera work and suspense), Miller is picked up by a stranger. You can pretty much guess what happens to her, since the ads and box art give away the story. But there are a few complications. A hooker (Nancy Allen) is the sole witness to the murder. Kate Miller's son Peter (Keith Gordon) is a teenage genius determined to solve the crime. And Dr. Elliott's answering machine has a certain message on it...about a missing razor...I'm not spoiling the film at all for you since what I have described above takes place within the opening half hour and DePalma's biggest surprises are reserved for the last hour. This film is explicit, however, enough for Valenti (head of the MPAA) to demand cuts in the film. What surprises me is what cuts he wanted. Several cuts in the opening shower scene and one or two slashing scenes and some of Nancy Allen's dialogue (Valenti wanted cock changed to bulge). This is a film that is very violent and bloody, yet the objections are to sexual content. I'd love to hear Valenti's explaination at how seeing two women in a tender love scene in Lost and Delirious is somehow more damaging to a young mind than Arnold Schwarzenegger blowing away people with a chain gun. It just isn't fair.What makes Dressed to Kill so good is that not only are the technical credits first rate, but the performances are very good as well. Michael Caine, who was in a lot of crap in this time period, gives one of his best performances as the doctor. Angie Dickinson is better than usual, possibly because she actually has a strong role here. Nancy Allen adds this to her range of performances that has her pegged as one of the most underrated and overlooked actresses in the world. Keith Gordon is wonderful as the genius and i loved all those inventions of his.DePalma is one of our best directors who has never received the recognition he deserved. The recent joke of the AFI 100 Best Thrillers list showed that very few people actually know what a thriller is. If they were to actually open their eyes for once, they would see that DePalma has staked his career in thrillers and is actually the best craftsman. This is even better than Psycho. It's a shame that very few actually know that.**** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, predictable, padded thriller","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Unoriginal, predictable thriller.From the start the movie seems so derivative of several Hitchcock movies. Brian De Palma, who wrote and directed this, tries too hard to be intriguing and suspenseful. Drawing out a scene doesn't necessarily make it suspenseful - it just makes it silly and boring. Then there's the silly tangents which add nothing to the movie.And then the movie also goes on for a few scenes longer than what should have been its ending. De Palma just doesn't know when to stop...Take away the padding in the scenes and the unnecessary scenes and you'd have a fairly short movie.Not Michael Caine's best work. He just seems to be going through the motions here. Then again, he was probably just following the script and direction. Decent performance by Nancy Allen. "}{"Title":"Dickinson shows she is an actor and still sexy at 49!","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The film gets my stamp of approval.  The scene in the museum demands acting without dialogue.  This is one of the most interesting and unique scenes in the history of film.  Dickinson's character Kate is very well developed and her performance is felt throughout the entire film.  The best work Angie Dickinson did since Point Blank! "},{"Title":"100 Times Better than any Hitchcock movie","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, De Palma is influenced my Hitchcock, but that doesn't mean that he is not brilliant. This and 'Blow Out' are emotionally intense movies, extremely well conceived and with inspirational direction.'Dressed to Kill' as well as Paul Verhoeven's 'Basic Instinct' are superior to all Hitchcock movies and it's a joy to watch them even repeatedly.An absolute masterpiece.10/10 "},{"Title":"Who cares if it's a Psycho rip-off?","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Dressed to Kill is a magnificent film!  I do consider this a slasher film, but a very stylized slasher film definitely not a cheap imitation of Halloween or Friday the 13th (Sleepaway Camp and Slumber Party Massacre are the reigning titles if you ask me).  Anyways, Dressed to Kill may seem like Psycho in color e.g. the split personality killer, death of a seemingly main character in the beginning of the film, a shower scene etc. it's still great.  Anyone who even remotely likes Psycho will love this film.  I think Mr. Alfred Hitchcock would be impressed.  "},{"Title":"De Palma delivers another masterful thriller!","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Intelligent, stylish, and compelling thriller from the great Brian De Palma is a modern classic that firmly ranks among his best films!When troubled housewife is brutally murdered by a bizarre stranger, the victim's son joins with a prostitute to uncover the killer.Dressed to Kill left a strong impression upon the audiences of its day and for good reason. De Palma creates a wonderfully dramatic story that begins with an intriguing setup and builds into a harrowing mystery full of strong suspense. The finale and conclusion are especially 'nightmarish'.It's a truly edge of your seat shocker. Even more impressive though is De Palma's elegant direction that gives this film not only tight suspense but a unique and dark atmosphere of its own. Dressed to Kill is also a very erotic film, but mainly in a strangely beautiful way. Pino Donaggio also lends a lovely musical score to the film.The cast is another strong feature of this film. Michael Cain does a terrific turn as a psychiatrist. Angie Dickenson is wonderful as the ill-fated housewife. Nancy Allen's performance as an involved street-walker is solid. A young Keith Gordon also proves to be a worthy supporter as the investigating son.Many criticize De Palma's films for having Hitchcockian elements and this film was no exception. But any similarities between Hitchcocks works and De Palmas can only be seen as a good quality, as calling this film a 'rip-off' would be degrading to a fine thriller. Dressed to Kill is a must see for all cinema fans.**** out of **** "},{"Title":"A paint-by-numbers film","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Gets a 5 out of 10.Imagine Psycho crossed with an Italian giallo thriller from the 70's, add a young Dennis Franz playing essentially the same character he became famous for in NYPD Blue, and you've got Dressed to Kill.  There really isn't any reason to see this film at all, because chances are, you've seen every single moment before in some other movie or TV show.  It's not poorly made, but it's nothing special either.The only sequence that had any magic at all was the museum scene, but De Palma ruined that by making it go on too long.I think the only thing noteworthy about this movie is that it probably has the most obvious body double ever seen in the history of film.  Sure, Angie Dickinson, we BELIEVE you had a body like that at age 49, sure... "},{"Title":"Stylish, But Not Much Suspense","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As a vehicle for erotic expression, this film works fine. Angie Dickinson, Michael Caine, and Nancy Allen are convincing in their roles, though their characters are so preoccupied with sex, they seem shallow. The elegant music and stylish cinematography blend well with the acting, to amplify a sense of high-class eroticism.But I was expecting suspense; this film had little. The number of murders was minimal. The major incident focused on the victim's brief peril instead of the killer's ongoing malevolent intent. And there were too few suspects. Some of the film's scenes lacked a sense of sinister foreboding.The film's highlight was the art gallery segment, all eight minutes of it. Although it rendered no suspense, it was in itself an elegant display of cinema craftsmanship, an effective blend of silence, fine acting, and technically difficult camera work.Dressed To Kill has the feel of other films from the late 70's, when film makers were exploring how far they could go with sexual content, which makes the film seem dated.Overall, this is a stylish and technically well-made film about eroticism. As a suspense thriller, however, it is less effective. "},{"Title":"Much ado about nothing!","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Influenced by the films of Dario Argento, DePalma's exercise in glossy trash reworks several of Hitchcock's plots. The film begins promisingly with Angie Dickinson as the film's only sympathetic character, but after Dickinson is sliced to ribbons in an elevator, the film becomes talky and devoid of genuine wit or suspense. And despite its reputation, the film isn't sexy or scary. The humor is crude and dumb, and for suspense is created by an overused score and actions prolonged beyond endurance. Uncommitted performances from Nancy Allen, Keith Gordon, Dennis Franz and a gross Michael Caine fail to create genuine concern or interest and the ludicrous, patched-together plot isn't really interesting. Besides Dickinson, who is warm and appealing, Mary Davenport from DePalma's Home Movies and Sisters has a funny reaction as the woman in the restaurant, and the madhouse sequence at the end is effective, but Dressed to Kill offers few rewards. Sisters(73), a reworking of both Rear Window and Psycho, is DePalm a's best horror film and Hitchock homage. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There are a few films that are so truly awful that they are extremely entertaining because of it. This film is Brian De Palma's bizarre tribute to the late great Alfred Hitchcock. This film is so badly miscast it makes 'Showgirls' almost look like and oscar film. I think my favourite scene is when Angie Dickinson sleeps with some guy she meets in an art gallery, only to find out he has got venereal disease, and then subsequently she gets murdered in a lift by a transsexual played by Michael Caine!This film is a must for all of you who, like myself, thought that Pearl Harbour is the greatest comedy of all time. If your looking for cheap fun, you have to rent this movie now, it is a must you will kill yourself laughing from start to finish and also look out for the cheap Hitchcock rip-offs throughout, enjoy! "},{"Title":"Another Psycho rip-off","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When Gus Van Sant did his Psycho remake, they said it was an original idea, had never been done before. Well it was done before and it was called Dressed to Kill. This movie takes so many elements of Psycho and shows just how bad a movie could be made of them. First you have the cross-dressing killer, but at least in Psycho the true sexual identity was kept secret til the end, but here it's no secret at all. There's the big-name actress who at first appears to be the main character of the film, and then is abruptly killed a third of the way into the film. There is even a long-winded psychological explanation of the killer's motives once he has been revealed, but here he is not just a transvestite, but a transsexual. Although he's really only a wanna-be transsexual, so really he's just a transvestite with a different motivation. The most pointless rip-off of Psycho here, though, are the two, count'em TWO, shower scenes that book-end the film. Neither comes close to Psycho's version, and even worse, they are both just dream sequences so they add nothing to the plot. The first one has nothing to do with the film whatsoever other than to show one of the film's stars nude. The second is even more pointless, coming after the killer's identity has been revealed. The only purpose I can think of is that they needed to make the film 10 or 15minutes longer to reach feature length, and tacked on this lame sequence as a result. This film is definitely not worth the time. "},{"Title":"Bet it looked good on paper","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I can find very little thats good to say about this film. I am sure the idea and script looked good on paper but the filmography and acting I am afraid is not the standards I would expect from some very talented people. I would doubt that this features highly in their CV Filmography. Michael Caine appeared wooden at times in his role as the Doctor, and at no time no did I actually believe in his character. The plot was unbelievable especially with regard to the victims son. Some of the scenes were very reminiscent of other films, that at times I wondered if it was actually a spoof thriller. The lighting at times was dark and this added to the feeling of watching a low budget movie with some big named stars, wondering why I bothered to watch it at all. "}{"Title":"Mildly amusing giallo with gargantuan plot-holes","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" spoilersWhat can you say about a movie when the best thing about it is Angie Dickinson? Or that the movie starts and ends with dream sequences of a woman taking a shower and getting killed? This is another De Palma cheesefest, filled with sexism, split-screens, Pino Donaggio music and deviant behavior like transvestites/transsexuality. DRESSED TO KILL is filled with SO many contrived moments that it almost becomes deliriously funny. Here are a couple of examplesAfter Angie has sex with the man at his apartment, she finds out that he has some sort of venereal disease. Shock! But the thing is, when was this doctor's report made? 6 months ago? 12 months ago? In other words, the film makes a big point to show something like this and yet forgoes all other aspects about this shocking revelation that divorces it from reality. The man might have already been cured for all we know. Making a big fuss over things that might be explained a bit more rationally only makes DTK look silly and overwrought. Yes, I know that it's all about Angie's feelings of guilt but the way it's handled in DTK still makes me laugh for all the wrong reasons.And when Angie is in the elevator and realizes she left her wedding ring at the man's apartment she goes back to the seventh floor only to face the killer there who subsequently slashes her to death. First, how did the killer know that Angie would return to the seventh floor? Second, how did the killer anticipate that Angie would be alone in the elevator? Third, if the killer bothers to murder Angie in the elevator, why doesn't the killer stop the elevator on the seventh floor or in between floors? This would have prevented the elevator from going up or down to other floors where people are waiting patiently and who would be witnesses to the murder. Massive and inexcusable plot-holes.There are numerous other silly details, like the kid playing Hardy Boys and creating a camera that takes time-lapsed still shots of the doctor's office, or the whole pointless split-screen moment, when we see, on the left side of the screen, Michael Caine listening to disturbing messages and watching documentaries on transsexuals, and on the right, we see Nancy Allen being chased by, gasp, a tall blonde woman. Those scenes are only there to pad the movie's length. They are pointless. And to make things even more deliriously silly, De Palma shamelessly channels Hitchcock, which gives another layer of unintentional weirdness/awfulness to it all.Even with all it's flashy camera-work and violence, DRESSED TO KILL is surprisingly low key. At times, it looks and feels like a low budget film. There are just a couple of set pieces. And there are only a couple of characters. The film feels small. And like every Brian De Palma films (his big or low budget ones), there is one great scene that stands out, this one being the entire museum scene, but then everything else falls apart fast soon afterwards. DRESSED TO KILL peaks very early and there's simply nothing interesting that happens after the elevator scene. Michael Caine, straight from two disaster epics (THE SWARM and BEYOND THE POSEIDON ADVENTURE, both bombed massively), sleepwalks through his role. Nancy Allen is sexy in a sassy and street-smart way but I felt at times that she didn't care much for the whole thing. That she was above this kind of film. And the guy who played the kid was okay but I never liked his role. He doesn't seem to belong in this type of film. In the end, Angie's character is the only one in the movie who seemed to have a semblance of depth. It's not much but seems to be much when compared to the cardboard characters populating the film. It's one of Angie's best performances. And as for the dream sequences, they're totally gratuitous. One was enough. I don't see the reason for book-ending the film with two similar dream sequences. They're contrived and just a tad tasteless, to say the least, certainly the one with Angie's body double. The second dream sequence reinforces the fact that De Palma didn't have a good script and didn't know where or how to end the movie. I mean, there are three endings in DTK.In closing, I have to admit that the first time I saw DTK, I HATED it! I still do BUT now having been a fan of the giallo genre for many years, which DRESSED TO KILL was obviously inspired by it, I can now finally put DTK in some sort of context (other than a cheap Hitchcock rip-off) and see it for what it is (or for what it tried to be) it's a definite mixture of gialli and Hitchcock films. As mildly amusing as DTK is, I can't help but wonder if De Palma and Dario Argento weren't competing with each other back in the 1970s and early 1980s, continuously trying to top each other with these giallos, or gory thrillers. Of the two filmmakers, I prefer Dario films made before PHENOMENA. TENEBRE seems to be Dario's answer to DTK and as uneven as TENEBRE is, it is more rewarding than DRESSED TO KILL. At least TENEBRE has a real transsexual. LOL! "},{"Title":"Oozing with style, but completely lacking in substance","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"15 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A repressed housewife (an annoying lisping Angie Dickinson, whose body double treats/horrifies us with an extreme closeup of her delicates) is sexually bored by her husband and decides to branch-out. This directly results in a string of murders that soon involve a high-class prostitute (Nancy Allen, clearly I am in the wrong business if SHE can bring home $600 a night) and her psychologist (Michael Caine). If you are going to watch De Palma rip off (excuse me, pay homage to) Hitchcock, watch Sisters instead of this. Dressed to Kill, while loaded with style and technical skill, is one of the tackiest thrillers I have had the displeasure of sitting through. The plot is absurd and tired. It does feature some surprisingly effective jump scares and nasty graphic murder sequences that should please any horror fan, as long as they can get past the silly story line, that must have been dated even in 1980. "},{"Title":"Highly objectionable, but worthwhile for a clutch of unforgettable scenes.","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Dressed to Kill, when viewed as a whole movie from beginning to end, is by no means a classic. Its narrative occasionally goes haywire; some of the acting is unconvincing; and the solution seems quite obvious since there are never really too many suspects to act as red herrings. However, this film contains four or five truly astonishing moments which are alone worth the price of admission.It's essentially a murder story spiced up with sex and graphic violence. A sexually unhappy house wife picks up a guy at a museum, has sex with him, then is brutally murdered in an elevator as she leaves his apartment. Her son (a geeky electronics whiz) and a hooker who witnessed the slaying team together to find the culprit, but can expect no help from the police since they consider the hooker to be their only real suspect.The elevator murder is disturbing in the extreme, but also a truly extraordinary sequence which makes you want to hide behind the sofa. Likewise, the storm-interrupted climax is cinematic genius (I can't say too much for fear of spoiling the ending). There's a piece of technical bravura from De Palma in which a couple of characters have a lengthy conversation on a winding staircase as they walk down the steps, ingeniously shot in a single take. On the whole, Dressed to Kill is just an upper class slasher film which pushes screen violence more-or-less to its limits. But for those occasional glimpses of genius, it deserves a viewing. "},{"Title":"A weird movie","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There's no doubt which director De Palma admires the most. His Hitchcock-ish approach is undoubted and he makes the best of it. But this movie threw me completely off guard because I had no idea what zhanra it was up until the murder of Kate Miller. Till then I thought the movie was going to be an erotic love thriller(this especially due to the silly music that was playing the whole time). Nonetheless this move isn't bad, but it damn sure isn't anything special. A very average De Palma flick that for some reason was nominated for a bunch of Razzies. But don't let that fool you, it isn't near as bad. The acting is pretty solid and there are also some bright moments from the cinematographer. But it doesn't go much further with Dresses to kill.  6/10  "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have only seen 3 and own 2 of De Palma's movies. I have seen Blow Out, Carrie, and Dressed to Kill. This is my second favorite movie that he directed, my favorite is Carrie. This stars Michael Caine, Angie Dickenson, Nancy Allen, and Keith Gordon. plot Kate Miller (Angie Dickenson) is addicted to sex. She goes to psychiatrist Dr. Robert Elliot (Michael Cain). Alittle later into the movie she is murdered by a woman (or man) who goes by the name of Bobbi, a hooker named Liz Blake (Nancy Allen) sees it all happen. Dr. Elliot gets a message from an old patient of his, he is a man who wants to be a woman, and that patient is Bobbi, Bobbi says that he stole Dr. Elliot's razor and used it to kill Kate, and he is now going after Liz. But with the help of Kate's son (Keith Gordon), Liz is going to try to find out who Bobbi really is.People say this is a ripoff of Psycho, I like this but its not better then Psycho because Psycho is my favorite horror movie of all time. But if you liked Psycho or if you are a fan of Brian De Palma, or if you just want to see a good slasher/mystery film, rent or buy Dressed to Kill. "},{"Title":"Vertigo meets Psycho meets the 80s","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this movie for the first time the other night on HBO, and I thought it was pretty good.  It's pretty suspenseful, and I thought the performances were pretty good also, even though I'm not much of a Michael Caine fan.  I think the only person that kind of was 'misplaced' was Nancy Allen.  Other than her 'not so good' performance the film was.... alright.Oh, and alright it was a LOT like Vertigo especially the museum scene, and the beginning shower scene was REALLY misplaced and just another chance to see a naked woman.I watched it with my friends, I must be dumb or something, but they all knew who the killer was, I didn't know until the middle where I figured oh ok it MUST be -, but they all thought it was pretty phony and a waste because they were expecting a murder mystery and just got a murder without the mystery.  And they also thought the Carrie ending was pretty retarded, it worked in Carrie, but not in this film.  I'm not going to say what happened, but if you've seen Carrie then I think you get the picture.All in all, it's not THAT bad of a film.  If you have time than maybe you'd want to check it out on HBO.  I think I gave this film a 6 or 7.  "},{"Title":"a truly great slasher piece","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Dressed to Kill is one of my all-time favourites and it's easy to guess why. First, it's a homage to Psycho which is the one of the greatest films of all time. Second, it has one of the most beautiful original scores ever written for a film. Third, its director is the great Brian de Palma, in my opinion still the most underrated director of his generation. Although he was on a winning streak after the success of Carrie, his beautiful films began to be ripped apart by critics who couldn't differentiate between a rip-off and and a homage, thus paving the way for the bad reputation of his films which continue even today, the most striking example of which is the total critical (and commercial) failure of Snake Eyes. (In my opinion better than most of the films released last year) Dressed to Kill opens with a shower sequence that Hithcock would be proud to devise of. (If only censorship would allow him in those days.)Accompanied by Pino Donaggio's lush music, Angie Dickinson imagines her most violent fantasies become true which, later in the film,ironically will. The film moves from one stunning setpiece to another. The next one is an elongated dream-like chase through an Arts Museum. Depalma's use of split-screen in this sequence is incredible. The audience has totally identified with this middle-aged woman at this point and together with her,we desperately search for the man who made a pass at her through the long and endless corridors, only to be relieved when she finds him outside in a cab. The film is entirely dialogue-free for nearly 20 minutes and the enjoyment at a cinematic level is enormous. The murder sequence at the elevator therefore comes as a total shock, killing our heroine just as in Psycho (Hitchcock surely would have blessed DePalma for this alone) and turning the movie into a totally different direction. The remainder of the film is slasher piece of the highest order, including lots of trademark DePalma slow-motion, split-screen, amazing camerawork and a definitely breathtaking climax. It's a film to be seen again and again, each viewing giving purely cinematic fun. I highly recommend it to everyone bored with the teen-slasher pics drowning the market nowadays. "},{"Title":"Brian De Palma, the succesor of Hitchcock invites you to see the last fashion to kill.","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Dressed to kill (1980) was described for more critics as one of the most important movies of the 1980 and a really homage for Alfred Hitchcock in the year of their death. The movie was beautifully shot  by De Palma in a very classical style influenced by Vertigo and Psycho, but the screenplay is full of references to other filmmakers, basically Luis Buñuel and his Belle de jour. Dressed to kill is a nice gore film with psycological ambitions and a very serious portrayal of a sadist killer called Bobbi, a transvestite or transexual man with problems of adaptation to  the society. The movie is a really horror tale of frustration with an incredible presence of erotism and an analysis of mental illness seen by the magician De Palma with their derivative imagination and their narrative talent. The main question of the film is the crazy character of Dr. Elliott/Bobbi perfomed by the eccentric Michael Caine and the others actors -Dickinson, Allen, Gordon and Dennis Franz- are involved in this brilliant erotic thriller. Bobby is back to remember to the audience that a transvestite is a paranoid person and the conservadurism of De palma is evident nobody like him could be free in the streets. This is the moral dilemma and the trascendental message of Dressed to kill.       "},{"Title":"Brian DePalma at his best.","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best of its kind and also one of my favourite movies by one of my favourite directors.This suspenseful thriller has it all chills, the unsuspecting victims, the unknown identidy of the killer, the unexpected twists in the plot etc... The final scene is a classic and also the music score is superb.One thing I didn't like was Nancy Allen's acting which was weak at some points.However, it is a definite must for anyone (especially horror/slasher movie lovers.)  "},{"Title":"Half good, half moronic","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" De Palma pays homage to Alfred Hitchcock once again with this sometimes entertaining, sometimes completely retarded thriller. It's very heavily influenced by Psycho, with its frequent shower imagery, . Nancy Allen (of RoboCop fame) stars as a hooker who witnesses a murder and is then stalked by the murderer. Allen is quite good here (she was not as good in De Palma's follow-up, Blow Out). Michael Caine plays Dickinson's psychiatrist, who may be hiding information about another murderous patient. Dennis Franz plays one of the worst cops in movie history, very pushy and eager to convict Allen for the murder, and Keith Gordon plays Dickinson's teenage son, a nerdy inventor who teams up with Allen to solve the crime. There are a handful of fantastic set pieces, notably the elevator and the subway sequences (although the latter suffers from some pretty nasty early '80s racism). There's at least one really bad one, too, near the beginning where Dickinson plays a flirtatious game of hide-and-seek in an art museum with a mysterious man (I think his name is MacGuffin). "}{"Title":"All dressed Up with nowhere to go","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Where does homage end and plagiarism begin? De Palma continues his Hitchcock obsession with this ripoff of Psycho with nods to Vertigo and North by Northwest. This one is all dressed up with nowhere to go. There is, for example, an homage to the museum scene from Vertigo, but it goes on pointlessly for about ten minutes. For the most part, the amateurish script and direction make for an embarrassingly bad film. Dickinson looks fine for a woman nearing 50, although it's laughably obvious that a body double is used for her naughty scenes. Franz looks and acts horrifyingly cheesy as a tough cop with an unbuttoned polyester shirt. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is probably one of Brian De Palma's best known movies but it isn't his best. Body Double, The Fury and Carrie are better movies but this movie is better than Blow Out and Obsession. De Palma is very influenced by Hitchcock and this movie is a take off on Psycho. Angie Dickinson is a bored housewife who is thinking of having an affair and after her psychiatrist, played by Michael Caine, turns down an offer, Dickinson meets a man in a art gallery and she winds up sleeping with him. After this point it's best you don't know what happens but there is a murder and Nancy Allen is a call girl who gets a look at the killer. Dennis Franz is the detective on the case who really doesn't trust Allen and she has to find the killer herself. It's a pretty good movie but isn't one of De Palma's best. "},{"Title":"I wonder if Angie Dickinson's panties are still on the floor of that taxi...","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wouldn't you know it - just when a sexually frustrated wife (Angie Dickinson) finally gets some good, passionate, satisfying sexual rapture, she finds out the guy had an STD - and then she gets mutilated by a tall, creepy gal in an elevator. From there, it's up to the only witness, call girl Nancy Allen, and the victim's son Keith Gordon to find the culprit. And where does Michael Caine fit in to all of this? It may be an unpleasant Psycho rip off, but it has its moments of inspired, atmospheric audience manipulation - plus Nany Allen looks great in black lingerie or no lingerie at all. The final nightmare however is too long. Film probably would have benefited from keeping Angie Dickinson alive to be stalked relentlessly.DVD includes theatrical and unrated cuts of the film plus interviews with the cast and Keith Gordon going on and on about what a great metaphor it is leading up to Angie Dickinson's doom as she loses all her protective layers - gloves, wedding ring, panties, etc.Speaking of the panties, the scene of Angie having her panties pulled off and left on the taxi cab floor before getting a finger penetration is probably the otherwise gruesome film's only real comic highlight. "},{"Title":"A movie that begins romantically  and goes the way you never expect to. This is what makes a movie so good!","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" *** out of ****Yep! Dressed To Kill is that kind of a movie. It's like Kalifornia, but it's different. Remember? That movie from 1993 which stars Brad Pitt as a serial killer who is welcomed by a couple of travelers in a trip to California as a buddy who might be a good company along the way. When I watch a movie, I always like not to know anything at all about the plot, before watching it, because the surprises may get even cooler. That's how it was with Kalifornia. When I watched it last year for the first time, I never realized it was a suspense movie, so when I found out, I was shocked, and when the movie went on and on, it got even better and I was at the edge of my seat, almost kissing my monitor, so close I was to it! So, we're discussing about Dressed To Kill, right? Before I watched this movie (today!), I've only watched 2 others movies from Brian De Palma, so I can say I don't really know that well his works, but can tell from afar that these 2 movies for me were as great as they could be. Carrie (1976) and MissionImpossible (1996). When I watched Carrie on the TV, I was really that desperate to get a DVD copy and I can tell this movie is great! MissionImpossible also. And today, I watched a third movie from DePalma. Well, Dressed To Kill is a movie like Kalifornia. When the movie goes on, it goes completely different than what you'd expect. I was watching, very curious, the scene of the museum, where Dickinson follows the mysterious man to his cab and they end together in an apartment room. You may guess what may have happened there. But when the movie reached the scene of the elevator, the movie went completely on a different path. I was watching the rest of the movie, and I really liked it. However, there are some low points... Some characters in the movie are completely silent! Take, for example, the mysterious man from the museum scene. I was always hoping that he could say something but he never did! This was totally ridiculous and was with no doubt something that made me change my mind by not accepting this movie as at least almost something as a masterpiece. Even in the cab scene, where Dickinson tries to apologize because of what happened in the museum, the completely silent man grabs her, pulls her inside the cab, and they start kissing each other. You know, it reminded me of the Mexican TV series of the 70's El Chavo Del 8, where some characters are completely silent. Getting past these low points of the movie, it is actually a great movie, considering the suspense, the characters and the plot. Dennis Franz is cool as detective Marino! Reminded me of him as Capt. Carmine Lorenzo in Die Hard 2 (1990) where he plays almost the same kind of character. Well, concluding this review, the ending of Dressed To Kill is the same ending as it is in Carrie! I don't know if I really liked that, because I hate imitations! I understand that Carrie is a movie from DePalma, so it's not actually an imitation, because after all it was his idea! But it turned to be a repetitive idea in Dressed To Kill, so DePalma could have done something different instead of showing Nancy Allen waking up from a bad dream the same way it happens to Amy Irving at the ending scene of Carrie. This was, of course, with no doubt, another low point. But if you get past this, you will find that Dressed To Kill is a really good movie, and I assure you that it's not, by any means, a waste of time watching it. "},{"Title":"Has suspense, but not good enough","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  'Dressed to Kill' has the elements of a Hitchcock film but never quite gets there. Not in story, not in suspense, although the final sequence of the movie comes very close. Like in 'Psycho' the movie is halfway and what seemed to be the heroine gets killed, and other people try to solve the case. With other people I mean not only the police.The killed woman is Kate Miller (Angie Dickinson), a patient of Dr. Elliott (Michael Caine) who thinks the killer is one of his former patients Bobbi. The murder was witnessed by prostitute Liz (Nancy Allen) and together with Kate's son Peter (Keith Gordon), who saved her from the killer, they try to solve the case. For Detective Marino (Dennis Franz) Liz is the prime suspect.I didn't like the movie very much, but it has some qualities. The movie was nominated for Razzie Awards and a Golden Globe and I think it is exactly that kind of movie. You can think it is great or you can think it is stupid. The acting, to name something, is strange but works in a movie like this. Still, I can understand when you say it is not very good.That the movie is an obvious Hitchcock rip-off also works at times, but when you don't realize that, or don't care, things can look strange as well. I said there are some qualities. One of them is the final sequence I mentioned above. It feels like the makers didn't like the ending and wanted to add one more sequence. Fortunately it is the most suspenseful sequence in the movie, but it was not really necessary. There are other moments with suspense, but not as scary as I thought it could be.The last thing I want to say is that the killer is pretty predictable as well. Although there are a couple of possibilities you will probably guess right. That makes the only reason to see this movie some moments with suspense and may be the score, Pino Donaggio, that is good as well. Director Brian De Palma has made a movie not for everybody, also because of some explicit sex scenes and bloody violence. "},{"Title":"Dprseyscsheod Troip Koiflfl","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Dressed to Kill has all the styling of a great thriller. It holds amazing artistic direction, and there are breathtaking, I mean absolutely amazing scenes where there is no dialogue. These scenes when the music and acting runs everything, something few directors could achieve, at least on this level. And the story isn't too bad either.  Where dies Dress to Kill lose? It's a painfully obvious rip-off of Psycho. I know DePalma is aware, I've read reviews. But this is nothing like I thought. You could probably play them side by side and wonder why this wasn't thought of as an updated version of Hitchcocks ground breaking film.Beside the hack ending that goes beyond Psycho, there are other reasons why NOT to like this movie. The main one is the endless rip-off, it goes so far as to deal with the politics of film making. Hitchcock had to fight the censors for the shower scene in Psycho, a nude woman in a shower is very offensive. What does DePalma do? DePalma (probably trying to egg on the censors) has not only a naked woman but close up of certain parts. I'm not saying this is bad, but it shows the massive amount of detail that was put into the actual ripping-off of Psycho.  Yes, if you've never seen Psycho or you have but you don't really pay attention to detail, then yes Dressed to Kill is a really good film. In fact for most people this is probably a great movie. But if you're a buff, an endless fan of film as I am. A person who lives to escape into the world styles of writers and directors, then Dressed to Kill will not cut, in fact it will only ANNOY it. Dressed to Kill in whole gets ** (out of ****) (5) "},{"Title":"Disappointing, overblown, badly acted - with style","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  possible spoilersI saw this on the special edition region one disc with all the frills (unrated version, featurette, photo gallery etc etc) after some years of missing it for whatever reason. And what a huge disappointment -  this coming from someone who really *liked* 'Snake Eyes'..  DTK is a film punctuated by bad acting and over blown gestures which, while striking in themselves, are left stranded by a plot as thin and with more holes in it than Bruce Willis' vest in 'Die Hard'. The Big Mystery of who, and what, the killer is, is telegraphed relentlessly. Each time psychiatrist Caine hears of another development in the case, it seems, he is prompted by inner demons (or directorial nervousness at the self-written plot) to pause ominously and glimpse his own reflection in a handy mirror, with dire anticipation. At one point he even bumps into the mirror before the requisite meaningful glimpse. This, together with a heavy handed play on the transexualism theme, is almost laughable by the end. De Palma's funereal pace sometimes hinders rather than helps the suspense, especially as sometimes his montage work and timing work against, rather than with, each other..  Angie Dickinson is fine, although a body double was obviously employed for the opening, over-salacious nude shower scene. (Soapy , ginger pubes do not of terror make.)  Her discovery of the worrying medical report immediately after enjoying guiltless sex is truly groan-worthy, but one presumes that, as usual, women who enjoy themselves should be be punished immediately afterwards. Even after the murderer is caught, and I thought it time to put the cat out, a pointless dream coda dragged out matters quite unconvincingly, set in a mental hospital like one I never imagined likely.Some good scenes; the art gallery encounter being a standout (although even here credulity was strained) as well as the stalking on the subway. And it is always great to see the rotascope used on the wide screen. A lot of the atmosphere is sabotaged by Donaggio's over emphatic music - a clear case of less being more, IMHO. Nancy Allen's acting is B-A-A-D, which leads one to suspect that De Palma was more concerned with camera placement at the time than with effective voice coaching. Caine affects to lose his well known accent, and sounds a tad mannered and bland because of it.  If there are those who doubt the skills of Argento in martialing similar material, of making the dreamlike and irrational something actually frightening, then this overrated film would be a prime exhibit in the case. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Dressed to kill started off as a very promising piece of art (because DePalma's direction IS art, at least during the first half of the film) but eventually didn't live up to my expectations. I was fascinated by the camera work and by the long scenes where the real protagonist is the music. A silence more eloquent than any word could ever be, goes an old Suzanne Vega song (Night vision, 1987), and in fact, there are some sequences in Dressed to kill that can be perfectly described with this phrase. The camera work left me breathless and agonizing during the chase / hide-and-seek scene in the museum, but I was simultaneously carried away by the poetic combination of rapid angle changes with that fascinating piece of music.Anyway, my excitement soon wore off as the story unfolded, leaving huge question marks in my head about the credibility of what was going on and making me angry with the easy solutions that the writer resorted to towards the end of the film. Really disappointing, but well worth a watch for the reasons mentioned above.6 "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this anymore.","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First lets talk to see if this movie is right for the people reading this because you either love it or hate it. If you like movies that are more mystery than horror then rush out and buy this one right now and don't hesitate.  Forget about renting it because you will watch it over and over and over again.  The reason for this is because DePalma(my favorite director of all time) doesn't just play with your mind like Hitchcock did, he rapes it.  There are several scenes in this movie that Hitchcock would even of been proud of. The performances by all three main characters especially Michael Caine as a potential robot, he he you'll see, are all not great but fit just perfectly.  What works most for the movie is the scenes.  There are about four in it that are just as thrilling as the train station scene in The Untouchables.  Most people say this movie is predictable, I say yes it is, but watching it unravel is the fun of it.  "},{"Title":"vintage De Palma up until the last twenty minutes; slick and tastefully tasteless homage","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed to Kill understandably made a bit of a ruckus when first released in 1980 you had Police Girl in a role that was mega-erotic, as Angie Dicknson played a sexually frustrated housewife looking for good times in all the wrong museums (and there into apartment elevators), plus Nancy Allen as a call-girl, Michael Caine as Norman Bates's sophisticated New York cousin, and enough lurid imagery to last two movies of the period. Today it's slightly less incriminating by standards and such, though the unrated version has some of the most hot content of any of De Palma's films, at least in his quasi-auteur period of the 70s and early 80s, where he seemed to repeat themes over and over, ideas taken right off the film-reels of Hitchcock classics and given a tawdry uplift. It's a simple tale that one partly already saw in Sisters, and then again to an extent in Body Double, and also in Blow Out. Cutie Allen plays call-girl Liz Blake, who has to clear her name of suspicion of killing Kate (Dickinson, in full blown 'MILF' mode), after being found with a razor, the murder weapon from Dr. Elliott's office (Michael Caine, stone-cold performance most of the way).From the start, which De Palma seems to do as a way of setting up a dangerous sexual fantasy scene as a way of topping the opening scene of Carrie (which, perhaps, he does just in editing terms), we get a series of technical knock-out turns through the point of view of style itself the tracking shots in the museum, meant to stir up more of a fascination with the process itself, of following and wanting to be followed, than any kind of tension; the chase through the subway (a precursor to Carlito's Way) is done with a precise level of suspense, meanwhile, with a slightly exploitation bit thrown in with the black gang; the character of Peter, Kate's son (Keith Gordon), who plays what is essentially a younger version of the real life De Palma as a kid (science geek, obsessed with Hitchcock and voyeurism). And it's all entertaining and entrancing as hell as something that comes close to a real synthesis of what makes De Palma's thrillers so unique while being so self-consciously untainted by a fearless attitude of film-making.On the other hand, that same self-consciousness ended up coming back to bite the director in the butt a few times in recent years, and somehow in Dressed to Kill it starts to become very erratic and disappointing as the story has to wrap itself up. As the Psycho themes come together even more apparently (man who wants a sex-change, doesn't even think he's killing as it is *she* who is doing it), there is an expository scene in the police station that makes the aforementioned Hitch film look like an astonishing psychological revelation. And the final scenes at Peter's house, also calling painfully into recollection a much more accomplished sequence in Carrie, are meant for a manipulation that even for De Palma is asking for it; the final shot especially, albeit a master's class in how to copy yourself. Yet there is a very deranged and, within itself, perfect scene at the mental hospital amid this confused denouement, where the doctor does some work on a nurse, to which all the other inmates act like animals in a zoo, and an over-head shot going up and up over the scene is one of the best shots of sexual/general perversion ever captured on film.A shame then that the film ends on such a strange and unsettling manner, where up until then it is a remarkable piece of pulp cinema, where class is all around in the technical aspects (soft lighting, intricate camera movements seemingly so simple) amid subject matter that should be found in the mix of paperbacks for 25 cents. It's no masterpiece, but I'd certainly take it over most of the director's recent thrillers any day. "}{"Title":"all dressed up and somewhere to go","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In what must be one of the most blood-freezing movies ever, a transvestite is murdering people in New York, and the answer to everything may not be what people suspect. One can see how Brian DePalma takes some influence from Hitchcock with camera angles and stuff. Michael Caine plays a most thought-provoking character, while Angie Dickinson is basically a bored rich woman with a bad hairdo. Keith Gordon (who later starred in Christine) is probably the most interesting character in the movie. But you can't really understand this movie without seeing it. And after seeing it, you may never know just whom you can trust. Also starring Nancy Allen and Dennis Franz. "},{"Title":"Psycho Redux + Sex","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I imagine that if Hitchcock had lived to make an explicit erotic murder mystery, it would look an awful lot like Dressed to Kill (1980), one of the most blatant Hitchcockian thrillers ever crafted -- right down to the re-creation of the infamous shower scene (this one taking place inside an elevator).Directed by Brian DePalma, a man notorious for having centered many of his own movies around similar themes and visual styles of Hitchcock's, Dressed to Kill is both frustratingly simple and predictable. But it's also very enjoyable.Hitchcock always began with substance and let his work evolve into style. With DePalma, it is exactly the opposite he builds upon style and the plot follows. During a sequence of shots that lasts at least ten minutes long, a troubled woman named Kate (Angie Dickinson) chases an unknown man through a museum of art. These scenes are handled with deliberate style -- music overlaps the actions. All other sounds are blocked. Images are slowed down. A hand-held camera takes on the first-person perspective as it swoops around corners, chasing the man as he escapes her...Right when we think we know where the film is headed, it spins us around. After an extra-marital affair with this mysterious man, a vague woman slaughters Kate in an elevator. The lone witness to the crime is Liz Blake (Nancy Allen), one of those hooker-with-a-heart-of-gold characters, who soon finds her own life threatened after the mysterious woman begins to stalk her. Why? Apparently, to taunt Dr. Elliott (Michael Caine), a psychiatrist who realizes that the murder suspect is a patient of his named Bobby. Bobby is a transsexual who has some very serious problems, and apparently no clear motive behind his actions.Kate was also a patient of Dr. Elliott's, prior to her death. Elliot considers this to be the link to the motive. As he tries to convince authorities of Bobby's guilt, Liz decides to do some investigating of her own, with the help of Kate's son.The movie is all about style -- stylish chase sequences, stylish murder sequences, stylish revelation sequences, and stylish dream sequences. It also deals extensively with sex. There are a few scenes in this movie I don't even think Hitchcock would have been daring enough to put into a film.For the most part it's all very enjoyable. Even though I guessed the ending as soon as the murder occurred, getting there was half the fun. The other half owes its success to the style of the movie. Dressed to Kill shocked audiences when it came out for a number of obvious reasons. It dealt rather explicitly with sex, transsexuals and murder. But one of the biggest surprises was the demise of Dickinson's character. Advertised as a main star, she is killed off within the first forty minutes, right after DePalma masterfully convinces us that the story isn't going to be about murder at all. Our minds start to wander, unsure what the film is trying to say. And then the mysterious woman appears with the razor blade and it all starts to make sense.In this regard Dressed to Kill is a masterpiece -- a movie that shocks us at every turn, even when we have a feeling we know where it's going.However, its biggest flaw is its climax Hitchcock knew when to end his movies, and DePalma doesn't. He never really has, although his two finest movies -- Scarface and The Untouchables -- are ironically not Hitchcockian in approach at all. The ending lowers the film's lasting impact because it is so manipulative and unpleasing -- first, there's the mandatory explanation of events. Hitchcock did this with Psycho (1960) and it is often considered one of the film's only faults. Here, DePalma -- who also wrote the script (heavily influenced by Psycho) -- does the same, with even worse dialogue. There's also the overused Dream Sequence effect that should have never been filmed.But all that doesn't really matter in the long run. The style of Dressed to Kill is ultimately what makes it so fun. You may recognize some distinct sequences here that exist in other films (the split-frame sequence is in Kill Bill Vol. 1, for example). In mimicking Hitchcock, DePalma has created a handful of unique styles along the way. Although it isn't flawless, Dressed to Kill is a very fun movie and a must-see for film buffs.  "},{"Title":"Dressing","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Empty stylization. The Hitchcock references are beside the point in my mind. But that stylization is terrific and original! A much more intelligent eye than Hitchcock ever had.Which raises the point can a film be worth watching if its only plus is in the novel stylization? Here's my problem `Snake Eyes' blows me away with such a radical vision, and it has less in terms of acting and story than even this.I say yes, but you have to take this appraisal as from someone who sees a lot of films, and who appreciates genius and risk even in an incomplete result. Part of the distraction here is the poor acting all around, the screwy makeup, the derivative plot, and the mishandling of how sex as a driving force behind the story. This last is the only real problem. That's because sex is salted here and there, but doesn't connect as neither a real driver of the story nor an inspiration for the art in which it is wrapped. An example of sex as an effective driver is the inaptly named `Frenzy.' That story moves as a result of our connecting with -- even collaborating with -- the murderer. The actors in Dressed just don't have the juice; though Nancy is cute, she hardly seems really really bad. Another example of a director blinded to the limits of the woman he loves. As an example of how sex can be infused in the environment, I'll cite `Mulholland Drive' as a recent example. Doesn't happen here. Even the shower scenes seem sterile. "},{"Title":"Half-cocked Hitchcock wannabe","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A call-girl witnesses a murder and becomes the killer's next target. Director Brian De Palma is really on a pretentious roll here his camera swoops around corners in a museum (after lingering a long time over a painting of an ape), divvies up into split screen for arty purposes, practically gives away his plot with a sequence (again in split screen) where two characters are both watching a TV program about transsexuals, and stages his (first) finale during a thunderous rainstorm. Dressed To Kill is exhausting, primarily because it asks us to swallow so much and gives back nothing substantial. Much of the acting (with the exception of young Keith Gordon) is mediocre and the (second) finale is a rip-off of De Palma's own Carrie--not to mention Psycho. The explanation of the dirty deeds plays like a spoof of Hitchcock, not an homage. Stylish in a steely cold way, the end results are distinctly half-baked. ** from **** "},{"Title":"DePalma's Psycho Different But Well Made","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"19 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadWhen this was released there was an uproar over the shower scene which today is quite tame. It has the DePalma signature watch for the little girl staring at Kate in the elevator. It makes Kate very uncomfortable, the mother senses this reproves the little girl who still stares at Kate, incessantly. It is an exact parallel to BLOW OUT, remember the scene with the black angel of death towering over Sally. DePalma hints that the little girl sees death hovering, invisibly, hovering over Kate. This is right before she pushes the button that leads to her doom, Elliot dressed as Bobby wielding a straight razor. It is like PSYCHO in that a promiscuous women meets her doom; as we hear enunciated by slimy detective Marino.There are all kinds of ways to get killed in this city, if you're looking for it. We got some hot pants broad cruising around town. This has always been the hilarious paradox of the misunderstood DePalma. Beneath all the sex and violence, Brian is just as deeply moral as his master Hitch. As in Psycho, with Marian, here Kate turns on the wrong man. It starts so innocuously, she simply asks Dr. Elliot if her finds her attractive and would like to sleep with her; watch Elliot look in his little desk mirror, this happens also with Liz later in the film, they both flicked the switch to Bobbie the other half of Elliot.It is fascinating to watch the film over and watch for Bobbie sightings. As the glove is dangled from the cab, the camera pans backwards to Kate's face, you will see Bobbie dressed to kill in the pan across. Also, when Kate first goes down, watch the stairs frosted red glass, you will see Bobbie looking though it at her. There is an earlier moment that triggered Kate's doom, she is rummaging through her lover's drawer, listen to the sweet music, it changes gradually; then she sees he has VD and the music switches to terror. She jumps up and bolts leaving her ring behind which starts her doom. It is so evocative of Marian in PSYCHO. She also turns on the wrong man; he, also, is a split personality which is insanely jealous. Bobbie is hidden all through the movie; it is always fun to return to the movie and find her. Fate saves Liz, quite unexpectedly, one of the big scares in the movie. Watch as she turns, to see the light lightning reflect off of the straight razor, a little God imagery, she sees Bobby wielding the razor. This time he / she is shot and it scares the crap out of you.Like Hitch, DePalma uses multiple camera views including Hitch's trademark God's Eye. My favorite is when the elevator door open, the image loses focus and we center on the razor what artistry the man has? How about the empty shoes at the end, DePalma is a genius, always an under-appreciated one. Yes, he imitates Hitch, so what? If only more directors did, what better movies we would have. I had to take one star away for the dreadfully boring art museum piece, an homage to VERTIGO, but just awful. It is boring, tedious and interminable. The whole does he or doesn't he, sorry who cares? It brings the pacing of the film to a screeching halt. This movie would have been a ten without this poorly made scene interpolated into what was a fast moving narrative. One of DePalma's biggest mistakes in a movie. You are doing a tribute to PSYCHO; let's do one tribute at a time, shall we? I recommend that you go check the mailbox, make a sandwich, but kill ten or twelve minutes and come back. If you don't, it is so bad you will be tempted to turn it off. On the whole, it is an excellent film. BLOW OUT is far superior, but this is still a very well made piece of work. I think Hitch would have been very flattered by it. It captures the essence of PSYCHO. "},{"Title":"I like the movie, but, dislike the subject.","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is very creative and somewhat based upon a time when director Brian De Palma was told by his mom to follow his dad and record if he was seeing another woman. That makes me laugh; but, I'll bet that it also helped to make this boy into a great director.The movie is good; but, some of the events that take place are creepy and 'cowardly' in the sense that, to me, hurting defenseless women is not-cool! The surveillance parts where Peter Miller (Keith Gordon) follows up leads to his mom's murder, is fantastic! Probably based upon director Brian De Palma's surveillance on his dad as instructed by his mom!?!? When I first saw this movie as a boy of fourteen, I thought that the shower scene (as opposed to Psycho) where the man grabs Angie Dickinson by the 'Dickinson' was FANTASTIC! But, now I know it was a body-double!?!? This is an o.k. movie, but, it isn't one of those movies you'd want to watch over and over, as it contains the senseless killing of a woman, which I consider cowardly; and, it's creepy like Friday The 13th; Halloween; and, Nightmare On Elm Street where women are killed by a creep. I never liked 'slasher' movies.Watch it once and make your own assessment. "},{"Title":"Uncomfortable viewing","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This dark thriller, written and directed by Brian De Palma, was released in 1980 to divided reactions. It took me 35 years to get round to seeing it, prompted by a reference to it in a film studies course I attended. I have to say that I found it uncomfortable, even unpleasant, viewing. De Palma is a fan of Alfred Hitchcock and Dressed To Kill borrows a number of ideas from The Master's Psycho and has some genuinely well-constructed scenes of tension, but the film is burdened by an incoherent narrative and contains gratuitously violent attacks on women and a version of gender reassignment that are really offensive. Angie Dickinson (not her body in the opening shower scene) and Karen Allen (at the time married to the director) must look back on this movie with embarrassment if not shame. If you want to see a decent film from De Palma, view The Untouchables. "},{"Title":"Apt Title!","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Michael Caine plays Dr. Robert Elliott, a psychiatrist helping a woman named Kate Miller(Angie Dickinson) with her emotional problems. After an unfortunate affair goes wrong, she is seeking the doctor's help when she is brutally murdered in an elevator by a bizarre looking woman who is also seen by a high-priced call girl(Nancy Allen) who then becomes a target of the murderer since she is the only witness. Kate's son Peter(Keith Gordon) seeks to help the call girl, so they can catch the killer, who isn't what they expected at all...Bizarre and violent film is a typical exercise in emulating Alfred Hitchcock by director Brian De Palma, only updated to modern standards and R rated sensibilities. Some suspense and good acting(especially Michael Caine) but far too unpleasant and outlandish to succeed. "},{"Title":"An Erotic Tale of Madness and Murder","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A mysterious, tall, blonde woman, wearing sunglasses murders one of a psychiatrist's patients, and now she's after the prostitute who witnessed it.This film is written and directed by Brian DePalma, clearly inspired by Psycho and returning to some themes he raised in Carrie. We even have the return of the split-screen shot that worked so well in Phantom of the Paradise (though less dramatic here).The film opens with Angie Dickinson naked in the shower. Luckily, in the Angie Dickinson shower scene, a body double is used. Her breasts and other woman parts are fully exposed and very graphic, very sexual... it really hurt me to see such an ugly old woman with a beautiful body... and then we again see her (this time for real) topless in a car... oh my! The film as a whole is very sexy, very hot, especially for 1980. It is tantalizing, sensual, erotic, every adjective you can throw at it. The music by Pino Donaggio (a DePalma regular) just brought this to a head. And starring Michael Caine? Perfection.Some other interesting things are brought up that might take a second or third viewing to really appreciate -- the sex change television program, the venereal disease papers in the desk... some of the twists are fairly obvious, but the nuances are something more.Howard Maxford goes so far as to say this is arguably DePalma's best film... which blows my mind. Is it good? Yes. Great? Probably... but is it as great as Scarface? I do not know... that is quite a leap. But it sure gives Carrie a run for its money. "},{"Title":"Medium good, Psycho rip-off","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If I didn't know better, I'd say Brian de Palma was thinking one of two things when he made Dressed to Kill. Either he had a high opinion of Hitchcock, or a high opinion of himself. I'm drawn to think it is the latter, because Dressed to Kill is a pretty blatant Psycho rip-off. Anything Hitchcock can do I can do better, is what must've been on de Palma's mind, well maybe not better but equally well. The result is a mildly entertaining psychological thriller, sporadically intriguing and suspenseful but with mediocre acting, and a poorly executed climax.Kate Miller (a middle aged New York housewife) has a one night stand with a stranger she meets in an art gallery. As she leaves his apartment, a woman in black leather hacks her to pieces with a razor. The only witness is a local prostitute who has just finished with a client on the same apartment floor. The police make her a suspect, and she is given only a few hours to get the proof that she claim she has. She teams up with Miller's teenage, science geek son to do a little surveillance and spying, on Miller's shrink who may know something about the killer that he has not told yet.It wasn't until the climax when I realized that this film is painfully close to the story line of Psycho. Up till then I was enjoying myself, and despite the feeble characterization, I found myself sympathetic, perhaps even more so than toward Psycho. After all, how can one not have empathy for a boy whose father is a Vietnam casualty and has lost his mother to cold blooded murder, or to a prostitute, who is a perfectly nice human being who just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. Dressed to Kill is resolved with a sloppily written climactic scene, which is a classic example of Deus ex machina. And if that isn't enough the film adds one last sequence for gratuitous suspense, and is clearly a feeble attempt of de Palma to avoid a conventional ending. Dressed to Kill is not much of a movie, but I've seen worse. If you are not a tough critic it may worth a peek if it is on TV at a convenient hour for you. "}{"Title":"Where's my razer?","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed to kill is an example of a movie I loved when I was a kid that I am not enthisiastic about now. It was absolutely amazing when I first saw it. The movie managed to be absolutely terrifying yet wholly absorbing too plus the whole whodoneit aspect was actually interesting and the twist WAS a shocker! It also made me aware of Brian Depalma. So that's quite a few positves.I still think Dressed to kill is a good movie and one many others have been influenced by. The problem is, at least for me, it's one of those movies that doesn't hold up to repeated viewings. I'm not quite sure why but most movies I have loved in the past I'm always into seeing again and this isn't one of them.I think it maybe because the story is so brutal in the first place.There is an unusual amount of violence for a movie that's more geared toward psychological thrills then out and out horror. When one's a kid one thinks that's cool. But when you get older your tastes change and you don't necessarily want to see all that violence.Also once you know the twist there isn't anything else to make it worth seeing over and over-the whole appeal in the first place is the whodone it factor.Still, I have to give dressed to kill kudos because it made me aware of Depalma and also for how much I loved this as a kid. "},{"Title":"Some great scenes but overall lacking by DePalma's standards","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I feel a bit strange giving Dressed to Kill a 5 out of 10 vote, because there is plenty of brilliance found within the film, particularly the execution of direction and style (not a surprise since it's DePalma), and there's a great deal of moments in it which are spectacular.  But honestly, I didn't find the story to be all that intriguing and never really felt like I cared for the characters.  Plus, I personally didn't think there was many surprises in the film.  Based on DePalma's endless Hitchcock homages, I had a lot of the surprises figured out long before they were revealed.  Don't get me wrong.  I love DePalma films and think he does some of the coolest homages, especially the Battleship Potemkin moment in The Untouchables.  I just didn't think this was one of his better films, though it was definitely worth watching and there were plenty of great moments of it.  I might even watch it again eventually to revisit some of the scenes in it, and hey, maybe I'd even get DePalma's intent by viewing it a second time. Upon first viewing, I just don't feel Dressed to Kill amounted to much as a whole. "},{"Title":"decent, but needs to be less obvious with more characters(spoilers ahead)","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I bought this movie at Target for $3.99 the other day thinking it would be good being directed by Brian DePalma(Carrie, Scarface). The beginning did drag on a bit too long, and Angie Dickenson was pretty much wasted until she was killed.After that there was some suspense, but I it was very easy to tell that Micheal Caine was the killer. The part when Nancy Allen was coming on to him gave it away immediately. If more characters were added to the movie, maybe this problem would have been solved. Overrall not too bad of a movie. 5.9 out of 10.------------------------------------------------------------------ "},{"Title":"Sucked","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am a big fan of Sir Michael Caine's work and I find Angie Dickinson very attractive (well the younger version of Angie Dickinson), not to mention I'm not the type to pass up the chance of seeing a slasher movie. I thought this movie would be great so I ran out to the video store the second I heard about it, but needless to say, I was gravely disappointed in the film. As I was watching the movie I kept getting the feeling that I had seen it before. I couldn't put my finger on it, but there was such a familiarity to the film. It wasn't until later that I realized that I had seen this movie before, but when I saw it first, it was in black and white, directed by Hitchcock and starred an actor named Anthony Perkins, oh yeah and the films name was 'Psycho'. The whole premise for 'Dressed To Kill' was extremely overused and unoriginal. Some scenes were slightly riveting but for the most part the movie was so predictable that it was hard to take in the suspense that the director tried to achieve. I wasn't anything less then nauseated during the shower scene with Angie Dickinson. I might have enjoyed it more if she was about 20 years younger. I can't bash the film entirely because I did enjoy some of it, such as the character of the detective played by Dennis Franz and also the part of the hooker played by Nancy Allen (I didn't mind seeing her in the shower). The cinematography was superb but it is hard to take in because of the extreme boredom brought forward by the lagging, predictable story line. See this movie only if you are looking for a bloodier version of 'Psycho'. Don't waste the $2.00 renting it, just wait for it to come on T.V. "},{"Title":"Good, but somewhat overrated","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  DePalma's infamous Dressed to Kill is a triumph of film technique over content. When one looks at the story in a dispassionate manner, it's obvious how absurd everything is. Yet, it works better than it has any right to, due to directorial flair. The legendary elevator scene is still potent after more than twenty years. Employing slow motion, close-ups, and careful editing, what could have been a standard slasher scene is transformed into a tour de force of terror. This segment alone is worth the price of admission, and actually rivals the shower scene from Hitchcock's Psycho.Also of notice is the sequence of events leading up to the killing. The museum chase, in which Dickinson pursues a handsome stranger, is pure visual cinema, telling the story with little dialogue. I also admired the use of split-screen in certain scenes. It's a sorely underused device in modern cinema; this film reminds us that movies are a visual medium, despite their literary roots. From an acting standpoint, both Dickinson and Allen are solid as flawed but strong women who evoke our sympathy, although we might not approve of their actions. Caine is good as a psychologist who may be hiding one of his patients, responsible for the murder. However, Gordon's nerdy character is unconvincing, and Franz's Detective Marino is little more than a shallow caricature. It is impossible to discuss the film without recalling the intense controversity that met its original release. Vilified by feminist groups, DePalma has often been accused of being a misogynist. I must question the validly of this argument. If that were the case, I think he would have made his female characters weak and submissive; objects of scorn. Finally, I tend to agree with Internet critic James Kendrick, who argues that the material was never intended to be taken seriously--although too many people did just that. Judging it purely based on craftsmanship, Dressed to Kill is not a masterpiece. It's unevenly paced, and the dialogue could have used some tweaking. Still, there are enough good moments to make it worthwhile.Rating *** (out of ****)Released by Filmways Pictures "},{"Title":"Really Quite Bloody Awful And Bad And Awful Really","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is dreadful.  The acting was like a elementary-school production of Our Town, the music was cornier and more heavy-handed than the corniest music with heaviest hands ever made, and overall it was about as suspensful as the traditional Easter brunch at my Aunt Pearl's house.  Added to which, Micheael Caine's character in this film is NOT -- utterly and decidedly NOT -- a transsexual, but a psychotic schizophrenic. As a transsexual myself, this annoyed the living daylights out of me.  I urge you, if you are captured by a foreign power and forced to watch this film as part of a regimen of torture interrogation, to take the poison pill in your secret spy ring instead.  You won't be sorry.  "},{"Title":"Rides on misconceptions","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film not only borrows heavily from Psycho in intent and imagery but also plays up to common misconceptions of TransGender people (*Not* TransSexual, that mistake alone proves to me that the writers or director didn't properly research this story).Predictable, formulaic and based on false premises. The ending alone could be based on any one of a million short stories.  "},{"Title":"A waste of Dickinson and a plot hole big enough for a truck","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Watching Angie Dickinson as a cop in the 70's was a bit of a fantasy for every school boy in America, but watching Angie masturbating in the shower was really more than anyone needed to see. It was gratuitous sex and violence at its sleaziest. It may have been related to the plot but wasn't tied in enough so that we could be sure.The treatment of transsexual as bifurcated people was inaccurate. Surely there may be a bi-gendered disassociated personality disorder sufferer out there but what we were presented with was not necessary they could have at least explained the condition with more accuracy.Never the less the tension was good, the acting by Caine not bad (range was never his strong suit but his doctor is played close to the vest) Nancy Allen I thought was very convincing though the whore with a heart of gold rewarding her Sir Galahad was again very gratuitous.We are just lucky that DePalma got better after this. There is no way that the killer could have known that Dickinson's character would come back up to the apartment and no way that the killer could have known that there would only be one person in the elevator. NONE Once we accept this huge plot hole we are on track. but it is just too big. "},{"Title":"One of Depalma's best","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of Brian Depalma's best films after Carrie.  It is about a son who goes after his mother's killer with the help of a call girl and they get much more then they bargained for. Edge of your seat suspense and one scene makes you not want to take an elevator again! Great acting, direction and score. Angie Dickenson, Michael Caine and Nancy Allen all do a great job. Recommended highly "},{"Title":"Message Don't be a middle-aged woman looking for sex","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If one thing is certain, Angie Dickinson didn't even have the acting chops to do bad porn. The opening shower scene was so awkward, voice overs, obvious body double and all, that it ended up being laughable. Brian De Palma is also to blame for that.But now that Ms. Dickinson's boobs and vagina have got your attention, there's some tedious cat and mousing through an art museum which culminates in our sexually frustrated, unhappily married old gal getting some from a handsome stranger in the back of a yellow cab and then in his nicely appointed penthouse apartment. Afterglow doesn't fully set in until she finds his membership card to an exclusive club while rummaging around for some paper to write him a little goodbye note of appreciation. Aawwww! -) But, of course, a woman going after good sex and getting it has to pay the price. 1) She also finds a doctor's record showing that loverboy has contracted a venereal disease. 2) In her haste to leave her diseased lover's abode (I assume with the intention of running home and showering in bleach) she remembers that she left her wedding ring in his apartment. 3) On the return trip in the elevator, she is joined by a mother and little daughter. The daughter keeps staring at her because ...even small children know a freshly diseased whore when they see one? 4) She never makes it out of the elevator because she is then stabbed to death in the elevator by a tall blonde woman.Bear in mind that her dead body is to be found sans underpants (they were forgotten in the cab), no wedding ring, covered in blood and containing traces of diseased semen not belonging to her husband. If all this doesn't send every unfulfilled wife running back to the apathetic arms of their betrothed, I don't know what will.The rest of the movie is some half-baked nonsense about schizophrenic transexuality which is as equally grounded in maintaining the patriarchal status quo as this movie's take on women passed a certain age being sexual beings. There is also a splash of racism as a group of young (jive talking', of course) black men chase one of the main characters (a young, white prostitute) through a subway train with the intention of raping and beating her... just because. 3 stars for at least being stylish. "}{"Title":"I Borrowed your razor....","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While taking a shower, Kate Miller, a middle-aged, sexually frustrated New York housewife, has a rape fantasy while her husband stands at the sink shaving.Later that day, after complaining to her psychiatrist Dr. Robert Elliott about her husband's pathetic performance in bed, she meets a strange man at a museum and returns to his apartment where they continue an adulterous encounter that began in the taxicab.Before she leaves his apartment, she finds papers which certify that the man has a venereal disease. Panicked, Kate rushes into the elevator, but has to return to his apartment when she realises she's forgotten her wedding ring.When the elevator doors open, she's brutally slashed to death by a tall blonde woman wearing dark glasses.Liz Blake, a high-priced call girl, is the only witness to the murder and she becomes the prime suspect and the murderess's next target.Liz is rescued from being killed by Kate's son Peter, who enlists the help of Liz to catch his mother's killer as Detective Marino who's in charge of the case is uncooperative in the investigation....De Palma's best thriller by miles, Dressed to kill is his ode to Hitchcock and to his masterpiece 'Psycho'. The first thing to love about this movie is the camera-work.From the beautiful sequence in the museum, to little subtle things like seeing someone in a door, or reflections in a mirror, the camera-work is some of the best I have seen and really make the movie.The performances are great and if you watch it a second time, there is stuff going on that really gives the game away. Whenever someone flirts with Caine, he looks at himself/Bobbi, and makes his excuses, watcihng this the first time it never really struck me.But the star turn come from Allen, a nice girl by heart, but is one of the biggest lust objects of the early eighties, no wonder the auteur married her.It has dated in thirty years, and some of the lines are laughable, but this still shocking stuff and the inclusion of getting rid of the main character early on is brilliant and daring, just like Hitchcock was.I'm going to watch it again now to spot the De Palma cameo.... "},{"Title":"How's about some sexual assistance?","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have seen many a hot movie in my day, the better known ones Basic Instinct, Fatal Attraction, Body Heat etc... And of course the casual viewing of the soft core flicks that air on Cinemax, but Dressed to Kill is the absolute hottest film of all time. Let's start with the opening sequence, which also sets us up for the next 35 minutes of the movie. Angie Dickinsen, who at the time was 51!, is very into the shower she's taking. She looks at her husband through the steamy glass, screaming Take me now! with her eyes. The jerk however is too interested in shaving to notice the wantings of his very sexy wife. Angie then slips into a fantasy, a muscle man appears through the fog behind her, places his hand over her mouth and lifts her off the ground. He then proceeds to make love to her from behind, in one of the most explicit sex scenes ever to grace a real movie. It then cuts to a rather humorous scene where Angie receives a wham bang special from her husband, which she fakes her way through with an ease of years of practice. (Listen to the radio during that scene, the traffic report playing is very funny.) We are then introduced to two of the other key characters in the film, Angie's genius son played exquisitely by Keith Gordon and Angie's psychiatrist played to perfection by Michael Caine. Angie is seeing Mike because she's having troubles in her marriage, but we know that. Angie then goes to an art museum to meet someone for lunch, instead, she meets a man, whom she wants to bed, but isn't sure of herself. This museum scene is famous, it utilizes tracking shots and expressions and music to explain everything to you. There is no dialogue in this scene, it is brilliant. Anyways Angie ends up pursuing her man to no prevail, she leaves the museum and there he is waiting for her in a cab. (Look closely and you can see the killer outside the museum.) Angie and the man do it in the cab, then go to his apartment, where they apparently make love all day. Now the movie gets interesting, Angie gets dressed and ready to leave in her all white get up (wink, wink.) After she writes a note to her afternoon love telling him how much she loved it she finds out he has an STD, but thats the least of her problems. Angie goes into the elevator and starts down, realizing she left her wedding ring however, she heads back up. Once the door opens, the terror begins, Angie is hacked up by a big blonde woman while the elevator descends to an unsuspecting Nancy Allen (in her best role ever as a charismatic hooker). The elevator opens, Nancy sees Angie dying, then catches a glimpse of the killer in a mirror. The rest of the film is a stylish stalker, investigation story centering on Nancy and Keith trying to find out who the killer is and not get killed in the process. I wont say who the killer is, because that would be rude. I will however say this is Brian De Palma at his best, the film is over the top visually, scary, funny and sexy. Watch it again, again and again. "},{"Title":"A lesser De Palma, but still okay enough.","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The main problem was that I didn't find Michael Caine to be the perfect candidate (at all) to play a shrink (though I had just seen 'Get Carter' and was expecting him to say 'Do me a favour!' on several occasions), and then... leading Angie Dickinson to the slaughter in the first part of the film - good grief! The scene in the museum is beautiful, I admit it, the one in the elevator beautiful and nasty at the same time - that's all good. But then there's loads of dialogues and incidents that didn't work so well, such as Caine and Dennis Franz at the police station (though nicely intercut with Gordon's bugging), a so so acting Nancy Allen en the subway scene that is much troubled by a total lack of logic, or, better said, a multitude of coincidences; the cop versus the gang, Gordon's appearance, who is subsequently blinded by mace, but a few seconds later he just walks away and escapes...There is more to be criticized and praised, but I'll leave it at this. 'Dressed to kill' has lots of pluses and minuses, so all in all there is a balance... with narrowly convincing positive rating as a result.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Brian DePalma... That is FOR REAL?!","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is basically about DePalma being a fan of Hitchcock. He truly wanted to make a homage to Hitchcock's works, specifically Psycho, but if you've seen this film, you do know that it obviously don't work so well as it was expected(if anything was expected). The very bad and cartoon- ish acting by almost all the actors, added to a weird inspiration of erotic films of the 70s and a laughable travesty Michael Caine, gives to this film an almost spoof air,and instead of being a homage, it turns to be a satire of the Hitchcock's works. Funny, though. And seriously, this film cant be taken serious.All the situations depicted on there are pathetic, the characters motivations are obscure, and they aren't even explained in the film. The initial shots of the film are arguably the most pointless that i've ever saw too. And i just don't understand what was the reason in putting erotic scenes in the film. That was just pointless, just so bad it's good. A good parody. 4.5/10 "},{"Title":"Dressed to Kill...My Patience","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" De Palma's incredible direction, Michael Caine's unfaltering excellence and a generous amount of gratuitous nudity are nowhere near enough to save this film. As always, the story is the problem. For a start, it is flipping ridiculous. In the name of creating drama the screenwriter writes the characters into a plethora of suspenseful situations, but in doing so completely jeopardises the apparent reality of the film. It's vital that the main characters in a thriller (who are not cops) face their problems without help from the police. The writer's job is to figure out clever ways to do this. Dressed to Kill is an example of exactly what NOT to do. Time and time again the main characters do not go to the police when any sane person would or alternatively the story puts their fingerprints on the killer's bloody knife to force their hand. The story ends up being WAY too forced and as a result it quickly becomes idiotic and any semblance of a dramatic reality soon falls away like a couple of articles of Meg Ryan's clothing.Unintentionally hilarious, convoluted, reprehensible, morally questionable, often boring and ultimately disappointing. This is no Untouchables. "},{"Title":"Dressed to bore","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I remember watching Dressed To Kill in my early teens and thinking it was kind of neat, but a bit slow. Fast forward almost 30 years and I find myself buying this title on Bluray and watching it with my wife for some kinky fun. Although it starts out interesting, Dressed To Kill has little plot to develop after the first 30 minutes. It is obvious that Dr. Elliott (Michael Caine) is the mad psycho in the movie. Anyone who knows how to count to ten can figure that out very early in the movie. Released during the slasher era craze of the early 1980's, Dressed To Kill bummed those looking for the cheap thrills and explicit violence of Friday The 13th and Maniac. Brian DePalma's movie tries hard to please everyone from suspense to slasher fans, without accomplishing much for both. Pino Donaggio's score is top notch and the atmosphere of bleakness DePalma creates are the saving graces of this film. Even in the end, DePalma tries to pull the same trick he pulled in Carrie, by setting up cheap scares based on a nightmare the heroine of this movie (Miss Blake, played by a very gorgeous Nancy Allen)has. It's true that compared to films done today, Dressed To Kill plods thru like a mastodon caught in a swamp, but it's also true that many movies from that era still hold remarkably well and even have better directorial and story qualities. Dressed To Kill unfortunately tries to drag a 15 minute story way too long. Too little suspense, too little gore and only some decent skin-showing. Make sure you drink a lot of coffee if you plan to watch this or else you might fall asleep! "},{"Title":"Another ridiculous and over-the-top yet entertaining thriller from DePalma","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dressed to Kill is possibly Brian DePalma's most blatant Hitchcock homage, but its still quite entertaining on its own merits. Its not the best DePalma film by any means, but in its time it was among his most popular. Its over-the-top, completely illogical if inspected closely, and often predictable. Its never boring however, which is the ultimate sin a movie can commit, and DePalma is well aware of this. In fact, many of these flaws aren't apparent until once the film is over. Plus, DePalma is a terrific director. Even though he hasn't made a truly great film in a few decades, back in his prime he could always be counted on for great stylish composure.The acting is very good even if the characters here are all one note. Angie Dickinson is fine at creating a housewife in terror and makes a sympathetic individual. Michael Caine is dignified as always - as usual, he can be counted on for adding a touch of class. Dennis Franz is lesser, essentially playing the same character hes always done throughout his career, and Keith Gordon is only decent as the nerd. The strongest turn is, surprisingly, from Nancy Allen, playing possibly the only likable female character ever in a DePalma film. Dressed to Kill is far from DePalma at his finest, but its an enjoyable thriller nonetheless. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Extremely Silly","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A very silly movie, this starts with a soft porn sequence, ventures into farcelike comedy in the art gallery, adds a shocker of a discovery in the hotel room then introduces a random murder for no obvious reason.What follows is bizarre and surreal (the stopwatch scene in particular is exquisitely unnecessary), culminating in a revelatory twist ending which is as obvious as it is unfair on the viewer (see the trivia section for precisely why it's deliberately unfair).The movie goes out of its way to be offensive to as many groups as possible - transsexuals, the insane, and the wonderful Huggie Bear-style racial stereotyping on the subway - and condescendingly treats the viewer like an idiot in the closing scenes, as characters endlessly explain to one another in great detail and over and over again what just happened in the film. Though the background female characters in the restaurant scene at the end are a joy to watch.In fact, the whole movie is a joy to watch Despite its many, many flaws, the whole package just, well, works. "},{"Title":"Quite good - you can watch it with a significant amount of interest","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Well well well, what do we have here? A second Psycho! OK, well not exactly, and I don't know what other people think but to me this movie has Psycho written all over it. And it was actually kind of OK. Brian De Palma really is Hitch's biggest fan. This film even has a (kind of!) recreation of the famous shower scene.I didn't suspect for a moment that Michael Caine would be the killer - that's got to be the first case ever of the psychiatrist turning out to be the murderer! It was a good film, but of course it will never be enough to challenge Hitchcock's masterpiece.6/10 - watchable "},{"Title":"keith gordon is the 1 reason to watch this slow, beautiful movie","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  the fact that the movie is predictable is not a problem. this movie is like a beautiful painting to be enjoyed. the museum scene is like a nice music video. the apres sex scene is an all too familiar scene in all of our adult lives. but the movie would not hold any interest for me without keith gordon. keith gordon is maybe one of the most underrated actors of our time. almost everything i know about acting came from studying mostly his eyes. he had the most compelling face. his character possesses the qualities i look in a guy, sensitivity and dedication. keith gordon is gorgeous. BTW, i kinda wish he'd shave his beard now as his lips, jawline and adam's apple were his prettiest set next to his eyes.  "}{"Title":"MUSIC IN THIS FILM IS FANTASTIC !","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"                    This film was well produced, lots of sex, young romance and a horrible murder in an elevator.  Dennis Franz(NYPDBLUE) gave a great performance as the detective, which is his favorite role in life.   Angie Dickinson showed all and was just like a Janet Leigh(Psycho)in this movie.  The music makes this film a great success,The Shower Scene which it is named after in the uncut versions of this pic.  There is a great NYC subway ride with lots of horror and if you look quickly in one scene, you can see the great World Trade Center Towers, making one feel a deep depression over the loss of so many human souls.   This is a film I can view over and over again, but not the chopped up version! "},{"Title":"Overwrought and low quality","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There is a reason screenplays are supposed to have some gripping major event in the first 10 minutes. Because when they make you wait 30 minutes like this movie, you want to throw something at the screen and shout Will you get on with it! Its not just the 30 minute wait for the plot to begin. Its how DePalma filled those 30 minutes with the most boring slow tripe that his narcissistic actors and his narcissistic self must feel is character development. Watching people take gloves off or write notes in extreme close-up substitutes faux drama for real character development. I'm surprised he didn't do it all in slow motion to make it more excruciating. You can tell when a director is trying to punish the whole world for teasing him in Junior High. This is a prime example. I don't care about Angie's character. Kill the bitch in the first scene and lets get on with the movie. She is the McGuffin. And while using a Hitchcock term, let's note that Hitchcock had too much respect for his audiences to do mysteries. With Hitchcock, you know who is guilty from the get-go. This movie is redolent of narcissistic film-school fuc&* self-indulgence. Although in Ohio it was women who were the coc& tease, I am sure DePalma will tease and taunt and put off getting to the point for the whole movie. It is pathetic that a human acts like this, no matter what their gender.Now that the movie is almost over I am as disappointed by the over-speed ending as I was the slow development. He must have run out of film stock with all the dragging takes of the first half hour. Now the childish ending-- adding implausibility to a feeble attempt at a double climax. The whole ending is just plain limp. I see now that this is just an incompetent remake of Glen or Glenda, with a shower scene thrown in. Gosh this is incompetent film making. I don't know Mr. DePalma's sexuality or personal demons, but he should keep them to himself. I am sure Hollywood just loves this movie for the same reason they think little pervert Roman Polanski is an artiste while he is the same as the Penn State creep, probably worse.Oh wait, its over with a (spoiler) pathetic dream sequence. I am surprised that he didn't have an amnesia victim, that's how lame and jump-the-shark this thing is.On top of the lazy eye camera work, which was intentional, there are really crappy production values. The audio is execrable. The acting is wooden in several scenes. The hooker was especially bad, other than the son, whose poor delivery might be excused due to his young age.A good student project would be to load this craptacular production in Sony Vegas and cut it down to an hour, and then a half-hour. Then it might be as interesting as one of the weaker episodes of Criminal Minds.*Film-school fuc& is a term first defined and used in the movie Wag the Dog. "},{"Title":"Once controversial thriller doesn't age well","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Kate Miller (Angie Dickinson) is brutally slashed to death. The police believe that one of the patients of her psychiatrist Dr. Robert Elliott (Michael Caine) killed her--but have no proof. Call girl Liz Blake (Nancy Allen) saw the killer and the killer knows it--and goes after her. Kate's teenage son Peter (Keith Gordon) tries to help her catch the killer.This was a hot movie when it came out in 1980. There were numerous cuts in a shower sequence and the murder to ensure an R rating and (for its time) it was pretty extreme. Also critics just loved it. I saw it back in 1980 and couldn't figure out why everybody liked it. It does have beautiful cinematography and music and is well-directed...but the plot doesn't make a lot of sense, there are HUGE gaps in logic and the movie is VERY slow. The opening 30 minutes are a real trial. They show Dickinson seeing her doctor, visiting a museum, picking up a man and going home with him. That takes 30 MINUTES!!!! After her murder the movie picks up a little and gets going but the opening really wears you down. Also, seen today, it's hard to believe this was ever controversial. The nudity is still pretty extreme but the killing seems almost tame compared to what we see today--and I saw the unrated version (more nudity and violence). The acting is pretty good (except for Gordon) and there is a very funny sequence in a restaurant at the end when Allen explicitly talks about sex change operations. Still this is pretty slow and pointless. Worth seeing if you're curious but no great shakes. "},{"Title":"Some great scenes but overall not up to DePalma's standard","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I feel a bit strange giving Dressed to Kill a 5 out of 10 vote, because there is plenty of brilliance found within the film, particularly the direction and style (not a surprise since it's DePalma), and there are a great deal of moments in it which are spectacular, like the scene where Angie Dickinson wanders about the art gallery in search of love. But honestly, I didn't find the story to be all that intriguing and never really felt like I cared for the characters. Plus, I personally didn't think there were many surprises in the film. Based on DePalma's endless Hitchcock homages, I had a lot of the surprises figured out long before they were revealed. Don't get me wrong. I love DePalma films and think he does some of the coolest homages, especially the Battleship Potemkin moment in The Untouchables. I just didn't think this was one of his better films, though it was definitely worth watching and there were plenty of great moments in it. I might even watch it again eventually to revisit some of the scenes in it, and hey, maybe I'd even get DePalma's intent by viewing it a second time. Upon first viewing, I just don't feel Dressed to Kill amounted to much as a whole. "},{"Title":"Oh Common Michael!  (spoilers)","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You think that we didn't know that it was YOU under that wig and glasses!  Think again.  Well, I gotta give it this, it had it's moments of suspense and the concept of a doctor with a duel personality dressing up in drag as his alter ego homophobic patient was a good one.  But it was all to obvious as to who the killer was that kept turning the good doctor on to sexual desires.  The razer in the doctors home was missing and we had no clue in the movie as to an intruder and as I've said the mysterious killer looked to much to be a man, clean shaven and you could tell that it was the doctor.  The killer kills a woman and her son helps a young lady who is falsely accused as being the killer after being seen with the knife that killed his mother in an elevator by the hotel maid and starts proving her innocents.  She does succeed and the ending is worth the watch.   "},{"Title":"Have you people all lost the plot?","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is complete rubbish.Horribly stylized, terrible wooden acting, too much make up, no atmosphere, and an 80's soundtrack that just never shuts up. I particularly laughed went the music went 'ta da' when she found out about the VD.Not funny, not scary, not anything. Complete nonsense.This film has not weathered at all well and belongs with some of Ed Woods worst films. The blood just doesn't do anything. The killer looks completely silly. The things that the characters do are just hopeless. There is too much botox in the actors faces. Mr Caine is just terrible and the plot is BORING.You know, I'm glad they don't make films like they used to.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Synopsis  A transsexual murders one of his psychiatrist's patients, and now he's after the prostitute who witnessed it.   Story/Plot  I enjoyed the film but felt it to be just another, typical DePalma film. Am I allowed to say typical and DePalma in the same sentence?   Cast/Characters  I thought everyone did a good job, Denis Franz gave me a laugh and it was good to see Michael Caine not attempting to pull off yet another disastrous American accent.      F/X  Nothing extreme, it wasn't needed. I enjoyed the use of the camera in the film. Long shots through a room. Having 7 people in a frame when only 2 were speaking and central to the storyline and the lovely split screen in recalling a memory.   Jekyll's Final Thoughts  I am not the biggest fan of DePalma but did enjoy this. A sure winner for those that are fans though. Storyline a bit obvious at times but stays true to being a bit of a mystery movie. 4 star rating from me  "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Up and down.I've seen some reviewers elsewhere saying the museum scene in the beginning was beautifully shot. Well yes, but it was an annoying and pointless 10 minutes at the same time. I saw no need for it. As I saw no need for the weird shower scene at the opening.Nevertheless, the movie picked up pace and got much better after the odd beginnings, only to have a predictable ending.A down start, a good middle, and a down ending. My opinion of this movie in a nutshell. Nevertheless, it's worth a look. "},{"Title":"Brilliant nerve wrecking thriller.","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Typical De Palma movie made with lot's of style and some scene's that will bring you to the edge of your seat.Most certainly the thing that makes this movie better as the average thriller, is the style. It has some brilliantly edited scene's and some scene's that are truly nerve wrecking that will bring you to the edge of your seat. The best scene's from the movie; The museum scene and the elevator murder. There are some mild erotic scene's and the movies pace might not be fast enough for the casual viewer to fully appreciate this movie. So this movie might not be suitable for everybody.The story itself is also quite good but it really is the style that makes the movie work! It might be for the fans only but also casual viewers should appreciate the well build up tension in the movie.There are some nice character portrayed by a good cast. Michael Caine is an interesting casting choice and Angie Dickinson acts just as well as she is good looking (not bad for a 49-year old!).The musical score by Pino Donaggio is also typically De Palma like and suits the movie very well, just like his score for the other De Palma movie, Body Double.Brilliant nerve wrecking thriller. I love De Palma!10/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Over directed dull and pornographic also Nancy Allen stinks","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I pretty much said it all in my intro line.  This movie was awful.  Why Nancy Allen is in any movie I will never understand.  This film built very slowly to nothing.  Even Dennis Franz and the peerless Michael Caine could not save this film. "}{"Title":"strongest evidence that de palma is overrated","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"13 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Can you have a psycho thriller, featuring a psychiatrist even, which completely lacks in psychological insight? can you have a suspense film in which the viewer feels absolutely no emotional investment in any of the poorly drawn, weak, and idiotic characters? can you invest the first half hour of a film developing a character that you immediately thereafter terminate? can you shamelessly rip off a classic like Psycho and simply call it an homage, even if your homage stinks? Can you make a film that insults every single special interest group (gay, black, mentally ill, prostitute) all at once? Brian de Palma tries to answer all of these questions in the affirmative with this truly, truly, spectacularly awful film. If it weren't for Scarface, de Palma would be a nobody. "},{"Title":"Yikes","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm sad to say I finally saw this entire, uncut movie from start to finish. I had it for quite some time on DVD but never got around to watching it for one reason or another. I like to be positive and usually comment on movies I like, but wow....did this movie suck. I mean it truly sucked in every way. This is easily one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Some of the worst writing and acting of all time. I nearly cut it off after the first 20 minutes and boy, I wish I had. I'd really like to get that time back. It's not even one of those So bad it's good movies....it's just terrible. I won't even comment on the plot of this movie. (It's that bad.) Nor the attractiveness of the actresses in the movie (They are that bad.) Nor the direction. (It's bad.) Just avoid this like the plague. Or if you are a glutton for punishment, rent this and the Rick Springfield movie Hard To Hold for a nightmare double feature!!! "},{"Title":"Cheesy and amateurish!","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Oh, my goodness. Where does one begin? When I read that this film was considered scandalous in its time, I had to laugh. Scandalous? Why? Because there is brief nudity and sex in it? Come on, this is 20 years after the sexual revolution! Shocking? Seriously? The critics and audience were shocked by what, exactly? Cheesy special effects? The sight of Angie Dickinson covered in, uh, blood? It looked more like she had an accident with a bottle of Chianti. In 1980 Hollywood still couldn't figure out the color of blood (rolleye).Look, at my venerable age I can safely say I have witnessed a good bit of the evolution of the film industry. Nobody likes a good old classic more than I. Also, I'm always ready to make concessions to the passing of years, and the lack of technology in olden times, and all the rest of it. But there are some thins that are timeless. Bad taste and lack of talent are two of them, and I regret to say this film is sadly afflicted by both. In matters of defects this film has it all bad direction, bad writing (I literally winced at some of the dialogue), bad special effects, bad acting (that Franz guy's performance is painfully hammy). Nancy Allen is a cute kid with a good figure, but she can't act. Even Michael Cain renders a pedestrian performance, and how can you blame him! His appearance in such a dud only proves that even good actors sometimes just need the money. I could crash the system by enumerating the boo-boos in this turkey. The body double in the shower. The fact that Dickinson is obviously wearing stockings in the museum, but appears bare-legged in the taxi (and no, not thanks to Whatshisname). The unmistakable Michael Cain in drag, as the assassin. Heck, I've seen more convincing disguises on Halloween. And that scene at the hospital! And that's just to name the most obvious.Obviously there is no account for taste, so if you like De Palm a, well, to each his own. I think he's awful. Carrie was a high-school Halloween prank, and I am ashamed to confess I watched Blow Out ... in its entirety (I was young and bored at the time). DTK is more of the same bad thing. I wish I had that hour forty-five minutes back. "},{"Title":"Obvious plot.Badly directed...but please,kill the music!!!","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If I was intelligent enough to distance myself from the appalling (I erred there...absolutely appalling) music, I would tell you that this is only a poor film, with a bad lead actress. But, I can't, it is a movie which is bad enough to cause a Rock star reaction to a TV. The 2 talents in the movie (Caine & Dickinson) are even made to look inept, a difficult thing to do, especially with Michael Caine. Do not, not ever, not in your wildest fantasy, allow yourself to be confined in any room in which this movie is playing.  "}]