[{"Title":"This had to have been written by a fan!","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Music, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Whoever write this movie must have been a big fan of Willie Nelson and Texas Country music. The plot is right out of a Willie Nelson song, he wrote many tear-jerkers, and you see many cameos of Willie's musician friends and fellow Texas musicians like Emmylou Harris, Jeanne Sealey, the Gimbles and on and on. Willie basically plays himself, his look is the same and he sings his own hits and travels with his own tour band. Hearing him called Buck Bonham will seem a little jarring to his fans, but just go with it. Dyan Cannon is beautiful as his long-suffering wife, Slim Pickens (one of the strangest stage names in Hollywood..) is great as the father of the love interest and an old musician friend of Buck. Amy Irving is the love interest and one can imagine an old tired out country singr falling for this sweet young girl. If you like Willie you have probaby seen this movie and don't need my two cents, if you don't care for Willie or country music, you might want to steer clear. This is a country music lovers movie. I would imagine this is why it didn't do better in the box office at first run but seems to have done better on cable. "},{"Title":"On the road again. Keep on truckin', Willie!","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Music, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Buck Bonham(Willie Nelson) and Garland Ramsey(Slim Pickens) are two country stars that have been on the road for probably too many years. Garland wants to retire and Buck is too stubborn to. There needs to be a temporary replacement for Garland and it is suggested that Garland's daughter Lily(Amy Irving)go out with Buck and the band for a few weeks.Lily is living a dream being on the road and even more she acts on her long admiration for Buck. The two singers become an item and soon they don't even try to hide their entanglement.There is a lot of Willie songs throughout and any Willie fan should feel high on the hog. For the non Willie fan it is still a good film, where your brain kind of slips into neutral.Dyan Cannon plays Buck's wife and sure looks too hot for the role. Others in the cast are Lane Smith, Diana Scarwid and Mickey Rooney, Jr. Emmylou Harris drops in for a cameo role.Gas up the tour bus and chase the white line. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie. To watch more than once","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Music, Romance, Drama","Review":" Let's get it on DVD. Willie and Dyan are great and the whole movie is first class entertaining. Humor, music and romance. Give this movie what it deserves and make all those thousands of fans happy. I have seen this movie about three times and every time again it was like new. It gives a good idea how a band on the road is living and though it's a tough life, it's a good life. I am country singer myself and a lot of Willies songs I perform. He and the late Waylon are my favourites. So this movie means a lot to me.This story is not a fiction, it is as if you are watching your own life passing by.I can understand Willie when Amy tries to make love to him, but at the end Willie returns to his beautiful Dyan. The story of life for so many people. "},{"Title":"A good vehicle for Nelson, a must see for his followers","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Music, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I liked the movie, although I don't care a thing for Willie or his music. His band members did a good job as actors, and Slim Pickens was great as the booze swilling guitar player. The scene near the end where Pickens tried to kill Nelson was hilarious. The story never got real emotional nor did it drag around too much, so I considered it good enough. "},{"Title":"It reduces a good cast to one-dimensional cut-outs...","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Music, Romance, Drama","Review":" Acting-vehicle for real-life country singing star Willie Nelson didn't make a ripple at the box-office, not even with his devout listeners, and within the film's first half-hour it becomes apparent why Nelson is basically playing a variation of himself--and not a terribly flattering one--and a star who soils his own character has a tough time being heard. Willie plays a country crooner with a devoted and gorgeous wife (Dyan Cannon, filling the bill nicely), getting the urge to cheat on his spouse with the nubile female musician who just joined his outfit (Amy Irving). The script is full of eye-rolling drama and sentiment, and when it isn't echoing other films, such as Intermezzo, it's busy parlaying this superstar into a flawed Everyman. Since the other characters are so poorly-defined, one has little else to do than watch Nelson acting as his own shadow. On the Road Again indeed. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Honeysuckle Rose is great","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Music, Romance, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie and finally was able to get a VHS tape on the internet after trying video catalogs for years. I have listened to the soundtrack when I'm busy, and it still gets to me. I can believe the storyline about the mutual attraction between Willie and his temporary singer. The climactic scenes were hilarious. I liked this movie so well that I also bought Songwriter. I guess I'm going through a Willie Nelson period, but I have enjoyed him in all of his movies, starting with his short bit in Electric Horseman, where I first noticed him. I had never heard his music until after I discovered him in Electric Horseman. If I have any complaint about his music, it is that On the Road Again is way too short. I think that,as an actor, he grows on you and continues to get better each time, much like Chuck Norris did. "},{"Title":"An Ode to the Road...","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Music, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Willie is one of our National treasures in my opinion.  I suppose some people would disagree, and that's o.k., you have every right to be wrong.The best part of this film, I felt, was the fairly much realistic portrayal of what life is like on the road for entertainers.  Or, more accurately what is was like back when this film was made.  Who better to play the lead than one who's probably logged a million or so miles out there between the ditches?  I also loved Slim Pickens performance, and the camaraderie between Willie and Slim was hilarious and heartwarming.I can't imagine anyone in the world who hasn't seen this film. It should be required viewing for any new converts to Country Music.  I gave this film a rating of 9 - shaving off one point for the aggrandizement of boozing/pill popping and womanizing.  But you gotta love Willie et al in spite of it. Maybe because of it, who knows? "},{"Title":"Nelson fans will love it.","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Music, Romance, Drama","Review":" The rest of us, on the other hand.... we might think it's okay. Perhaps if I hadn't seen Tender Mercies so recently, then Honeysuckle Rose might have seemed better. Where as Mercies had a real actor trying to play a country singer, this one has a real country singer trying to act. The results just aren't as good, but Willie is the last person I'd blame. This is more of a showcase for Nelson's music than it is a regular film with a well-developed story line. Nelson's acting is really pretty good, when they let him act.The plot centers around a successful, yet not quite hugely popular country singer going out on the road and having an affair with a young member of his band. Nelson is perfectly suited for the role of Buck Bonham who needs a fill-in guitar player after his long time ax player (Slim Pickens) retires from the band. As luck would have it, his plucky young daughter (Amy Irving) can also play a mean guitar and eagerly accepts the position meant to only last a few weeks. But of course this leads to all kinds of hurt feelings and conflict as the young woman admits a long time crush on the old crooner and the two quickly begin sleeping together. Bonham's band mates can only do their best to look in the other direction as it is an awkward situation for them, too. They are close with the girls father of course, and also quite friendly with Bonham's long suffering wife played very well by Dyan Cannon. Obviously, it is only a matter of time before those left at home find out, and things will most certainly come crashing down.The film runs for quite a long time considering how little plotting there is. Much of the film takes place on stage with Willie and the band belting out a lot of slow, emotional country songs to a doting fan base. The director of this film, who I've never heard of, seems to struggle with the material when scenes are taking place off stage. He seems to put the camera too far away from the actors, taking some of the edge off their more dramatic scenes. The film is also under-lit, even for a film taking place mostly on a gloomy tour bus and darkened venues. Exterior shots of the bus traveling down the road look pretty good, though. The acting by all is quite good. Cannon has the most memorable lines, most of which coming when she announces their divorce in front of a packed house after catching Nelson and Irving slobbering over each other during a duet. Pickens is as watchable as ever, and likely didn't make many more films after this. Irving is quite good, as well. So is the fellow who plays Nelson's manager.Only fans of Willie Nelson are bound to get a real kick from this film, and I'm sure many of them did. He has such a wonderful and distinct style that he deserves a feature film of this type. As a film buff I just wanted more focus on the story and to learn more about these characters. Again I would recommend the film Tender Mercies which basically takes the Buck Bonham kind of character a few years later into his life. To a place where he has finally hit rock bottom and lost most of those around him who ever cared about him. It's highly likely that Buck Bonham would have eventually landed on the same motel room floor somewhere and not have a clue how he got there. 6 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Best singer ever in a truly fantastic film !","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Music, Romance, Drama","Review":" Willie Nelson is my favorite he been my favorite singer ever since i heard his song The harder they come a version of jimmy cliff which amazed me! I love the man dearly and had to buy and see this film and I'm glad i did i was not slightly disappointed. All songs i love and story line great it pretty much his life of being on the road away from family and on drugs. Good story line which was entertaining throughout the whole film.It for all Willie and country music fans. I don't think many non fans of them two will like his film but if you do you would definitely love it so purchase this DVD! "},{"Title":"Angel flying too close to the ground about covers it...","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Music, Romance, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie years ago when it first came out, and I love it as much now as I did then. It covers what happens in the lives of some performers as they do their jobs. Some think that it is great to do something that you love to do and still get paid for it! On one hand that is true, but there are pitfalls that can mess up your life if you aren't prepared to deal with them. Drinking and drugs is only a part of it.This movie deals with how hard it is to hold a marriage together when one in the couple is on the road all the time. Both make compromises. But if you love someone, you do what you have to do to make it work. I think that pretty much goes for any marriage, not just for gypsies. It takes special people with a strong love to make it work. That's what this is all about. Unfortunately, some don't have that strong a love.In this case, they did. "}{"Title":"Finally available on DVD!!!","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Music, Romance, Drama","Review":" Great news!!! After years of waiting, this is finally on DVD, but for some strange reason only as the B-side of Pure Country! Don't know why they did this, but the picture and sound quality are both great.Either way, it's a movie worth watching again and again decent story line and fine acting (especially Willie and Slim Pickens!), but the musical performances are the real stars. Unlike many other music related films, there are dozens of songs, in full-length live performances (eg unlike The Buddy Holly Story, which has dozens of lip-synced snippets of the same song) Also, the band members are authentic and likable characters, remarkably natural actors. The soundtrack album is also excellent, and available on-line as a three-for-price-of-one with two other Willie records. Enjoy!!! "},{"Title":"very well done","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Music, Romance, Drama","Review":" to my great surprise,i loved this film.i does start off slow,but once it gets going,it's actually very good.i really got involved in the story,and i thought the acting was top drawer all the way.not only that,but Dyan Cannon and Amy Irving actually do their own singing and they both sound great.i loved the movie and the soundtrack so much,i actually downloaded(legally)the soundtrack.i have roommate whose Father was a musician and lived on the road,and she told me the movie paints a very accurate picture of that lifestyle.if you have't seen i would encourage you to check it out.it's well worth watching,in my opinion.for me,Honeysuckle Rose is an easy 9/10 "},{"Title":"A country music treat","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Music, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Although I am not a country music fan,usually, I do like Willie. And this film is a fine vehicle for him.  I personally would have cast someone else in the role of his wife.  Don't get me wrong, Diane Cannon is a fine actress, but I just can't picture it,  Willie Nelson and Diane Cannon married?  Nah. "},{"Title":"Willie's acting (poor).  Music (Outstanding) overall, a 9","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Music, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Willie's acting ability in 1980 left much to be desired.  The music, however, was great!  Willie and Dyan Cannon's duet (Loving You is the Easiest Thing I'll Ever Do Again) was outstanding...deserving, alone, the 9 that I gave this movie. "}]