[{"Title":"An Honest review","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"41 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I will be the first to admit I absolutely ADORE this film. I absolutely love the sendup of horror films that seemed to exist up to that time. However, it really is a bad film.I gave it a 5. Why, I think it is honestly a movie you will either love or hate. It is hard to be ambivalent about this film. The effects are cheesy, the dialogue silly, and the concept even sillier. Yet, I don't think it could of been pulled off any better. I think everyone should check this film out at least once, but do it with friends.Could someone please pass the ketchup? "},{"Title":"Schlock in perfection!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Some may call this the worst movie of all times, but if you have shots like The Toxic Avenger, Plan 9 from outer space or Dracula Vs. Frankenstein in your collection this is exactly the right film for you! The humor in Attack of the Killer Tomatoes appears like a cheap version of Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker-flicks à la Airplane! or The Naked Gun, but always pretty entertaining and amusing! If you´re in search for the right stuff for your next party check this out - but don´t do the mistake and take this too serious in any way!! "},{"Title":"Satire and ketchup all rolled into one!","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Tomatoes has been unfairly maligned as one of the worst movies of all time.  This is too bad, because the film is really a satire of cheap, bad sci-fi movies.  So what better way to satirize a cheap, bad sci-fi movie than by unintentionally making one?If you saw this movie as a child or teenager, scenes will be indelibly imprinted upon your mind.  The guy taking a shower in a hallway; the dubbed voice of the Japanese scientist; the helicopter crash (which wasn't supposed to happen...the pilot came in at too steep of an angle and crushed the back rotor blade.  The pilot lost control and crashed the copter.  The producers, not wanting to waste this precious filming of an actual accident, put it in the film and instructed actor Jack Riley to pretend to crawl away from the smoldering wreckage); the tomato chasing a woman in a parking lot, with oh-so-noticeable wheels propelling it forward; ah, the magic of film.Brought to you in part by future California state Assemblyman and State Senator J. Stephen Rock Peace. "},{"Title":"The purest form of High Concept movie making","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The trailers before the movie on my VHS copy are for a Hannah Barberra cartoon (Yogi bear in the Arabian Nights or something) which shows you who the marketing guys thought their target audience was and, taken on that kind of dumb stupid cartoon level, this is one of the funniest things I have seen for years. I laughed out loud several times whilst completely sober and on my own. Yes, its story structure is an utter mess, yes, the acting, directing, editing production values and sound (especially the sound) are awful, yes, a lot of the gags just don't work - the timing is all over the place sometimes jokes are rushed, other times they are stretched out way beyond their worth but as a whole Tomatoes is undeniably funny. I'm afraid I nearly wet myself when the Adolf Hitler line came as the payoff to a what looked like a lame running gag.Reading some of the reviews here I find it hard to understand how anyone can be disappointed in this movie. It lays its stall out in the first two minutes. Girl is attacked by a tomato - then some of the funniest opening credits ever. It is so preposterous it defies criticism. This is the purest form of High Concept movie making. Attack of the Killer Tomatoes... unless you didn't actually KNOW what a tomato was how could anyone think this is anything other than what it is - a dumb, stupid, funny movie? and I defy anyone who watches this film not to have the theme song running around their head for days afterwards.Think of this movie as being made by Matt Stone & Trey Parker (the guys behind South Park etc.) and you get the idea - though in my opinion Attack of the Killer Tomatoes is a lot funnier than Cannibal, the Musical or Orgazmo.Definitely a movie to watch with your brain, and any critical faculties you may think you have, switched very, very off. "},{"Title":"Plenty of Tomato Sauce","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"32 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Many have claimed this is the worst movie of all time. I would rather sit through this 100 times than watch 10 minutes of Titanic!! To rate this movie you must watch it for the way it was intended, pure unadulterated B-Grade movie garbage. Then you will find there is only one vote to give it,... 10/10  "},{"Title":"Funny crap","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"40 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Ok it's crap, but very funny crap.It lacks so much logic, effects, story and talent that it's really worth looking at. One of those crap movies, that are even good by being crap. You know ;)Watch it on a geek party with some beer and you will have lotsa fun "},{"Title":"GREAT, but get original version over directors cut","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film combinds funny jokes with funnier unintentional humor and the result is one of the funniest cult films ever. The rest of the series is o.k., but the original is amazing. Horrible effects galore. make sure you try to grab the original version and not the director's cut. The new version is remastered in better quality, but they altered the film and it just isn't as cool that way. my rating 5/5 and for directors cut 4/5 "},{"Title":"Hilarious In Places","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film was perhaps THE big low-budget/cult/parody flick in its time. While it doesn't create belly laughs from start to finish, it does have some truly hilarious moments.  My favorite scene has dozens of tomatoes just floating in a lake, attacking some unsuspecting summer-campers(believe me, you'll positively crack up when you see the underwater footage!). Also, watch for the sequence in which grown men blast with shotguns tomatoes that were obviously rolled at them off-camera. "},{"Title":"It's hilarious moments are just enough to cover the dullness in between","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Attack of the killer tomatoes is low-budget's answer to summer blockbuster Snakes on a Plane. Technically, it's the other way around, since AOTKT came first, but whatever. It's dumb, it has a small cult following, and you understand the plot when you read the title.Tomatoes, you know, the kind in salads, attack people. This is shown in the movie, mostly as tomatoes being thrown at people with tomatoes on the ground everywhere. This continues for an entire movie, which might sound repetitive, but there's other side-tracks of the story as well, which more often than not are very funny.The production values are non-existent but the filmmakers do their best to cover them up(I'm sorry, gentlemen, for the size of this room, the general says and then all the scientists climb over each other to get a seat) There are lots of silly plot points and many totally unnecessary, some funny and some not. Whenever it gets draggy, there's usually something really funny just in time. That's not bad.If you need to have this told to you, then you will not like this movie, but I'll tell you anyway Do NOT take this movie seriously. Enjoy the musical numbers, the stupid Jaws-like tomato attacks, the crazy characters, and all the other details that in then end makes AOTKT a fun experience. "},{"Title":"Attack of the Killer Tomatoes .... a tomato ate my sister.... they're marching into San Jose....","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The easiest way to describe this movie is as a satire. The target of the satire is quite vast, from the US Government to corporate America. It is also not a stinging satire, but rather a silly one.Think of this movie as a mix between the Kentucky Fried movie, Airplane and Police Squad series, done with a much smaller budget and not as funny. I can see how this movie is a satire of many sci-fi disaster movies from the 50's and 60's. I see this movie as a big influence on Tim Burton's Mars Attacks.The plot is simple enough. Genetically engineered giant tomatoes go crazy and start attacking people and cities. At first there is a cover up and then it blows over into full blown war.The movie runs the gamut of characters and characterizations  Lois Fairchild (a Lois Lane clone), a very ambitious Presidential Press Secretary, Clark Kent, Mason Dixon (FIA agent who hasn't worked since the Bay of Pigs), a useless President (who only seems to be able to sign his name and attack New York), an even inept Congress, a sleazy marketing CEO, and Mason's team consisting of an obese East German female swimmer, a scuba diver, a crazed WWII paratrooper and an African-American disguise expert (disguised as George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Hitler and finally as a tomato). Did I also forget to mention, lots and lots of tomatoes? There are all kinds of tomatoes from small tomatoes, to giant plastic tomatoes, to smashed tomatoes, to tomato juice and finally to people dressed up as tomatoes.On top of all this, you have a couple of musical numbers as well. They aren't that good and seem to be dubbed. The best tune is by far the theme of the movie (Attack of the Killer Tomatoes). It is way too catchy and you might end up humming or singing it in public. Be warned.Most of the movie is quite amusing and shows the absurdity of various real life situations as well as various entertainment genres. I don't believe I was induced to laughter, but mostly smiled and scratched my head. I definitely recommend this movie for fans of B and C grade movies, but only as a rental.-Celluloid Rehab "}{"Title":"A must see cult classic","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Being an overt fan of B-flicks I have to say that I really enjoyed Attack of the Killer Tomatoes. First of all it has one of the most funniest theme songs I've ever heard. Secondly it tries very hard at being a funny slapstick, fails at this miserably and in doing so becomes hilarious. Attack of the Killer Tomatoes is a brilliantly bad low budget movie and a must see for anyone with a sense of humor. I'll leave you with a part of the theme song Attack of the killer tomatoes! Attack of the killer tomatoes! They'll beat you, bash you, Squish you, mash you Chew you up for brunch And finish you off for dinner or lunch Lunch, lunch Dinner or lunch, lunch, lunch Dinner or luuuuuunch. "},{"Title":"Ketchup or Catsup?","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is slightly funny but mostly a pile of crap. The story is just hilarious. The title says it all but what it doesn't say is that a lot of the tomatoes are normal sized tomatoes. It's just hilarious because these average tomatoes are killing people. The tomatoes don't become larger until later on. I don't understand how and the acting in this movie is just so horrible. I couldn't believe how bad it was but it was funny in a cute little way. The best part is probably when all those men in suits are trying to get seated at that table in that teeny tiny room. They had to climb over the table in their suit. I didn't even realized the movie was suppose to be funny until that part and then the rest was just a laugh. There is no way this could've been a serious movie about tomatoes that kill people. It's a bad movie that's somewhat funny. "},{"Title":"Marvellously insane","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is a wonderful movie if viewed in the light in which it was made. Light hearted, off the wall and delightfully derivative. A must for all corny movie buffs. If ever there was a movie to reflect the maker's dream, either good or bad, then this is it. Drawing from all genres, making use of jingle music and madcap visuals, this classic movie has long been derided as a world worst movie ever made. This is unfair, as it shows what can be done on a modest budget, with the makers' imagination and a sack-load of tongue-in-cheek gags. There is also the well held belief that this could be the worst vegetable movie ever made. However, there has always been confusion as to whether the tomato is actually a fruit. "},{"Title":"could someone please pass the ketchup?","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  i loved this movie! it's stupid on purpose. it was hysterical. it surpassed it's budget limitations very well with some great jokes and gags. i really liked the new york subtitle under the scene of a san francisco trolley car going up a hill.yes this movie is as low budget as they get, but it has alot of heart. in comparison, plan 9 from outerspace is bad, but it's also incredibly boring. it's so bad that it isn't even funny. as the previous person's comments state, attack of the killer tomatos is so bad it's good. very few movies pull this feat off so well. i wish i could buy it on dvd.attack of the killer tomatos is for people who are really into mystery science theater 3000 or who loved films such as dark star, kung pow enter the fist, mystery men or reptilian. it's influence can be seen on the higher budget spoof mars attacks. i'm sure they got the whole destroying aliens with a song thing right out of this movie.this movie is MUCH BETTER than it's reputation having finally seen it. anyone that tries to take this movie seriously needs to have their head examined. you just know a movie is going to be fun when it has it's own theme song. "},{"Title":"The insane genius of James De Bello","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" (r#43)Worst movie of all time? No, actually one of the most insane and hilarious spoofs ever made. Not much of a plot, obviously low budget, non-actors doing the best they can to keep the dialogue deadpan and serious (George Wilson as the bad guy is particularly hilarious), and of course rampaging, evil, flesh-eating tomatoes.In the tradition of David Zucker's Scary Movies, James De Bello's jokes aim to be as shamelessly stupid, but still funny, as possible. And it worked for me. Some lines literally had me howling with laughter. Could somebody pass the ketchup?; Wienerschnitzel!; Technically, tomatoes are fags; Well, it was pretty dark, you know... it's lighter today; Why not? You're a woman!, just to name a few. And how can you not love a movie that features a catchy John Carradine-esquire theme song, a deliberately badly dubbed Japanese scientist, an insane katana-swinging WWII pilot who seems to drop from out of no where and just sort of follows along, a blind policeman, a president whose main job seems to be writing his signature on papers before crumpling them and throwing them away, a UN-type organization who spends the entire movie debating what should be done about the tomatoes before deciding it's not time to take action yet, a swimming champion who eats an entire bowl of the cereal STEROIDS, mind-numbing musical numbers, the list goes on.You'd have to be a pretty dull person not to enjoy this. Utterly insane, shamelessly cheap and silly, but somehow awesome. I'd recommend this movie to anyone with a knowledge of awful movies and a good sense of humour.Mlmlmlmlmlm mneed mlmlmlmlmlmmlm... "},{"Title":"Bad, but funny!","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" In what has to be the lamest, yet one of the funniest movies around, ordinary tomatoes take on a life of their own & start attacking people due to the way they have been mistreated, don't bother looking for razor toothed, flesh chewing tomato's, blood & guts & good acting, there's none of that here, the tomatoes are just ordinary tomatoes, nothing to special & the score is really cheesy, still it's a memorable film & one that pretty much everyone has seen or at least heard of. But what other movie is there where people are killed by tomatoes? A cult classic & one that's recommended only for those who don't mind non-serious movies, because trust me, this is no GONE WITH THE WIND!. Followed by three sequels & a cartoon series. The first of the sequels is, RETURN OF THE KILLER TOMATOES THE SEQUEL *** stars "},{"Title":"This should have been THE ultimate cult classic film!","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I remembered seeing a clip of this movie on an old Saturday morning program called Kids Are People, Too. Seeing a tomato chase Mason Dixon on a sidewalk before my very eyes was far too unbelievable, and I giggled out in thinking it was the most downright hilarious thing mankind has ever seen!  I hadn't even noticed that the film existed at all! That was until almost a decade later when I finally got to see it on local TV, and I began to realize that THIS FILM WAS FOR REAL!!! Possibly NO other motion picture in history has managed to make clever strangeness and ridicule like Attack Of The Killer Tomatoes! A film like this can be so BAD, that it's actually GOOD! However, I felt that this could have been another audience participation outing just like The Rocky Horror Picture Show because it can be seen millions of times over. With some occasional musical numbers and plenty of scenes to be addicted to, this would have had a humongous impact on millions of viewers to keep going to the movie theater over and over to see this fun picture. Killer Tomatoes plays like a lengthy national anthem, worthy of my time and money! Now, if only I can try to educate millions on how to enjoy watching low-budget movies without getting totally embarrassed! After all, any unknown movie worth $10,000 can still be worthy! "},{"Title":"People, use thy funny bones.","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" No, it wasn't perfect. Name me one movie that is, honestly. But, come on. I see a lot of crud about this being Unwatchable, and Awful, and in some cases The worst movie ever. Well, really. The only way anyone could possibly think that about AotKT is if they have absolutely no sense of humor. I'm 21, I just saw it for the first time, I loved it. If you like Mel Brooks movies, this is pretty similar. They took an idea (Hitchcock's The Birds), twisted it into something more obscure and off the wall (Tomatoes), and had a good time making fun of every little cliché of the horror genre, and then some.If you, like another reviewer on here, watch two minutes of it and decide you're done with it, then I can't imagine you watch many movies at all. I can't remember the last time I saw a movie that had my interest thoroughly grabbed in the first two minutes. The top best-selling movies EVER all failed to grab my interest within the first two minutes, and yet, I ended up liking them. So, my points are twofold; One, don't be a wuss, if you're going to watch this movie at all, actually watch it. Don't watch it for thirty seconds and say Ugh, how corny, I'm ditching this. Two, consider what you expect out of movies in general, but especially this one.Most people watch movies to have fun, and be entertained. If you watch AotKT for those reasons, you'll find it enjoyable. Some people apparently watch movies demanding to be blown away by every aspect of it, and come out of it raving like they've had an epiphany. Don't do that. Ever.... Anyway. Yeah. This is about half-comment, half-rant, but so be it. I found AotKT enjoyable; if you watch it expecting a satire of horror and an entertaining watch, you'll get it. If you're expecting to be left convulsing on the floor feeling like life has no meaning since it peaked at seeing the movie; then you should try something habit-forming. "},{"Title":"Extremely underrated","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" People, get a grip! I have heard people say this film roles all the bad things from sci-fi, action, and horror movies into it...That's the point! This is to horror what Hot Fuzz is to action. I don't see how any one could resist the charm. Even the opening score is cheesy and had me giggling like a school girl to the point where some one came into the room to ask what in god's name was going on. If you don't like this movie at all, I guess laughter is just not for you. I have seen many truly awful independent B-movies and this pretty much encompasses them all. Now, it's not with out it's flaws (looking at it in a as a satire/parody). I didn't like how at some points the film act as a parody. Okay, I know I'm being confusing. Let me explain...The film is great because, for the most part, it feels like a cheesing independent horror movie. When jokes are clearly jokes, it breaks this formula. I'm not saying some of these weren't funny, I am saying I wish they were more subtle. Basically, these guys set out to make a film that was so horrible, so cheesy, so cliché that you couldn't help but laugh. Think of it like this. Imagine the worst film you've ever seen (I honestly mean the worst). I guarantee you laughed at some parts because of the poor quality. Times it by one hundred and you have Attack of the Killer Tomatoes. "},{"Title":"One of the BEST MOVIE titles of all time!","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I was walking around my local video store one day with my friend and we discovered this movie. I remembered watching the cartoon when I was younger, but I never knew that there was a movie about it. Anyway, I watched it and I thought it was hilarious. Some might say that it is trying to copy AIRPLANE too much, but I like to think of it as AIRPLANE for a younger audience. Others might say that the humor is very immature and full of misfired gags, but that is why it is so enjoyable. Even though the plotline runs thin at times, (Paper mache tomatoes attack a large city) it is still a very funny movie. *** Memorable quotes Oh my god! It's Adolf Hitler!This review was written by my friend, IMDb Hckyfn17, and  is used with his permission.  "}{"Title":"It's Just a Load of Fun","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  If you--or anyone for that matter--try to analyze this film as anything other that silly fun, then  you're just wasting time that could be spent watching reruns of 'Green Acres'.This is a fun movie.  This flick is known as a cult classic.  Why?  It has bad acting, bad songs, and bad special effects.  Everything from the dubbed-over Oriental doctor at the beginning to the Mason Dixon-Ms. Fairchild duet at the end is just to die for.  Sure some of the jokes are lame but most are just downright corny.  It is a very original movie, and so what if you can see the skateboard underneath the gargantuan tomatoes as they run down the street.If you haven't seen it, what are you waiting for?  If you have seen it, why not see it again?  When you do see, watch it intently, even the musical parts!  I'll bet a lot of the jokes went over some of y'alls heads. Anyway...I won't ramble any more.  This is a classic movie and I give it a 10.5.But I won't see the sequel.  I heard that was dumb. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood!","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"       I saw this film on a triple-bill that included ROBOT MONSTER and PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE.  Since those two movies were unqualified stinkers, things didn't bode well for KILLER TOMATOES.  But, as I began watching this film, something began to happen.  I found myself laughing, but not AT the movie, but WITH it!  I saw exactly what they were trying to do and actually got some of the jokes  The black master of disguise who tries to pass as an African-American Hitler; the scuba expert who has to find water to dive in to justify his being part of the mission; the Japanese scientist whose words don't match his lips; the Elvis army number (my highlight) and the commercial parodies.  I found them all hilarious.  Needless to say, the Puberty Love song had me in stitches.      All I have to say is just ignore the negative reviews leveled at this film and check it out for yourself.  It's not a classic, but you should get more than a few laughs out of it.  After all, any movie that has the following lyrics in its theme song can't be ALL bad  I know I'm gonna miss her/A tomato ate my sister "},{"Title":"Really funny, really stupid too.","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Tomatoes somehow come to life and kill people.  The plot is as silly as it sounds, but anyone who goes to a movie with this title really should not be disappointed.   The movie delivers what it advertises.   I saw the film in 1980 in the theater.  At that time I was struck by an extraordinary scene of a helicoptor loosing control on takeoff -- it was completely out of place given the rest of the movies budget.  Later I heard that that was a real accident and that the pilot lost his life.  I hope my memory is wrong, -- I didn't find any details here on the incident.  At least the director left the footage in the film and even improvised the action slightly to incorporate it.  That maybe the most thought provoking part of this film; whether or not to use footage of an accident.  Otherwise, this is pure, meaningless fun.      I rated it a 6  .    "},{"Title":"Not One Bad Apple In This Bag Of Fruits","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Anyone who thinks they're going to get cinematic quality from a title such as this should be quarantined and re-educated immediately! But for those looking for an insanely silly and over the top flick to snicker at, this could very well be the one! In line with movies like Airplane! and The Naked Gun series, but more outrageous and aware of it's budget constraints, If the actors had any credible talent to begin with, they were told to leave it all by the door before they came on set. And borderline politically incorrect - but balanced. IE; when the overdubbed Japanese scientist explains 'Tomatoes are not vegetables gentleman, they're fags.' And a nerdy scientist covers for him and explains 'He means fruits...' And at the end of the meeting a general says 'Well, we better go out and take a look at the situation. But you better bring your jackets, as there's a little Jap in the air..' And the nerd scientist whispers to the Japanese associate 'He means 'nip'...' All in all, it's good clean fun, sans vulgarity, gratuitous nudity, or REALLY dumb plot twists such as alien domination or some crazed vegan out to teach the world a lesson. There's a little bit of intrigue though, as someone tries to thwart Mason Dixon from discovering how to repel the tomatoes. But hardly anything to grip ones armchair over. How silly can adults be? Watch this movie, and ye shall see! "},{"Title":"Eat Your Veggies!","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Attack of the Killer Tomatoes (1978) Dir John DeBello / Cast David Miller, George Wilson, Sharon Taylor, Stephen Peace, Ernie Meyers One of the most hilariously cheesy yet innovative comedies ever produced. Simply put, the world is overrun by killer tomatoes. First occurrence happens when a woman is attacked in her kitchen after a tomato emerges from the garbage disposal. The president is alerted and a team is assembled to join the military in battling this outburst. The tomatoes vary in size and resemble red painted beach balls that roll after victims with either squashing or off screen snacking resulting. John DeBello is the director behind this zany fiasco and despite its obvious budget restraints he renders the screenplay an attack on invasion films with an amusing jab at Jaws. David Miller plays Mason Dixon who leads the investigation, which began in the smallest board room imaginable. George Wilson plays Jim Richardson whose motive are hilariously questionable. Sharon Taylor plays reporter Lois with an amusing reference to Clark Kent and Superman thrown in for good measure. Stephen Peace is the real show stopper as parachute brandishing soldier Finletter whose brave determination is only countered by his naïve nature. Topped off with a president who spends every minute signing his name, this is one hilarious invasion film that will have viewers doubt the produce department. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Nothing worse than an unfunny comedy...","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" For me, there's nothing worse than an unfunny comedy. Sure, plenty of horror films aren't horrifying, but at least they do entertain, even if you're laughing at them. Sometimes thrillers won't thrill but they're usually of interest anyway. But a comedy that just isn't funny...well, what's the point? And I'm afraid to say that ATTACK OF THE KILLER TOMATOES! is THE unfunniest comedy I've ever had the misfortune to sit through, and this is from a guy who's seen a fair few Troma flicks in his lifetime.From the outset, you realise that this is going to be a broad, very broad, skit on the kind of '50s sci-fi movie epitomised by ATTACK OF THE GIANT LEECHES, except a lot of those films were tongue-in-cheek anyway. ATTACK OF THE KILLER TOMATOES! quickly devolves into a series of quick-fire sketches, playing on the absurd humour. There's a meeting room that's too small so all the officials have to climb over the desk to sit down. A Japanese guy badly dubbed into English. A guy who parachutes in and drags his parachute around for the entire duration of the film. The tomatoes almost seem forgotten about at times, although there are a few scenes of people being chased by the huge fruit that rolls down the street after them. The ending is nonsensical and frankly embarrassing.The budget is non existent and the acting awful from the entire cast. There's no one-liner that works. Every trick in the book seems to have been thrown into the mix, like the Scooby Doo gag that comes from nowhere and goes back again just as fast. In fact, the only thing I liked about it was the catchy song that plays over the opening credits, but there's another eighty minutes of nonsense to sit through after that. Maybe, just maybe, this would have worked as a short, but as a feature film it's a dog. Avoid this one like the plague. "},{"Title":"Fun movie,","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This plot, as got to be one of the most silly and so ridiculous and yet, the movie still works!As this was one hell of a fun movie to watch, I actually could not stop laughing with this movie.From the acting, to the tomatoes moving by them selves and killing people too but I could have done without the singing and dancing scenes, that was far too silly, even for this silly movie.The ending could have be better, as I wanted the Tomatoes to fight back but they just took it staying still, they could have made, some of the tomatoes to jump on people faces or something.Fun movie 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Lettuce  Watch Those Killer Tomatoes Again!","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" One has to re-watch this movie from time to time just to adsorb the stupidity! Yes it's that funny! Tomatoes Still Humor Me.This is one of those it's so bad it's good type of films - that is exactly what it is suppose to be and that IS the comedy of the movie. This type of comedy is hard for a lot of people to get It's suppose to be cheesy and in bad taste... it is a deliberately cheesy b-rated movie that IS the humor of it. The movie is basically poking fun at older b-rated sci-fi horror movies that were meant to be scary - yet they came across as funny.I will be the first one to admit that you have to be in the right mood to watch a deliberately bad b-rated comedy film such as this one. But when the mood strikes just right, this movie can tickle-your-fancy!Attack of the Killer Tomatoes is a cult classic film - so it will not suit everyone's taste in b-rated comedies but it does suit mine from time to time.8/10 "},{"Title":"Terrible movie. Boring","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is really bad. It has a great start. A funny start. The premise of killer tomatoes is quite funny and promising. The first tomato kill is fun, with tomatoes flying (thrown) against their victim. The movie moves on to a couple good jokes. But that's all. After a few minutes the jokes turn bad and predictable. They try too hard. After the beginning, there were few good moments.This is a boring film. It tries to be funny and fails terribly. There are much better films of the genre. Look for something else to watch.Cheers 1 "},{"Title":"Pass the Popcorn review","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The 50s and the 60s were the golden age of creature feature B-movies. Then the highly successful Steven Spielbergs' Jaws was released in 1972 and it took the genre to a whole new level. Expectedly, a new breed of movies spawned, trying to reproduce the success of Jaws. Several years after that, in 1978, a low budget movie named Attack of the Killer Tomatoes! came out. Attack of the Killer Tomatoes! (AOTKT) was primarily a spoof of the said genre. Unfortunately, many people took it too seriously and failed to recognize its comedic appeal. Therefore, ATOTK is generally considered a bad movie and holds a pretty low rating on both IMDb and Rotten (Killer) Tomatoes. But does this do it justice?The movie's plot is rather simple. Tomatoes started killing people and are now a menace to whole humanity. The government of the USA decides to fight back with any means necessary. Here our protagonist, one Mason Dixon comes in play he leads a group of useless men in a quest to find a solution for this horrible menace. Of course, calling Mason Dixon's character the protagonist could be a bit of an overstatement since there's a bundle of characters in the movie and no one is really that prominent. Because there are so many characters in the movie, AOTKT sometimes feels like a series of sketches rather than a coherent movie. Which isn't really that bad since many of the 'sketches' are funny but, considering general movie logic, various scenes don't lead anywhere and feel pointless.First of all, I don't understand why people took this movie so seriously. The movie's name is Attack of the Killer Tomatoes!, and it even has its own theme song, for crying out loud! Also, the movie makes it pretty clear throughout that it is just a ludicrous little spoof. It's even a part time musical with a few ridiculous songs in it. So my advice is - if you're going to watch this trashy thing, try to relax and by no means take it seriously. So yes, the absurdity of the script, the awful acting and the bad special effects are deliberate. You may or may not enjoy that but it's insane to bash this movie for the wrong reasons.One may say - 'ok, it's a spoof, not a serious movie but so what? That doesn't necessarily make it any good.' That's true but AOTKT is pretty enjoyable either way. It manages to successfully make fun of most creature feature movie clichés. I must say, I had quite a few laughs watching this. I would even go as far as to compare it to the classic 1980 comedy Airplane!. Who knows? Maybe Airplane! took the idea of the exclamation mark in the title from AOTKT. If you like trash movies, you can do no wrong by watching this one. Its low budget charm only makes it more appealing; if nothing, because it looks like the movies it spoofs. Naturally, it's not the best comedy movie out there, far from it, but it will certainly do well as a one-time comedy experience.Rating 7/10 Read more at http//passpopcorn.wordpress.com/ "}{"Title":"One of the few films in which intentional Camp succeeds","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is a rare bird, folks.They tried to make a bad movie, and they ended up putting together something stupid, ridiculous and yet lovable. Usually, when you try to make something on purpose like an Ed Wood movie, you can't possibly succeed. Because Ed Wood was not trying to make funny movies, he was trying to make cool monster movies. It is only his rank incompentence, bolstered by intense enthusiasm for what he is doing that creates the artistic tension that elevates his micro budget shlock from worthless dross to the genius leavings of a great Outsider Artist.Attack of The Killer Tomatoes does not exhibit or have such tension, because everyone, from the director, to the actors, to the writer, to the audience is in on the joke. Irony, kids. Familiar with it yet? Well, yes, by now, perhaps. But in 1978? Maybe not so much.And yet, AOTKT remains a goofy, fun tribute to the brainless creature features of the 1950's and the drive-in movie era. I had heard the theme song for decades on The Doctor Demento radio show before finally seeing the movie. Was it worth the wait? No. No way. But I have watched many, many movies less entertaining than this one.If you like the old style monster movies, sit back, relax, and enjoy the stupidity, puns, overacting and bad theme music (with farty analog synthesizers!) of Attack of The Killer Tomatoes. "},{"Title":"Best film ever to feature the San Diego Chicken.","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Looking back, even the makers of this film likely couldn't have foreseen how much staying power their concept would have. Years later, this still has some appeal as one of the goofiest send-ups made. In the spirit of the Zucker - Abrahams - Zucker team, co-writer / producer / director John De Bello and co-writer / co-star J. Stephen Peace make fun of schlock pictures of decades past, spinning a yarn about deranged ravenous rolling tomatoes that mutter to themselves while annihilating hapless human victims. They just dive head first into the splattery action, and pack the movie with sight gags, verbal jokes, and satirical detail. That said, not all of it is that funny, in this viewer's humble opinion; one has to wait through some slowly paced scenes and jokes that fall flat in order to get to the really good stuff. There's just not enough utter hilarity to sustain even an 84 minute run time. Still, the incredible enthusiasm of the mostly no-name cast does keep this watchable enough. David Miller stars as government operative Mason Dixon, the man who heads a special task force to take care of the tomato problem. Said task force includes a disguise expert (Gary Smith), a swimmer (Benita Barton), a deep sea diver (Steve Cates), and a special assistant / parachutist (Mr. Peace) who carries his parachute with him wherever he goes. Familiar comedy actor Jack Riley appears as the salesman, while the equally prolific character actor Eric Christmas does well as the doddering Senator Polk. Believe it or not, a couple of musical numbers are also thrown into the mix, with the gut busting theme song and the all-important ditty Puberty Love rating as highlights. Among the priceless gags are our disguise expert working undercover as a tomato, a group of men meeting in a room that's much too small, a Japanese scientist who's VERY badly dubbed, a spoof of Jaws, and a man taking a shower in a hallway. The special effects are just as tacky and unconvincing as one could expect (and desire), and as a bonus we get to see a helicopter crash that was actually very real (as in not scripted). Given how brightly the film starts, it's disappointing that the movie isn't funny more consistently. But when it does score, it scores strongly. Recommended best to folk who enjoy rampant silliness and zaniness in their comedies. Followed by three sequels and a TV series. Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Funny in a playful way.","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" All the tomatoes of the US come to life grown to large proportions and are attacking and devouring housewives.It's up to Mason Dixon to stop the revolt of tomatoes.His group includes a master of disguise,a Russian Olympic swimmer,an underwater specialist who always wears his scuba suit and a soldier who always wears his parachute.Extremely kitschy comedy with few corny horror elements involving ketchup.The film-makers obviously intended Attack of the Killer Tomatoes to be bad as the plot is filled with terrible acting and laughable dialogue.The film is truly stupid beyond belief.Followed by three inferior sequelsReturn Of The Killer Tomatoes!,Killer Tomatoes Strike Back! and Killer Tomatoes Eat France! and an animated series plus videogame.6 killer tomatoes out of 10. "},{"Title":"not what i expected","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" i was expecting this movie to be one of those so bad it's good films,but i was disappointed.found it boring through.all of the gags fell flat,i never laughed once.it felt more like a drama than anything else.it isn't a horrible movie,but i expected more from a cult classic.maybe you just have to be in the right frame of mind for the jokes to be funny.i obviously wasn't.the main theme song did nothing but annoy more,as did any of the other songs in the movie.but this just my opinion.if nothing else,it's worth watching for the novelty factor.but i can't see myself watching it again anytime soon.for me,Attack of the Killer Tomatoes!is a 4/10 "},{"Title":"was this really that bad??","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I love this film, but others do not, some people call this movie dumb, or stupid, well guess what! no duh! calling this movie dumb on the rounds that it is a serous horror film makes about as much sense as judging space balls on the grounds of serous science fiction film, it's pointless. the film is very funny, and very ahead of it's time, the film makes fun of many 70's styles and cultures, but it also happens to make fun of the great B movie rush of the 50s and 60s. but other then the off the wall humor and ridiculous plot and effects, the film does have an effect thats not spoofing any thing, the whole town joining together to stop the menacing tomatoes is very reminiscent of the original blob, but it's not really spoofing it, more of just a homage. the effects are a real joy, and the puberty love song is very catchy, you might find your self singing it without noticing. very good film, check it out. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Low Budget ZAZ","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is one to be watched, because it will be remembered, for the right reasons, I hope. It is a really low budget movie, but that's the beauty of it. The tomatoes themselves are ridiculous looking. The acting is below standard, so are the effects and directing, which all adds to the picture. For the most part, it feels like a low budget Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker movie. I was almost crying from laughter for the first twenty minutes or so, but then the pacing falls a little flat, and the comedy material gets to stupid to be funny. This happens around the time that the protagonist is first introduced, Mason Dixon, who seems like a John Belushi wannabe, and failing at it. And the leading lady looks like a wannabe lady, if you get my drift. Overall, this review might sound a little negative, but to tell the truth, it's no Oscar winner, for sure. If you don't take it too seriously, and think of it as a fun and wacky story, you'll do alright. Also, I recommend the three sequels, and, if you like, the animated series as well. "},{"Title":"My Head Hurts","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is one of those movies that is so bad it's good, except that it's intentionally bad, which means that it's intentionally good - I mean - it's an intentionally bad, good movie - I think.It's sometimes boring, except when it's not. None of the humor is the laugh out loud kind, it's very low key. Some of the gags are pure genius, but some are, well - not. The acting is mostly of the these are the best people we could get to participate in this type, except you get the feeling that maybe it's done on purpose. If this had been produced and directed by Jim Abrahams and David Zucker (Airplane!) it would have been much funnier, but a little more forgettable. On the other hand it's much more amusing than pretty much everything that Leslie Neilsen has been in, other than the Airplane! and Naked Gun movies. I can't decide if the people who made this were completely inept or absolutely brilliant. I'll try brilliantly inept. Maybe.I don't know. My head hurts. "},{"Title":"Attaaaaaaaack of the killer tomatooooeeeeess!!","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw this title. Killer... tomatoes? That has GOT to be a very corny and silly movie.And it was! Oh boy, this movie is a hoot! There isn't any kind of creature design.They're just tomatoes!!!There are so many stupid things in this movie, but you can tell it's all done on purpose. And about every aspect gets a blow sooner or later. The acting, the music, the effects, the story...You will laugh numerous times about the sheer stupidity of this film.And that doesn't make it a bad movie, oh no.If you need a laugh or just want to kill time with a silly flick, then this one is definitely a must-see! Beware the tomatoes!!!7 out of 10 stars! "},{"Title":"Yes, this movie would go on to have sequels and even a cartoon.","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I have only had the luxury of seeing this movie once when I was rather young so much of the movie is blurred in trying to remember it. However, I can say it was not as funny as a movie called killer tomatoes should have been and the most memorable things from this movie are the song and the scene with the elderly couple talking about poor Timmy. Other than that the movie is really just scenes of little tomatoes and big tomatoes rolling around and people acting scared and overacting as people should do in a movie of this type. However, just having a very silly premise and a catchy theme song do not a good comedy make. Granted this movie is supposed to be a B movie, nothing to be taken seriously, however, you should still make jokes that are funny and not try to extend a mildly amusing premise into a full fledged movie. Perhaps a short would have been fine as the trailer showing the elderly couple mentioned above and a man desperately trying to gun down a larger tomato was actually pretty good. The trailer itself looked like a mock trailer, but no they indeed made a full movie, and a rather weak one at that. "},{"Title":"An American Monty Python","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The filmmakers obviously were going for quintessential absurdity. My friend remarked that it looked like the product of a bunch of film students let loose with a concept. There is no way to discover any logic in the plot, and it is this absence that gives it its appeal. An early scene is reminiscent of the classic Marx Brothers stateroom scene, other characters and voices are drawn from scenes that were overdone in the seventies. In any case, I was glad to fill in this gap in my education in cult films of my generation,and enjoyed it much more than higher-budget contemporary comedies. It has NO production values! That's almost refreshing! "}{"Title":"Deliberately baaaaaad!","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Yes, it can be done. John De Bello and Costa Dillon cleaned out the garbage of their minds and come up with the worst comedic, horror , Sc-Fi musical. If there is any acting, it is terrible or way over the top. Special effects; take your pick...very low budget or kindergarten. Every cheap cliché thought of is used. No doubt a fun movie to watch. Worth a cold six-pack or two. Point the finger at radiation if you need an excuse. Mutant tomatoes grow to almost the size of a tow truck and begin attacking mankind. San Diego is a good place as any to start. Scientists and an absent minded military must find the way to stop this red rolling menace. This cult favorite features David Miller, Eric Christmas, Al Sklar, Tom Coleman, Sharon Taylor and John Qualls. "},{"Title":"A true work of schlocky 70's cinematic art","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Besides boasting a terrific title and an equally awesome theme song, this cheerfully tongue-in-cheek spoof's wonderfully wacky premise alone ensures total greatness Giant lethal sentient tomatoes threaten the safety of mankind. Now, how can one go possibly wrong with such a sublimely silly story? Well, the truth is you just can't. Director John DeBello and co-writers Costa Dillon and Steve Peace totally totally knock it out of the camp ballpark Several hysterical song and dance numbers, a gleefully goofy good-natured tone, laughably lousy (far from) special effects, a genuinely jolting unintended helicopter crash, the gloriously ghastly ditty Puberty Love, a sidesplitting send-up of Jaws, an uproarious sense of blithely inane humor, an amazing confrontation between the army and the evil red scum, and a fantastic surprise ending. The cast have a ball with the off-the-wall material David Miller makes for an amiable hero as the blundering Mason Dixon, Sharon Taylor brings considerable charm to her part as eager newspaper reporter Lois Fairchild, George Wilson slimes it up well as smarmy press secretary Jim Richardson, J. Stephen Peace almost steal the whole show with his masterful portrayal of gung-ho lunatic Lt. Wilbur Finletter, Jack Riley contributes a lively turn as a hot-tempered jerk, Eric Christmas amuses as the doddering Senator Polk, and Al Skar delivers a spot-on spirited performance as hearty and shameless advertising executive Ted Swann. Best of all, the immortal San Diego Chicken shows up to help save the day at the very end. John K. Culley's rough cinematography gives the picture an appropriately shoddy look. The robust score by Gordon Goodwin and Paul Sundfor hits the rousing spot. First-rate dippy stuff. "},{"Title":"A Comedy Musical, With Horror Elements","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" America is overtaken by tomatoes -- killer tomatoes! A team of military men and scientists, lead by Mason Dixon, is assigned the task of fighting the tomatoes. Can they be stopped, and who is behind this terrible menace? I first encountered this film as a child, not by watching the movie itself but by seeing clips on Jim Henson's Muppet Babies. And although I didn't see it until I was twenty-six, I always knew about the film -- it has a reputation. Few people have actually watched it, I imagine, but just about everyone has heard of it. And after seeing the film, it's no wonder why -- this film is unique in the best sense of the word.The acting is awful, the comedy is funny in a very cheesy way (a poor man's Monty Python) and the songs (yes, this is a musical) are not really important to the plot and just seem to fill space. The special effects could be done by high school students. But there's something endearing about a film that just stinks this bad... a b-movie that could never be anything more. (The best effect was a crashing helicopter, which allegedly happened on accident!) If you want real horror, this won't give you the thrills. If you want a real comedy, you'll be let down. Heck, none of the actors or actresses are even nice to look at. But something about the blend of bad horror and bad comedy gives it a watchable quality. I could sit through this again and again with friends (if I had enough booze) and I can even see how this may have developed into a cult film with people quoting the bad lines.I guess the movie was popular enough to make a few sequels, including one with George Clooney. And if you like horror films or b-movies, you know you'll have to watch this for your life to be complete. I enjoyed it. You'll enjoy it. We will all enjoy it. Pick up a copy, I implore you. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  For a cult movie that's supposed to really suck, it sure turned out to be a decently funny movie.  The special effects aren't bad, neither.  The tomatoes attack everyone in sight; they even swim in the water.  My evaluation ** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"And in local news a man was eaten today by his bacon, lettuce and tomato sandwich&#x85;","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" In case you're a self-acclaimed connoisseur of cult cinema and/or bad movie-making, there comes a certain point in life &#x96; preferably sooner than later &#x96; that you have to watch Attack of the Killer Tomatoes. It's an inescapable certainty, as this is one of the most notoriously awful cult movies ever made. One tiny but essential detail, however, is that Attack of the Killer Tomatoes is deliberately awful. Right from the opening message already, mocking Alfred Hitchcock's The Birds, this is clearly intended as a zero-budgeted parody and I can't escape the impression that writer/director John De Bello never expected for his film to become such a hit. The film spoofs the contemporary popular trend of so-called eco-horror movies (plants, animals and nature in general revolting against humanity) and introduces the least menacing type of vegetable imaginable as undefeatable killing machines. A secret government agricultural project to produce bigger and tastier tomatoes goes horribly wrong and soon there are reports about tomato-attacks coming from all over the country. The president puts together a Special Forces team to battle the juicy enemy, which includes secret agents with very specific areas of expertise and scientists with horrendously dubbed voices. The first half hour of Attack of the Killer Tomatoes is very entertaining. As silly as it is, the sight of normally shaped vegetables jumping up from the sink and attacking hysterical housewives is quite original and funny. The first half hour also contains numerous memorable moments like the catchy theme song, the Jaws homage and the infamous unforeseen helicopter crash (see the trivia section for more details) that made it to the final cut. After that, however, the whole thing turns into a tedious, unstructured and insufferably amateurish mess. The quality level of the jokes goes from fresh and inventive towards embarrassing and downright not funny and there are too many characters and sub plots. Personally, I prefer the late 80's and early 90's sequels (which I saw before seeing the original) because they benefit from slightly better production values, incredibly over-the-top tomato special effects and the presence of veteran actor John Astin (The Addams Family) as the mad scientist Dr. Gangreen. But, as said before already, the original inexplicably remains obligatory viewing material at some point in your life. "},{"Title":"2nd Only to Rocky Horror","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is my favorite cult hit next to Rocky Horror. The sound the tomatoes make as they attack is priceless. I laugh every time I see this movie. Anyone who likes camp value will LOVE Attack of the Killer Tomatoes! "},{"Title":"so bad it's bad","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I knew this film was supposed to be so bad it was funny, so I went into it with that expectation.  I just found it to be so bad it was murderously boring.  The whiny theme song is funny for about 10 seconds, until you realize there is nothing clever about it except its intentionally irritating quality.  Seeing things get splattered with tomatoes gets old in about 30 seconds.  There is just nothing clever or funny about the film except for the premise.  It could sustain a 3-4 minute comedy sketch maybe, but this is just not a feature film by any stretch of the imagination.  "},{"Title":"surprising fun start but wears thin","Date":"15 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Tomatoes are killing people. The Department of Agriculture has a secret GD-3 Project. Presidential press secretary Jim Richardson enlists Mason Dixon to lead a crack team to battle the tomatoes. Sam Smith is a man of many disguises. There are also the east European female Olympic swimmer Gretta Attenbaum and soldier Wilbur Finletter dragging around his parachute. The Times sends reporter Lois Fairchild to investigate.I really love this irreverent silly movie for the first 30 minutes or so. I found the inappropriate Japanese jokes oddly hilarious. The helicopter crash is shocking. I had to rewatch it several times and wonder how nobody got killed. I like the fun tomato attacks. Around where Ted Swan started to sing, that's when the movie started to lose me. The song and dance in this movie isn't actually funny. The ridiculous ideas slowly loses the shock of originality. The actors are strictly amateurs and their lack of presence wears thin. Nevertheless, it is fun while it lasts. "},{"Title":"fruit of the gloom","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The fruit born of the plant Solanum lycopersicum has gotten used as food for millenniums...and now it takes revenge on humans! Attack of the Killer Tomatoes! is one of the silliest movies out there. Its title explains the entire plot, and it basically contains the same sort of humor that Leslie Nielsen's movies did. There's even a scene of deliberately bad dubbing, like in martial arts movies.No matter, you're sure to laugh the whole way through as the flick pokes fun at all sorts of horror and sci-fi movies. And besides, tomatoes are one of the tastiest foods out there (did I just doom myself by saying that?). Really fun. "},{"Title":"Can Somebody Please Pass The Ketchup?","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" When I heard the plot for this movie I simply had to see it, I mean whole cities being wiped out by killer tomatoes! Sadly the title is about as funny as it gets.Led by Detective Dick Mason, a special team of military and scientists (including Greg Colburn who never takes his SCUBA outfit off and Lt. Finletter who is never pictured without his parachute trailing behind) 'Attack Of The Killer Tomatoes' is a parody of B-Movies, in particular Japanese horror of the 1950's. The film begins with a standard sized tomato being discovered by a women washing up in her kitchen before we find ourselves in a middle of a crime scene as the tomato has supposedly murdered this lady, and let me tell you it doesn't get any saner as the film progresses! To be fair there are a couple of funny moments, for instance anytime the Japanese scientist Dr Nokitofa speaks his voice is dubbed over in an American accent, or when disguise expert Sam Smith infiltrates the tomatoes 'hey, can somebody please pass the ketchup?'. Equally this film was probably a lot funnier in 1978 with the whole so bad its good concept. Unfortunately for 'Attack Of The Killer Tomatoes' spoof films such as the 'Airplane' and 'Naked Gun' series have been released and done this kind of comedy a lot better since.The acting is atrocious; there is zero continuity in the editing and it just feels genuinely slow and lacking energy. For a parody film to work you need a lot of things happening at once, one gag after the over. The singing in the film seems pointless and the adverts for the furniture store that flash across the screen are damn right bizarre, even for this film. Ultimately, however, you can see why this film is a cult one; I can't see many people being indifferent to it. Unfortunately terrible would be the way I would sum this up. "}{"Title":"probably John Di Bello's near-crowning achievement, which goes without saying...","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Yes, boys and girls, here it is, the film you've been waiting for, a take on produce that gives the ZAZ comedy team and Monty Python a run for their money! Well, not really. Matter of fact, Attack of the Killer Tomatoes is crass, crude, in poor taste, and with a million zingers in its arsenal. But that is really what makes up the charm and great hilarity of the picture. It's one of the coolest flicks to watch with a group of friends and have a ball with, well, maybe not a tomato sized-one perhaps, but nevertheless. Anywho, plot- there isn't any. It basically gets itself going in the first scene- killer tomatoes attack all across the country. Who can stop them? The inert, boring and droning congress? Regular military force? How about a guy in a jump-suit (and always attached parachute), scuba-diving gear, and a guy in a tomato costume incognito with the real big red menaces? It's up to a group of rag-tag common folk to stop the evil little critters, but how? The answer will probably come as not too much of a surprise to those who have seen Mars Attacks (hope that isn't a spoiler for you), but at any rate, a movie like this is really one that gives camp a good name, or a bad one, depending on point of view. It's consistently silly, however, and like a ZAZ movie (indeed it seems to be the other head to the Kentucky Fried Movie, two flicks from the same sort of anything-goes parody tree of 1978) it never lets up. I loved little bits that went on, like the kooky old guy who wanted to show the man his revolutionary new ads (Jesus being apart of one of them), and just in general the kind of brawny idealism the director goes with the material. He obviously has a very tiny budget, but he milks it for all it's worth. I would've loved to have been an extra in this flick, much like in something like Dawn of the Dead- it looks like it was a lot of fun to make this movie, as everyone from the whole host of extras to the straight-faced main players (some of them with dastardly plans, others without a clue, and a couple of quasi-heroes, most of whom return for the sequel) is totally in on the joke. Maybe that might be why it's lesser than being one of the all-time great camp-type movies, but it's a real delight for those who go for the low-brow (and low-vegetable) side of humor, where for parts of the film where tomatoes aren't seem at all there are other things to laugh about, like when the generals have their meeting in the very crunched room, and listen to the Asian general with lip-syncing attached. A must-see for goofy-comedy fanatics. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"I've wet myself!!!","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" When a film actually STRIVES to be bad, you gotta love it.Seeing all the characters, from government men to the so-called locals, try to play this seriously was a trip. How many scenes got nixed because someone busted up laughing? The advertising exec getting Jesus Christ to be a product spokesman was hysterical at the time. Today, you can't help but wonder why someone hasn't tried it yet.And hearing a roomful of people say 'project pfffft' over and over again was great.Best moment? The black man disguised as Hitler, with the parachuted pilot saying 'My God! It's Adolf Hitler!' then needing to be restrained from killing the 'master of disguise.' Great fun. "},{"Title":"Not the worst.","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie was intended to be the worst movie ever made, but there are other movies that, unintentionally, are worse like The Crow Wicked Prayer.When seeing this movie expect some silly fun around tomatoes killing people and bad acting. But it's funny and that's why it has such a huge fan-base. The theme music is very funny and gets in your head. Overall, don't expect a good movie and a good plot, but 83 minutes of pure fun thanks to the stupid plot. There are soldiers shooting the tomatoes, people running from them, tomatoes killing people and girls screaming like crazy because of these fruits.I dare you to see this movie from beginning to the end. "},{"Title":"It stinks.","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" There are worse movies then this. The Harlem Globtrotters on Gilligan's Island comes to mind. But not too many others.The world is being attacked by killer tomatoes. Scientists are trying to save us. Sound like garbage? It is.Do you need any other reasons not to see it?I would like this thing shown to lifers in prison. After watching it they would ask to be executed rather then watch it again.To sum up, it stinks. I would rather get root canal then watch this thing.Most movies are bad. But not this bad. "},{"Title":"What do you expect for $90,000","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Attack of the Killer Tomatoes is schlocky, to be sure don't expect to see Gordon Willis type cinematography, and people seemed to be chosen completely at random, so don't expect De Niro. There are pauses, there's a segment with motorcycles that just wastes time (obvious padding), there is generally awful pacing, and huge logic gaps (aside from the whole tomatoes premise) That said, it is pants-wettingly humorous and original at times. The screenwriters were definitely better at their job than the director (and I say that knowing that the director helped write the screenplay it's the sort of logic you can expect in this film) Basically, if you believe that a movie can be redeemed by its details, you're probably going to like this.Three and a half stars out of five just for fun.  "},{"Title":"Giant tomatoes mean bigger pizzas!!","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  ~Spoiler~ Tomatoes were harmed in the making of this movie.  Attack of the Killer Tomatoes is one of the worst movies I've ever had the pleasure of watching.  Because of the subject matter, you simply can't hate it.  The idea is just too hilarious.  I've been wanting to see this flick since Morgan Stewart's Coming Home.  I wasn't disappointed, but it wasn't as funny as I expected.  A lot of the jokes don't work because they rely too heavily on the viewer guessing what is happening.  Much of the action is not shown simply because they can't pull it off.  They could have used a bigger budget.  I'm sure the director was glad to get it made at all.  Some of the funniest parts seem unintentional  the helicopter crash and the fact that you can see the wheels under a giant tomato making it roll.  Hilarious.  I don't know if I can exactly recommend this movie, but if you're looking for a cure for boredom, it can't hurt.  Camp and cheese pretty much make up this movie.  That's not necessarily a bad thing, but the cartoon was much better. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The first ten minutes seem inspired, what with the great theme tune, the odd text preamble and the first few of those scientifically inexplicable and visually ridiculous tomato killings. But this is not a great comedy -- it ends up disjointed, boring and pretty desperate. The film's high-profile reputation is perhaps down to the fact that the tomato imagery is unforgettable and any movie with a title this good cannot help but find a place in history.What we have here is a series of scenes that play like bad Mel Brooks set-ups. Look at the scenes involving the cramped room in which the army men discuss their plans. Yes, it is mildly amusing to see guys in suits and uniforms have to slide and scramble over a desk to reach a door, but we need more than that. To create a madcap screwball situation, filmmakers need to show a whole bunch of things going on at once, and juggle them with insane logic. There is a lack of energy and continuity; characters are left behind in the middles of scenes, or later run into characters who are supposed to be in different places, or break into song without the filmmaking around them seeming to recognise. Some of this makes us smile, because it's insane. Most of it does not.The most interesting turn comes when we find out the identity of the villain. He's a guy with access to the President of the United States, and he's been engineering evil plants so that he can use his position of power to eventually step in, use his influence, become a hero and gain more power. The scary thing is that this guy looks just like Dan Quayle. You reckon the potatoe thing might not have been an accident, and Quayle was simply trying to cover up his knowledge of fruits and vegetables? "},{"Title":"Not considered mediocre because of it's cult status.","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie was really popular in the early 90's that it even reached a Cult status. This cartoonish idea of killer tomatoes somehow was funny for many people. The truth is that this movie is very cheesy and poor on the technical factor. I can't say that this is a horrible movie because it's intended to be a black comedy with an ultra low budget.The idea has been spoofed many times and has remained in the taste of the public for many, many years.The premise is very cheesy but it's entertaining if you are into low budget. Still I would only recommend it for making fun of it motives. There aren't positive things about this movie so stay away from it if you don't like cheesy entertainment. "},{"Title":"So cheesy, you will love it!!!!!!!","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is such a awful movie, that is why it is fun. It has so many moments of unintentional hilarity and such awful acting and plot, making it a laugh-a-minute monster movie that I heartily recommend to fans of the bad movie cinema. "},{"Title":"Even for a bad movie this is bad.","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Attack Of The Killer Tomatoes is a parody of bad monster movies which ends up being worse than the movies it spoofs. The (very meager) story tells of tomatoes who revolt against those who treat them badly. Basically,they spin and growl (yes,they growl) and the next thing you know the person is covered in ketchup. The actors are no-names who never made movies after this,so there would be no point to name them. There's a guy who's hired by the governement to try and stop the menace of tomatoes. He's accompanied by a black guy who's master of disguise and a girl and a guy who dives. Anyway, there's another woman who spies on the first guy that works for the government. if this isn't making much sense to you, you understand. This movie never would have been very good in the first place, but it even lacks the fun of laughing at stupid attack scenes. The movie is horribly cheezy, which although being the whole point,really really hurts what could've been a (reasonably) entertaining movie. At one point, a giant wax tomato slides on an unconcealed plank of wood with wheels on it! Maybe I would've recommended the movie if it would have enjoyable camp value, but even this is lacking from this terrible movie. 2/10 "}{"Title":"I Know I'm Going to Miss Her/ A Tomato Ate My Sister..  &#141;","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Awlright, damn it, the MooCow will grudgingly admit the truth I kinda' like this cheap, cheesy 70's parody.  The idea that vast hordes of killer tomatoes are destroying the US is a great idea, and in spite of itself, the moovie does provide some decent chuckles, moostly the sight of terrified extras running away from large, obviously fake tomatoes.  This film, along with The Kentucky Fried Moovie, is one of the earlier attempts at spoofs, which became so popular in the 80's & 90's, thanks largely to Airplane!.  This one, like moost spoofs, is pretty poor.  Many attempts at humor are dismal failures, and will induce much groaning.  But thanks to the ravenous tomatoes hordes, the obnoxious Puberty Love song, and the awesome helicopter crash scene, Attack of the Killer Tomatoes does provide some goods, though largely for the wrong reasons.  There are sooooo many things wrong with this film...and so right, it's hard to explain.  Enough people must also have enjoyed it as the Tomatoes made a comeback in 2 moore films, and a cartoon series!!  Large chunks of time spent away from the tomatoes are pretty dull.  And dig those 70's clothes, dude!!  ;=8) This tomato is seedy and cheesy, but worth a chuckle or two; the MooCow says grab a pizza and pop in the Tomatoes!!  &#141;  "},{"Title":"What Tomatoes!","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie's heart was in the right place, no matter where its brain was.Attack is basically a spoof a la Airplane! (two years before the fact - nice going.) of what happens when vegetables, or in this case fruits, attack.Through all manner of film magic (stop motion, papier-mache tomatoes on skateboards, reverse filming, people watching off-screen tomatoes, people throwing basketball-sized tomatoes at the on-screen actors), the tomatoes do indeed attack everyone in their leafy grasp.  Then, it's up to Mason Dixon (Miller) and a group of spies I wouldn't wish on any government's side to save the day.  Of course there's a meddling reporter (Taylor) who pops in at the worst times, dancing and singing Army soldiers, Japanese scientists with dubbed-in voices, some guy dragging around a parachute and a samurai sword...and oh yeah, the San Diego Chicken before he made it big.The gags here aren't all that great.  In fact, you could probably make up better yourself after watching these.  Some of the dialogue is inutterably bad (Please pass the ketchup - not something to say in front of tomatoes.) and as far as Puberty Love goes...well, I can't blame the tomatoes for shriveling up on hearing it.What's good about it?  Well, I liked the theme song and the beginning credits, and there was a scene with four people on the phone at once that was pretty well executed.   ...that's about it.Three stars.  Not a Killer comedy, but it tries.Rock on, Peace.  "},{"Title":"I didn't get the joke...","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I looked forward to Attack of the Killer Tomatoes with a sense of excitement, because I tend to enjoy sitting back, relaxing, and watching a really dumb film once every now and again.This is too dumb. It's like a hyperactive version of Ed Wood. It's a HUGE cult film, and even has its own Special Edition DVD (newly-released), but it's just...not...funny...A gang of killer tomatoes try to take over the world. There's the plot, which is intentionally ridiculous. But it's just bad and not very funny!Obviously I got the point of this film--to be a spoof of the really bad Ed Wood-esque motion pictures of the 60s and 70s, like the film about the giant ants who take over the world and we are shown enlarged clips of regular ants as a blue screen with people running in the foreground, acting very scared as if the ant is really behind them.But while trying to become a spoof of these films, Attack of the Killer Tomatoes simply becomes one. It was named one of the top five film titles of all time, I believe, by a popular magazine. Whoever wrote that must have been smoking something.For cult fans only. "},{"Title":"Spoiled Fruit","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Here's another 70s comedy that didn't learn from the revolution earlier in the decade.  Most 70s film disinterests that much because, while they retain some interesting themes, there isn't the visual power in the work to make it worthwhile.  It's 80s TV quality.  So few films from that decade are visually insightful, Apocalypse Now and Barry Lyndon, namely.This movie, like 'Kentucky Fried Movie', throws everything it can at the screen, but, like Landis' early works, doesn't have the concentration to explore its theme.  The film is worse than B-grade, it's Z-grade.  All that's missing is the 'Star Wars' reference.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"Great spoof of horror flicks!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The people who hate this movie must have been expecting a serious horror film...what this is, is a PARODY of horror films, and a brilliant one at that.  This movie is silly and very funny, and is worth owning for repeat viewings.  Don't let the title put you off...check out Attack of the Killer Tomatoes!  It also has a great theme song! "},{"Title":"Fails as a cult movie, as a comedy, and as a film","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  With a title like Attack of the Killer Tomatoes!, anyone going into this thing would be expecting either a) a bad science fiction movie or b) a comedy making fun of bad science fiction movies. It's supposed to be a mix of both, with a dose of parody splashed in. Unfortunately, it falls flat very soon.You're never supposed to take this movie seriously, I realize that, but you're supposed to think it's funny, right? I found only a few of the jokes or situations were funny (i.e, the side-by-side phone conversations, the Russian Olympic spy eating steroid cereal, Superman walking by Lois, etc.). Attack of the Killer Tomatoes strives to be a cult classic, but it doesn't make it. A cult classic is a movie that is so different that only a select group of people understand it (or a similar description). Attack of the Killer Tomatoes could be enjoyed by any 8-year-old with a bad sense of humor, so therefore, it does not qualify as a cult film.There is one good actress in the entire thing Sharon Taylor as Lois Fairchild. She is a thin, gawky reporter, but has an endearing personality, loves to overact, and is a natural comedienne. Unfortunately, she is put to bad use here.Attack of the Killer Tomatoes is not as funny as, say, Amazon Women on the Moon or Kentucky Fried Movie, but it does have a few hilarious moments, so I would still recommend seeing it once. Avoid the director's cut, it has interruptions by the producer of the movie and some supposedly lost footage dubbed in a pretend African dialect (it can be found in English on the out of print tape). "},{"Title":"Tomatoes Attack. . .The Opposite of Hilarity Ensues","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The same night that I watched this I also watched Scary Movie 4, making for one messed up double feature. Unfortunately for these killer tomatoes they could not stand up to the laugh riot that is the Scary Movie franchise. While I fought boredom here watching jokes that were silly and stupid, brutally dated and brutally bad, the more recent parody had me laughing out loud. How could I desire any more than that. Director John De Bello uses the basic premise that some sort of growth hormone has gone terribly wrong and turned the tomatoes into killers. But his main objective here is to slap around the disaster movie genre that was so big back in the day. The script reeks of stoner humor, and perhaps if you take illegal substances with your movie nights this could be your cup of tea. I, sober, was stuck watching a grown man go under cover as a tomato. And that one joke, that is never funny, where the discrepancy between the Japanese speaking actor and the voice over is also here. Some may giggle, I did not. They even had a Hitler joke that wasn't funny, and I thought all Hitler jokes were funny.The narrative of this film is so splintered (for no good reason) that it is nearly impossible to explain. Tomatoes kill people, the government tries to stop it, bad jokes are told. Their aim may have been correct as their targets include the media, consumerism, and paranoia (three things that still control our lives today). Oddly enough the main selling point of this film, those gosh darn tomatoes, really don't make much of an appearance. And when they do, get this, they're played by real tomatoes. That washed up gimmick did nothing for me as I get very little out of watching a pack of tomatoes devour a body thanks to the magic of stop action camera tricks. There is also a fear of going for broke at work here that prevents this film from being truly funny. The gag of having somebody fall asleep in nearly every scene may please some audience members, but more than likely it will be seen as an invitation to join in the fun.I might also add that there does seem to be some old fashioned human egotism at work here. Man eats tomato and that's dinner, tomato eats man and that is a worldwide catastrophe. But that is just the way the world works. In the film the produce becomes evil because of genetic modification, but in the real world our produce (see Taco Bell) becomes evil thanks to neglect. And like those evil doin' green onions this film's shelf life expired a long time ago. There are a few good chuckles to be had. The last shot was really quite splendid, but it was nowhere near enough to save this moderate stink bomb. I'm pretty sure there is a good movie buried deep within this concept, but the script needed to be filtered through about a dozen rewrites to get there. And by there I mean to the level of Scary Movie 4. **1/4 "},{"Title":"once in a lifetime dream","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" i was actually in this movie as an extra in the closing scene at the san Diego chargers field. i was in the group of people running behind the famed san Diego chicken. it one camera shot, you could actually see one of my feet.it was fun doing it and i did meet the san Diego chicken which made it all worth while.i did go to see the movie when i moved back to Maine in 1980 and have rented it a few times to show my grandchildren how silly the movie actually was.would i have done it,if i had thought about it more, probably not, i just thank someone that they couldn't see my face.my grand kids would never look at me again without laughing their heads off.i have spoken to one of my grandchildren, a grand daughter and she actually wants to be an actress, so maybe there will actually be someone else in the family that will eventually be in a movie. "},{"Title":"Attack of the Killer Director","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Attack of the Killer Tomatoes! is a perplexing film. Its director, John DeBello, is also its writer, and the writer and director seem to be at odds with each other. Usually when someone writes and directs, such as Chaplin, Keaton, Sturges, Welles, Jerry Lewis, or even Edward D. Wood, Jr., there is a clear vision present. The director knows how to best serve the writer.In Killer Tomatoes, however, DeBello, as director, seems to have no idea what DeBello, the writer means. This strange cinematic schizophrenia is best shown by the fact if you look at the script for the movie separately from its realization, it's a fairly good low-budget satire, a kind of guilty pleasure, a movie nobody wants to admit they love. However, when you look at it on the screen, the gags are so often so poorly set up, you have no idea what the jokes are.An example is there is supposed to be a black agent who is a master of disguise. He emerges from a car dressed in the uniform of an American Army officer with a small moustache. Later, the crazed paratrooper who joins the force looks at the guy and screams, Oh my God, it's Adolf Hitler!! So why didn't DeBello understand his master of disguise should be in a Nazi uniform? Looking at the script separately from the film, it is full of arguably brilliant moments. The main plot involves the government dealing with the Killer Tomato problem, not by attacking them, but starting an advertising campaign to convince people the tomatoes actually good for them, since they don't know how to stop them. A group of scientist meets on the issue and discusses a series of governmental agencies the acronyms for which all turn out to be stupid, vulgar words. A man in a hat and glasses with a cape sticking out of his jacket is greeted with, Oh, Hi, Clark! by a female reporter.And in the film's most brilliant moment, the White House aide assigned to create the advertisements about the killer tomatoes visits the nation's leading advertising agency, Mindmaker, whose president is a man with gold chains around his neck one step away from Boca Raton. Since ad men give you a song and dance, he proceeds to give one. They sell, they buy, and only I know why, he sings, important decisions are being made each day, decisions too important for the common man to make, they're always in a bind, so Mindmaker will help make up their mind! And yet, all this is so poorly edited and staged that most of the effect is lost.So, if you've seen Killer Tomatoes before, and already know the payoffs to the poorly set up gags, or are willing to listen to the script and overlook how it's presented, it's actually a very funny film. If you don't meet those prerequisites, however, you won't like it. "},{"Title":"no tomato surprise","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Attack of the Killer Tomatoes is quite possibly the only serious contender challenging Plan 9 from Outer Space for the dubious title of Worst Science Fiction Movie Ever Made. Apart from the unintentional helicopter crash, which is the only thing in the movie worth seeing, this film has absolutely nothing to recommend it. The plot - what there is of it - is incoherent, the acting is beyond bad, and calling it a spoof does not in any way excuse this appallingly bad movie. We rented it once - once! - and quickly discovered that There Are Some Things Mortal Eyes Were Not Meant To See, namely, this movie. Avoid this film as if your very life depended on it.  "}{"Title":"When Killer Tomatoes Attack The New Fox Special","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Overlong, unfocused but undeniably B-movie spoof of other B-movies about idiot politicians, soldiers and reporters trying to thwart the title fruit.The film could just as easily be titled When Good Tomatoes Go Bad! or Tomato Bites Man.Followed by a bunch of little seen sequels (the best of them being Return of the Killer Tomatoes! starring a much younger George Clooney in his film debut) and an animated series that aired for a while on Fox Kids Saturday mornings.The best gags include Rock Peace trying to attack the disguise expert who's dressed like Hitler, a military musical number, the sight of the Sandiego Chicken, reporter Sharon Taylor running around in a slip, Sharon Taylor trying to cover herself with a blanket while her editor chews her out for her indecent exposure (Undercover reporter uncovers!) and then handing her editor the blanket before she goes back to work.  "},{"Title":"This movie is so bad, it's funny!!","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Attack of the Killer Tomatoes is a funny film to watch because it's so stupid and lame. You will laugh at the bad acting and storyline, and the movie looks like one of those movies that kids did at High School with their video cameras. This film is pretty crappy, but if you want to make fun of a film. Make it this one, THIS FILM SUCKS!!!! BUT FUN TO LAUGH AT.  "},{"Title":"Raping?","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the cult classics of fine fag^H^H^H er... fruit films. What else is there to be said about this shining example of what you can do with no budget and a helicopter accident on film?  A fine example of why we are trying to forget the 70's and bell bottoms.  Needless to say, don't watch this film with any expectations.  Viva la puberty love! "},{"Title":"A two joke movie literally.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"   I am sorry to say that this movie only has two good jokes in the entire movie. The rest of the movie is a combination of bad acting, bad singing, and out dated 1970's spoof of society. There is a reason why this lambasted as one of the worst movies of all times, you can not tell if the actors and producers are doing bad parodies or were simple rejects from a correspondce movie acting school. And to imagine the movie spawned a cartoon series and video game boogles the mind. Potential spoiler As the for the two jokes one involves an Japanesse scientist with a terrible understanding of English and the second involes an agent dressed up like a tomato at a campfire. To give the punchlines would give creedence to buying this movie. "},{"Title":"Incoherent, poor parody.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Attack of the Killer Tomatoes consists mostly of rambling, poorly assembled footage in search of a movie. The plot makes no sense, and the various characters drop in and out of the picture with no explanation at all. Watching this silly spoof, you get the feeling than so many other comments have captured so accurately that it's easy to make a cheap, low-quality film and then use the parody angle as an excuse for its cheapness and low quality (in one scene, female swimmers are terrified of tomatoes that are floating near them; how far can suspension of disbelief go - even in a parody?). The title song is great, though.     (*1/2) "},{"Title":"An insult to vegetables worldwide","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The only aspect of this film that saves it from being my least favorite piece of celluloid trash is a single line uttered by an agent attempting to infiltrate the man-eating tomatoes by dressing in a tomato costume  Can somebody please pass the ketchup?  I highly urge anyone with a sleeping disorder to use this film as a sedative;  it works better than an overdose of demarol.   "},{"Title":"Ed Wood Would Have Been Embarrassed By This Film","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Based partly on a true story, many details of which are still classified, Attack of the Killer Tomatoes chronicles with unmistakably parodic emulation virtually every routine and overused movie scene.With a cast of then and forever unknowns, this flick suffers because of the director's and cast's inability to settle on whether it was meant to be a comedy or a drama giving early warning about the growth of agribusiness and the puissant complicity of the American government up to the President.Some of the scenes where folks are smothered or consumed by running-amok tomatoes are funny.  Others are grim and grisly.  A viewer goes from laughing to sobbing and back again in seconds. Unsettling to say the least.As would be expected, the military takes many hits here, high-ranking officers in absurd uniforms are depicted as bunglers.  Presidential aides don't come off much better.  Somewhere there is a message in this film and if I could bear to watch it again, I might uncover it.My fourteen-year-old son spotted this DVD in Circuit City today and begged for it.  Since I rarely say no to him, I am suffering from what in my Army days was termed an SIW Self-Inflicted Wound.How to rate this film.  As a comedy, 3/10.  As a director's warning of the perils of unleashed genetic manipulation of fruit and its unsuspected horrific consequences (tomatoes aren't vegetables, I believe), -2/10.But, to be fair, my son couldn't stop laughing. "},{"Title":"The Attack of the Killer Tomatoes!","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Attack of the Killer Tomatoes is one of the most silliest comedies ever in My opinion! The acting by all of the movie's actors is really something. The noises the Killer Tomatoes make is so funny and it really gives them personalities. The action scenes when the Killer Tomatoes attack are extremely hilarious as well! The film is very silly and its hilarious and the singing music by is outrageous. Its funny that the people on the front of the box of the movie isn't even in the film. This really is one of the most unusual comedy film and if you like low budget films that are so bad their good and hilarious then I Strongly recommend this film! "},{"Title":"The Worst Film?","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Through the past, there have been many BAD films, but I bet there have been none worse than than this. Even the themesong is an insult to themesongs (It's so darned annoying)! Don't waste your time, if want REAL GREAT cult classics, watch BRAZIL, CARNIVAL OF SOULS, PEEPING TOM, or even NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD! Trust me, this film is total junk.Luc L'heureux, a film guy. "},{"Title":"Oh help me god this was bad!","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I would just like to say that there is NO way to describe how incredible bad this movie is. This is just an approach to describe the badness but I could never describe the incredible heights of it.I would like to quote Mike Sh. (mshannon@gis.net) in his comment on the movie Manos' the hands of fateSeriously, this movie is not only the worst movie I've ever seen; it's the worst movie I can imagine being made!This movie is exactly this bad. How could it be worse?Could the storyline be any more sentimental? No, the last scene takes care of that!Could it be any less exciting? No, the fiber-plastic tomatoes take care of that.Could the storyline be more boring? No, the progress of the movie is so slow that if it went any slower it would go backwards!I cant believe people who say this movie is so bad it's good or it's crap but still funny. The humor in this movie is so incredibly BORING and STUPID i couldn't even comprehend what the heck the writer was meaning by his humor. Also the script is so surreal that one begins to wonder if the writers were on acid or something.For the sake of your own health and your brain, DON'T WATCH THIS MOVIE!!! Even two hours after i watched it i still felt bad in my stomach. I physically had to watch a good movie the next day to wash away the dirtiness I gathered while watching this load of crap.P.S. DO NOT WATCH IT, NOT EVER!! THERE ISN'T ONE FUNNY THING ABOUT IT!!! "}{"Title":"The worst film I have ever seen","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Never see this movie.It tries to be a spoof on scifi/thriller films of the 1950s and 1960s but all it succedes at is making you wish really badly that you were watching one of them and not it.It is very lame.  A spoof has to have some aspect which has some above par quality to it.  This movie does not have any such aspect.Save yourself.  It's too late for me but... just don't watch it. "},{"Title":"Crap, but not good crap","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Look, I know it's meant to be ironic and spoofish. But many bad movies are good because the makers tried to make a good movie and ended up with Plan 9.... This is just rubbish, low-brow, frat-house humour. The bit where the scientist and army generals attempt to get into a tiny room is so deliberately awful that it's not worth your time to watch. As a spoof it fails, you have to take your audience a bit seriously at some stage, even if you want them to laugh. My 9 yr old boy walked out while we were watching this! Low-brow, unoriginal crap for the very lowest of tastes and humour. Watching a dog-poo rotting on your lawn is more fun, more educational and at least helps the environment. Do GOOD bad film makers a favour and say Attack of the Killer Toms sucks. Basically, it fails on the comedy level, fails on the spoof level and fails on the we tried to make a good movie but blew it level. Do yourself and your loved ones a favour, drop it in the bin. "}]