[{"Title":"One Of My All-Time Favorites, Too","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"51 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie never got much acclaim for some reason. When I read where Clint Eastwood said it was a personal favorite of his I smiled, because it's mine, too.....and I like a lot of Eastwood's movies.This isn't just my favorite Eastwood film. It's one of my all-time favorite - period! That's probably because it has tremendous charm, with a good mixture of comedy and drama with characters you care about. It's definitely different from most of Clint's movies. The famous Eastwood glare when he's mad is still there, and he still shows his violent side. However, it's not a violent story, just a tale of a modern-day man and his little troupe who want to be cowboys and Indians, and go on tour with their little Wild West show.The film has nice, colorful photography and looks great on DVD. However, the story, not the visuals, is the main attraction. It's refreshing to see Eastwood play a role like this where he's a Mr. Rogers-type western hero for little kids, urging children to stay on the straight and narrow, mind their parents and say their prayers before going to bed at night.Sondra Locke also is effective as the cold newcomer who reluctantly joins the group and slowly changes from a mean-spirited, sarcastic woman to a caring person. She shows a good comedic touch and is excellent in this film, perhaps her best effort since The Heart Is A Lonely Hunter.The rest of the cast is fun to watch, too, and it includes one of my favorite faces and voices, that of Scatman Crothers. There is very little profanity in this film, too, which adds to the attraction and widens the potential audience of this neglected gem. I really think it's Eastwood's most underrated movie. "},{"Title":"Top marks adds to Eastwood's body of work","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think this movie is pure Eastwood not trying for the spectacular or flashy, not aiming for any Oscars, but honest, well-crafted, original in theme, touching and memorable. It deserves more attention than it's gotten and is deeper than it's been given credit for. Eastwood himself has said that if he ever had anything to say as a director it's in this film. It's a great addition to Eastwood's large and impressive body of work, and shows yet again that he is never afraid to take chances. "},{"Title":"Extremely funny and sympathetic Eastwood-classic","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What can I say about Bronco Billy expect that its truly one of Clint Eastwood's most sympathetic projects ever and a beautiful picture full of laughs and positive feelings. Between more violent movies Clint made a habit of appearing in a nice and jovial motion pictures (Thunderbolt and Lightfoot, Every which way but loose, Any which way you can, Honkytonk man, Pink Cadillac) and it can't get much nicer than Bronco Billy. Lovable story practically charms everybody and Clint is making incredibly amusing parody of his western characters. Bronco Billy is also one of the six films where Sondra Locke co-starred with Clint and this is certainly her finest performances beside him. Eastwood has always mentioned Bronco Billy as one of the personal favorites of his career and I see no reason to wonder why. This film just simply makes you feel good. "},{"Title":"Nice little gem from Eastwood","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw Bronco Billy for the first time in its entirety tonight on DVD. This film has to be one of Eastwood's most underrated films.  It's mainly a light comedy with some touches of drama thrown in.  While Clint's in fine form in one of his few comedic roles the highlight is easily Scatman Crothers as Doc.  He shines in each of his scenes and is the film's most likable character. Is the film a classic? No.  But it does have a lot of heart and I ended up caring about what happened to Billy and his wild west show.  It's not too hard to see why this is one of Clint's personal favorite films.   I think the film has a good message too.  And that is if you do good deeds then good luck might just come your way.  Even though he is a flawed character Billy does have a good heart and performs shows for the underprivileged for free.If you are a in the mood for a film that will make you feel good for two hours then Bronco Billy is for you. My rating 7/10  "},{"Title":"One Of Clint's Most Under-Rated Films","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After Every Which Way But Loose and its sequel, Any Which Way You can became HUGE boxoffice hits, it was something of a surprise that audiences shunned this film, which contains alot of the same elements (minus the monkey), but is just a tad more mature and serious in terms of story and character development.  It's an admittedly corny but charming semi-western comedy that has Eastwood leading a ragtag wild west show across the country, playing at various county fairs, churches and orphanages.  A snooty, spoiled, runaway heiress hooks up with the troupe, causing all kinds of complications.  Eastwood directs with a sure hand; the film is rather leisurely paced, but has  warm, rustic charm that's very likeable and the movie is worth discovering on video and DVD now.  Fine family entertainment. "},{"Title":"Lets hear a cheer for everyone's favourite cowboy.","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Bronco Billy the sharpshooting cowboy is the owner of a modern-day travelling Wild West Show that seems to get caught in one messy situation after another. And not helping is the lack of crowd figures to their show. But nothing is going to stop Bronco Billy along with his companions from living their American dream. Through some amusing chain of events a wealthy, snobby heiress Antoinette Lilly finds herself tagging along with the show and becoming one of Bronco Billy's assistant, after her new husband leaves her stranded with nothing.I don't understand why they think this cap gun shoots nothing but blanks. While, Eastwood (who directs and stars) goes all sentimental, warm and fuzzy for a change. It wasn't as well accepted (despite it being one of Eastwood's favourites) and flopped at the box office with it receiving such poor jabs from most critics. Not to say it's great, but this comically light-hearted character journey has a certain amount of charm within its foundation that doesn't make it as bad as you would believe. Even with this whimsical nature, it never gets overbearing. Sure it can cause you to cringe at times, but it wears its heart on its sleeve and keeps it integrity intact. More often I found myself smiling at the shenanigans, well it was hard not to. It's simply a satire worked into an old-fashioned story of familiar ingredients, were there was plenty of things going on in the plot. Who knew these traditional plot devices could maintain such interest. This is because of a delightful bunch of wholesome performances, authentically zippy purple patches of random fun and Eastwood's conventionally hardy direction makes sure it ticks along sufficiently. Even if it's nicely shot, there's nothing overly flashy or quirky creeping up, so it's all about the loyal chemistry and assured story that keeps one compelled. Streamlining the moralistic story are deep insights and symbolic brushes of the true feeling of the American dream. You got to earn it, as it's not served on up on a plate for you and from that you make the most out of it to live up to 'your' dreams. Pacing-wise it can stall in stretches, but I didn't find it boring when that did occur. The stock characters here seem to be grounded by reality, despite some silly developments (mainly involving a mental institution). The relaxed Clint Eastwood chimes in with a wonderfully touching performance. He simply chews up the material with great vigour. A terrific Sandra Locke has a screen presence that's equally as dominating in the role of the stuck-up, cold-blooded high-end dame. Eastwood regular Geoffrey Lewis' oddball greedy turn was marvellously madcap. The performances of Sam Bottoms, Dan Vadis, Sierra Pecheur and Bill McKinney are pleasurably sincere as Eastwood's ragtag team.If there's one Eastwood film that's unfairly lampooned. Bronco Billy gets my vote. This gratifying show must go on. "},{"Title":"A minor classic","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"     Here's a picture that works beautifully on several levels, including the philosophical (I kid you not).  Approach it as a lighthearted caper, and you will be entertained.  If you enjoy whimsy with a trace of fantasy, it will not disappoint you.  How about a picture questioning the nature of reality, in which characters challenge and re-shape the identities that life seems to have foisted upon them?  There are not many movies with such powerful ambitions, and fewer still that develop them in an oblique, yet perfectly comprehensible, manner.  There is nothing the least bit heavy handed about this film; quite the opposite.  Enter the special world it creates, and you will be rewarded both emotionally and intellectually.    (See what I mean?  Now make sure you haven't missed Finding Graceland and Pennies From Heaven.) "},{"Title":"a memorable, post-existential film about illusions, reality and the bonds between lost souls","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is not about Eastwood doing the stock 70's Eastwood, it is not about Sandra Locke, or about any other person's performance.  The people in this film are lost, both in the social space of a world they cannot live in and in time.  They lack most of the usual human equipment, like faith and hope (see Thomas McGuane's 'Panama').  But they blunder on, as much by default as by will, in the illusory world of Bronco Billy's road show and guided by Billy's real values, with each other.  Like most of Eastwood's films, Bronco Billy is built around a story, but in this story how it comes out is not important, it is how Billy and this cast of lost souls get there. And the film has one the greatest lines in cinema history  The one Bronco Billy used to tell Antoinette what happened to his wife. "},{"Title":"Sweet little comedy.","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie obviously wasn't made to break any box office records. It's just a sweet little comedy with great characters that deserves more recognition.Maybe the biggest problem with Bronco Billy is that it tries to have too much story. I wouldn't had mind seeing the movie focusing on Clint and his gang alone, plenty of great characters for that! Instead we now have the movie mainly focusing on the love story.This isn't really a comedy with haha moments. It more is a movie with a warm and fun feeling, which is mainly thanks to the great characters. I especially enjoyed Scatman Crothers in his role but also Clint Eastwood did a good job as a character that basically wanted to be like the western characters Eastwood previously played before.Fun comedy by Eastwood! Give it a shot, you might end up liking it.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!  Great slice of life film","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am a Clint fan..this was one of my favorites. Not a red carpet Oscar type flick...even better. One that is enjoyable to watch and leaves you feeling good when it is over. It's been a long time since I've seen it. I have seen it several times. The chemistry between Clint and Sondra is pretty noticeable. Living in Texas, I can say that in many ways it touches upon the nature of things here, the way friends stick together, and the overall feeling of kinship that exists between people from all walks of life. So, if you want to kick back and watch a hoot of a little movie, this is it. After watching it, you may just find out how many people you have touched in your life without realizing it. "}{"Title":"Watch it and see....","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I thought this was a very good film. A pleasure to watch, not boring, fun, exciting and a good story throughout. It came on TV at like 200am and i sat up and watched it all and didn't get bored once.A rich woman is left in the lurch after her new husband runs off with all of her possessions, she's kinda mean to poor people but she joins Bronco Billy's wild west show to get from A to B. Gradually becomes likable. Sometimes you wanna slap her lol.I agree with the previous comment, its good to see Clint play another role rather than the stereotypical cowboy. Watch it!! I'm gonna see if i can find it on DVD. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood Meets Federico Fellini!!!","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Bronco Billy represents another example of Clint Eastwood's offbeat, non-traditional, cinematic endeavors. Primarily, this sentimental road show of sorts follows an anachronistic Wild West rodeo show on tour around the west and focuses on the problems that they encounter and resolve to keep the show going. This troupe of performers runs across an heiress on the lam that winds up hiding out with them until she learns that she has been reported murdered and may lose her fortune.Shrewdly, Eastwood explores another facet of his own iconic western persona in a low-budget but endearing version of Henry Hathaway's Circus World (1964) with John Wayne. Bronco Billy and Circus World deal with the problems of holding together a modern-day western circus show. Both movies feature a catastrophic tent fire and the protagonists are constantly tangling with problems. Chiefly, however, the comparison between the two films ends here, because Bronco Billy lassos bigger themes than the contrived, self-conscious Circus World. As it turns out, the Clint Eastwood character&#151;Bronco Billy McCoy&#151;is a huge fraud in the best sense that Paul Newman's hero amounted to a fraud in Robert Altman's Buffalo Bill and the Indians, or Sitting Bull's History Lesson (1976). Bronco Billy and Buffalo Bill shoot the same kind of explosive pellet-laden cartridges to account for their excellent marksmanship. The chief difference between the Eastwood character and the Newman character is that Bronco Billy knows that he's a fraud while William F. Cody does everything to perpetrate his own mythological destiny. Whereas director Altman ridicules Buffalo Bill as a cynical fraud in the bi-centennial Buffalo Bill, the Eastwood film pokes fun at Bronco Billy's masquerade but not the dreamer of a man beneath the masquerade. In another sense, Bronco Billy shares a lot of similarities with the common man in the films of Frank Capra. Or perhaps underdogs is a better choice of words. As it turns out, Bronco Billy was never a cowboy. In fact, he was a shoe salesman who shot his unfaithful wife and served time in prison. While in prison, Bronco Billy meet the future members of his traveling, one-horse, Wild West Show and taught them everything that he knew so they could go on tour.In a reference to Cecil B. DeMille's The Greatest Show on Earth where James Stewart hid out in clown-face from the law, the Sam Bottoms character&#151;a lasso twirling cowboy&#151;is a draft dodger from the Vietnam era. Bronco Billy sings the praises of the lower middle class, perhaps even lower, because this is essentially a populist modern-day oater. Were that not enough, everybody in Bronco Billy knows that they are a fraud, and the theme of the film is that you can be anything that you want to be in Bronco Billy's Wild West Show. As any credible film scholar will tell you, this is Clint Eastwood paying homage to Federico Fellini&#151;whether the former realizes he was paying tribute to the Maestro or not&#151;because the circus formed a pivot part in all Felllini's work. In a sense, director Eastwood appropriates himself as a hero the same way that Fellini relied on Marcello Mastroianni as his typical protagonist. Moreover, Sondra Locke who plays the recalcitrant heiress that recalls Fellini's own wife Giulietta Masina in a reversal of sorts. Bronco Billy's circus reforms the hard-hearted Antoinette Lilly and gives her a home, the way that Fellini's circuses give Masina a home in his own films. Hardcore Eastwood fans that want to see Eastwood in Dirty Harry type movies are not going to still through Bronco Billy. Or if they do, they will be disappointed. An underrated classic! "},{"Title":"Clint's Favorite...","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Bronco Billy is the favorite film of his filmography and it shows. It's a love letter to westerns and everything that cowboy ideals stood for. But to a simple man it's a film about underdogs and misfits staying together no matter what. And you can never go wrong with an underdog story.The cast for Bronco Billy is great. We have Clint Eastwood playing the titular character and he is great. He gives one of his more sensitive and genuinely likable performances. It's up their with Million Dollar Baby and my personal favorite Gran Turino. Sam Bottoms, Scatman Crothers, Bill McKinney, Sierra Pecheur and Dan Vadis give heartfelt supporting performances and truly make us feel that they are together for long time. Sondra Locke continues to not impress me with her performance. She is tolerable but still I don't her as likable screen presence. The rest of the cast are most notably character actors you have seen if you watch a lot of films and TV from the 70's. Western fans should look out for Hank Worden and he is fun as always.The script is rather more simplistic and the story feels very conventional but it doesn't matter all that much. It's more about the characters and what they represent to us and the overall theme of the fading Old West. If you can dig this, you won't be bothered by the overall simplicity of the narrative or some over the top clichés thrown in. The direction by Eastwood works perfectly in favor of the story. It's not very visually memorable or has complex cinematography but it looks fine. For the film they were making you don't need fancy editing or over the top visuals.Bronco Billy is an underrated Eastwood film that might not be his best or even the most memorable, but like Hitchcock's Wrong Man, it's a very important piece in his filmography. It's a very personal film of his and Eastwood's love for the Old West and westerns in general is showcases here superbly. A must see for anyone who likes Eastwood's work and enjoys a good underdog story. "},{"Title":"Do you Understand what Bronco Billy and the Wild West Show are all about?","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Eastwood once said that this was among his favourites of the films he directed. I understand why. Even though it's flawed, 'Bronco Billy' has heart and how can one not like a film about a circus group with intriguing characters. Let me start with the flaws (just to get them out of the way). I liked how the relationship was developing between Billy and Antoinette but in the second half the film felt rushed, as though Eastwood was suddenly in a hurry to finish the movie.I've always been fascinated by the circus (the real ones, not the ones that torture animals) and was easily persuaded to see 'Bronco Billy' (alongside the fact that it's a Clint Eastwood film of course). I was quickly drawn to the interesting characters that include Billy, Lefty, Big Eagle, Running Water, Leo and so on). Each of them have left a painful past behind and Billy has given them a new purpose. The Antoinette Lily (what a sexy name for a character) character is sort of the typical spoiled-brat turned into affectionate woman type of leading lady but she is definitely amusing to watch.All the actors perform well. Eastwood is solid as he's always been. He's brilliantly supported by Scatman Crothers, Geoffrey Lewis, Bill McKinney, Sam Bottoms, Dan Vadis and Sierra Pecheur. Sondra Locke shares fine chemistry with her leading man.There's a subtle sense of adventure in 'Bronco Billy' which isn't realized right away. As the viewer is lead to follow these characters and experience their struggle and hardship at the same time their will to stick together and be there for one another while embracing the unpredictable life they lead, Eastwood shows that there is something beautiful and pure about that lifestyle.'Bronco Billy' is quite well-crafted. The landscape is pleasing to the eyes. The score, lighting and cinematography are quite good. Editing is slightly uneven. The tongue in cheek humour stands outOverall, for me, 'Bronco Billy' was a delight to watch. Eastwood's sincerity shows in this memorable little gem (thanks to the characters). "},{"Title":"Very entertaining and fun movie that appears to be superficial, but it provides a script full of suggestions for reflection.","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Movie Starring and directed by Eastwood. Author's first work produced by Malpaso Co. from Kelly's Heroes (1970). It had a small budget. It was nominated for a Razzie Award for Worst Actress (Sondra Locke).The action, which takes place at locations in the West, has been disclosed in terms of present (1979-1980). It tells the story of Bronco Billy McCoy (Eastwood), ex-con, who runs a travelling circus company, specialized in evoking deeds of Western. It works at local fairs and the revenues obtained are limited, for 6 months does not pay to employees. When you join the group Antoinette Lilly (Sondra Locke), abandoned by her husband on their wedding night, the business gets worse.It shows the importance and validity of the old American values generosity (free circus acts in orphanages, psychiatric institutions), loyalty and sincerity (that inspire BB), support the inclusion of the marginalized (welcome in the group ), friendship and family (children are invited with their parents), support and protection of children (primary audience for the performances), the excitement and spirit of the effort to combat the difficulties, the praise of losers and honoured workers the excellence of the simple life, rustic and unassuming.The music tone is lively, including tunes country, was selected by Eastwood, Garret Snuff supervised and directed by Steve Dorff.The dialogues, with brilliance and wit, providing comic relief, based on hype, clumsiness and extravagance, it conquers and seduces the viewer. "},{"Title":"Nice Film","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Bronco Billy (1980) ** 1/2 (out of 4) The cowboy/dreamer Bronco Billy (Clint Eastwood) is barely keeping his Wild West show going but his luck's about to change when he gets involved with a woman (Sondra Locke) recently dumped by her husband. This is a rather interesting film as I've read that Eastwood says it's his favorite but at the same time I've read what a bomb it was at the box office when originally released. It's certainly understandable why most people would avoid this thing but that's a shame as it's a cute little film that manages to have enough charm but I doubt those wanting Dirty Harry will have much use for it. I wouldn't say I enjoyed the film all the way through as I did think there were some flaws including the ultra-long running time. A dreamy comedy like this one really didn't need to go on for nearly two-hours but some of that is due to the screenplay, which is quite predictable in regards to the ending. With that said one still has to admire Eastwood for trying a film like this because it's basically just about making your dreams come true. In the case of Eastwood's character, he always wanted to be a cowboy and he's doing whatever it takes to keep his show going even though modern audiences have grown tired of it. Eastwood gives a very good performance and once that will keep a smile on the viewers face. The actors hasn't had too many chances to play a nice and charming person but he handles the role very well. Locke is also quite good in her performance as the rich brat who eventually buys into the show of dreams. I found her performances to be quite good and she was very believable in the turns her character takes. Scatman Crothers. Geoffrey Lewis, Bill McKinney, Sam Bottoms and Sierra Pecheur all add nice support as well. I think a little editing would have helped the picture but then again I'm sure this is the type of film that would getting better on repeat viewings. I'm sure even today this isn't a title that Eastwood fans rush out to view but they should certainly give it a shot if for no other reason that to see the legend in a different light. "},{"Title":"One of Clint Eastwood's most charming movies","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Self-stylized modern-day cowboy and ace sharpshooter Bronco Billy (a pleasingly amiable performance by Clint Eastwood) runs an old-fashioned traveling Wild West show that's fallen on hard times. Matters only get worse when Billy hires snobby wealthy heiress Antoinette Lilly (winningly played by Sondra Locke) as his new assistant. Eastwood's smooth, assured direction, working from a warm and good-hearted script by Dennis Hackin, comes through with a sweet and unexpected treat that benefits greatly from the engaging main characters, enjoyably loose rambling plot and light, likable tone. Eastwood and Locke make for an extremely appealing couple. The excellent cast constitutes as another substantial asset the wonderfully sprightly Scatman Crothers as hearty announcer Doc Lynch, Geoffrey Lewis as Antoinette's smarmy husband John Arlington, Bill McKinney as ornery hook-handed Lefty LeBow, Sam Bottoms as affable Vietnam draft dodger Leonard James, Dan Vadis as Native American snake dancer Chief Big Eagle, Sierra Pecheur as Big Eagle's loyal wife Lorraine Running Water, William Prince as slimy attorney Edgar Lipton, Walter Barnes as a gruff small town sheriff, and Hank Worden as an elderly gas station attendant. Moreover, there's a lovely and touching tight-knit camaraderie amongst Billy's merry band of endearing misfits. Steve Dorff's folksy, harmonic score, a flavorsome country-and-western soundtrack, David Worth's crisp, sunny cinematography and a strong theme about the redemptive possibilities of the American Dream (everyone in Bronco Billy's show have troubled pasts and have recreated themselves as better, more positive individuals in his show) further add to the considerable charm of this sparkling little gem. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood's Best Movie","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't like western movies at all, not at all and Clint Eastwood has a reputation for doing westerns. This wasn't a western though. This was about a western themed circus. Due to this, plus this being a comedy and a well planned out plot and story, I think this is Clint Eastwood's best movie and was very underrated for it's time. Along with it being a comedy I also liked the drama part of it too. The story was throughout well and I liked the time setting as well. I haven't met a lot of people who liked this movie. I think people still see it as Clint Eastwood's failed movie just because he wasn't a tough cowboy like character. Why does he have to play a character like that every time. Just enjoy the movie and be happy. "},{"Title":"Bronco Billy Rides Away","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the most underrated films that Clint Eastwood has directed and also starred in. It was not one of his greatest films overall, but the story of Bronco Billy proves a great dramatic story. Sondra Locke also stars as Billy's love interest, Antoinette. The story is about a wild west show, much like Buffalo Bill Cody's wild west shows of the late nineteenth century, set in modern times.With interest in his show dwindling, and no money to pay the performers, Billy must find a way. A run of bad luck takes them to an asylum where they are received by the administrator. It is there that Antoinette parts ways with Billy. Loneliness sets in, and Billy is drowning in his own drunkenness, until Antoinette returns to him.Its not the Bridges of Madison County, so don't look forward to high expectations. However, if you are a fan of Clint Eastwood, you will be entertained, no doubt. "},{"Title":"A Funny Film","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Clint Eastwood is back in a gun-slinging western role - but this time he's funny with it. This movie is quite funny and well worth watching. Billy is full of comedy, action and a great all around adventure film. Bronco Billy is not your average Clint Eastwood movie - it is a comedy. This film proves that Clint Eastwood has a fine sense of humor and that he's more than just a good gunslinger on film.Bronco Billy is one of movies that makes great manatee. If you liked the films Blazing Saddles, Every Which Way But Loose or any of the serious Western films starring Clint Eastwood - then you might enjoy Bronco Billy.7.5/10 "}{"Title":"Great Clint comedy , deserves some respect","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Bronco Billy is one of Clint's favorite films. It is also somewhat overlooked or under-appreciated. Bronco Billy is part of a traveling wild west troupe out to make a living by entertaining the kids. Sondra Locke is his love interest yet again and is joined by other regulars that appear in various Eastwood pictures . Also the great Scatman Crothers is joined also and delivers one of his best performances. This is more of a family friendly film and a change of pace to the usual violent Eastwood movie . That does not mean it lacks depth as the story is good and the characters are interesting.I find Bronco Billy somewhat similar to Overboard ,which is also a funny ,heartwarming comedy with another real Hollywood couple that is fun for the whole family . Bronco Billy really is a solid movie and proof to any naysayers that Clint is not a one dimensional filmmaker,or only good as action star. He made a lot of movies that drive that point home throughout his career , this is one of his best of those films. "},{"Title":"Good flick, East to watch.","Date":"13 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Before I begin, let me just give a shout out to all the folks who claim that this movie is part of Clint Eastwood's long drawn out patch of bad movie-making. First off, Eastwood never had a patch of bad movie making. I have enjoyed all of the films I've seen of his.This film is no exception. It's not as serious as some of his other material and I feel like it's not supposed to be. This film is a fun feel good movie with characters you adore (if you don't, you have serious psychological issues). The main character is Bronco Billy, the fastest gun in the west. Of course he's a performer portrayed by Clint, who runs a Wild West Show in contemporary 1980's America. The reality of his character's background is somewhat of a mystery for the first part of the movie and when his origins are finally revealed, you almost don't believe it... or maybe you don't want to.There are a lot of great old west motifs and while some aspects of the plot are somewhat unbelievable, they are certainly plausible. For those of you who are still in doubt, maybe you'll get a kick out of this Imagine if Clint Eastwood decided to force Paris Hilton to perform in a wild west show and had to (on occasion) put the smack down to keep her in line... now that's worth renting on Netflix isn't it? "},{"Title":"The Enduring Myth of the West","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Bronco Billy McCoy is the poor man's Buffalo Bill Cody, the proprietor and star of a touring Wild West show, essentially a circus with a Western theme. Billy might dress like a cowboy, but in reality he is not even a Westerner; he was originally a New Jersey shoe salesman who has spent time in jail for the attempted murder of his unfaithful first wife. Two other stars of the show have criminal records- one for practising medicine without a licence, one for embezzlement- and a third has been on the run ever since deserting the Army during the Vietnam War.Billy has big ideas for his show, but the whole thing has a very amateurish air. One of his female assistants quits after he accidentally hits her in the leg during his knife-throwing act, another after she falls off his horse. He accidentally finds himself entangled with Antoinette, an heiress who has eloped but who has been abandoned by her husband. Antoinette's elopement was dictated not by love but by the terms of her late father's will, which provided that she will only inherit his money if she marries before the age of thirty. Her husband, John, is a fortune-hunting gigolo; his main attraction for Antoinette is that she needs a husband who is as mercenary as she is. Antoinette is reluctantly persuaded to become Billy's new assistant, but the two initially loathe one another. Of course, this being a romantic comedy, that means that they will eventually end up falling for one another.Antoinette is played by Sondra Locke, who was Eastwood's lover at the time. She starts off as cold, snobbish, sarcastic and foul-tempered before gradually mellowing; I wonder if her name was borrowed from the French queen who is popularly, although inaccurately, believed to have advised her starving subjects to eat cake. There is a similar development in another film from this period, The Gauntlet, which also starred the two together. In that film also Locke's character starts off as foul-mouthed and shrewish and the two characters initially hate one another before falling in love. This casts an interesting light, to say the least, on the real-life relationship of Locke and Eastwood.There are some amusing scenes arising from the efforts of Antoinette's stepmother Irene, with the assistance of a conniving lawyer, to defraud her stepdaughter of her inheritance. At one point Antoinette, having gone missing, is believed to be dead, and John is persuaded by the promise of a large windfall to confess to her murder. (The lawyer assures him that if he pleads insanity he will only receive a few years in a mental institution). The film is, however, more than simply a rom-com. It also deals with the theme of the way in which the enduring legend of the Old West continued to influence American culture even in the late twentieth century.Clint Eastwood's Billy character has been described as a parody of the sort of Western heroes he played in films such as The Good, the Bad and the Ugly or High Plains Drifter, but in fact he is both a parody of and a celebration of the traditional Western hero. Billy's stage persona is similar to that of Roy Rogers or the Lone Ranger, the Western hero who tries to live by a simple moral code- honour, patriotism, decency, courage, truthfulness and (for the children) always do your schoolwork and respect your parents. Cinema Westerns of the sixties and seventies such as The Wild Bunch and Lawman had often taken a revisionist view of the Code of the West, trying to show that it was a myth. (Eastwood himself was later to make Unforgiven, possibly the greatest of all revisionist Westerns). Of course, the Code of the West was a myth- not everyone in the West was honourable, patriotic, decent, courageous or truthful. The word myth, however, in its original Greek sense, did not simply mean a falsehood. It meant a story which was not necessarily literally true but which had a deeper, symbolic significance. The significance of the Myth of the West for Billy is that he himself believes it. It is not merely a stage persona. He has his faults, but for the most part he does make a genuine effort to live by the code he preaches (which is why Antoinette, who has spent most of her life surrounded by phonies, ends up falling for him).In a scene at the end Billy and his troupe give their show, to the strains of a rousing Sousa march, in a tent symbolically made up of American flags stitched together. This indicates that this is a patriotic film, although this is not a gung-ho, military patriotism. Leonard, the Vietnam deserter, is treated sympathetically, which perhaps suggests that Eastwood is not the die-hard conservative he is sometimes assumed to be by both admirers and detractors. Rather, it is a wider patriotism celebrating the way in which America allows its citizens to reinvent themselves, to realise their full potential, to be whatever they want to be. Billy's circus may be small-scale and amateurish, but it has allowed Billy and his colleagues to live out their dreams. Billy, the shoe salesman with a criminal record has become, on his own terms at least, a sort of a hero. The Wild West Show thus functions as a microcosm of the Wild West itself, which in the nineteenth century allowed many Americans to make new lives for themselves, just as America has offered a fresh start in life to many people from other parts of the world.Until this film was recently shown by TCM as part of a Clint Eastwood season I had never seen it before; indeed, I had never heard of it. Having seen it, however, I am surprised it is not better-known, and can understand why Eastwood counts it among his favourites. 8/10 "},{"Title":"a feel good Clint","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" maybe this film did not do well because it is about a bunch of losers, albeit warm hearted losers who stick together and have the advantage of a loyalty most families don't have.Stand out scenes are Clint's reaction to the little kid being hit at the bank robbery, and Clint swallowing his pride to get his buddy freed with the god awful sheriff - a nice performance of the corrupt lawman getting emotions running in the right direction.Scatman does his usual scene stealing thing, Bottoms is good, it is interesting to see McKinney in a sympathetic role after his Clint nemesis in Outlaw Josie Wales, Geoffrey Lewis always dependable manages a wonderful slimy coward, Sondra Locke is her usual wooden self, Clint must have been blinded by love to put here in so many of his movies, she deservedly disappeared without trace after splitting from him. Clint does a nice inversion of his tough guy, man with no name persona, although the direction is nothing special.All in all a pleasant way to spend a few hours if you have not seen it, a little slow and rambling but the virtues of loyalty and helping one another make you sympathetic for this bunch of losers and their dreams. If todays kids are so street smart that this film is too old fashioned and corny for them, maybe that's a shame. "},{"Title":"off the beaten path","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In Bronco Billy, Eastwood pokes mild fun at his own macho screen persona. The Wild West Show, I believe, is a metaphor for the film-making process, in which a carefully crafted illusion is created for the viewing public.After the tent burns down, Billy has a new tent stitched together by the inmates at a mental asylum, which results in a patchwork of American flags -- literally, a crazy-quilt assemblage.Bronco Billy is gleefully old-fashioned, even anachronistic, both in its optimistic mood, which ran counter to the popular culture at the time of its release in 1980, and in its characters -- a cowboy who belongs to another time, a daffy heiress who has stepped out of a 30's screwball comedy.Best of all, Eastwood's heart is in the right place, and he has a genial affection toward his eccentric characters. "},{"Title":"Scatman's second favortie role","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Bronco Billy is such a great movie.  You know you're movie's off to a good start when Scatman Crothers is immediatly introduced.The movie is about a Wild West Show troupe (one of whom is played by Scatman) who happen to stumble upon a stuck-up b*tch named Lily (played by Sandra Locke).  Because her husband just left her, she asks Bronco (Clint Eastwood) for a dime so she can make a phone call.  Unfortunatly for her, Bronco and his posse are in desperate need for an assistant and she just unwittenly volunteered.  As you might expect though, Broco and Lily constantly argue and fight throughout the course of the movie.  Later on, Lily starts to warm up to Bronco and his pals.What can I say, I enjoyed this movie.  Scatman Crothers steals the movie and (again) manages to out-SHINE everyone else.  According to his Biography, his role in this movie was his second favorite (King of Marvin Gardens was his first).This Movie gets a 5 Stars, easily one the crowning acheivements for both Clint and Scatman.  "},{"Title":"An excellent journey into the subconsciousness of the western film","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is the most charming, full of self-irony, cheerfulness and mystic depth a fairy tale that Clint Eastwood has ever made. Things do not just happen here. They happen just right the way he ever wished them to happen.The film could be taken as if it were of an entertaining genre at the first glance. However, it has a multitude of layers, which may keep you analyzing for about as much as you may wish to. It contains a deal of self-reflection, for Bronco Billy is the director's best self. It is much about finding and understanding oneself, for that is the journey Sandra Lockes character is taking. It is much about the western movie as a whole, and its loosing contact with the modern time. One can't but see parallels to Fellini's 'La Strada', maybe to Bergman's 'Sawdust and tinsel' and perhaps many more. And it is filled with plenty of small details, charged with good humour. And of course, as a fairy tale it is full of idealistic messages.Is is not a regular masterpiece, but it is a masterpiece. It is a meta-, reflective, essentially post-modernistic, masterpiece. Most probably will suit the taste of those looking for art and substance. "},{"Title":"A valiant attempt at a different change of pace for Eastwood, but it's an interesting misfire at best, if that makes sense&#x85;","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" (Credit IMDb) An idealistic, modern-day cowboy struggles to keep his Wild West show afloat in the face of hard luck and waning interest.This movie has sporadically enjoyable moments. My problem is there aren't nearly enough of them. Clint wanted a change of pace at this juncture, and I respect him heavily for it. It has a great cast, and it just doesn't deliver like it should. Sondra Locke (Eastwood's love interest at the time) is abrasive to the extreme. Her whiny, demanding, and know it all character ruined a lot of this movie for me as well. She's on the road with Eastwood a lot in this movie, and it gets tiresome quickly. Some of the circus scenes are admittedly fun to watch. Eastwood is fun as always, and managed to nail his part as the wily vet, Bronco Billy. I should have garnered more emotional stimulus out of this than I did. The story was there to be memorable, they just couldn't capitalize. I don't remember a whole lot about it, but it was a bit of a misfire5.2/10 "},{"Title":"Oddly enjoyable","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I had assumed, incorrectly, that this film was some sort of biography about the old silent movie cowboy star, Bronco Billy Anderson. Well, despite the title, it is not. Instead, Bronco Billy (Clint Eastwood) is a modern fictional character--much like Buffalo Bill Cody with his wild west show, but on a much, much, much, much smaller scale. In fact, Bronco Billy's show is pathetically small and not the least bit impressive. And, as far as Billy is concerned, he is an ex-show salesman from New Jersey--hardly the western star you'd expect him to be. But Billy WANTS to be the prototypical western hero and often walks and talks like Roy Rogers and is a genuinely nice person.Into this poor but nice outfit comes a very spoiled and disagreeable young heiress (Sondra Locke). After treating her brand-new husband like dirt, he takes off--and with all their possessions. As she's in the middle of nowhere, she is forced, despite her haughty ways, to take up with Bronco Billy's show--and a long series of bad luck follows. In addition, Locke's nasty ways alienate her from practically everyone. While her clichéd transformation to a nice person is totally predictable and not one bit convincing, the film, inexplicably, is fun and worth seeing--mostly because it is so quirky and fun. For my wife and myself, we stayed up very late watching this one because there was this strange watchability to the film--possibly because the characters were just so darn strange...but likable. Worth seeing...but I am not 100% sure why! By the way, there did seem to be a hole in the film--but perhaps the Encore Channel somehow cut a piece from the movie. When Eastwood's character is being challenged by the nasty Sheriff, the scene suddenly ends. What happened here?! Did Bronco Billy kill the Sheriff, did angels divinely intervene or what?! "},{"Title":"The Family Friendly Clint Eastwood movie","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From the beginning of the movie to the end, this movie strongly seems like a movie Clint Eastwood and his friends did for fun. It could be considered a sleeper, since it was not heavily promoted around the time of its release and many people, possibly even some Clint Eastwood fans, may not know it even exists. Yet Bronco Billy seems to have gathered a following, for good reasons.Clint plays a character very different from the one depicted in his westerns and his cop movies. In a cynical time, he and his pals travel around the west performing a Wild West Show complete with a native American snake dance, a wrangling exposition, and a showcasing of Billy's sharpshooting talents.Things get complicated when Miss Antoinette Lily, a runaway heiress, gets unwillingly involved with the show as a desperate gesture. While she's prettier and more lively than Billy's other assistants (hilarious early scenes show the other girls goofing up), she causes friction with her willfulness and certain misfortunes fall upon the Wild West Show.But the ending of the movie is joyful and happy, containing wonderful touches, such as the Wild West show performing under a tent made entirely of American flags. Bronco Billy implores youngsters to obey your mom and dad, because they know what is best, and to say your prayers at night. A Clint Eastwood movie with a strong message about loyalty and getting the courage to become whatever you want to be. That fact alone makes the movie refreshing. It's easy to see why Clint Eastwood counts this film among his personal favorites.Only a few contrived plot points concerning Antoinette Lily and her estranged husband and step-mother add nit-picky elements to what is otherwise a wonderful and enjoyable movie. "}{"Title":"Ain't nobody faster than Bronco Billy!","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I never thought the Bronco Billy Wild West Show would actually aspire to entertainment on a deeper level. Right after that great con job by Clint Eastwood's character when he makes everyone in the troupe feel good about not being paid, there was no reason to believe this was going to be anything more than pure popcorn. But throw in everyone's pathetic back story and a few freebies for the orphanage and insane asylum, and you begin to get a picture of Billy McCoy as a sympathetic character who really cares for and respects his friends. Round the story out with an original take on the 'you can be anything you want' theme, and you've got enough to keep you smiling for a good couple of hours. Even good old American patriotism gets a workout with the new tent put together by the loonies at the asylum, although the sight of all those flags sewn together might be enough to blur your vision.OK, so some of the story elements don't make too much sense, like why did Antoinette Lily's (Sondra Locke) murder ever gain any traction in the first place? Then there's Arlington (Geoffrey Lewis) taking the fall for a future payday. I'm not really buying any of that, but hey, it sort of works for the rest of the story to play out. I guess the thing to do is take a good pull of old Doc's snake bite remedy or a reasonable facsimile, and settle along for the ride. It's a side of actor and director Eastwood that can be every bit as instructive as his usually more serious fare. "},{"Title":"Re-make my nostalgic day.","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was made on location in the Boise Valley, Idaho , summer of '79. It's easy to see why Eastwood chose this location; it resembled small town USA in the '50s. Watching Bronco Billy today is a real time trip where the villages of Eagle, Meridian and Nampa were 30 years ago, suburbia now sprawls to the horizon.On the surface, Bronco Billy is light and corny, but dig deeper into the annals of Americana and discover that director Eastwood is shining a mirror of nostalgia on the pre-Disney TV days of Hopalong Cassidy and Roy Rogers.Some of the landmark film locations still stand, like the Ranch Club in Garden City with the iconic Palomino above the marque that announced Merle Haggard. Sadly, the historic sandstone courthouse in Nampa was demolished. I entered the building on business and found the movie company was filming there but on a lunch break. Everyone had gone out back, gawking at the Hollywood stars. Eastwood's Bronco Billy Stetson was resting on a table, laden with a silver dollar hatband, tempting me to try it on. When I came back later it was gone, and so was the actor who played Bronco Billy. "},{"Title":"Funny, heart-warming, captivating","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A heart-warming movie with plenty of wry humour and some absolutely hilarious moments. Who would have thought that a film starring Clint Eastwood roaming the Western states in cowboy gear could be so uncannily reminiscent of a classic romantic screwball comedy of the 1930s? In spirit, structure and message, not to mention the core protagonists and storyline it's a close bedfellow of It Happened One Night. That splendid entertainment was not without its gritty realism and depth, and here there is more - the acts in the Wild West show have just the right flavour of unpolished skill, the confrontation between Eastwood and the malevolent sheriff ends in resigned frustration at not being able to beat him to the draw and blow him away in the style to which we are accustomed. The juxtaposition between the itinerant performers scratching a living out on the road, setting up in one small town after another to deliver their unvarying yet fraught routines and the deliberately comic-strip avaricious urbanite rich, with Sondra Locke as the unwilling new member of the troupe caught between the two worlds is handled with considerable skill. The characters are nicely drawn, the plot is laced with a good smattering of ironic twist, the milieu is superbly evoked, and the overall effect is both light-hearted and sincere. A joy. "},{"Title":"good old days for the now grown little pardner","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This isn't Oscar material by any means.... but i had the chance to watch this again one saturday afternoon..(like the westerns when i was a kid)...i'm too young to remember the serials of the 50's the first time around, but i got more than a bargain in re-runs..shows like Roy Rogers really meant something to me. Just like the family visit to a very small theme park called Wild West City. Now grown, Wild West City looks rather shabby, it probably always did, but not to a kid.  Bronco Billy shows the shabbiness of the small Wild West show but it also imparts many of the good feelings given by the cowboy shows of old.... I have to think that Clint Eastwood made this his tribute to the genre, i felt the same chills during scenes in the movie that i felt upon seeing Roy Rogers say the cowboy prayer in a tribute after his death..the same happy tear when Roy sang Here's Hopin'  with Clint Black on the tribute cd...and, oh yes, the movie is wrapped around a cute black comedy resembling Overboard with Goldie Hawn. Sondra Locke, his then live-in, is good as the love interest.  Through her we learn of Bronco Billy's unique view of the world and the wishful longing that we can all be what we want to be................YOU JUST NEED TO WANT IT BADLY ENOUGH !!! (and reach out to the life that is waiting for us)  "},{"Title":"Clint's personal favorite","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  BRONCO BILLY (1980) *** Clint Eastwood, Sondra Locke, Scatman Crothers, Geoffrey Lewis, Sam Bottoms.  Good natured and amiable little Eastwood gem (he also directed and once said this was personally his favorite film) about a ragtag group of wild west performers strictly small time but with big warm hearts.  Endearing and hard to dislike. "},{"Title":"Bronco Beverlee!!!","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The only reason that I got this film was to see Beverlee McKinsey as the rich New York society lady and stepmother to Sondra Locke's character. She is a wealthy heiress who runs away to join the circus. Clint Eastwood can do wrong and is probably America's best loved director. In this small comedic film, he has a stellar cast including himself as Bronco Billy, Sondra Locke as the heiress and his real-life girlfriend at the time, Beverlee McKinsey, Scatman Crothers, and others. They filmed all over the place including New York City. The story of a wealthy heiress who rejects her New York City lifestyle including her wealth to see what life is like outside only to find love is not something that you can buy or purchase at a store. "},{"Title":"Gently pointless","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Bronco Billy' is an odd film. Parts of it seem recycled from every other Clint Eastwood movie you've ever seen Clint's laconic persona, the bar-room brawl, the inevitably ultimately successful seduction of an initially reluctant woman; it even has a musical interlude (as had his first movie as a director, 'Play Misty for Me'), in this case provided by Merle Haggard. But the mood of the film is very strange. There's an almost-serious backdrop (the story of a group of misfits who somehow find themselves through a life that many would consider sadly pathetic) and a laid back mood, but these are accompanied by a crazy plot that is executed so perfunctorily that the film seems to be merely going through the motions; there's a zaniness to the story, but it's told without pace. There are a few good jokes, but nothing seems real or has any edge, in this gently pointless comedy. "},{"Title":"Hey Kids!  Let's Put On A Show!","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" BRONCO BILLY (2+ outta 5 stars) Kind of an odd, little movie for Clint Eastwood... not really funny enough to be called a comedy and not really dramatic enough to be called a drama. This quirky character study of the people involved in a modern day wild west show has decent enough dialogue and the performers (most from the usual Eastwood stable of the time, including soon-to-be-ex-wife Sondra Locke) make viewing the film painless enough... but by the time it's over it will have you pondering exactly what the point of this movie could have been. I guess it was just the kind of movie Clint wanted to make at the time (he produced and directed) and after his huge success with Every Which Way But Loose who was going to tell him no? Clint plays the lead character, the star and owner of a traveling western show (filled with some of the most unconvincing frontier characters that you could imagine). After a long string of female assistants that don't quite work out, he happens upon a depressed, spoiled rich girl who is going through some bad luck of her own. The expected personality clashes and romance ensue. (It's kind of hard to accept Eastwood and Locke's romance in view of their later domestic problems... much like it's hard to watch anything with Woody Allen and Mia Farrow without cringing.) It's all pleasant enough if you're in the mood for this sort of thing... but not a career high for Clint by any means. "},{"Title":"Comments do not favor this film.","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It is my personal opinion that this has to be one of the worst films Clint Eastwood ever made.  I watched a second time as I didn't think he could do anything this bad, but was rewarded with the viewing of the poor performance of Eastwood and Locke.  The story was long and drawn out and didn't show any promise of getting good until the end and then it was too late. "},{"Title":"A Pointless, Fluffy Piece of Silliness","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Clint Eastwood is Bronco Billy, the leader of a Wild West troupe, one of six regular misfits who comprise a struggling-to-break-even touring show. The seventh member of the bunch is a woman, Billy's assistant, but such women never last long, and the position is chronically open. Enter Antoinette Lilly (Sandra Locke &#150; Eastwood's girlfriend at the time). It seems Miss Lilly, as Doc (Scatman Crothers) calls her, is a would-be heiress who will only receive her long-deceased father's estate if she's married by the time she turns 30, so on the eve of that birthday she gets hitched to the cartoonish Geoffrey Lewis.So, what's the plot of this film? It's hard to say. There's the romantic tension between Billy and Miss Lilly, but the problem is that for the first half of the movie she's so haughtily insipid and detestable that when she suddenly becomes 'one of the troupe' halfway through the film, it's not only unbelievable, but the audience is well past caring about her. There's the chronic lack of funds behind the Wild West show, but this topic isn't touched upon enough to really be the raison d'etre of the film. There's Miss Lilly's predicament of being stranded in the rural west, cut off from the funds that fuel her spoiled life of luxury (she's mistakenly believed to be dead by her family and the press). But are we really supposed to believe that she couldn't get back to New York and her waiting fortune if she gave it a bit of effort?No, the point of this film seems to be that Billy is the leader of a family, a lovable bunch of losers who hang together through thick and thin. This is a warm, fuzzy film &#150; or at least tries to be. Along the way, Clint shows us his skills with a gun, even foiling a bank robbery in a shooting that is grotesquely out of place in an otherwise relatively non-violent film. One of the gang is arrested on an old draft evasion charge; Billy bribes the local sheriff. The show's tent burns down; an orphanage makes them a new one. But numerous mundane pitfalls do not a plot make.Compounding the problem is the acting, or lack thereof. Aside from Scatman Crothers, the supporting cast is quite amateurish. Eastwood isn't on top of his game either, though he looks better simply by virtue of being surrounded by such a lackluster bunch.And for all this, the film plods on for 116 minutes. To what point? Good question &#133; 4 out of 10  "}{"Title":"yawn!","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sondra Locke stinks in this film, but then she was an awful 'actress' anyway. Unfortunately, she drags everyone else (including then =real life boyfriend Clint Eastwood down the drain with her. But what was Clint Eastwood thinking when he agreed to star in this one? One read of the script should have told him that this one was going to be a real snorer. It's an exceptionally weak story, basically no story or plot at all. Add in bored, poor acting, even from the normally good Eastwood. There's absolutely no action except a couple arguments and as far as I was concerned, this film ranks up at the top of the heap of natural sleep enhancers. Wow! Could a film BE any more boring? I think watching paint dry or the grass grow might be more fun. A real stinker. Don't bother with this one. "},{"Title":"One Of Clint Eastwood's Worst Films","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Actually, Honkytonk Man is Clint Eastwood's worst film but Bronco Billy cuts it close. It's just nothing more than another comedic teaming with his former girlfriend Sondra Locke. There's cowboys involved but this weak film sure isn't a quality Eastwood western film.  "},{"Title":"I hate this film","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I appreciate a think positive feel good about yourself film, but this is too much.  In the end they look like a bunch of loonies.  This film is one of those finding yourself 70's plots, I know the film is made in 1980. A lot more of Clint and girl friend movie.  This movie is a 3/10. "},{"Title":"Clint's Weakest","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sondra Locke stinks in this film, but then she was an awful 'actress' anyway. Unfortunately, she drags everyone else (including then =real life boyfriend Clint Eastwood down the drain with her. But what was Clint Eastwood thinking when he agreed to star in this one? One read of the script should have told him that this one was going to be a real snorer. It's an exceptionally weak story, basically no story or plot at all. Add in bored, poor acting, even from the normally good Eastwood. There's absolutely no action except a couple arguments and as far as I was concerned, this film ranks up at the top of the heap of natural sleep enhancers. Wow! Could a film BE any more boring? I think watching paint dry or the grass grow might be more fun. A real stinker. Don't bother with this one. "}]