[{"Title":"One of the best films of 1980 -Great cast of actors","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I I still love this movie after 24 years. This show was to take place during Viet Nam era. I would say this is a movie for guys. Good looking muscle cars throughout the show. Hey they even cruise the burger joint !!!!! Good Motown music throughout. This show is the ultimate in high school pranks. Great cast of actors. Unbelievable what teenagers can get into when they're away from home.There are some very good moments of growing up in this film. Some one leaving to go to Viet Nam not sure if he'll come back to see his friends, so he hangs out with them the night before he leaves. The usual boy falls in love with girl ,then girl leaves for college stuff. Some good street drag scenes. A high school initiation quest. There are a lot more stories in this very well scripted film that are all TOO real. If you ever wondered what your parents did in the sixties then you need to watch the fun they had. It really did look like a blast. This is a must see!MY FAVORITE CHARACTER Newbomb Turk  "},{"Title":"Halloween hilarity in LA in 1965","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you're looking for a fun way to spend an hour and a half, plug this movie in, kick back and be prepared to laugh yourself silly. This film basically has no plot save for the fact that Tubby's Drive-in is shutting down and the Hollywood Knights converge there for one last hurrah. Most of their hijinks take place elsewhere however, but Tubby's is their hangout. The movie is a series of comedy sketches rather than a straightforward progression. The cast plays their roles to the hilt led by the frenetic stylings of Robert Wuhl (Newbomb). Also outstanding are Stuart Pankin as Dudley (the much-maligned honor student), and Gailard Sartain and Sandy Helberg as Officers Bimbeau and Clark.   One point I notice in other reviews and which I have to agree wholeheartedly with is that the subplots featuring Tony Danza/Michelle Pfeiffer and Jimmy Shine/Vietnam both contrive to slow the film down. This can be excused though, thanks to such gems as Newbomb's rendition of Volare, the one-armed violinist and the catered reception. Bottom line it's a lewd and crude laugh-riot!!!  "},{"Title":"A CLASSIC COMEDY FOR GUYS","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember first catching this movie on HBO back in 82 when I was 12. I thought it was one of the funniest movies I had ever seen. I would put The Hollywood Knights up against any sophmoric crude comedy out there. I am sure if you saw it you would definetley rank it in the top ten. This movie is right up there with Porky's, Animal House, Revenge of the Nerds, American Graffiti. You definetely would not get it if you saw this on regular broadcast television. This R comedy has to be seen uncut and unedited. I would always look for this at video stores but never could find it. I recently went over a friends house and noticed he had a VHS copy. It is one of those things that if someone knows about Hollywood Knights there is an instant conection to them. Now after all these years it is out on DVD. I can't wait to get my copy. "},{"Title":"Low brow humor at its best","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Trashy, sophomoric, offensive and very, very funny!  I keep a watch for this film as it shows up on Cinemax every so often.  I love the two cops and the whole bit about spiking the punch. Robert Wuhl's rendition of Volare in the gym is a gas!Truly one of the most hilarious movies ever made.    "},{"Title":"hot rods from heck","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" We first saw this little opus on cable, and rushed out to get a blank tape right away. The first major film for Tony Danza, Michelle Pfieffer, and Robert Wuhl, The Hollywood Knights is funny, gross, bawdy, and nostalgic all at the same time. Is it a rip-off of American Graffiti? Um, yeah, but it's still a very funny film in its own right. Is it gross and lewd in spots? Well. . .yeah, but we can think of more egregious examples, like Porky's. Does it deserve an R rating? Not when you consider some of the other dreck that's been put in the can. Undoubtedly the most memorable scene is Newbomb's rendition of Volare' in the school gym; a masterpiece of lowbrow humor, but funnier than. . .well, you can fill in the blank. Bottom line a small-budget gem, if you can take it. If you're easily offended, lighten up. After all, there's LOTS worse out there! "},{"Title":"the all time car comedy","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" By rights, this movie should get a 2. It is badly acted, there are any number of continuity goofs (like Moosie Dreier being in two places at once) and there are many racist and sexist jokes. However, if you want to laugh and forget the real world for a few minutes, then this film is for you. This movie launched the careers of Tony Danza, Bob Wuhl, Joyce Heyser, Gailhard Sartain, Stuart Pankin, and Michelle Pfifer. There were great cars and there was great music, although some of the music was post 1965. The California surf-and-drag culture was very appealing. I grew up in the Midwest and went to catholic schools during cold winters, and I can imagine was CA must have been like. Another favorite movie of mine is also set in 1965, Heaven Help Us. The contrast is extreme. To kids who were swimming bare in cold pools and getting the paddle in gym class, the prospect of endless sunshine and girls in bikinis would have been otherworldly. And no teachers to worry about, just two dumb cops who were easy to outwit. And what I would not have given to be a student at Beverly Hills High! "},{"Title":"Leave your brains at the door and laugh","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Folks, this is not a movie to be judged or rated by ordinary or serious standards as you would I Am Legend or Gone With The Wind. Admittedly, this is a typical early 1980s (set in the 1960s) teen trash and laugh fests crudely mixed together from Animal House and American Graffiti. No real plot, a thousand different things happen at once to group of wild teenagers (played by numerous soon-to-be's) who pull crazy pranks on Halloween Night 1965.However, if you are not of the overly-sensitive politically correct crowd or watching this with (very) young children, this film is FUNNY! The gaseus rendition of Volare, wild catch-phrases (his pants fit him like a glove, Lawrence, Lawrence of Arabia, et. al) and senseless raunch makes this ideal for firing up the DVD player while your buddies are over for beer and pizza. Don't expect to find the meaning of life in this one. "},{"Title":"good  - funny  - movie","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In reality it is a poor movie. The acting is Luke warm. B U T . . It is a great movie too! The plot is thin and the stories were cut short. Too bad the cutting room floor clips weren't available for the DVD.The Cobra vs Project X race is incredible. Even though MSD electronic ignition and electric thin profile fans weren't available yet in '65. The Cobra still would have smoked the '57 and the T-Bucket. The hair-dos are more of the late '70s than the mid '60s.I have it on VHS & DVD as well as a couple of original posters and it ranks as one of my favorite movies. The cars are great to see.KNIGHTS RULE "},{"Title":"car lovers fantasy","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  the hollywood knights incorporates the cream of the crop when it comes to killer rides, laugh till you cry pranks and gags, as well as a major stepping stone for many of tinseltowns now famous stars like tony danza,michelle pffeifer and fran dresher.i just hope that sony pictures will finally put an end to the suffering of the fans of this film and release it to homevideo.it was released by coloumbia originally(part of sony now) in 1980.19 years is too long to let a gem like this go unmined. "},{"Title":"A Way to Spend a Knight","Date":"16 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Whether you like good comedy or like movies that bring memories of a long-gone era, this is the guilty pleasure for you. The setting in 1965 with the Vietnam conflict, changes in race relations and music gaining momentum, makes for a perfect setting for a group of fun-loving senior high students who gather their car club together on Halloween night for an evening at the local drive-in burger joint nobody will forget. Big names--before they were big--like Robert Wuhl, Tony Danza and Fran Dresher, add to the fun. Everybody knows or has known a Newbomb Turk, guys will enjoy the cars and antics, and gals will like the nostalgia and the love story between Danza and Michelle Pfeiffer. Sure there are juvenile pranks (actually a lot of them), but all in good fun. If you're looking for something different in comedy, check this movie out. "}{"Title":"a cult classic","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this movie when it premiered on HBO in the early 80's. Having recently purchased a VHS (not Betamax!) videocassette recorder, I immediately taped it. Of the many movies I recorded at the time, The Hollywood Knights was the one I came back to over and over again, until one of my friends borrowed my cherished copy, never to see it again. But the one-liners and the jokes remained fresh in my mind for all these years, and now it is available ( finally, after 20 years !! ) on VHS and DVD. I must admit the R-rated jokes are not for the easily-offended, but they are FUNNY, and that's what being young in the early-mid 60's was all about... hot rods, music, women, and just having a good time. Years after I saw it for the first time, many of the actors kept appearing in new roles and I asked myself Hey, wasn't he (or she) in the Hollywood Knights cast ? This is one of the few movies I can remember in which this happened several times (Pfeiffer, Danza, Pankin, Dresher, Wuhl, Helberg and Graham ). Every time I hear Domenico Modugno or Bobby Rydell sing Volare, Newbomb's cover version pops in my mind. For all the one -liners, the practical jokes, the cast, the cars, and the music, it is a great movie to enjoy for years to come ... and yes, don't drink the punch ! "},{"Title":"A raunchy version of American Graffiti!","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's 1965, it's the time of great fun, great music, also great laughs you can't get anywhere. The Hollywood Knights is loads of fun, and loaded with an all-star cast. You got Taxi star, Tony Danza, Fran Drescher from Saturday Night Fever, Michelle Pfeiffer, and several others including Robert Wuhl as Newbomb, which 9 years later play Alexander Knox in Batman. Newbomb is the leader of a group of pranksters known as The Hollywood Knights. On Halloween night, their hangout is being shutdown permanently by snobby Beverly Hills locals. And they make their efforts to put them in their places. That night, they get themselves new pledges, as they roam the night to send out the request to a radio station in Watts. The mayhem ensures as the night rolls on. The pep rally was hilarious, especially when the sign get vandalized, and during the cheerleading razzle dazzle, one of them forgotten to wear her undies! Wild things go on in this movie, plenty of pranks, sexual innuendo, and lots of raunchy scenes that would make Porky's look tame. So if you're looking for a great laugh, this movie is right up your alley. This is too much, I say, Too much! 3 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Great Picture, Bad Editing","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a great movie. I first saw it in my younger years on cable and loved the gags. Now, much older but not too much more mature, I can still appreciate the gags - I have to say the editing in this movie is horrible! Very disjointed and the sequencing makes no sense. Each scene is a gem in it's own right, but whom ever threaded this together left something to be desired. I guess since there are at least 5 story lines going on, you will find something you like, but don't get too involved - your head will spin by the time they get back to it. Great soundtrack, awesome cars - fun to see many stars first time out - Hubba Hubba to Michelle P. Look for the skinny cop in Spaceballs. Now that it's on cable - it's a fun-must see. I'm glad I never paid for it though! "},{"Title":"A Classic 80's Flick in the Lines of Porky's and Animal House","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If You like Porky's and Animal House, then I guarantee you will like this as well, think of a newer American Graffiti. It has a lot of adult humor, but it also is about coming of age up and the last remnants of teenage angst, dealing the Man, teenage pranks (some classics and you will never hear the song Valarie' again without cracking up!) joining clubs and the rituals to gain entry along with the lost of virginity to name a few! Their is more than one plot going on, but is more like a Seinfeld episode where something is happen to each character including their paths. This is a very funny movie not only then but now! its a great movie to watch with the gang! go find it you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"To Be Young Again","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You'll find this movie more enjoyable if you were lucky enough to be the same age as the movie setting. The pranks played by that generation were ones that were funny and not meant to hurt anyone. Not like the morbid ones kids play today where they are meant to cause harm. For a now graying gear head the top billing of the movie has to go to all the vehicles. It's a dam shame what the auto industry puts out today. They've lost all the distinctive beauty and class like the ones shown in this movie. And not to forget the sound and feel of horsepower hiding under the hood. As to the parts of the movie that make you warm inside, they are all well done in concerns of love and war as well as the bonding between friends. I've enjoyed watching this movie over and over again. At my age a movie like this one brings back the feelings of being young again and a desire to turn back the hands of time to the good times with good friends, good music and hot rods. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was a teenager in the 60's and life in this movie is nothing like the way it was for me growing up, but I love to watch it and think of how much fun it would have been to own some of the expensive equipment the kids in this movie have. It's a fun movie to watch, nothing too serous, if you have to leave the room for a minute you won't miss anything too important, but it does have some memorable scenes. I watched it many times over and have it in our personal DVD collection. I like this best of all the 60's type movies, I especially like the street singers, makes me wished I could sing every time I watch it. Many times after watching it I find myself thinking Lawrence, Lawrence of Arabia, he's an English guy, came to fight the Turkeys - don't laugh, you may be doing it too! Much like a well placed commercial jingle they have little spots throughout the movie that will stick with you and put a smile on your face when you recall the scene. The scene with Newbomb and the girl in the pie wagon makes me recall when I was young, I remember when I was young and a bit like that, and it definitely could have happened to me. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie.... When I Was In High School","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  They obviously borrowed heavily from American Graffiti and Animal House, both of which are far superior movies.  I hadn't seen this since around 1985, and at the time it was my favorite movie.  In the 15 years that have passed, it hasn't improved, but it's not that much worse either.  It is what it is, and it has a good time doing it.  For that alone it is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Pre-Porky's smut","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tony Danza and Michelle Pfeiffer are ostensibly the stars of The Hollywood Knights, but cheap, flashy Robert Wuhl walks away with the picture (though it's no mean feat). Playing hell-raising youth Newbomb Turk, Wuhl is glinty-eyed like a mischievous pervert, causing non-stop comic chaos on Halloween in Beverly Hills, 1965. Predating Porky's with the same locker room humor, the flick apes American Graffiti and Animal House but substitutes wit with raunch, replacing adolescent sexual embarrassments with undiluted smut. It didn't catch on with audiences in 1980 but gained a small cult on cable. If there's anything good about the picture it is Wuhl taking charge, as if he were the visiting brother of Belushi, Wuhl bellows and cackles and urinates in the punch bowl. It's tough for any actor to upstage Michelle Pfeiffer, but Wuhl proves it can be done (and with C-minus material!). *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"stupefyingly bad!","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The only reason I watched this is I was attempting to fill in the gaps of my Michelle Pfeiffer experience ( my favorite actress ) I would venture to say that it's one of the most unfunny comedies ever made and horribly hard to sit through.About as bad and inept as movies get.The only amusing thing for me was that Tony Danza's annoyed opening line to Michelle is Oh that's right I forgot. You're going to be a famous actress! A little bitter and prophetic about her place in film history versus yours, Tony? "},{"Title":"The Hollywood Knights (1980) **","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Released in 1980, this was another crazy teenage comedy which tried to emulate the exceptional '70s films American Graffiti and Animal House, and comes up short. The loose plot takes place in 1965 (even though some of the characters retain their late-seventies hairstyles) and is centered around the closing of Tubby's, a favorite local teen hangout. There's a group of pranksters called The Hollywood Knights who decide to say farewell to Tubby's' by playing practical jokes on stuffy adults and police officers. This includes spiking the punch at a party, stuffing the toilets, and doing other such childlike shenanigans. A few of these are humorous, but most of them fall flat. Throughout the movie are strewn many classic old '50s and '60s tunes, something of a consolation. Stand-up comedian Robert Wuhl plays the lead gang member, called Newbomb Turk. He's got at least one funny bit involving Fran Drescher as a gorgeous bimbo who he manages to get in the back seat of his car, but not for very long (it's the best scene in the film). There is a fat cop who becomes the frequent victim of the Knights' gags, which isn't too bad. And last and least, we get Michelle Pfeiffer and TAXI's Tony Danza taking up unnecessary screen time as a couple going through some troubles in extraneous segments which are completely unrelated and take you out of the movie. ** out of **** "}{"Title":"A Classic in the Genre of Raunch","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A sort of comedic companion to American Graffiti, this movie saw its popularity blossom when it was first aired on cable TV in 1982, two years after its theatrical release. Along with Porky's, the film helped to usher in a golden age for the raunchy teenage sex comedy, and it's a classic in the genre for sure. Additionally, Fran Drescher and Michelle Pfeiffer both looked amazing in this film, but I've always been more of a Drescher kinda guy. Also, one of the greatest Punk bands EVER took their name from the movie's notorious character, Newbomb Turk. Sadly, the New Bomb Turks are currently defunct, but they ROCKED, as well as having a sense of humor that matched Robert Wuhl's character in the movie. See the film...hear the band! "},{"Title":"91/2 of 10,hilarious","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sort of American GRAFFITI MEETS ANIMAL HOUSE.It's funny & very lowbrow.Look at how many of the actors in their first feature went on to great success.Michelle Pfeiffer has several Oscar nominations to her credit.Robert Wuhl has been in several movies since.Stuart Pankin did NOT NECESSARILY THE NEWS & DINOSAURS.Fran Drescher was THE NANNY.Gary Graham had a recurring role on ENTERPRISE.My only disappointment was no where are they now? segment at the end.I also sort of hoped for a sequel.I recently bought the DVD,director Floyd Mutrux's commentary is very interesting.Any old car buff will love the autos used in the drag race & Tubby's Drive-In scenes. "},{"Title":"Where were you in 1965?","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Since I graduated from high school in 1968, I went to school with most of these guys and girls. I first saw this movie at a drive in theatre and immediately recognized the characters. A bit sophomoric and dragging in places (especially the sub plot involving Jimmie Shine and Vietnam), but all in all, not a bad way to spend 90 minutes. The film captures the period when there were no video games to play and when hanging around was a major life activity. When this movie came out on DVD, I let my teenage daughter watch it. She loves American Graffitti and put this film right up there with it as one of the better teenage movies. Her comment was like American Graffitti directed by the guy from Animal House.  "},{"Title":"A celebration of teenage pranks in mid-1960's Southern California.","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Adventures and pranks on Halloween in the mid-60's southern California. The relatively unknown cast of Robert Wuhl, Tony Danza, Michelle Pfeiffer, among others, romp through a series of practical jokes to celebrate the closing of their favorite hangout.  Entertaining and well-paced.  Glad the copyright fight is over and this movie can be seen again. "},{"Title":"A classic movie","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  1st of all, anyone who watches this and expects to see a deep thought provoking movie had better just push the eject button and try something else.Hollywood Knights is a hysterically funny, put you brain under your seat for 90 minutes movie that you can watch over and over again.   There was a time...when it was on HBO and The Movie Channel every couple of days, when my friends and I could recite every line.Hey Bimbo..how do I look with a moustache?  Perfect..like a perfect jerk...I LOVE this movie!! "},{"Title":"One of Best Comedies in last 25 Years","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is not only funny from start to finish but it has a soundtrack that doesn't quit either. I saw an earlier comment that said this was stupifyingly bad which is why I decided to comment.Don't let some half wit brat that probably thinks comedy began when Pauly Shore hit the scene keep you from this excellent timepiece comedy. "},{"Title":"Very, Very funny!","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How can you not love a movie with the drama similar to American Graffiti, and the humor of Porky's. This movis is better than both and gives you an early glimpse at as many stars as Amercian Graffiti. There are many lines in this movie that every guy MUST know. Have you seen my puffer?  "},{"Title":"Project X rocks!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen this movie numerous times and still enjoy seeing that yellow 1957 Chevy known to readers of the most popular car magazine as Project X. For years I have seen that car in various magazines but to see it on film is something magical. Oh yeah, the movie is funny also. The Robert Wuhl character was insane. I had a friend like that in school. All in all the movie is a good way to spend an afternoon if you are a guy. Hey, if you look real close when Newbomb's brother is looking for Newbomb, the driver of the truck looks amazingly like Robert Englund. I caught a glimpse of this and rewound and paused for 15 minutes. But I will watch the movie for the car more than anything. "},{"Title":"It was one awesome comedy.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this movie with my dad! He is a car lover and music lover, so i watched it along with the movie American Graffiti, i was hooked. Right then and there i became hooked with old cars and good old rock-n-roll. now i can't get enough of any of it. the movies, the cars, and the music. I love it all! As far as the actors go,They all were great in it, they made me feel like i was there with them,. having fun and enjoying life to its fullest. I rate this movie a 10, along with the movies that have awesome hotrods in them to. as a car lover and golden oldies lover, i recommend you see it as many times as i have! I hope you have as much fun laughing as i did, when i watched it!! "},{"Title":"2nd Best Commedy Ever","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Aside from Animal House, this is the funniest commedy ever.  Its a great mix of clever humor & slap-stick.  It is simple and really fun.  I've never really seen the main character (Newbomb) in another major roll which is a shame.  He, like the rest of the actors, were perfectly cast for their roles! It knocked my pants off...if you've seen the movie, you know what I'm talking about. "}{"Title":"A movie with a rather stale plot, but still not too bad.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has a drive in type setting with teenagers, fast cars, and good times.  It is very similar to American Graffiti.  If you are sensitive to obscene language and behavior, I strongly recommend that you don't see this movie.  The plot is rather stale.  Basically, it's about Tubby's Drive In (the Knights' favorite hangout) that is about to be closed down and the Knights want one last night out to play tricks, drag race, and cause trouble.  The police try desperately to stop the chaos but always seem to be outsmarted or outrun by the Knights.  Overall I'd rate this movie fair to good, no more than that.I never knew this movie existed until the day I went to the Star Drive In for one of the Wednesday night car shows to show my '82 Nissan Sentra wagon that I had partially restored and I met up with the current owner (whom I've known by sight for a few years) of the orange Chevrolet sedan delivery that was used in the movie by the gang leader of The Hollywood Knights, which can be seen right on the box cover of this movie.  He had it for show there along with my car and he told me that this car was in the movie The Hollywood Knights.  I told him that I have never seen this movie but I would make it appoint to tape it the next time it came on TV.  I thought it was pretty awesome that I was standing right next to and touching something that was in a movie. "},{"Title":"It's not perfect, but it's certainly funny.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I recently bought the DVD version and, having not seen it before, was amazed. It's a classic prankster comedy in the tradition of American Graffiti, which, all though a better film, isn't as funny. I didn't think it would be funny, and the cover of the DVD was kind of a turn-off, because it featured only Tony Danza and Michelle Pfeiffer (I'm not a fan of either of them). My only complaint is that Mr. Mutrux didn't cut the boring Pfeiffer-Danza romance. Shouldn't a subplot in some way relate to the major plot? The same goes for the somewhat obligatory Vietnam storyline (again, how is this relevant?)Other than those two problems, the movie is hilarious. Robert Wuhl is great and it's ridiculous that he isn't anywhere on the cover. Not only that, they left him out of the Talent File section of the DVD. He's the main character!*Robert Wuhl is a much better actor than Michelle Pfeiffer or Tony Danza. "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen this movie quite a few times and I must say this is one funny, heart-felt movie. I absolutely loved the two idiotic cops. The fat one was such an outragous moron. I love when he says, get this over priced sewing machine out of here. He's referring to a car and for some dumb reason I laugh my butt off. If you liked American Grafitti, then this must be a must see. I actually think it's funnier! 8 out of 10! "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cried, I love late night TV.","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A remarkably terrible AMERICAN GRAFFITTI rip off from the guy who did an actually terrific movie called AMERICAN HOT WAX. An infantile, juvenille piece of filth that I thank God I number among my collection. If you ever have loved The Movie Channel during the 80s, chances are you came across this wonderful piece of Gold Plated Turd. I really, really love this garbage. Honest. Notable for Robert Wuhl's bravura performance as Newbomb Turk. Volare'!.......... "},{"Title":"This was one funny movie!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I about fell off the couch, I was laughing so hard.  It took be me back to the days when my buddies and I would drag Douglas in Wichita Kansas in our muscle cars.  We would do some the same stuff they did in the movie, shooting moons, smoking tires, chasing women, and cruising thru Sandy's Hamburger stand.  Newbombs rendition of volare was the highlight of the movie.  I could watch this movie over and over and still crack up laughing.  My kids even think this was a great movie.  I'm glad to see it's going to be released on video tape.  I'll be the first in line to get a copy. "},{"Title":"a fun, fun movie","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A friend of mine classifies 'movies' and 'films'. Casablanca was a 'film'. This is a 'movie', and a great one!  The music alone will have your toes tapping. It is a fun teen-age romp through Halloween Night, a little 'T' (not much 'A'), and lots of good gags. Very enjoyable, and the DVD has a good director's soundtrack with lots of background information on the movie. "},{"Title":"A waste of time and not-too-much talent","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, I had to watch this new video release (twice) for a review and my first thought is the excited fan comments here must be from folks who saw it when they were younger and drunker. Yes, it combines elements of American Graffiti (drive-in, cars, songs, anecdotes of early 60s) with bad-taste prank humor of Animal House (and a whole slew of late 70s/early 80s youth movies Porky's, Stripes, Used Cars, Caddyshack, Revenge of the Nerds etc.--has anyone noticed they follow in the footsteps of M*A*S*H with the anti-authoritarian class-consiousness, but for teens?) but what's interesting is how it fits right in with Floyd Mutrux's previous movies Aloha Bobby & Rose and American Hot Wax and looks forward to There Goes My Baby, which is like a serious remake of this same movie. So he wasn't just following a trend; this is really his personal style and subject matter. I guess the humor will appeal to those who dig mooning and farting, but two boring subplots keep bringing it to a dead halt (SPOILERS) the whole Danza/Pfeiffer who-cares relationship and the guy who's going to Vietnam the next day. During these scenes, I was actually wishing we could get back to the T&A. Maybe they stuck them in so we could go to the bathroom? Sure it's a great soundtrack--so find an oldies CD, like the one for Graffiti which has several of the same songs! Really, this ain't the gem some people make out. To those who think it's one of funniest movies ever, check back after catching His Girl Friday, Miracle of Morgan's Creek, Duck Soup, Stage Door, One Two Three or Take the Money and Run. "},{"Title":"Music at its most, great laughs and T&A to boot!","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The only problem with this movie is the sound track is not available. Give yourself a break back to the crazy days of 65'.  And if you're young and have never seen it, this one has everything you want in a movie. So give the Knights a try some time soon, and see what the great High School movies are supposed to be like. "},{"Title":"A must see for all car lovers or those who need a good laugh.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this movie nine months ago, and I loved it! It has now became my favorite movie of all time. It has old cars and old music. Top actors and actresses in their film debut. I personally rated it as a 10. I laughed very much through the whole movie. I recommend it for anyone who liked American Graffiti, Heart Like A Wheel, Hot Rod, and any other car movies. I hope you like it as much as I did. "},{"Title":"An All-Time Favorite","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies made!  Also notable for first film credit for such well-known talents as Tony Danza, Michelle Pfeiffer, Robert Wuhl, and Fran Drescher.  This is a movie that can be seen over and over for different nuances and gaffes that were not noticed on previous viewings.  "}{"Title":"Wish life was this much fun","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a blast! I laughed from start to finish. Every scene had good one liners, great music,and the cars...... If I had a choice of going back to any time in history, it would be the fiftys. After seeing this one the word volare will never be the same! Highly recommended, A must see! "},{"Title":"Watch this movie if you don't get a stomach ache from laughing!","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have watched this film more than 30 times in my life and I still laugh as hard now as I did then. A lot of stars got there start in this movie- Tony Danza, Michelle Pfiefer, Fran Drescher, and Robert Wuhl. Some good one liners in this one! Must see. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest ever.","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hollywood Knights ranks as one of my top 10 favorite movies of all time. I cannot tell you how many times I have watched it just to get some laughs. The sound track is also great. Some say it was modeled after American Graffiti, I think it was better than that.    "},{"Title":"What can I say? I love this film.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Excellent on all counts. A classic movie. I've seen it well over 20 times, and it gets funnier everytime. It's the kind of movie that brings people together. When you quote a line from the Knights and someone else knows what you're talking about, there's an instant connection -- a recognition that you both have a great sense of humor, and have shared something special. Gailard Sartain is brilliant as Bimbeaux, Robert Wuhl and Fran Drescher give the performances of their careers, and despite the boring Danza-Pfeiffer sequences, which should've been cut, the film holds its own as one of the classics of all time. See it today! "},{"Title":"What can I say? I love this film.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Excellent on all counts. A classic movie. I've seen it well over 20 times, and it gets funnier every time. It's the kind of movie that brings people together. When you quote a line from the Knights and someone else knows what you're talking about, there's an instant connection -- a recognition that you both have a great sense of humor, and have shared something special. Gailard Sartain is brilliant as Bimbeaux, Robert Wuhl and Fran Drescher give the performances of their careers, and despite the boring Danza-Pfeiffer sequences, which should've been cut, the film holds its own as one of the classics of all time. See it today! "},{"Title":"No Tapes For Now","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Truly a funny movie. I seen Robert Wuhl in an interview and he said it will not be released on video or shown regularly (Animal House, Porky's, American Graffiti,Etc) do to copy rights on the songs used on the sound track. Too bad for us,like the other comments suggest find this movie soon and watch it. "},{"Title":"Simple But Hilarious","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hollywood Knights is one of the funniest movies I had ever seen. I don't think it cost millions to make but if you like the music of the mid 60's and childish pranks set back in that time and injoy classic street rods, this is the movie for you. Only one problem, it was never made on (VHS) I'm glad I snatched from HBO years ago... "},{"Title":"Funniest Hot-Rod movie of the Century !!","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Filmed in the San Fernando Valley (centered around a restored A & W Drive-in) Tubby's was a classic copy of our early drive-in heritage.  We begged the film company to leave the Tubby's there, and several people offered to take it over & actually run it as a real drive-in, but to no avail.  Anyway, beg, borrow or steal a copy if you can find it ... you'll laugh till you P---e, well you get the idea ...  "},{"Title":"Truly a Classic","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Equally as good as American Graffiti.  This is one you don't want to miss if you ever get the chance to see it.  Sadly this movie has not yet been released on VHS or DVD.  Only those lucky enough to have taped it off of HBO 5-10 years ago are the ones who get to continually enjoy this classic. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of the 80's!!","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film for the first time when it was released on HBO originally. I taped it.  Unfortunately, I taped over it!! Only a few months ago it was on LATE one night on HBO I stayed up and retaped it.  We are thrilled to have another copy.  I wish you could buy this one.  My daughter works at a video store.  They can not find a place to order it.  They have numerous people wanting to rent it.  I hope the film quality is clearer when it is released for purchase.  HBO's seemed a little dark.  I think this movie ranks up there with the Porky's only better.  It is like having American Graffiti and Porky's together.  It was neat to see so many current BIG stars in the early part of their careers.  This one is a four star movie..... "}{"Title":"Hollywood Knights-A CULT CLASSIC (but you can't buy or rent it).","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hollywood Knights is one of my favorite all-time comedies to watch. Like the lucky others, I was able to tape this on HBO about 10 years ago. The last time I saw it on cable was about 5 or 6 years ago. The tape was never released to rent or buy. It was never available on laser-disc and so far is not available on DVD. There is a bootleg available out there, but it is obscure.Try to find it! I hope they put this movie out very soon! "},{"Title":"Great summer comedy from 1980... A must see","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film with my best buddies the year we graduated from Agawam High... this was the best movie of the summer for all of us. We all went back to see it again. A great summer comedy, that'll get your funny bone all cracked up! Starring Tony Danza, Michelle Pfeiffer, and the great Robert Wuhl as the hilarious Newbomb Turk. You've got to see this movie! "},{"Title":"A GREAT comedy sleeper!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hollywood Knights is a wonderful example of a Drive-In comedy.  It should have received much more recognition.  It is a great reprise of life in the 60's as seen through the eyes of Newbaum Turk and his band of Knights. Yes, the humor is often sophomoric, but the viewer cannot help but find themselves laughing at many of the pratfalls, pranks and jokes.  The music is great and the cars are cool.  If you appreciated movies such as American Graffiti or Animal House, then this movie is perfect for you.  In fact, it is better than either of those, more recognized, films.  Robert Wuhl, Gailard Sartain and Stuart Pankin give their best performances on film to date.  Plus, it is worth it just to check out Michelle Pfeiffer, Fran Drescher and Tony Danza in early film roles.  Watch for it on late night cable for it is not available on video yet.  Oh the inhumanity in not having it on video! "},{"Title":"The BEST Street Rod Drive In Movie ever made!","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This hilarious movie puts American Graffiti to shame.  This will take you back to your youth, even all the way back to putting dog poop in a bag on someone's porch, lighting it and ringing their doorbell.  The Cars in it are fantastic as well.  Take a look at the women in this movie as quite a lot of them, you know now after 19 years.  Watch it.  I would like this to come out on video! "},{"Title":"A favorite!","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a hilarious film!  I've been a fan of it for years, and so have several of my friends.  We cannot understand why it is not available on video.  You can't rent it, you can't buy it.  I'm lucky that I taped it off HBO years ago, but I'd like to be able to purchase a new copy of it one day. If you get a chance to see it, see it!!  It's not Hamlet, but if you go in just expecting to laugh, you won't come out disappointed! "},{"Title":"A classic in the vane of Porky's and Animal House","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Truly a very, very funny movie.  The edited version sometimes shown on non-premium TV channels loses much of the raw humor that makes the movie a classic.  "},{"Title":"One Hilarious Comedy","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a classic comedy....some innuendos, slapstick, and just some good comedy make this movie one you don't want to miss!!  I have seen it 2-3 times since it's release and I, too would like to see it come out on videotape.  I am not sure how to make that happen but I'm in.    "},{"Title":"Great soundtrack, nostalgic cars, the way it used to be!","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen this movie numerous times.  It is an all-time favorite of mine and has a LARGE cult following.  How is it that we can put a man on the moon, but can NOT get this film on a video cassette?  This movie has NEVER been released on video.  It's been too long (1981).  Let's get a movement going to accomplish this task............. "},{"Title":"The Hollywood Knights was a pretty hilarious high school prank movie to me","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just watched this movie that had aroused my curiosity for the last 29 years on YouTube. Unfortunately, because the Warner Music Group has boycotted any of its recordings from the site, part 7 in a series of 10-minute segments of The Hollywood Knights had no audio which I figured had the three Atlantic artists that were credited at the end. As a result, I missed the dialogue of Tony Danza, Michelle Pfeiffer, and some Knights with a Doo-Wop group, one of whom I recognized as T.K. Carter. If I eventually hear this missing segment, I'll add my comments of it to this review. Now, for the most part I enjoyed this movie especially the scenes with Robert Wuhl, Stuart Pankin, and Fran Drescher especially her attempt to have sex with Wuhl in the car. The cop scene in the clogged bathroom was a little embarrassing. The punch scene with some of the comments made afterwards was pretty hilarious. Many of the Danza/Pfeiffer scenes were a nice drama though I didn't really see a connection with the more prankish scenes. And I loved all those scenes with that adulterous school faculty woman and the man she's fooling around with especially those with Pankin. And how about Wuhl's version of Volare? Or the one-armed violinist? So on that note, yeah, I recommend The Hollywood Knights. P.S. It's now several hours later and I've heard the missing scene I mentioned earlier. Touching speech from that guy about to go to Vietnam about if anything happens to him just before The Mamas and the Papas California Dreamin' plays on the 8-Track. And the Doo-Wop group sings a fine version of The Drifters Under the Boardwalk as they help the pledges out. And then there's the hilarious police superior's recount to those dumb cops at Tubby's of what happened earlier in the movie... "},{"Title":"American Graffitti it's not...but it is funny","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" American Graffitti became a classic because of it delved into issues of high school graduation, the Vietnam War, and moving on from your roots and comfort in a small California town in the early 1960's. The Hollywood Knights (HK), in many ways, examines similar issues at a similar time except it departs any semblance of maturity and seriousness.HK touches all the silliness a film can muster yet the cast here pulls it off in a fun way. The situation is this...we're in Beverly Hills, CA. in the mid sixties and Tubby's Drive-In, the local hang out for teens, is closing its doors for good when it closes that night. The members of the gang Hollywood Knights are determined to cram into one night all the pranks and mayhem they can. Their ringleader is Newbomb Turk, played wonderfully by Robert Wuhl long before he created the character of ARLI$$ for HBO.You'll get to see some very notable actors and actresses here. Following in the fine tradition of real Hollywood a movie such as this tends to bring to the public some terrific future talent. Among the people you'll recognize are Michelle Pheiffer, Tony Danza, and Fran Drescher. Danza had already been discovered as a boxer turned cab driver in the great TV series TAXI. Pheiffer is so young and beautiful here that it is easy to see the star potential movie makers saw in her. Drescher, shortly before developing her signature role as The Nanny for TV, plays her role with the same nasal Brooklyn charm that made her endearing to audiences.One final note about HK...some of the scenes are slapstick funny. As in Animal House this movie will have you remembering pranks you tried and moronic silly things you laughed at yet it will take you back, I'm betting, in a good way. "}{"Title":"This film only asks to be laughed at, and I always oblige.","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Hollywood Knights is perhaps as low as low-brow humor can go and still be funny. There is nothing pretentious or any deeply layered meanings to be found anywhere in this 90 minute romp about a car club whose favorite hangout is set to close after one last night of mayhem.Car enthusiasts will love the various hot-rods that tear up the streets throughout the film. There is a fair amount of nudity and sexual humor mixed in. The film gets the rest of its laughs from low-brow pranks perpetrated by the gang of record.We see the Knights stuff baked potatoes in the tailpipes of cop cars, kidnap and humiliate and honor student, disrupt a country club dance, and drag race up and down the streets of L.A.. There are two particularly inept cops who seem to be on a personal crusade to kick the crap out of the Knights; Newbomb Turk (Wuhl) in particular. Their superior officer warns them to just take it easy and let them have their fun since this will presumably be the last night the gang will be around. Needless to say, the cops disregard those instructions and we see one confrontation after another between the two camps. There is also plenty of animosity directed toward a waspy neighborhood group that has helped push the Knights' hangout out of business. We also see the trials and tribulations of four new pledges who have to run naked through Watts to get to a radio station to make a personal dedication to the favorite hangout. Overall, there's plenty of funny stuff going on.There are a couple of smaller and more serious subplots. One involves a Knight who spends the evening saying his goodbyes to everyone before leaving for Vietnam the next day. This material is sincere, but it does kind of kill the mood in the midst of all the pranks. Another subplot involves Tony Danza and Michelle Pfeiffer having relationship troubles due to the fact that she wants to be an actress and he's against that for reasons that are never really made all that clear. This plot is also somewhat of a distraction, but it gives us a chance to look at Pfeiffer, and she is absolutely amazing in this film!!! Wow! There is no doubting Robert Wuhl's charisma as Newbomb Turk. I'm surprised it took him as long as it did to make a bigger name for himself in Hollywood, but he's pretty much made it now. Pfeiffer and Danza of course went on to much better things, as did Fran Drescher.Still funny after all these years, The Hollywood Knights is certainly worth a look. But keep in mind that this film is not exactly an episode of Frazier. For those of you looking for intelligent comedy, you won't find it here. This film gets its laughs from lighting bags of dog crap on fire and watching the horrified reactions of wasps after they've just been mooned.It makes me laugh, anyway! 8 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"A FUNNY AND GREAT GUILTY PLEASURE!!!","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Say what you will about this movie, but in the end it is funny. Is it Shakespeare and the bard? Hell, no. Just take it for what it is, a funny, guilty pleasure that is great. I like this movie. I like it a lot. Is it an American Graffiti wannabe? Yep. But, with the group of friends I grew up with we kind of experienced a few of the things in this movie so we could relate to it. The movie is funny,sophomoric a little raunchy and dirty in spots, but so what? The story isn't too bad and as a movie it is entertaining. we get to see several young actors and comedians just starting out. This is the perfect movie to be shown the weekend of the Woodward Dream Cruise in Michigan. It is basically the perfect guys movie, because it has cars, topless and nude women, drag races, beer, topless and nude women, great music, practical jokes, insults, topless and nude women, simulated sex and innuendo,more women, farting,and of course topless and nude women. This movie makes no pretenses on what it is. Just sit back and enjoy it like any other guilty pleasure. It's a fun movie! "},{"Title":"Don't drink the punch--pass it on!","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Hollywood Knights' was one of my earliest memories of my cable TV viewing days back in the mid-'80s, and is still a favorite of mine, in spite of its flaws.  As noted in other posts here, it's sort of the poor man's 'American Graffiti/Animal House'--a guilty pleasure that you shouldn't have to apologize for enjoying!'Knights' is far from the greatest flick ever made, but it definitely has its moments--despite having Tony Danza in it!  To this day, I cannot hear the song Volar without thinking of Newbomb Turk flaunting his flatulence in the gym--not to mention the cheerleader who forgot her underwear!There is one major factual error in the film that has always driven me nuts, though the scene in the garage where Danza unveils the 8-track player in the hot rod and pops in the tape of the Mamas & Papas doing California Dreamin'  Great moment, but just one problem  the movie is set on Halloween night, 1965, and California Dreamin' wasn't released until early, '66!Nonetheless, cool cars, cute chicks and great music abound throughout the film, and it's one of those movies that you just can't seem to turn off, regardless of how many times you've seen it.  I'm looking forward to seeing it on DVD. "},{"Title":"great movie for the cars, the laughs and sentiment","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie for guys and gals.  It has the fast, sleek, sporty cars that every man loves.  Especially if you like the old cars that were made to last and turn heads.It has the romance that every woman wants.It has the laughs that will keep you watching until the end.Be prepared, keep this one within arm's reach on your video shelf. "},{"Title":"Way back when....","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  We have George Lucas to thank for this.This, and all the other American Graffiti ripoffs that came out subsequently to Lucas' brilliant first-run.  But we all have our own memories.Some remember rock-and-roll, sock hops, drag racing, first loves and the howl of Wolfman Jack over their radios.The Hollywood Knights remembers the social fringe-dwellers of the fifties; the ones who practically lived at the drive-in restaurants, rang all the town's doorbells and ran, mooned the police officers, pulled every rude trick created to anyone of authority and did extremely rude things with the refreshments.In fact, there's more Animal House than American Graffiti here; and with a cast the likes of Wuhl, Danza, Pankin and Drescher, with Helberg and Sartain as a couple of cops who must rank as characters that even the Keystone Kops would see as unsubtle, there are even more laughs to be had in the delivery.For all you fringies, do whatever it takes to catch The Hollywood Knights the definitive Moosie Drier film.Six stars.  And whatever you do, don't drink the punch. "},{"Title":"A great Drive-In comedy","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Hollywood Knights is a great comedy taking place in 1965 at Tubby's Drive-In.  The central character is Newbomb Turk and his gang of Knights. This movie is considered one of the many Drive-In types.  Another example of a Drive-In type movie is American Graffiti, which the Hollywood Knights is based off of.  Lots of funny pranks are pulled off in this hilarious comedy, in which I laughed my socks off!!! "},{"Title":"The worst movie, without a doubt, ever made!","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you like 30 year olds trying to portray teenagers - you'll love this! It tries to be American Graffiti & fails on all attempts. Robert Wuhl's character tries to be so zany & over-the-top, yet one gets the feeling that at any point he could be punched out by any other character. The bumbling cops are totally overacted throughout this piece of trash, just like the old fogies who are so insulted by the wild kids (who by the way are about 10 years younger than the old folks). I would enjoy this film more if the Knights met a real street gang & addressed the rival gang's guns & knives with some of the smart quips & physical comedy. Danza has very little to do with the group & his romantic life numbs you from start to ZZZZZzzzzzzzzz. The 1 bright spot in this disaster, I don't know. You let me know! Oh - you'll probably really enjoy this brand of humor if you're over 9 & under 14. Hard to even look at the title of this wreck without thinking of some 4th grader mocking his teacher. "},{"Title":"Tottally Derivative Unoriginal Rip Off .....","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...of the better films that came before it.I first heard of this movie in 1984 when cable TV was really coming into its own and a buddy of mine tried to describe the Volare singing scene but couldn't get through it without cracking up...guess it was the times..the anything goes 80's.Years later I was surfing the internet and came across some glowing reviews(like many of the ones appearing here)and after finding out that the same guy who was behind American Hot Wax( a film I saw on cable and liked )was behind this I thought I'd give it a shot.What a disappointment...a series of low brow gags frenetically paced and interspersed with some attempts at seriousness ( Jimmy Shine's impending departure to Nam )and romance ( the Tony Danza/Michelle Pfeiffer breakup)...scenes that have a contrived,tacked-on feel as if they came from some other undeveloped project.Its as if the writer director Floyd Mutrux couldn't decide what kind of movie he wanted to make so he just threw this up on the wall to see if any of it stuck.. and based on the comments of many viewers here it sticks just fine.While not a total waste ( afterall... I'd probably watch film footage of Michelle Pfeiffer polishing furniture...and the cars are cool)this film is just way too derivative of the territory mined by George Lucas 7 years previous with American Graffiti and John Landis 2 years previous with Animal House...Mutrux gives nothing new to the formula other than swinging much wider with the smutty style of humor that the passage of a couple of years time has allowed. What pains me is the comments of those who regard this as some sort of masterpiece of comedic nostalgia that puts the aforementioned Lucas/Landis projects to shame ...this film may be a suitable time capsule for your recollections of 1965 as filtered through Porky's-tinted glasses but you folks really need to gain some perspective before you diss Graffiti...George Lucas practically invented the genre that Mutrux is exploiting here...I know cause I remember being a kid in the early 60's and facing Vietnam while leaving high school...and in 1973 Graffiti was such a welcome voyage back to a more secure and innocent past that only two films that year drew a bigger audience...The Sting and The Exorcist and Lucas achieved that with a pittance in funding compared to the other two yet garnered several Academy Award nominations...including Best Picture.And he pretty much invented the use of a period music soundtrack to achieve realism..a technique that has been copied in addition to the use of multiple story lines occurring simultaneously that are both commonplace today.The epilogue ending with the where are they now?character cards was totally original and a real jolt at the time..a sucker punch that fortold of things to come and was effectively stood on its ear by Landis in his closing in Animal House . Graffiti's success ushered in the whole nostalgia craze that set in during the post-Vietnam era...and all the lame exploitations to follow ..such as Happy Days...and this forgettable epic. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Movies I've Ever Seen (Possible Spoilers? Who could give a damn?)","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A soon to be ex-friend of mine lent me his DVD copy of this trash, and it may very well be that Hollywood Knights is the, repeat, the worst movie I have ever seen, ever. It is no more than a meaningless collection of unfunny vignettes that had to have been embarrassing to film for the poor people involved on both sides of the camera. I cannot get over how bad either the writing, or the acting, or (at times) the writing *and* the acting was. To get it out of the way early, every single thing involving the cops was completely unfunny, terribly written, and terribly acted -- every single thing. The terrible writing is not the actors' fault, but the absolutely horrid acting is. Oh, and I forgot to remember to have tears come to my eyes whenever The Serious Moments were spewed across the screen, meaning the dude going to Veet Nam and that incredibly well fleshed-out relationship between the Tony Danza & Michelle Pfeiffer characters. Um, right. I'm running out of brain capacity trying to think of all the other um, right moments...a cheerleader forgets to wear underwear -- um, right...the pledges run across not one but three stereotyped groups of blacks -- um, right...the cops...the kid with the skateboard...the college guy with the pipe...two Asian senior citizens hot-rodding a Cobra...repeat after me um, right.Among the few (hell, the only) who marginally escape the carnage, well, Wuhl showed maturity beyond his (29!) years by clearly recognizing he was saddled with absolute dog schism, but deciding to play it out just like the brass said to, subsequently giving them (and the public) no one to blame but themselves. Meanwhile, The Nanny gave some proof she might eventually be able to act -- might -- but clearly wasn't shrewd enough to play above the material. So aside from her giving the audience a little crotch shot from the back of Newbomb Turk's van, there wasn't much else to go on. Meanwhile, by the time the flick was over, I realized that the only laugh I got -- the ONLY LAUGH I GOT -- was when the poor geek walked balls-first into that concrete pole. OK, maybe that, and the fact that someone would be named Newbomb Turk.Oh, and thank God the DVD comes in widescreen format too, because I would have been disappointed if I had missed something important in the way the director framed some of the shots.Ninety minutes you can never have back. "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An obnoxious, inane, alleged comedy for Tony Danza fans. Lots of gross-out stuff that might amuse the odd 8th grader. There's no charm to any of it -- the movie just kind of lurches along. The fat guy from Hee-Haw is filmed taking a dump.  "}{"Title":"Shark Vomit","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You take the nostalgia-powered smash American Graffiti, you add the apocalyptic anarchy of National Lampoon's Animal House and then start throwing in bad-movie clichs - Halloween Night - Bumbling Police Officers - The gang's last night togetherYou stir in generous portions of quasi-stars (Tony Danza, Fran Drescher, Michelle Pfeiffer) and what do you get? This obnoxious piece of purely-derivative sewer-clogging cinema.A Hollywood valentine to California kids via the Hollywood motion picture...You know, shark vomit.Antics abound, some instantly forgettable, others more instantly forgettable. A fat cop gets squirted with ketchup. A teenage hood moons a neighborhood meeting for citizens concerned about decaying moral values. Get it...?GET IT...?Robert Wuhl earns his very own paragraph for his offensively unfunny wild-man, routine, that man with the mind of a nine year-old who considers himself HILARIOUS but doesn't get invited to your party. His characterization in this film as gang leader Newbomb Turk might serve as the Webster-approved definition of dork; loud, hyper, without a trace of self-awareness, and proudly showing the world he's not yet mature enough for sexual experience by being as naughty and sleazy as a bad boy can be! Remember ladies its legal for a man to sexually harass you as long as he's a virgin.Other film is screened in front of the projector before someone in control decides it's time to run the closing credits, scored to a faux-60's falsetto title tune Hollywood, Hollywood Knights- Hollywood Kni-iights...whatever.GRADE D- "},{"Title":"the american graffiti wannabe; but done right.","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love The Hollywood Knights since I was a little kid. I also thought that this film was weird and gross, in some parts. Anyway, like I said about an american graffiti ripoff because its about a group of friends that spend one night on Halloween at their favorite burger joint before it closes. This film introduces Tony Danza, Michelle Pfiffer and Robert Whul. "},{"Title":"American Graffiti meets Animal House","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  THE HOLLYWOOD KNIGHTS (1980) ***1/2 Robert Wuhl, Tony Danza, Michelle Pfeiffer, Fran Drescher, Stuart Pankin.  Uproariously funny comedy the anti American Graffiti with Wuhl as Turk Newbomb, a prankster running amok Halloween in 1965 LA the last night before they close down the local hang--out.  Vulgar and cheap laughs but a laugh riot.  Classic punch sequence and the one-armed violinist!  Lawrence of Arabia debate is also memorable. "},{"Title":"A very funny movie","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In the great tradition of animal house and American Graffiti is the Hollywood Knights, a fun filled movie about a car club going through the last night before their hangout is torn down. A great cast starting with Robert Wuhl as Newbomb, Fran Drescher as Sally and Tony Danza and Michelle Pfeiffer in their first movies. This movie is not the funniest movie of all time but the parts that are funny will make you smile days after.Mother I am going to screw to someone if  I can just find out how.  "},{"Title":"this is to AMERICAN GRAFFITI what BATTLESTAR GALACTICA is to STAR WARS...","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie is good and it's awful. it's funny and it's downright stupid. it's silly and yet at times it even tries to be dramatic. the drama lies in the Tony Danza/Michelle Phieffer story. these two were - and still are - the biggest stars in the movie, which is the ONLY reason that there faces are on the box - theyre barely in the movie. all these two do is argue about breaking up. thus they are the Ron Howard/Cindy Williams (ala AMERICAN GRAFFITI). having them on the cover of the video and DVD (and original movie poster too) would be the equivilant of now having Kevin Bacon on the cover of ANIMAL HOUSE. Pheiffer works at Tubby's, a doomed drive-in that seems like Arnold's in purgatory, while Danza basically hangs out next-door in a garage where he talks to the owner and one of his buddy's who's about to go off to war in Vietnam. since it's 1965 they have to play the irony card and the guy going to Vietnam keeps saying things like Oh, it's not really a war, just congressmen are going over there right now or I'll be okay, there's not even any gunfire. they did this so many times that you can well predict the guy is gonna get killed because... well... we all know that Vietnam was wrong!!!!!! and whoever goes there is surely to DIE - in movies anyhow. the real star of this film - ala john belushi in ANIMAL HOUSE - is Robert Wuhl, the very mediocre standup comic/comic writer/comic actor who is at his best here - and that's not saying much. his buddy's are played by actors that in most movies would be extras, ala Background Artists. i liked seeing Otis Young from the LAST DETAIL (jack nicholson's navy buddy) in a cameo as a catering van driver and also, fran drescher appears and has a pretty good role, and has the same annoying accent (a new york accent in LA?) and a very hot body. the most annoying character is a fat honor student who keeps getting kidnapped by the Knights (Stuart Pankin from FATAL ATTRACTION who resembles a darker haired version of film critic Roger Ebert). the Knights (from Hollywood, hence the title) who are, by the way, a car club (or something), are basically a Delta house on wheels. also, there are two side characters that are very annoying and i dont know why the movie focus' on them so much. one is a pretty yet uptight lady in her forties who's married to the school principle, the other is her lover, a coach or something. these two keep finding times alone to make out and i guess this is showing the hypocricy since the lady is the forerunner of the society people who are closing down the diner Tubby's. and as we all know only crazy beer drinking teens have sex. another side story has four naked white guys running thru the urbuan city of Watts rolling tires, pledging to be Knights, in order to reach a DJ in the heart of the city where the DJ can give a shout-out to the dying Tubby's. these frat guys seem to have a wacky time running naked thru one of the most dangerous citys (and historically so since the riots) in California, and, well... they might be in more danger had this been real life and not a semi-PC (even before political corectness came about in the Clinton era) movie. also there are two cops that are only half funny and who are in the movie a whole lot. the best part in the movie is when the skinnier of the cops starts singing actual lyrics to the theme of LAWRENCE OF ARABIA He's Lawrence... Lawrence of Arabia... and so on. it sounds like Bill Murray doing his lounge singer routine in the original SNL. there are very many stale jokes in this semi-cult flick that i think robert wuhl might've stolen from a crackerjack box, that is, they seemed adlibbed by the tubby comic. the music, like this movies daddy, AMERICAN GRAFFITI, is what is playing on all the car radios, is pretty good - but not as classic a selection as Lucas' masterpeice had. also there are shots from the inside of the cars and drag races. what is original is that they dragrace two asian guys - this was borrowed and used in BETTER OFF DEAD a few years later. HOLLYWOOD KNIGHTS is to AMERICAN GRAFFITI what BATTLESTAR GALACTICA was to STAR WARS. that is, it's good fun, has somewhat memorable characters, is full cheap and lame diolouge and action, and is a good enough way to waste 2 hours of a lonesome, boring night... "},{"Title":"Terrible combo of American Graffiti and Animal House","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This takes place in Hollywood on Halloween night in 1965. A popular teen hangout is being closed down. The main group there--the Hollywood Knights--decide to see it close down with a bang by playing stupid, unfunny and tasteless jokes on the adults and cops (all of whom are portrayed as total idiots). There's also two serious stories about a Knight going off to Vietnam and two lovers (Tony Danza and Michelle Pfeiffer) whose relationship is falling apart.There's nothing wrong with crude humor. I'm no fan of Animal House but it did have its moments. This however has none. All the jokes are just really stupid, crude and not even remotely funny. I didn't even crack a smile once! The dramatic scenes (there aren't many) aren't any better. They're badly written, directed and acted. It's especially surprising seeing such a talented actress as Pfeiffer giving a truly lousy performance--but the script is against her. Danza doesn't fare much better. The film looks cheap, moves in jerks and leaps (it was incredible how ineptly the multiple story lines are handled) and is just boring.The only reason to see this is to see Danza, Pfeiffer, Robert Wuhl and Fran Drescher all so young and before they hit it big. Drescher is lots of fun especially. Also there's a GREAT soundtrack of oldies. But, all in all, this is just moronic and forgettable. However this inexplicably has a following. Use your own judgment. "},{"Title":"Abysmal drive-in fiasco","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Astoundingly bad drive-in type movie set in 1965 California.  Truly one of the worst ever made.  Lots of continuity errors and poor acting make this one to avoid. "},{"Title":"Mindless - Fun - Dumb Entertainment - Watch for Pfeiffer","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK, First of all, It is an American Graffiti rip-off, but so what. Yeah, the actors don't look like they're in High School, but so what. It's crude, has virtually no plot, with the hero's outwitting the dim-witted cops time after time, but it's still a great way to spend some time looking at cars, hearing some great music and having fun. I rate this a six because some of the jokes fall flat, and the plot is very weak. If you want a coming of age movie, American Graffiti is better.I must say that Michelle Pfeiffer in this movie has never looked better. OMG she is so hot. You can just tell that this woman was going to be a star. She was around 22 years of age at the time of this movie. She has a bit part in the movie, but her attractiveness just jumps off of the screen. She appears in a car-hops outfit, but again wow, wow, wow. I don't remember if I saw this in the theater, but I do remember thinking the first time I saw this movie that this girl was going to be a superstar. If you appreciate just looking at beautiful women, like I do, just rent or buy this movie for her alone.Additional Irony - The Tony Danza character doesn't want Michelle to leave because she's going to be a big star and forget him. Talk about an unintentionally prescient scene. After this movie Pfeiffer did become a star, and Tony Danza became a ... sorta non-star. Kinda makes you think doesn't it. Maybe the writers knew something about the future after all? "},{"Title":"What was funny as a teen, not fuuny 20 years later","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I saw this in the mid 80s as a teen, I thought this was the funniest thing I have ever seen. I must have watched it 10 times on HBO and in the mid/late 80s and I always regretted never taping it years later because I remembered it was so hilarious, but could never find it in the stores. This was because of some copyright dispute.Well lo and behold the dispute was settled and I recently saw it @ Blockbuster and promptly bought it. I wish I hadn't.What was funny at age 14 was painful now in my 30s. It was so unbelievably bad. I mean, Newbomb Turk plays a senior in high school yet he looks like he is 30. The jokes are silly and not remotely funny. The two cops who I remember being hysterical are just downright not funny.Throughout the whole movie I just kept wondering how Tony Danza and Michelle Pfieffer got roped into this ultra clich ridden plot. If you have not seen this, do yourself a favor and rent American Graffiti instead - it is a 1000 times better and actually has a plot. If you are into juvenile bathroom humor then rent Hollywood Knights. "},{"Title":"Wang-flavored","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Either this movie is a cynical attempt to cash in on Animal House, Meatballs, and Caddyshack viewers or it's a pleasant little nothing of a comedy with a simpleton-level story of barbarians trying to poke holes in the stuffiness of proper society.It's mighty crude with boobs and farts and hummer (no, not the car) jokes. There's no actual acting going on and I've heard that there really wasn't a script written, just improvised.It shows.Probably the only two things worth watching in Hollywood Knights are the spiking-the-punch scene and listening to a new version of Volare, one that relies heavily on the character's bean intake and your tolerance for bathroom humor.Welcome to it. "}]