[{"Title":"Merry Lunacy","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I avoided this film for years even though I seek out movies that appear to have been created by people with unstable minds (Jodorowsky, Ken Russell, Lynch and Jess Franco). The problem was the box cover art. The cartoon of Susan Tyrrell is so lurid and 80's it was really off-putting. And the promise of offensive humor made it sound like a low-rent John Waters movie. I've gone beyond it's fun to be shocked movies and demand some quality.How surprised I was when I finally gambled on this one! I had seen the last minutes on IFC or some cable station late one night while flipping channels. My first thoughts were probably like anyone's would be...What. The. Hell? There was Tattoo from Fantasy Island, a bunch of tap-dancing bimbettes, dice, a French woman, a guy in drag, two bald-headed freaks in their jockstraps...and a guy in a gorilla suit (with a bra on, no less!) All jumping around singing, The Forbidden Zone! like they had drank about 6 quarts of caffeine! The image rivaled Fellini!I finally rented the beautifully re-mastered DVD after still more concern about just what this movie WAS exactly. I was absolutely riveted for the entire running time. I can't think of a single movie in history like this one, and I've seen some real corkers! The opening musical number, using an old recording of the song Some Of These Days as a background track, is eye-poppingly brilliant. I still don't know how it was done, certainly not with the skills and technology of a low-budget filmmaker in 1980. But it speaks to me on an unconscious level, dark and brooding yet fanciful and jolly (the slick dancing butler who appears out of nowhere is one of the most delightfully ridiculous and satisfying surreal moments I've seen in years). I was very skeptical that the momentum and creativity could be sustained, and it never did reach that peak again (although the Pico And Sepulveda, Witche's Egg and Alphabet numbers come close), but it couldn't have...I don't think it IS possible to sustain that level forever, it would drive the viewer away.The plot, involving a family discovering a door that leads to the 6th dimension where a queen and king (the unbelievably game Ms. Tyrrell who deserves an award of some kind for her brave and perfect-pitch performance, and the charming Herve, who she was apparently dating at the time?), is absolutely superfluous, merely an excuse for the music and visuals, and I'd have it no other way personally. It's like Alice In Wonderland. Any adaption that tries to assign a story to the proceedings has missed the point entirely; like a dream, there is an internal logic...but the rules and boundaries of reality are not welcome! The film is creaky in places, of course...it shows it's no-budget roots frequently, the pace is so hectic as to be head-ache inducing in certain parts and most dismaying of all is the constant interruption of lewdness just for the sake of lewdness, as if the filmmaker's were all horny teens who wanted to get as much naughty sex and dirty humor in as possible (Hint the probably were!) The acting is by-and-large, with the exception of the foul-mouthed, shrieking, Disney-queen-from-hell Ms. Tyrell, pretty amateurish, even though everyone throws themselves into the production full-force (the screen writer bravely spends the whole film running around in his underpants!) But what it lacks in maturity it makes up for in execution. I kept sitting there shaking my head...these are real dancers, the choreography is wonderful, the animation and effects are stunning...and you can't ignore the score!I don't know how much tinkering has gone on with this re-master, but the things that Danny Elfman was doing with the film score, weaving it in and out with old 30's recordings and New Wave stylings, as well as his more familiar ska style of the 80's...it's just breathtaking. If you are any sort of fan of Elfman's work, soundtrack or otherwise, you probably already have this music. If you're still new to it as I was, you'll become an instant fan. You cannot deny it, Elfman is a genius.Like anything that seems completely nonsensical at first (example, Fellini's Satyricon), a lot of things in this film probably make more sense the more you delve into it. The DVD features explain that the tone of the film is an attempt to capture the live performance style of Elfman and his early Oingo Boingo incarnation, as a theatrical troupe. There's the obvious reference to Fleischer/Betty Boop cartoons that don't get seen much anymore. I have no idea who The Kipper Kids were but I assume audiences at the time would have recognized them. Certainly Herve was recognizable, if hardly comforting, in the weird world of this film.I take a great deal of comfort in knowing that the man at the helm of this film, Danny Elfman's brother, admits that he was not inspired to make this movie by the use of any drugs. All too often in today's world we are prone to assume that the only way someone can come up with something genuinely original, creative and surreal is to assume that chemicals are responsible. Certainly I can imagine the experience of watching this film in an altered state of mind would be a trip. However, hats off to people who find and appreciate the merry lunacy and joyfully insane magic that can be found in the every day world...if you care to look! I'm sorry that the film didn't take the director anywhere, but not surprised...it's not something I would easily recommend to just anyone...but I'm glad Elfman seems to have enjoyed a revival of his project, and is getting some recognition "},{"Title":"A LYSERGIC LIVE-ACTION MAX FLEISCHER CARTOON...WITH OINGO BOINGO!!!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I first discovered this one during my early mania for  the band Oingo Boingo back in the early 1980's. I was expecting anything other than what I got a live-action Max Fleischer cartoon brimming with low-budget insanity! FORBIDDEN ZONE is balls-out strange, and a hell of a lot of fun for those with a taste for the odd. Truly unique in every way, it is sad to see that more films like this will probably never be made again in this era of big-budget drivel and rampaging political correctness.FORBIDDEN ZONE follows the adventures of the almost indescribably weird Hercules family who have recently moved into a house whose basement contains the doorway to the 6th dimension. When their bathrobe-clad daughter Susan (who has been studying abroad in France, returning home with an outrageous French accent and now goes by the totally original nickname of Frenchy) falls into the 6th dimension, all manner of looniness ensues. A tuxedoed frog-man, jockstrap wearing goons, animation that looks like it was done by an acidhead, a wonderful soundtrack that blends oddball rock and big band classics, the worst blackface makeup in film history, Squeezit Chicken-boy Henderson and his sister Renee, the funniest elementary school sequence in memory, Herve Villechaize as King Fausto, the Mystic Knights of the Oingo Boingo and Danny Elfman as the devil himself...All this and more (!!!) in a ninety minute tour de force of unbridled imagination. HIGHEST RECOMMENDATION!   "},{"Title":"Good Weird Fun!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Just about the strangest thing I've ever seen.  THIS cult classic puts The Rocky Horror Picture Show to shame if you ask me!  Danny Elfman and The Mystic Knights of the Oingo Boingo perform the music and they even make a strange appearance in the movie.  Elfman shines in his brief but delectable role as Satan.I'm certain that Forbidden Zone isn't for everyone, but its loopy, nutty humor will appeal to some folks... especially fans of Boingo. Give it a try! If you thought that Rocky Horror was weird, take a gander at THIS!! "},{"Title":"If David Lynch Had Directed Betty Boop . . .","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" No live-action movie has ever captured the anarchic feel of the rubbery Max Fleischer cartoons of the 1930s better than Forbidden Zone. It's an LSD-fueled Betty Boop picture mixed with Alice in Wonderland and The Inferno, all filtered through David Lynch's kaleidoscope (or run through R. Crumb's Cuisinart).The story, such as it is, deals with the adventures of Frenchy Hercules, who lives over a doorway to the Sixth Dimension, which is ruled by King Fausto (Herve Villechaize) and Queen Doris (Susan Tyrrell) with sadomasochistic glee. The whole flick really fits the Betty Boop formula perfectly--a shapely heroine (who loves to rumba) falls from her own bizarre reality into an even stranger one. Much mayhem and cool swing music ensue, as Frenchy's brother and grandfather (playing the roles of Bimbo and Koko the Clown from the old Fleischer cartoons) try to rescue the unfortunate girl.This strange mix of animation and live action really has to be seen to be believed--all very low budget and very imaginative (a quality sorely lacking in movies lately). Fans of Oingo Boingo won't want to miss this one (especially group leader Danny Elfman's Cab Calloway-like turn as Satan in the flick's best scene). There are racial and ethnic stereotypes galore, but since this movie seems to exist in an entirely different universe, it doesn't come across as offensive.Not for everyone--but a can't miss for some. Worth seeing just for the musical numbers alone. "},{"Title":"A chaotic musical fetish!","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I very much enjoyed this movie and watch it again and again. What can I say? It's artistic and enjoyable, very much the kind of thing I like in movies. Also the fact of its' bizarre, dark and surreal mood and humour toward the film. It's like David Lynch's take on Betty Boop, that's how good it is! The characters are insane and possibly on drugs, the King is a sex-addicted monster, yet somehow a gentlemen to the woman he loves, one of the characters is well, uh, a transsexual, another character is a frog. I couldn't recommend it more for it is a musical fantasy giving to us by Richard Elfman. Seriously, leave it to the Elfmans' to give us one of the greatest musicals ever! "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best movie ever made, definitely the weirdest!","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I love this movie, and I was lucky enough to be standing next to the filmmaker at an Oingo Boingo concert, so I mentioned to him that Oingo Boingo was a great band, but that movie they were in really blew! That put a smile on his face, especially when I said just kidding, Richard There is no way to describe this movie adequately. Yiddish humor, Cab Calloway and other oddball jazz tunes, sick animation, and totally fearless acting make this a real tour De force. There has never been, and will never be another movie even slightly similar to this one. So if you are a film or music buff, you need to see this, if only to realize the extent to which the medium of film can be taken by the most wildly creative and uninhibited minds. Now I want to learn more about this Elfman's body of work. His brother Danny's work I am familiar with and appreciative of. If anyone reads this and knows of more Richard Elfman films, won't you post the info for us please? Thanks! "},{"Title":"a definitive 'take it or leave it' flick.  I'll take more, please!","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Dr. Hunter S. Thompson once said, It never got weird enough for me. With all respect and love to that late-great Gonzo God, I wonder if he would eat those words following a viewing of this. This is truly one of the weirdest movies ever conceived, shot, executed, whatever-ed. But it's brilliance is in the fact that amid its chaos and delirious mayhem is that it's not really all that incoherent. It may not be any more or less crazy a piece of avant-garde experimentation than a super-obscure picture like Pussbucket. The difference, I think, lies in professionalism. In a small way I'm reminded of Russ Meyer; Richard Elfman is a very careful director with his camera, never making a shot unintentionally out of focus or deranged in masturbatory terms, and with his production designer (if maybe it was just him and his wife who also financed the picture) create madness that can't exactly be called shoddy in production value. Like it or not, and I can imagine people definitely NOT liking this, there's some art going on here.It's also the kind of movie you can't peg down. I was laughing mad throughout, almost convulsively at one other step after another in the 'plot' (and yes, there is one, once checked into the 'Zone' and the 6th dimension and the annals of the Queen and the family going through the zone), but is it entirely a comedy? Actually - yes, it is. But what kind of comedy? There's a sensibility that borrows heavily at times from those delightfully insane cartoons from the 1920s and 1930s (Un Iwerks' obscurer shorts come to mind), but only at times like bits in that classroom singing old songs.There's also characters in black-face (yes, black-face), obvious caricatures of black people and Jews, a little person (the actor from Man with the Golden Gun), a guy with a giant frog head and a suit, and Satan. Did I mention it's a musical shot in black and white and that it's also like if Rocky Horror Picture Show wasn't likable for its badness but was genuinely f***ed-up as a true cult hit? Enough trying to explain it- this is cult in the sense of Eraserhead or Ichi the Killer, or even one of the real old-school guards of the avant-garde like Jack SMith. You really do have to see it to believe it, and understand how much of a mix of forms and styles work its way into it, of the obvious and joyfully exaggerated characters (just between that one Queen with the hair and the little guy it could be enough, but then what about the little guy's new French mistress?), of the sudden title-cards, of the animations from time to time with most prominent example a travel down an intestine.Not to mention the music, which is some of the purest genius in the picture (this and Blues Brothers, both good for a double feature not too oddly enough considering one specific song I need not mention here, are great wacky musicals of 1980). There's two facets the usage of old blues and show-tunes of the 30s, almost like speakeasy songs, and then the songs of Oingo Boingo, Danny Elfman's equally weird band he had before becoming a composer. Needless to say he composes his first time here, and it's a great training ground for the likes of other great scores in Tim Burton's pictures; his one appearance as Satan is a howler, though overall he matches up to what his brother has to offer as a filmmaker of verve and daring.How much you might respond positively to the daring of Forbidden Zone will depend on how seriously you take it. I don't think I got any profound life lessons, but if you can tap into the vibe of the picture then you got it made. It doesn't get much weirder than this, and I love it for it on whatever terms it makes as imaginative low-budget gonzo comedy. "},{"Title":"Extremely Original","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Danny Elfman's outlandish 1980 film Forbidden Zone has to be seen to be believed, and if you are not at least slightly demented you should probably pass on the seeing part. Imagine a cross between Alice in Wonderland and The Rocky Horror Picture Show, with lots of animation in the style Monty Python's Flying Circus and the rubbery Max Fleischer cartoons of the 1930's (which probably inspired much of the original Monty Python stuff anyway). Also deserving mention is the fact that this relatively low budget black and white film is a musical.There are a lot of characters and the story is somewhat hard to follow so here is what I hope is a helpful summary. The Hercules family (father, mother, son, daughter, and grandfather) live in a house with a door to the Sixth Dimension a/k/a The Forbidden Zone (think Wonderland). Their daughter Frenchy (think Alice) and son Flash (who looks like third stooge Joe Besser in a cub scout uniform) go to school one day. When a gunfight erupts in the classroom Frenchy runs home.Tripping on a roller skate she tumbles through the door into a large intestine and ends up in the sixth dimension, which is ruled by a King and Queen of dice-used instead of wonderland's playing cards. There are a lot of half-dressed wonderland type characters down there although only the Frog Footman looks the same. There is a shapely princess who runs around topless, a living chandelier that eventually decays into just a skeleton, a devil (Elfman) who is like Cab Calloway playing the Cheshire Cat, and a rival queen.Frenchy's family and one of her classmates go into the Forbidden Zone to attempt a rescue. The film is a mix of live action and animation. The editor deserves a lot of credit because the whole thing is sequenced quite well and even has a strange unity. There are racist stereotypes (generally too silly to be offensive), lively swing music, and sets that look to have been painted and constructed by a third grade art class.If this whole wacky concept sounds interesting you should check it out. "},{"Title":"The weirdest most nonsensical musical you'll ever see!","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Forbidden Zone is up there on the list of strangest films of all time. It's a hell of a lot of fun, even though it doesn't make much sense. The film was created by Matthew Bright and Richard Elfman from the 80's rock band Oingo Boingo. They also did the film's music. The story concerns a family who buys a house from a drug dealer. Little do they know that it has a door that leads to the sixth dimension. The film becomes a crazed B&W surreal musical of comical strangeness. Tattoo of Fantasy Island plays the king of the sixth dimension. There's a depraved queen, a giant frog, a topless princess, drag queens, gigantic dice props and other things that you have to see to believe. It's as if John Waters and Jodorowsky teamed up to film the Wizard of Oz in black and white. The funniest part of the film has to be the guys wearing jockstraps who make musical fart noises while boxing. This is definitely not your average musical! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Musical EVER MADE!!!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  How shocked was I when my friend popped this tape into the VCR and my eyes were glued to the screen, riveted beyond comprehension. This movie, a kind of 1930s musical filtered through Pee-Wee's Playhouse, Fleisher Brothers cartoons, and a bad LSD trip. This is one of the most inventive, hilarious movies ever made, and I can't say enough good things about it. Find it today and watch it over and over and OVER!!! "}{"Title":"Trashionate","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" First, some back-story Richard and Danny Elfman grew up in South Central LA. In 1972 the precocious brothers formed a musical cabaret troupe called The Mystic Knights Of The Oingo Boingo.Under Richard's leadership The 'Knights (think Spike Jones' City Slickers or Viv Stanshall's Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah Band) covered old jazz and swing tunes, Cab Calloway and Josephine Baker numbers, and classical arrangements alongside multi-instrumentalist Danny's original material, such as 'You've Got Your Baby Back' about kidnapped heiress Patty Hearst, all delivered in outrageous costumes and clown face. Danny sung 'St Louis Blues' every night and, years before Bono, donned devil horns to sing 'St James Infirmary'. The Residents and the B52s among other American New Wave bands, definitely owe them a debt.When Richard became more interested in film-making (though not to the point of doing anything so conventional as actually attending film school), he handed the group's reins to younger brother Danny, who began to steer the band toward a more rock-oriented (though still distinctly left-field) direction. In the late 1970s Richard decided to make a film that replicated the spirit of their live shows. The budget was raised by buying, renovating and selling houses. With money so tight, the film was shot in black and white, in a mixture of live action and animation.The resulting movie was Forbidden Zone. What a strange and near-incomprehensible thing it is. In a nutshell, the plot - belatedly built around a series of musical set pieces - goes like this in the basement of a Venice Beach house belonging to the crazy Hercules family, including a supernaturally-strong Grampa and a middle-aged cub scout son, is a doorway that leads to the sixth dimension, accessed through an immense intestine. Among others, the sixth dimension is peopled by a butler frog, a gorilla, robot boxers, a human candelabra and a permanently topless princess.One day, Frenchy Hercules trips on a roller skate, stumbles through it, and meets little King Fausto, who is immediately smitten with her. Green (at least, grey) with envy, Queen Doris kidnaps the girl, while the rest of the Hercules clan, along with her friend, the 'chicken-boy' Squeezit Henderson, sets off to rescue her. Cast members, such as Gene Cunningham (aka Ugh-Fudge Bwana) were pooled from the band, their families and their associates.Boingo bassist and future writer-director Matthew Bright (aka 'Toshiro Boloney') was a childhood friend of Danny's and was roped in to play the twins Squeezit & René Henderson. Bright was considered ideal for the role of the put-upon twins, having endured gay taunts throughout his schooldays; Danny would always ask his older brother to protect him. Matthew in turn had been a roommate of tiny sensation Hervé Villechaize, the plane-spotting star of 'Fantasy Island', who'd play randy King Fausto. According to Bright, Hervé had a violent temper and liked firearms, once shooting himself in the arm by accident.Former Warhol ingénue Susan Tyrrell played his frustrated wife, Queen Doris. Tyrell was Hervé's real-life girlfriend. On first meeting him she says, It's what I psychically knew all along - that I wanted to f*ck a midget. I used to say to him, If you f*ck me, and I ever hear about it... Gisele Lindley, an occasional performer with the 'Knights was cast as their wonky-breasted daughter. In a nod to his stage act, Danny cameoed as Satan singing Cab Calloway's 'Minnie The Moocher', and Richard's then-wife Marie-Pascale Elfman, another singer with the 'Knights, starred as Susan B 'Frenchy' Hercules and also designed the wonderful cardboard sets; in the years after splitting from Richard, she'd go on to become a respected painter. Her outrrrageous accent in the film, incidentally, was not put on. I've talked to French people who said she had a weird accent, says her former husband.A real family film then, which suffers from the same affliction as most home movies; inclusive as hell, we often get the distinct impression these skits and antics are not necessarily for our benefit. With an 'otherness' worn so self-consciously it could quickly irritate the casual viewer, the feeling may be akin to showing up at a private party of street theatre performers where the guests have taken more drugs than you and whose collective DNA is already morphing into something unrecognisably human.Yet in truth, for all its 'out-there' cult credentials, Forbidden Zone doesn't have an original bone in its body. This doesn't make it any less of a diverting romp; simply one where you can box-tick the influences at the outset, including Tod Browning, the Three Stooges, the Marx Brothers, Monty Python, and (especially) animators Max Fleischer, Robert Crumb and Terry Gilliam. With its typically 1970s trash aesthetic (where Ed Wood and Betty Paige meet Warhol and Waters), the most obvious comparsions can be made with The Rocky Horror Picture Show, although there's not many numbers here you could easily sing along with, Tyrrell's self-penned 'I Was Born From A Witch's Egg' excepted.Ironically, these weaknesses are also its strengths the movie is such an over-the-top melange, it just about pulls through on sheer exuberance and reckless charm. But the real hero of Forbidden Zone is Danny Elfman and his dazzling score. His debut film soundtrack is also one of his most magnificent, incorporating rock operas, pseudo-classical passages, 1920s novelty songs like 'The Yiddish Charleston', and old jazz numbers with dextrous ease.As Tim Burton's future collaborator (and Forbidden Zone's influence on Burton, particularly his debut, Pee Wee's Big Adventure, is clear) Elfman would go on to cement a position as one of Hollywood's major players, with Boingo guitarist Steve Bartek as his orchestrator. The Boingos themselves split in 1995, having shed more of their name along the way, and are best known for contributing to a number of 1980s movie soundtracks, such as Weird Science. But as a showcase for Danny's gifts, and the enduring spirit of the Oingo Boingo, there is no greater legacy than this. "},{"Title":"Great soundtrack, fun tweaky humor.","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Cult-type film with an amazing soundtrack by Danny Elfman and The Mystic Knights of the Oingo Boingo. Incredible cameo by D. Elfman as Satan. Not a kids movie, but tweaked fun for adults/mature teens.  "},{"Title":"The reason the Fast Forward button was invented","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I first saw this when it was picked as a suggestion from my TiVo system. I like Danny Elfman and thought it might be interesting. On top of that, I'm a fan of Max Fleischer's work, and this started out with the look and feel of his 30s cartoon. With both of those, I thought it would hold my interest. I was wrong. Just a few minutes in, and I had the fast forward button down. I ran through it in about 15 minutes, and thought that was it.Afterwards, I read some of the other reviews here and figured I didn't give it enough of a chance. I recorded it again and watched it through. There's 75 minutes of my life I'm not getting back.I can't believe there aren't more bad reviews. Personally, I think it's because it's hard to get to the 10 line comment minimum. How many ways are there to say this is a waste of time?The movie comes across as though it was made by a few junior high kids ready to outrage the world and thinking they can with breasts, profanity, and puke jokes. The characters are flat. The parody of Swinging the Alphabet is lame, essentially cobbling the tune, getting through A - E, hitting the obvious profanity a F, and then having no idea where to go. The trip through the intestines to the expected landing doesn't work the first time, let alone the following ones. Across the board, the entire movie is what you would expect from someone trying to out-South Park Stone and Parker without the ability to determine what is and isn't funny. This might be amusing if you're high. Otherwise, it's not. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and fun!","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I was so excited that this finally came out on DVD. My dad took us to see it ages ago when it first came out in theaters and it became an instant family favorite. That might sound weird since it's a bit on the racy side, but most of the sexuality is done in a very silly and, I think, innocent way, so it never made me feel awkward showing it to anyone.I think it's the best musical ever and the low budget production works perfectly into the surreal plot. The actors are brilliant, a crazy cast that makes me laugh until it hurts. Rent it! Buy it! Give a copy to a friend and blow their mind! "},{"Title":"Bloody Loved It","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Ah man... Forbidden Zone... At first I thought WTF! then after that I settled right into it and wanted to jump in through my TV to join in the madness.I was only a wee little girl when this was released and much to my shock, I hadn't even heard of it until a week ago. But I am so pleased that I got to watch. Incredible film and the music was awesome. My favourite being the A-Z song and the one with the horny little devil. I also quite liked the Queens song.... I am stoked that there is going to be a Forbidden Part Deux. I just wish I could press a button and fool around with everyone. Incredibly, weirdly wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Warped Midnight Movie with some inspired musical numbers","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" For anyone familiar with, or is a fan of, the Midnight Movie circuit that was most popular between the early 70's and mid-80's, will know doubt have seen Richard Elfman's warped black-and-white musical Forbidden Zone. Taking the natural step from theatre to film, Elfman took the playful and smutty performances of his musical troupe Mystic Knights of the Oingo Boingo (along with his brother Danny and co-writer Matthew Bright) and delivered a true head-f**k, and one that is filled with frog-headed butlers, machine-gun toting teachers, a scat-loving Satan, and an entrance into the sixth dimension that literally s***s you into its bizarre universe.Frenchy Hercules (Marie-Pascale Elfman) lives with her dysfunctional family in a house that happens to be hiding the entrance to the sixth dimension in it's basement. After being told by chicken-man Squeezit Henderson (Bright) that his transgender sister Rene (also Bright) has entered the sixth dimension, Frenchy decides to have a little peek but ends up falling in. There she discovers a world ruled by sex-mad dwarf King Fausto (Herve Villechaize) and his domineering Queen Doris (the wonderful Susan Tyrrell). Fausto takes a liking to Frenchy and takes her as his personal prisoner, much to the wrath of Doris. After being gone for days, Hercules family members Flash (Phil Gordon) and Grampa (Hyman Diamond) enter the sixth dimension to rescue her.The 'plot' is no more than a excuse for Elfman and Bright to put on some truly remarkable and deliciously twisted musical numbers. Their influences were always 1930's vaudeville and jazz, but here they also embrace the 80's with rock and ska, with the particular stand-out for me was Danny Elfman's rendition of Minnie the Moocher as Satan. They try to make the most of an obviously tight budget, but the film does look dirt- cheap. The walls and sets look like they've been drawn by a child, but some sequences evoke the work of Monty Python.But I doubt Elfman and Bright had in mind to make a professional-looking film, and preferred to just have their original vision out there for the world to see. Where the film lacks in budget it tries to make up for in smutty humour, and although the comedy and visuals here are often overly crass (I've never seen so much dry-humping), it has the cheeky playfulness of early John Waters. It's pointless to try and make sense of Forbidden Zone, I mean, why bother with a sixth dimension when the 'real world' is just as equally screwed up? Instead just enjoy this true one-of-a-kind, whether it be the breakneck pace, the farcical humour, Tyrrell's battle-axe performance, or the truly inspired musical numbers.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"wtf & lol!","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" aw man where to start. Easilly hands down the trippiest movie ever made. So many flat out random things happen yet somewhere in between all these occurrences there still lies a plot. I cant really recall how i was able to follow what was going on but it happened. There are so many crazy bizarre characters you just cant turn away. King Fausto creeped me out and his wife was hilarious. Awe man watching this with my girlfriend we kept just looking at each other and saying w....t.....f. The weird cross dressing teacher with the weird lips what the heck was that all about. I honestly can not get over this movie it was so insane, is there anything remotely like this out there? i think not and if there is i need to know about it. Originality at its weirdest. "},{"Title":"The One And Only Original. Not To Be Confused With Any Other.","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" fans are right on target when they call this film a  Max Fleischer nightmare. it definitely seems inspired by the cartoons of the animation legend of the 1930's. certainly it's use of the music of Cab Calloway seems very Fleischer inspired.i've been following this movie since the early 80's after it's Filmex premier and i'm happy that it is getting the recognition it definitely has always deserved. the film was way ahead of it's time and anticipated the cutting edge lunacy of 'Adult Swim' comedy shows like 'Tim and Eric' and 'Space Ghost'. as a matter of fact it's far racier and more shocking than anything that is done for television or the movies today.i'm also always surprised as to how much confusion there is concerning the facts regarding this movie. people often confuse a Swedish erotica movie called 'Forbidden ZoneAlien Encounters' with the 'Oingo Boingo' film. there is also some erroneous info going around that Elfman intended this film to be colorized. he ALWAYS intended this film to be in B&W for effect. it always amazes me that there are so many people out there that really don't get older movies and B&W that they will say anything against B&W because they are so confused by it. Elfman intended 'Forbidden Zone' to be in B&W to resemble the Fleischer cartoons of the 1930's. he has said so in interviews so i don't know why IMDb is reporting erroneous facts to the contrary.this film is not for everybody and not for the easily offended that's for sure. but if you can overlook the shock/schlock value and content, it's a very funny comedy musical that's even more imaginative than 'Rocky Horror' and features a outstanding performance by 'Greaser's Palace' Herve Villechaize.this film is also a perfect example of low budget surrealism. the cardboard cut out sets by Marie-Pascale Elfman are brilliant and are some of the best B&W surrealism ever done for cinema period. rivaling the works of Cocteau and Welles. i'm completely serious. the sets here are brilliant. as is the music scoring and photography. i didn't give this film ten stars because it's so bad it's good, i gave it ten stars because it's superior craftsmanship.existence has proved to be somewhat hopeless for one and all, so abandon mundane hope and discover what it's all about when you ENTER THE FORBIDDEN ZONE. A is A A-A-A A E icky U, U-U-U icky A-E-I-O-U,icky I-O-U. maybe there'll be hope for you yet. "},{"Title":"amazing!","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" First of all, this film will separate viewers into two groups either you get it or you don't, love it or hate it. For me I got it, and think it's one of the more amazing films I've seen in recent years. It's unabashedly weird, obscene, hilarious, and a musical masterpiece... I just can't get enough of this film! I've had to limit the number of times I watch this just because I don't want the experience to stale.I'd recommend this musical to anyone with an off-kilter sense of humor who yearn to stretch the limits of what constitutes a film. Every time I watch it I see something new.There really isn't another film I could compare it to and give it justice, so I won't... but I love camp, British humor, and musicals so if you have similar tastes give it a shot.And if you're one of the ones who love it, you'll be humming the tunes (bim bam boom) and screening the Forbidden Zone with your friends! "},{"Title":"Pure, unbridled Lunacy! You owe it to yourself to see this!","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" The midnight movie circuit is my home away from home, whenever I feel depressed I hop on over to the tower for their midnight showings. Recently, a re-release of Forbidden Zone in colour was playing, and previously only having a poor VHS copy I had to see it in the theater, plus I wondered what the bizarre world would look like in full colour.Forbidden Zone is something like a cross between John Waters & Terry Gilliam. Bizarre, surreal visuals permeate the film, as do quirky, offensive gags involving bodily fluids you've never even seen, and probably didn't want to. Despite the gross out humour and low budget, Forbidden Zone is a treat for the eyes, you'll never see a movie quite like it visually. In a way, the low budget actually makes it unique and only lends to the humorous atmosphere. The films soundtrack is a great mix between Danny Elfman's band, The Mystic Knights of the Oingo Boingo (Who have an appearance in the film) and classic 1930's tunes. So all in all, FZ looks and sounds great.The plot is relatively simple King Fausto and his Queen rule over The Sixth Dimension, a bizarre netherworld full of female slaves, fetishistic desires, and general chaotic insanity. The entrance to the Sixth Dimension lies in the basement of a house, the very house that the Hercules family moves into. The young daughter of the household, Frenchy (Because she's French, of course.) enters the Sixth Dimension through the door, and it only gets stranger from there. Exploding bald men speaking gibberish in jockstraps, frog butlers, Tattoo from fantasy island playing a horny king, and even Satan appear in the Sixth Dimension's bizarre plane.The film itself is absolutely hysterical. With all the strange sights on display, it uses them for some surprisingly funny shock humour, and even when the humour isn't in your face or easily visible or audible, you'll still be chuckling at the set design and strange quirks beneath the surface.If you consider yourself a fan of Midnight Movies, then why in the name of GOD haven't you seen this film? Go! Go now! Enter the Sixth Dimension, move in the wrong direction! Just see the damn movie! "}{"Title":"What if Sid & Marty Krofft WERE on acid???","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Forbidden Zone reminded me a lot of the early homemade movies by the 70s comedy troupe the Firesign Theatre. You're probably very familiar with them, as they were making the brainiest 70s comedy records (my faves being the sci-fi I Think We're All Bozos on the Bus and the late night TV spoof Don't Crush That Dwarf, Hand Me the Pliers).Less known are the Firesign homemade movies, like Eat of Be Eaten and Nick Danger Third Eye (they also used to overdub comedy dialogue over old movie serials for an 80s Showtime series called Hot Shorts) - Zone was a LOT like those weird old vids.There was also an element of Sid & Marty Krofft to Zone, which seems about right since the Elfmans grew up on 70s TV shows like HR Pufnstuff, Lidsville, et al. And, funnily, just as I was thinking the B&W and golly-gee-whiz acting reminded me of an old Mickey Mouse Club ep - but on acid - the girl with the Mouse ears showed up ---- I bet anything, tho, that the Elfmans were MOST inspired by Frank Zappa's 200 Motels, for which Zone could practically serve as a sequel, if with more cabaret and less classical music.I especially liked Zone's Pythonesque animated sequences, and I'll never be able to hear the words Pico or Sepulveda without humming that bizarre little sequence.When the flick ended, I felt like I'd just come off a dicey acid trip, but it was great fun to checkout! Somebody should make a stand-alone video for Danny Elfman's devil sequence (which meticulously recreated the hijinks of several classic cartoons, even using some sound samples from the 'toons) - they could screen it on MTV tomorrow, and I bet few would ever guess it's a quarter century old and not a brand new video by the Killers or My Chemical Romance.... "},{"Title":"Forbidden Zone","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Indescribably weird from the off, like a box full of strangeness being tipped upside down and all over the place. We've got a transvestite teacher, a butler with the head of a toad, sex-obsessed adults masquerading as kids, and the midget from 'The Man With The Golden Gun' and that doesn't even skim the surface. Forget about a plot - after about an hour of camp music, wacky dialogue and over-the-top actors so bizarre that it's possible they actually live on the set you will feel reasonably prepared for whatever else this crazy f**king film will spray you with. That, and let's not forget that it's really a black and white musical! Hold on tight. 75% - Monty Python, 10% - Carry On movie, 8% - Unquantifiable Weirdness, 7% - B.D.S.M fixation "},{"Title":"As Midnight Movies go, it's pretty decent.","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I'm not going to bother describing the plot for the Forbidden Zone (I am assuming that if you are reading this review that you are familiar with this movie on some level), but if you are not familiar with the plot, just read a few of the first paragraphs of the synopsis at Wikipedia and you'll get the idea http//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forbidden_ZoneMany of the films that came from the Midnight Movies camp of the '70s to early '80s are often close to unwatchable. But Forbidden Zone is actually pretty decent, especially in comparison. The film is really helped by the soundtrack (if you are a big fan of Oingo Boingo, you should have reason enough to see this film right there), creative art direction, and the nice and crisp black and white cinematography.Where the film does lose points with me is that it really is a film that is strange for the sake of being strange (and while there is nothing wrong with making something strange--if you make something that is strange for the sake of being strange, the results are rarely favorable). That being said, there really isn't that much substance behind the weirdness in the movie, and I can think of dozens of strange and weird movies that I would recommend before Forbidden Zone; but still, all in all, Forbidden Zone is a short movie and I was never bored (but then again, I was never enthralled either).The bottom line is that this is not a great film, it is a decent film. The Oingo Boingo soundtrack is the best thing going for it, but the art direction and cinematography come in a close second. If you were interested in a strange or weird musical cult-film, I would recommend something like the Talking Head's movie True Stories (1986) or The Billy Nayer Show's movie The American Astronaut (2001) before this film.NOTE When the film was originally released it was panned for being seemingly racist. Honestly, the racist imagery used in the film is presented in a post-ironic manner (and I doubt that Danny Elfman or Richard Elfman are actually racist against Jewish and black people). But if racist imagery bothers you and you don't even begin to care about post-irony, then you might just want to skip this movie. "},{"Title":"A musical even I can enjoy!","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Personally, musicals are possibly my least favorite of all film genres. Having a potentially engrossing storyline interrupted by song and dance is both distracting and highly annoying. Even the bizarre cult film musicals (especially the incredibly overrated Rocky Horror Picture Show) grate on my nerves. This is why I didn't have high expectations going into Forbidden Zone. I decided to check it out for the fact that I'm a fan of low-budget independent cinema and Max Fleischer cartoons (which this is basically a live-action tribute to). Surprisingly, I enjoyed it a lot. Its completely crazy, original, ingenious, and full of politically incorrect humor thats never offensive because its all in good fun. Fans of unique cult cinema need to check this out.There are several factors that made this work so well. For one, the humor is surreal and directly out of a 30s cartoon (peppered with sex jokes and four letter words though). Plus, the set design is a triumph, especially considering the minimal resources they had to work with. The campy performances all around suit the material perfectly, such as a pre-fame Hervé Villechaize in what is indisputably his finest role and Susan Tyrrell as the bitch queen supreme. The direction by Richard Elfman keeps everything moving at a quick pace and the soundtrack by Oingo Boingo is guaranteed to get stuck in your head for weeks. Kind of like The 5000 Fingers of Dr. T made for adults - how cool is that? Both one of the funnest and strangest films ever made. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Warning! Watch mo than once & songs will be STUCK!","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I used to use this movie, when I could get a copy, to test drive boyfriends & see what their sense of humor was like. It is so kitschy- a weird blend of Cab Calloway, yiddish vaudeville, 40's cartoons, with a French heroine; and WHAT IS Squeezit so jittery about?! Keep in mind the sets look (I think) purposefully like a film school set. And it's in B&W. Also, this may be Danny Elfman's first soundtrack ever. And like I said, the music is great!! I only wish LaBrea Tarpits song was on CD. Yes, I'm a true geek fan of this movie-check it out & expect to spend half of the movie with a confused smile on your face-nothing like it! favorite line your buns smell like lox hunnie I can smell 'em from HERE! "},{"Title":"ribald classic","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Filmed in the single sound stage at the old Gotham Studios West (since demolished) on Santa Monica Boulevard at Van Ness Avenue in Hollywood, Forbidden Zone wrapped principal photography in November 1977 and premiéred at the Filmex film festival in January 1980.  As an example of independent cinema it's in a class by itself, an opinion I would hold even if I weren't part of the cast in my big screen début, an unbilled cameo as a frantic student  C'mon, Squeezit, we're gonna be late for class!  I screened it for some friends at an Easter gathering, and it still has the power to delight and appall, often simultaneously.  With a full spectrum from delicacy to coarseness, Forbidden Zone is a true original that earns the title cult classic.  "},{"Title":"A Quixotic Review","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Imagine finger-painting paper cutout puppets of your favorite freaks and villains, improvising a sexy narrative based on the old rescue princess held captive by evil empire story, and shooting your results with a cast borrowed from some exotic European circus.Forbidden Zone, I am guessing, is the product of creative imagination unobstructed by a movie studio. After a slightly slow start it is engaging, unpredictable, iconoclastic and fun.I don't really get satire, but I suppose this work treats the hypocrisy of society's double standard that allows the most rapacious public behavior while decries sexual carnality as being the (sixth)dimension of evil. Jokes, puns, delicate clichés, and slapstick tricks sock it out in a mixture of narrative, song and dance, and animation. Moral high and low ground cannibalize themselves into the stillness that concludes a fairytale.And for those who appreciate eidetic memory of photo or film images Tatoo (from Fantacy Island), who plays the king of the forbidden zone,  running across a long dining table in silhouette and diving into the spread eagle of his tall and buxom queen is something I will not soon forget.  "},{"Title":"A Quixotic Review","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Imagine finger-painting paper cutout puppets of your favorite freaks and villains, improvising a sexy narrative based on the old rescue princess held captive by evil empire story, and shooting your results with a cast borrowed from some exotic European circus.Forbidden Zone, I am guessing, is the product of creative imagination unobstructed by a movie studio. After a slightly slow start it is engaging, unpredictable, iconoclastic and fun.I don't really get satire, but I suppose this work treats the hypocrisy of society's double standard that allows the most rapacious public behavior while decries sexual carnality as being the (sixth)dimension of evil. Jokes, puns, delicate clichés, and slapstick tricks sock it out in a mixture of narrative, song and dance, and animation. Moral high and low ground cannibalize themselves into the stillness that concludes a fairytale.And for those who appreciate eidetic memory of photo or film images Tattoo (from Fantasy Island), who plays the king of the forbidden zone,  running across a long dining table in silhouette and diving into the spread eagle of his tall and buxom queen is something I will not soon forget.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievably bizarre","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Funny, goofy, strange, what the heck are we watching... All of these will cross your mind if you see this totally bizarre film. Danny Elfman plays the devil and does a song with the Mystic Knights of the Oingo Boingo. He also composed and performed the sound track. The sets are made of cardboard and construction paper. Combine that with the acting and it makes Ed Wood movies look like epics. Lots of Elfman last names in the credits so I would guess this a family project of sorts, probably shot in one of their garages. If you have a chance to see it you can place it right behind Eraserhead for strangest flick of all time. "},{"Title":"Like a child in wonder","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  From the opening I couldn't look away.  Something new every time I watch it and it's also fun to just have playing in the background around the house. I laugh, I sing.  You can't help but sing.  And then I get stuck sitting down again watching when I know I should be doing something.  It just captures me like a child and renders me atentive.  All I can say is how much I like it but do begin to describe it is near impossible. Thank you Rick for the mind that you share with us.  Your other films are fun too but this is out of the box and unique.  Please make more of "}{"Title":"crazy perfect.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  What an amazing film! Wow. Thats all i can say. Wow! kept my attention well. A++++I've never seen a movie that moved like this. Well, maybe Moulin Rouge, but even that doesnt come close. Loved the throwback to vaudeville. My friend has a copy signed by Richard Elfman... i guess thats worth something. Overall... nice. "},{"Title":"Weirdly cool!","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  The first time I watched this movie it made me physically ill, I just couldn't sit through it and had to turn it off. Then when I was bored and depressed I decided to give it another chance (all the other films I'd just watched were lying in a heap on the floor ;)). I sat down and from beginning to end I laughed and laughed. Not at the bad acting, although most of the actor/esses are pretty good especially Susan Tyrell as the queen, and Marie-Pascal Elfman too. Not at the crude, simplistic sets either. But just at the quirky script, excellent music, and instantly danceable tunes that keep the movie moving all the way. Although it was a bit full of unsavoury stuff, I thoroughly enjoyed it the unique, unpredictability of it. Of course I'm a massive Danny Elfman fan and his cameo made me sit up and jaw drop to the floor - he is fantastic in his short but very very sweet role of Satan. The singing is simply classic too. Watch this film, you'll either love it or hate it. (if you are slightly crazy that also adds to the enjoyment!) "},{"Title":"It's like a live-action Betty Boop cartoon!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Imagine a live-action black and white Betty Boop cartoon from the 30's and you have this film (except for alot of topless women running around). Really bizarre look and feel to this cult classic where most of the time you simply can't believe what you're seeing, which is really remarkable seeing there was literally NO budget for this film (Herve Villechaise was the ONLY paid actor). Unfortunately this film is no longer available on home video (it REALLY needs to be re-released) so if you are one of the lucky ones who can find it in your local video store, RENT IT!!! "},{"Title":"In my top 5 of all time. Totally unique and disturbingly funny","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  And absolute must see for anyone who has ever enjoyed the wonderful flavor of cult films. This is one I can watch a hundred times and not get sick of. I first saw this when I was in high school, blew my mind! I've always been a huge Oingo Boingo and Danny Elfman fan, Danny plays the devil in The Forbidden Zone by the way, and this movie suddenly brought to my attention that there are other Elmans doing crazy stuff too. Hope to see many more Richard Elfman films in the years to come! SEE THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"the best intentionally bad movie ever made","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  OK, where have you heard this before there are these foul-mouthed little kids, who sometimes break into song for no earthly reason... They have a sexually ambiguous teacher; their classmates are sometimes killed in comic mayhem; and midway through their movie they go to Hell and meet Satan. Sounds familiar, doesn't it? And yet, even though there's a Chicken Lover in the cast, this movie was made almost TWO DECADES before South Park!There are some painfully slow stretches toward the beginning, as though the cast and crew hadn't quite settled into the mayhem. But those slow patches are more than made up for by the rest of the movie. The animation is fantastic (much better than it ought to be), and the sets, though cheap, work very well. Once the action gets going, the movie takes off and becomes one of the rudest, funniest, least predictable films I've ever seen.The soundtrack is the best part of the movie (though the album is missing some really good stuff, like the playout version of the title song that they use over the closing credits). If you watch this movie and Nightmare Before Christmas back-to-back, you won't believe how much they have in common (listen for the Dies Irae in both, let alone the obvious Cab Calloway riffs)... Oogie Boogie's big number is almost a carbon copy of Danny Elfman's show-stopping turn as Satan.There are so many wonderful things about Forbidden Zone the way the opening number One of These Days spirals out of control... the Bim Bam Bum sequence, which has got to be one of the best moments in surrealist cinema... Herve Villechaize, an ear-eating frog in a tux, Bette Midler's husband in a diaper... and of course, The Alphabet Song. And yes, the teacher and the Human Chandelier are the same person.If you're not disturbed by Forbidden Zone, you weren't paying enough attention (I was furious when I heard them using the theme music in Dilbert ads). I'd love to have this on DVD, maybe with director's commentary... but as you know (sigh)... what can chickens do? Watch this movie if you're lucky enough to get a chance love it or hate it, you'll never be the same afterwards. "},{"Title":"Funny as heck!","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Here's a definite alternative to mainstream film, not even bothering to ape Hollywood. The sets look like a take-off on German Expressionism. The characters are all over-the-top in a music-hall way. Yet you can be drawn into the plot and sub-plots, even with all the unrealistic elements.Some of this is due to the excellent score part originals by Danny Elfman, part altered big-band classics.It's a fairly simple plot, and in the hands of another director, it would've come out boring. It's the little embellishments and unrestrained performances that make Forbidden Zone worth watching repeatedly.Richard Elfman can make you uncomfortable, but he is undeniably funny and creative. "},{"Title":"A Lot of Fun","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I gave this movie a very high rating, not because it was a good movie, but because it's possibly the best bad movie I've ever seen!  CRAZY is the only way to describe it.  There was not a moment while watching this movie that I was not tickled by it in some strange way or another.  I definitely recommend it, but only if you're easily offended. "},{"Title":"Zany Dada Hijinx","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  How can you not like Hervé Tatoo Villechaize as the midget King of the Sixth Dimension?This movie is twisted genius--rent it immediately, or I'll ream you with twenty inch cattle prods! "},{"Title":"Dollar per dollar spent, one of the best films ever made.","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  An amazing little low budget film.  Weird, wonderful, funny, poignient, surreal.  Not to everyone's taste, but anyone willing to venture outside of main-stream entertainment should check it out. The sets look mostly to have been made with the budget and resources of a small junior-highschool play, but the result is artistic, both amusing and nightmareish, like a live action version of the Flescher Brother's classic Bimbo's Initiation.  The sound track features vintage recordings by the likes of Cab Calloway and Josphene Baker (lip sinked to by the characters), and original music by Oingo Boingo.The film makes numerous references to early 20th century pop-culture and vaudeville-- but not recognizing them will not detract from your enjoyment. Contains perhaps the cinema's best ever gratuitious frog-sex scene.-- Frater Frogalogus "},{"Title":"Sadly Unavailable Gem","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  This film stands as a testament to the legendary Mystic Knights of the Oingo Boingo, a Los Angeles-based surrealist musical performance ensemble which later evolved into the Danny Elfman-helmed rock act Oingo Boingo.  To see these guys do their thing back in the mid-70s was like experiencing a live action Max Fleischer cartoon (ala Betty Boop) on mind-altering substances.  The energy of this troupe is captured faithfully in a raucous, rude, screamingly funny and musically brilliant black-and-white film, which is sadly out of print as of this writing, though one may still find the soundtrack.  The cartoonish live action (performed on tweaked cardboard painted sets) is interspersed with animation, peppered with all manner of politically incorrect content (something to offend everyone), and a rambling story about a journey to The Sixth Dimension (a place no weirder than the characters' reality!) that is more incidental to the performance than coherent.  Who cares!  If you are lucky enough to score this warped treasure, just put your mind on hold (or whatever) for about 90 minutes and take this wild ride if you can handle it.  A visit to Hell was NEVER this much fun! "}{"Title":"My comments on Forbidden Zone","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Even though I believe this film was made for around $75.00, I believe it was an extremely creative effort. It was packed with talent, and the writing was very funny. Not very cohesive in plot, but particular scenes, I will remember for the rest of my life. The most wonderful, in my eyes was the dinner scene between King Fausto (Herve Villachaize) and the Queen, and it wasn't them exactly that I adored so much. It was the chandelier man, hanging from the ceiling, each hand holding a candle, each foot holding one too. And a lot of the funny things appealed as well. Some brought me back to feeling 8 or 9-years old again. Thanks for letting me talk about this. I think you should see it. "},{"Title":"My All-Time Favorite Flick","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Forbidden Zone is the GREATEST CULT FILM EVER MADE. It makes The Rocky Horror Picture Show look like a joke.  The first time I saw it my jaw hung open in shock for the first half hour... then my mouth curled up into the most delightful poopy-eatin' grin you ever saw. I've seen the movie at least twenty times, and I make all my friends sit through it (they all love it, and have asked to borrow my crappy copy many times).  Thank you Richard Elfman---  How 'bout a sequel, baby?  "},{"Title":"Made Monty Python and the Holy Grail look mainstream; great!","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  (I'm going to let a few details out of the bag, just so people don't get mad at me)... It makes no sense.  It's pointless.  It made my head work to watch.  It was one of the best d*!% movies I've seen.  It's just one of those things you have to laugh at.  Some people find two guys from SNL rocking their heads from side to side for two hours funny.  Me, I find a gang of gamblers having a shoot out with a grade school teacher funny. Should be a nice piece of memorabilia for Danny Elfman fans; it was this movie that (in a sense) got him hired to compose Pee-Wee's Big Adventure, and, well, the rest is history. "},{"Title":"Good fun!  Minimalist sets and interesting animation sequences, great music!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  While not a film for everybody, this is the epitome of the term Cult Classic.  With the twisted vision of Richard Elfman and the fantastic music of his brother Danny, this film is a classic.  Minimalist sets and makeup combined with pythonesque animation sequences to create a truly memorable film. "},{"Title":"What The....?","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  After watching this movie on tape with my friend, I turned to him and asked 'What in the Nine Circles Of Hell did we just watch?!' This movie is hilarious to say the least.  From the cheap sets to the bad acting, it was perfect in every sense of a B-movie.  Well, maybe not a B, an F-movie. I'd recommend that you watch this moderately drunk with a group of your friends, and watch the hilarity ensue!  "},{"Title":"If you couldnt laugh at this film,you have no pulse","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  When I was first told of this film(many years ago),I couldn't believe that someone would make a film like this.Shows what I know.I was torn between laughing and laughing alot.This film is pure escapist mindcandy.If you notice,many of the one liners from this film are now clasics;Feets don't fail me now!,among many others.To all this,add a fantastic soundtrack,and you've got a real cult classic which has found a permanent residence in my video collection. "},{"Title":"World's best underground movie!","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Forbidden Zone is the world's best underground movie!  The music alone is worth buying it (composer Danny Elfman's first sound track).  The humor, satire, choreography and musical numbers are impossible to describe.  That is why it has developed such a large cult behind it.  If you want something REALLY different, try this film! "},{"Title":"Greatest underground masterpiece of all time!","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  This is a movie that my friends and I see over and over and over.  It is almost impossible to describe.  Set in an expressionistic 6th Dimension, it is the strangest musical of all times.  But there is an intelligence behind it all, a definite method to the madness.  The music is terrific. Forbidden Zone has to be the greatest underground masterpiece of all time! "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT!  ASTOUNDING!","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  The most brilliant and original musical ever!  A must see!!  There is nothing like it.  You will never be the same!  It is set in a strange underworld of bizarre characters, kind of early German expressionist decor. A midget king reigns over a world of woman and monsters.  My friends and I just watched a re-issue and everybody is talking about this film.  Don't miss it!  "},{"Title":"Bring grandma & the kids!","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  OK, granted - this film is not one for all tastes. But if you're a fan of films that go all out, taking no prisoners, and have imagination to spare, then this is one you should not miss! It's a sci-fi odyssey, a musical, a comedy, a drama, a stylized parody of the films of the 30's... I can't think of anything Forbidden Zone doesn't have... except maybe a speed dial to slow things down and let 'em sink in (yes, that WAS a man doubling as a chandelier.)So bring grandma and the kids (kids will definitely appreciate this one)! OK, maybe the language and brief nudity isn't something you want the kids to watch and hear... but anyone with half a sense of humor will enjoy this to the fullest!  "}{"Title":"very tightly edited...a true gem...my favorite film","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  A MUST SEE FILM ....over and over and over........... it just keeps on getting better with each viewing...a film for the entire family to enjoy together.....perhaps after church on a Sunday afternoon.....don't forget to invite Aunt Hazel  "},{"Title":"Cult CLASSIC! Hilarious, visually stunning & great soundtrack.","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Made in 1980 by composer Danny Elfman's older brother Richard, this one offers it all. Filled with adult themes, potty humor, incredible music, flying decapitated heads, the underworld, bestiality, transvestites, school shootings (topical), feminine hygiene and MORE, this cannot be missed!!!Look for Danny Elfman making an appearance as SATAN and musically backed by The Mystic Knights Of the Oingo Boingo (a theatrical early incarnation of the musical group Oingo Boingo).If you're lucky enough to find the vinyl soundtrack of the film, there's a bonus track not found on the CD "},{"Title":"I'm Obsessed","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  This is the strangest movie I've ever seen. I watch it almost  every day and I never get enough. I'm not even into musicals but  I think the song numbers in this film are great! I find myself  humming songs like Yiddishe Charleston and Witches's Egg for  days afterward. I especially like the alphabet song number in  the second classroom scene (G is gay, gay, gay, gay). I  constantly talk about the movie with uninitiated friends and   co-workers. Everyone I know who has seen it is obsessed with it  like I am. If you want to see the weirdest movie ever made you  gotta check out Forbidden Zone... But beware, It may be habit  "},{"Title":"Where's the story in this thing?","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Huh? What? Somebody woke me. Wait... It was my father shaking me awake when I was watching this. Personally, as I have said a few times before, I don't know why I bother with this stuff. I lost six brain cells watching this piece of junk, and I couldn't remember why I started viewing this... *thing* in the process. Wait, memories are coming back, I only wanted to see this because I heard Danny Elfman had arranged the music and appeared as Satan (which had met my satisfactions quite well, actually), but as for the rest of the movie, I say on a scale of 1 to 10; 10 being sophisticated, and 1 being bonkers; I say it's bonkers. It is filled with nothing but sex, obscene profanity, racist comments; and not to mention goofiest, silliest characters and scenes, that the story is lost in them. Most of my memories on this movie are still lost because my mind was asleep, even though my body was still awake. Next time, I'll think twice about movie elements before I rush to see something that stars one of my most favourite movie celebrities of all time. (No offence, though, Mr. Elfman; you're still my favourite movie composer.) "},{"Title":"Unreal, surreal, a live-action cartoon","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" You haven't lived until you have seen Richard Elfman's FORBIDDEN ZONE, a 1980 bizarre mix of ALICE IN WONDERLAND and Fleischer Brothers' cartoons, especially the early Betty Boop ones. A young woman falls into the sixth dimension where she is imprisoned by a rather sadistic king and queen. Some of her relatives go looking for her. Along the way, she and they meet all sorts of odd people and creatures, even odder than they themselves are, and almost everyone breaks out into old songs at one point or another, some of them performed in tongues other than English. My favorite involves two pug-ugly boxers in a ring and a dullish young man singing with someone else's superimposed mouth in the front of the ring. I am yet to make it all the way through this sometimes hallucinatory movie, but I shall someday. I understand Elfman's brother, Danny, plays Satan, which I can't wait to see. Interesingly, the sets are right out of a bad high school production, consisting of handpainted cardboard, some cushions and little else. Some sequences are animated in a herky-jerky style. Susan Tyrell is the sixth dimension's angry queen, and Herve Villachaize is the randy king. I don't know who's worse. In fact, the acting by all is abominable, but I suspect this was done on purpose. Why, I have no idea. For the faint of heart, be aware there are naked breasts on display as well as lots of ethnic humor mixed in with a very gay sensibility. Also lots of vulgarities are expressed. Seems to me ZONE would not have been out of place as a stage play in the old East Village days. Not for mainstream audiences. "},{"Title":"I'm still singing.","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Love it or hate it, if you haven't seen Forbidden Zone, you haven't lived. Despite the fact that you remain quite disturbed for the rest of the day after watching it for the first time. Anyone who is a fan of new wave band Oingo Boingo's music HAS to watch this, as this is what they spent their time doing before Danny Elfman could be bothered to go and write Only a Lad. Danny is absolutely SUPERB in his role as Satan, dancing around in a white suit with tails and cravatte, and singing a very Cab Calloway-esqe version of Minnie the Moocher. About chopping a guy's head off. You see now why this film leaves you very weirded out for a while. In a good way of course. Cab Calloway actually has a role in the film, providing the singing voice for Papa Hercules when he sings some of these days. When you watch this film - which you must - keep an eye out for the Elfman 'clan'. Danny's Satan may be hard to miss, and Frenchy (Marie-Pascale Elfman) is one of the main characters, but try and spot director Richard Elfman. There are several more Elfman ties, so try and spot the whole set. Oh, and remember - If you sing Witch's Egg more than 3 times in a row, you will go certifiably insane. Sing Queen's Revenge instead. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous Low Budget","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" This movie was my introduction to Danny Elfman, which began my life long love of his work, along with Tim Burton's work. I really do recommend it heartily, though I do warn of the oddly pseudo-racist/sexist undertones throughout. It's hard to describe them without spoiling anything, but I have a tendency to give them slack since I think they were just referencing old movies and not trying to be explicitly racist. It's unusual to watch a more modern movie with black face in it though, so it's still weird to watch.Anyway, the entire cast of characters are unique and beautiful to watch, and Squeezit is really just a treat throughout the movie.I love this flick, but don't expect your friends to understand what you see in it if you find that you love it too. It's not for all palettes.PS The last scene rocks!-Rose "},{"Title":"How could I have never seen this?","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" This is part of my Scarecrow Video Guide inspired movie-trek, after Jerry & Tom.As a rabid Oingo Boingo fan, I'm not sure why I had never seen this until now. Of course, it was hard to find until recently. I even managed 2 different large video stores in the 90s, and never saw a copy. But still, I had seen the band 4 times (a high number for someone living outside California), and had been somewhat active in bootleg trading- thanks to stumbling across their infamous 1976 Gong Show appearance and managing to get it on VHS. (It's common now, thanks to multiple GSN runs.) I even have a demo version of the theme song. But I had never seen the film before a week ago.Of course, the Mystic Knights don't make their appearance until near the end, and most of the music isn't even original Elfman compositions. But it's still a key part of the OB legacy. Can a non-fan appreciate it? As a film, it's a beyond-low budget piece of nonsense. More of a piece of performance art than a film, it's like a semi-pornographic Betty Boop cartoon brought to life and fed a bunch of LSD. The performances are awful, even from Oscar nominee Susan Tyrell. But Marie Pascale Elfman exudes a silly charm (Hot damn...the sixth dimension!), if you can make out what she's saying. And Herve Villechaize is a bit funnier than I expected. Of course, Danny Elfman as Satan was the highlight for me, but it's an all-too-brief segment. Instead of more Satan, we get endless scenes of old men dry humping everything they see- funny once, but annoying 6 times.FZ has a reputation as a shock movie, but 25 years later, the only real shock is the racist material. I suppose the black-face scenes (maybe there was only one) could be a nod to the 20's and 30's cartoons on which the style is based. But the black pimps and gang members in the back of the classroom are out of place and unnecessary (although I did giggle at one of the gags.) I'm giving it a reluctant 6 out of 10 just 'cause I'm an OB fanatic. Lower that score if you don't know what a Tender Lumpling is, and raise it if you have a high tolerance for excessive silliness.Next on the movie trek- Getting Any? "},{"Title":"I take back what I said earlier","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I take back what I said earlier about this movie. I watched it recently and it's not really all that bad! I mean Herve Villechaize and Susan Tyrell are excellent in their roles.Marie-Pascle Elfman is a very sexy Frenchy. Phil Gordon is good as fast talking Flash. Danny Elfman also makes a scene stealing cameo appearence as Satan and he's good in that! So everybody is good in this movie. Also Toshiro Boloney (Matthew Bright) is good as Squeezit and Rene.  "},{"Title":"YES!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I LOVE this movie. Sometimes I get nostalgic for it - on occasion, I actually cry. Because I no longer have a copy, I played it so many times, the tape just wore itself out. My first viewing stands next to a weekend-long John Waters marathon as cherished memory of being punked into the magical world of what gets termed as cult.The sights, sounds and actions are too just impossible to put into words, wildly creative, yet the whole thing is actually put together pretty tight, considering the clearly low budget and that you imagine the Elfmans were just like bribing their pals to show up and do stuff. The soundtrack, obviously, is the most fabuloso thing about it, but it works on lots of levels. If you have a copy, try playing it on MUTE and see what you think. If you've only seen it with recreational aids, you should try seeing it straight.Come the revolution, this should be required viewing for all nine-year-olds and/or aspiring filmmakers. It's that good. "}{"Title":"Don't waste your time on this","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Even being drunk with a bunch of close friends, which is how I saw it, doesn't make it any more palatable.This film sank many budding film careers, judging by how many of the actors appear in only this one little experiment in excrement. (One notable exception is Danny Elfman.) Hervé Villechaize is probably the best actor of the whole lot, which should give you some idea of the depth and quality of acting brought together in this bastard-piece.Whoever pitched this idea to the producers must have forgotten to budget for sets or costumes; what they got looks like they snuck into an empty filming stage on some weekend and used whatever they could find in the way of costumes and sets lying about. The teleportation doorway is nothing more than - I kid you not - a large pair of buttocks drawn on a sheet hung loosely on the wall. So much for the fantasy angle.I don't remember much about the film (thankfully), except for a few unsavory images of Herve permanently burned into my memory, and a vague recollection of a dance sequence near the end featuring someone resembling Cloris Leachman. I guess it's good that such a work is so forgettable, otherwise I'd be waking up screaming in the middle of the night from flashbacks.I suppose this film might be a good source of campy entertainment for a suitably inebriated fraternity on an otherwise wasted Saturday afternoon.Well, no, probably not.  "},{"Title":"This was awful!","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" What a disappointing piece of schlock this was! It was obviously a low budget wonder and it looked like it. The first giveaway was that it was shot in black and white but not for artistic reasons &#150; it was just cheaper that way. The Elfmans should be ashamed of themselves. This was a big disappointment compared to later collaborations between Tim Burton and Danny Elfman (Beetlejuice, Edward Sissorhands, Nightmare Before Christmas, Corpse Bride) which were clever and inventive. This was amateurish and silly. There was no point to it other than to say we can do something completely outlandish and it doesn't even have to make sense. Maybe we were supposed to consider it Avant Guarde, but it was just a big waste of time for me. I was not surprised that Hervé Villechaize would do something like this just to get a starring role, but I was disappointed that Susan Tyrell, whom I consider an excellent actress, even agreed to do this. I kept watching it all the way through just to see how bad it really was, and I just kept thinking I don't believe they did this!. "},{"Title":"Strange for the sake of being strange.","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" This black and white cult classic is genuinely amusing. It's so bizarre and stupid throughout, and one can assume that's all Richard Elfman could be going for.This is obviously low budget, but it looks great anyways. The sets look great, even though most of them are obviously cheap backdrops and made of paper. The cheapness in all the sets is not what Elfman was going for, however if one didn't know this was shot on such a small budget, you wouldn't notice. The acting is hilariously over the top, making this hilarious in a purposely bad way. The music, by Danny Elfman, is really great. Many of the songs are catchy, and the instrumentals written for them are very original, which can also be seen in Danny Elfman's later music.The negatives in the film, are how stupid it is throughout. The plot is so dumb, as are many of the pointless characters, and it's hard to sit and watch these characters for the mere time of 73 minutes. But if you can stand nonstop morbidity and stupidity, you will like this. For me, this was a usually amusing mixed bag.My rating ** 1/2 out of ****. 73 mins. R for language, violence, nudity and sexual humor. "},{"Title":"This is the Sixth Dimension, not Cahuenga.","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Movies can take us to different kind of worlds, that is one of the variety of powers that cinema have, even, movies can take to us to the Sixth Dimension, and that is what Forbidden Zone do.Forbidden Zone is an totally illogical movie, silly, sticky and funny, and , if this film have this kind of things, make it some difficult to some with a close mind. But those who loves fantastic, for nothing logical adventures, or some bizarre and entertainingly story this is THE movie. Forbidden Zone is the story of a place called the Sixth Dimension, which is reign by the King Fausto and the Queen Doris. There is a door who let you enter to this rare world, which locates it in the new house of the Hercules family. There is the beautiful Frenchy Hercules, a girl with a lot of curiosity. She decides to enter, and she don't knows the crazy adventure she going to pass.Forbidden Zone is a wild and original movie, irreverent and totally rough, but is, of course, totally beautiful and artistic. This movie is like a story for midnight,it is a funny one, comic and very easy to digest, as is must to be mention that is a feast for eyes and ears. The music here is really awesome, just for called some as One of these Days, Pico and Sepulveda, Witch's Egg, Queen Revenge and that big Finale (Writting for that great musician named as Danny Elfman). The scenario is like is a kind of mix of that old 50s and 60s Sci Fi movies (Noted this with the Black and White tone) with a comic book. Forbidden Zone got it all! Althoug that i found it really fun, i enjoyed too as art. This is a crazy artistic movie which tell us the story of a world full of strange situations, eccentric scenarios and elements (Some of the scenes in the long table and that candelabrum can be a certain example). I found it even more cozy than The Rocky Horror Picture Show, another piece of crazy cinema, but the both have the merits. There are other characteristics as is the animation. God! That is another artistic quality, is, as i say, as a cartoon between the reality and the fictitious, that is what this movie is. You as a fan of fantasy and twisted but funny movies going to loved it.This is the Forbidden Zone, a movie which going to take you to a different, strange place, full of extravagant situations, as its characters, and is exactly about that, is a view of a different illogical (In our context) world, but is maybe as in the Pico and Sepulveda Song, the reality, i mean in that world, Mr. Hercules told us Pico and Sepulveda ... Where nobody's dream come true, but then, beyond in the Sixth Dimension, there something different, maybe is a place where dreams can be true, or at least be different to the rest to reality.Forbidden Zone is about it ... is about fun, is about art, and is about passing a good time and is of curse a way to scape to another reality.*Sorry for the mistakes...well, if there any. "},{"Title":"To all the actors I stand, applaud and solute you.","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Imagine if 50 of your closest Hollywood friends, all aspiring or has-been actors agree to be in your ultra-low budget thriller / musical and an equal number of craft people agree to do all the behind the scenes work for free, including cardboard sets so thin that just walking by them makes them quiver. Now imagine that since you never expect anyone to ever see this epic effort you toss out everything anyone ever taught you in film or acting school and toss in every Yiddish cliché, elementary school poo reference and simulated sex with amphibians, add choreographed dance numbers lip-synced to marginally classic recordings long since in the public domain, that is what you will see in Forbidden Zone.I loved it! I don't think that I have ever been so captivated and appalled by any movie, ever. This is a classic that must be seen by all USC film students in Cinema 101. It is Judy and Mickey doing a show in her father's barn on steroids. I apologize for the has-been reference above because every actor in every scene was right on mark and brilliant. Everyone exhibited extreme courage by showing their worst side in almost every scene. Actors really don't like to do that as a rule and takes a high level of confidence to do so. To all the actors I stand, applaud and solute you. "},{"Title":"Weirdest, Best, Most Uncomfortable, Most Captivating Ever","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" With a soundtrack that is oddly - but completely - captivating, and characters and a plot that echo the stylish bizarreness of that catnippish music, this is on my permanent top ten list.Most Weird Film Ever. And though that title, coming as it does from a square dude, may be no more glorious than being the Best Linebacker Ever From Auckland, New Zealand...see the flick before you say it can't be so.Hurts to watch it, can't make yourself watch it, but when you do, you can't leave it.It's black and white. It makes no sense. It's hard to follow. It's low budget. And most of all, it's surreally creepy - hence disconcerting in a very primal way, with the same feeling those animated snacks on the screen at the old drive-in theaters gave you when you were a kid. But you can't not watch it if you let yourself start. It aches and it itches, but then you realize those sensations actually feel good - though in a vaguely unhealthy way, like when the gas you're pumping into your car suddenly starts smelling great.Ingest artificial assistance first ? Hardly. You not only don't need that, it would numb you to what's here. The Forbidden Zone IS the ingested assistance, um duh.A top-tenner, and the ONLY top-tenner that gets there in this particular way. Absolutely unique. "},{"Title":"The Best (perhaps the only) New Wave Musical Ever.","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" This is one of my favorite films. I just got finished watching the documentary on DVD. If you've ever wonder why this film was made, this will answer all your questions.I first saw FB when I was in High School in the '80s. My boyfriend said I HAD to see it. I was severely disturbed by it and just didn't get it. It didn't help that he also rented Liquid Sky for us to watch too.As an adult, I was at The Kennel Club in San Francisco waiting for a band to play (I think it was Lush). Projected on the wall was this very odd black and white film that combined physical comedy, animation, and some of the most creative visuals I had ever seen. It was Forbidden Zone. I rented the film and finally understood it and its mastery. As I get older, I view it every couple of years and see more that I missed the first time around. There's very clever visual humor in here like a man holding candles, while being suspended over a table like a chandelier. As time goes on, his arms go limp and he's folded over like he's dead. Later in the movie there's another seen at the table and all he is a skeleton now. What a brilliant way to show time passing. This is just a background piece of scenery. Every inch of the film has something happening in it.As I said, watch the documentary. It's fascinating to hear what inspired this. Perhaps an Art degree and going to UC Santa Cruz will help you understand it better. It sure helped me. "},{"Title":"Going Down, Down, Down, Down. How Far Can You Go? You Might Fall Into The Forbidden Zone!","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!It all began one Friday afternoon when Huckleberry P. Jones, a local pimp, slumlord and narcotics peddler, stashed some drugs in the basement of one of his houses. Whilst down there, he noticed a strange door and went through it. Once inside, the most terrifying and bizarre things Jones had ever seen drove him from the basement and out the front door. Well after that experience, the only logical thing to do was to sell the house. Pretty soon it is purchased and the Hercules family moves in. The Hercules family consists of Pa, Ma, Gramps, Flash and Susan B. Frenchy. Pa works at the La Brea Tarpits factory, and Frenchy had recently been studying in France. At the breakfast table one morning, Flash tells Frenchy about a discover his friend Squeezit Henderson's brother Renee found in their basement a strange door. Only Renee never came out again. This raised Frenchy's curiosity, but Pa forbid her from going down there. Soon, at ten to nine, Flash and Frenchy head for school. But first Flash ties Gramps up. At school, chicken boy Squeezit (He got that nickname because not only is he a coward, but he flaps his arms and bawks like a chicken) tells Flash and Frenchy about a vision he had of Renee. He was in a strange land with a diminutive king, a booming queen, and a dancing frog. Back to the present, Frenchy sings a French song in front of the class. But soon trouble begins when classmate Johnny plays poker with Billy, who cheats. So Johnny draws his gun and kills Billy. The teacher, Miss Feldman, threatened to send him to the office, so Johnny shoots at her, but she counters and shoots back at him. Frenchy decided to escape class and head home.Once home, she decides to investigate the forbidden door. She goes through it and falls down a very long tunnel, shaped a lot like intestines. She falls through an opening, much like a rectum, and meets two gibberish spouting twin singers and the dancing frog. It was then that the topless Princess captures Frenchy and brings her before King Fausto and Queen Doris. The king quickly has Frenchy sent to Cell 63 where the king kept Renee Henderson and his other favorite concubines. King Fausto instantly developed a crush on Frenchy, which Queen Doris soon discovered and hated. Back to the present, Flash decides to go find out where Frenchy and Renee have gone. Squeezit was too chicken to help, so Flash gets Gramps to help him. Once they arrive in the Forbidden Zone, Mr. Bernstein, an Old Yiddish Man, tells them a strategy on rescuing Frenchy--for three Sheckles. Well, while flirting with some female prisoners, the frog, Bust Rod, captures Flash and Gramps and they are thrown into the royal septic tank. Queen Doris decides to do away with Frenchy, but luckily is unsuccessful. Flash and Gramps luckily make their escape and in the process, Flash meets a woman who claims to be the Ex-Queen. She was married to King Fausto once before, until Queen Doris came along and then things were different.The population of Sixth Dimension prisoners would soon grow, for at the LaBrea Tarpits factory, Pa Hercules was smoking on the job and got blown up. He flew high into space and then crashed through the ground so hard he threw the intestinal tunnel all out of whack and plopped down in the Forbidden Zone. Pretty soon he is captured. Back on the surface, Squeezit is confronted by his conscience--in the form of a chicken, and decides to go down and help his friends. Also, Flash had called him on the phone from the Forbidden Zone requesting help. So once he arrives, Squeezit is captured by the Mystic Knights and taken to see the Dark Prince himself Danny Elfman. Squeezit makes a deal with the devil and in exchange for the princess, Squeezit's friends would go free. The deal also included Squeezit's head. Oh well, at least he was brave to the end. So King Fausto sets Frenchy and Renee free, until the irksome Queen Doris captures them again. Back on the surface, Ma Hercules wonders where everybody is. Back in the Forbidden Zone, King Fausto enlists the love-lusterous Flash and Gramps to help him rescue Frenchy and Renee. Queen Doris was about to have the latter killed in the most gruesome manner. Renee didn't seem to mind however. Pretty soon the Ex-Queen came in and engaged in a catfight with Queen Doris. Unfortunately, Doris emerged triumphant. She tosses Ex-Queen down the spike pit. It was then that Ma Hercules came in and shot Queen Doris dead. King Fausto was saddened over the loss of his beloved queen--for a little while. Then there is a big celebration in the Forbidden Zone. Frenchy is crowned the new queen and all was happy. King Fausto wanted to conquer the planets next. So our story has an open end.What can I say about Forbidden Zone? Other than it is a very strange and very enlightening movie experience. It's a low-budget independent film by Richard Elfman and his brother, Danny. Most of the cast members are friends, family and co-workers of the Elfmans. Marie Pascale-Elfman (Frenchy) is certainly family. As for the rest of the cast, sadly Herve Villechaize (King Fausto) has passed away. He died in 1993 and I can honestly say that I had the privilege of knowing this man. I met him back in 1989 and knew him real well up until his death. Susan Tyrrell is Queen Doris and really steals the show. Danny Elfman plays the Dark Prince, Ugh Fudge Bwana (real name is Gene Cunningham) plays Pa Hercules and Huckleberry P. Jones. He is also one of the founding fathers of Danny Elfman's band, the Mystic Knights of the Oingo Boingo. Matthew Bright (credited as Toshiro Baloney) plays Squeezit and Renee Henderson. That Renee, man, what a looney toon. Phil Gordon is Flash and Hyman Diamond (not his real name) is Gramps. Not much is known about Gordon and Diamond. In the DVD commentary, Richard Elfman and Matthew Bright assume they're dead. I wonder if they are or if they aren't, what are they doing now? It's fun to wonder about things like that. Kedric Wolfe is not only Miss Feldman the school teacher, but he is also the Human Chandelier that hangs above the dinner table in the Forbidden Zone. The Kipper Kids are here too, and so is Joe Spinnell, who has also passed away. A heart attack killed him in 1989. He was in the movie Rocky. Happy 24th Anniversary, Forbidden Zone! A special DVD was recently released. They've got deleted scenes and other cool stuff. A MUST for Forbidden Zone fans. So to all of you looking for a kooky and really absurd way to kill 75 minutes of your time, check out Forbidden Zone!! You'll never forget it! You'll love it! And that is also Susan Tyrrell playing Squeezit's mother! Did you notice at first? Neither did I!-  "},{"Title":"This movie is not for the closed minded","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I recently ordered the re-release of this movie and remembered the joys of it all. The humor is quite crass but out of control hilarity is what I'm about. Anyone curious about the movie should make a point to watch it, it is freaking funny. There is no other movie I know of with such a radical look at life when you are really poor. I cannot make a recommendation for other movies to see if you liked this one mostly because it is a true original piece of art at it's finest. Although the music was by Danny Elfman who has produced music for The Simpsons and The Nightmare before X-mas to name a few and he was in the band Oingo Boingo. The director is Richard Elfman Danny's Brother.  "},{"Title":"Hervé's best performance/a jaw-dropping film","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Forbidden Zone is a brilliant, unique film that's like a bawdy, live-action 1930s cartoon. It has a real arts-and-crafts look to it - you can see how all the sets were put together - but that actually adds to how cool it looks. There are gorgeous (super-pro-looking) animated sequences interspersed throughout the movie. And Susan Tyrrell is really radiant. I was a huge fan of this movie aesthetically for years, even though I didn't think it made much sense, but I recently saw it on the big screen and found the plot much easier to follow that way. Richard Elfman spoke after the screening and sort of hinted that financing the film ruined his life, but I'm sure you can read about that somewhere online.  "}{"Title":"The Devil made Richard Elfman and in turn he made Forbidden Zone","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Forbidden Zone is The reason why I make film. I can only hope one day to make a film as funny and memorable as Forbidden Zone! This is by far the most entertaining film I have seen in the past 20 years. Unlike most films made in the 1980's  this gets better the more time passes. This is the Wizard of Oz for  the no budget filmmaker! Thank you Richard Elfman for making  a  film I can watch time and time again! You have successfully made the one movie I could be stuck on a desert island with.If you haven seen this film you are a loser!  "},{"Title":"If you like campy cult classic films, add this one to the list !!!","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  As an avid fan of Danny Elfman, both as a music composer and the lead singer of the now disbanded Oingo Boingo, this movie was a MUST SEE for me.Forbidden Zone was recently re-released in 2004 to theaters and being played exclusively at the Landmark group of theaters. I saw Forbidden Zone at the Nuart in Santa Monica, which was attended by Richard Elfman (writer/producer and masseur in the film), Marie Pascale Elfman (Frenchy in the film and art designer), Matthew Bright (screenplay writer) and several more important people from the film.The film itself is shot entirely in B & W and on a shoestring budget. (Side Note Richard Elfman told us that he and his wife at the time, Marie Pascale Elfman, had to sell their home in order to have enough money to make this movie.) Forbidden Zone features an outlandish plot, amusingly perverse characters and movie sets that will remind you of something from your 6th grade school play.In the late 70's/early 80's, Richard Elfman and his brother Danny Elfman, had a theatrical performance group known as The Mystic Knights of the Oingo Boingo. They were mostly an underground group that traveled around to small venues, performing in their zany style. The group wanted to mainstream their crazy on-stage antics, while at the same time, preserving that time period for them on film. Forbidden Zone is a compilation of skits, performed by The Mystic Knights group (along with some other great actors/actresses) to display their dark comedic talents. The plot of this movie was kept simple so they could focus more on the showcasing of their bizarre yet entertaining theatrical performances.Forbidden Zone was destined to be a cult classic from the start and it has certainly reached that status with those familiar with the Mystic Knights theatrical group and this wacky, almost auto-biographical film.If you're a devout fan of Danny Elfman and Oingo Boingo, step back into time and see the roots of this eclectic band first hand through this wildly original movie !!! Danny Elfman classifies this period as musical schizophrenia for the makings of his future break-off band, Oingo Boingo.Also, if you like Richard Elfman's talent with this movie, check out his other movie works...you won't be disappointed !!!  "},{"Title":"The Citizen Kane of underground movies.","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Forbidden Zone is the Citizen Kane of underground movies. It may be the most amazing and unforgettable film experience that you will ever have. It is a disarmingly low budget musical fantasy about a wacky family that falls into a wackier universe inhabited by midget kings, jealous queens, naked princesses and dancing frogs. Forbidden Zone is camp, but it is also nuanced and sophisticated - Absurd, in the classical tradition. It is a human-cartoon and no-holds-barred satire on our decadent culture. Danny Elfman as Satan is a showstopper. Do not miss this film if you ever have a chance to see it! Be forewarned, this is not for wimps and anal repressive types. "},{"Title":"My FAVORITE Cult Classic of All Time","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  When I first saw this movie on an obscure UHF pay per view channel in the mid 1980's, I was dumbfounded. The film, made with obviously a very tiny budget, had me laughing, shocked and amazed at the chutspa one required to make such an outrageous film. I also wondered what sort of freak could think of this. It was way ahead of its time. I immediately searched for the tape and finally found it. I proceeded to watch it over and over.I guarantee it is totally unlike any other movie you've ever seen. It is raw, and for adults only... don't let the animated sequences fool you into letting your kids watch it.What I like best about this film is the classroom scene with Marie-Pascale Elfman as an exchange student, Hervé as the King of the Sixth Dimension totally mangling many of his lines, the floating candelabra holder, and best of all, Richard's brother Danny Elfman of Oingo Boingo fame as the Devil performing his own version of Cab Calloway's Minnie the Moocher,The soundtrack, is a wonderful mix of original old jazz and latin music, artfully enhanced by Danny Elfman.You can easily find the soundtrack both online and in record stores. As for the movie, all I can say is, search for Richard Elfman's web site. 'Nuff said.If you liked this movie, check out Richard Elfman's other very original films, in order of my preference Modern Vampires (with the late Rod Steiger!) and then Shrunken Heads. "},{"Title":"amazing!!","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I love this movie!! Perfectly strange! Nothing else like it, before or since. I really hope that it comes out on DVD someday, this is one movie I want to always have in my collection. The soundtrack CD is also a must-have. I really hope that someday Richard Elfman gets the credit he deserves for making this amazing film. "},{"Title":"A beautiful surreal masterpiece","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  The Forbidden Zone may be one of the most under-recognized movies of all time. Fans of the movie are far and between, yet it remains today an incredibly influential film. Frenchie, a foriegn exchange student, wanders into her uncle's basement to uncover a world that is even stranger than Richard Elfman's interpretation of our own...The Sixth Dimension!!! Occupied by a giant frog, a horny midget king played by Herve Villechaize (Yes, that is Tattoo from 'Fantasy Island.'), Satan played by Danny Elfman, and countless other oddities direct from the imagination of the director, The Forbidden Zone could very well be the strangest world ever captured on film.So it's wierd; but what makes it good? My favorite film settings are those in which there is no time, no relevance to any era, worlds within film in which ideas are the only thing we can relate with. Ideas are timeless. So is The Forbidden Zone. It is a beautiful, surreal masterpiece made obviously for the sake of art rather than money. And of course there is the added bonus of a great musical score by Danny Elfman and the Mystic Knights of the Oingo Boingo.It would not be right to recommend this film without a disclaimer. The Forbidden Zone is not for the weak. It is about as twisted and chaotic as cinema gets. It is disgustingly shocking, and at times offensive (especially the uncut version, which i had the pleasure of seeing recently in a small theater in Seattle, Washington). I use the word offensive lightly, though, because..well, come on, people, it's just a movie! "},{"Title":"Your mouth will hit the floor!","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  I saw this film in a bar, but missed the title so had no idea what I was watching.  I had to use IMDB to identify it, thank god Herve was in the cast.This is the most visually disturbing film I have witnessed.  We were glued to the screen, mouths agape.  I though the guy dressed in a tuxedo and giant frog head molesting the topless girl might have been a little too much for my wife, but she was laughing like the rest of us.If you can find it, WATCH IT.  You won't be able to look away, I promise!! "},{"Title":"Cab Calloway, Betty Boop, and many hallucinogenic substances combined","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  After watching this movie, it's hard not to sit back and think What the heck just happened???I mean that in the best way possible. This may not be the best film known to man, but it more than makes up for that in it's entertainment value.Quick synopsis A girl gets lost in an alternate, over-sexed dimension filled with giant frogs, topless girls, and Satan. Her family and friends attempt to rescue her, and chaos ensues.But don't trick yourself into thinking this is your average rescue the poor girl from dimension horny film. No no. It's much more bizarre. But definitely worth the rent, or buy.If for no other reason than to see Danny Elfman dressed as the devil. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Wackiness","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  There are so many things to love about this movie.  It's a musical with clever and catchy songs.  There is an early appearance by Richard Elfman's brothers band, The Mystical Knights of Oingo Boingo.  The song they played seems like the Squirrel Nut Zippers's song Hell (but recorded over a decade earlier).  There is the wonderful classic Pico and Sepulveda. There is the hilarious alphabet song in the schoolroom.This movie has a complete disregard for social norms.  The real world scenes are supposed to be based in Venice Beach in the early 80's.  That part of southern California was (and still is to an extent) a collection of eccentric hippies, druggies, criminals, and artists.  What better setting for a movie about descending into insanity and/or anarchy.In this movie you will find drug use, rape, electrocution, midget porn, homosexuality, cross-dressing, masturbation, and many other perversions. The plot is pretty incoherent and the budget must have been miniscule... And yet, it is one of my favorite movies!  Rarely do you see a film made with such a unique personality.  There is NO other movie out there like this one. I own the soundtrack and sing along to it all the time.I highly recommend you check out this film if you have an open mind and if you can handle something that is non-linear and EXTREMELY politically incorrect. "},{"Title":"positive kudos","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  What a great way to spend a Saturday night!Watching this movie is like taking an acid trip through vaudeville.Did I see a little throwback to Ernie Kovacs? If you are an Oingo Boingo fan, this is a must see. My only disappointment was not getting to see more of Danny's character. "}{"Title":"The quintessential cult film","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":"  Once a cult film has been dubbed quintessential, something that I have already done with Richard Elfman's opus Forbidden Zone, what else is there to say?For a movie that features lap-puking, a dancing frog in a tuxedo, twin boys with one thinking that he's a girl and the other convinced he's a chicken, sexual interludes between a physically tiny Herve Villechaize and a towering Susan Tyrell, an excursion into the sixth dimension scored by the Mystic Knights of the Oingo Boingo -- the earlier incarnation of the musical outfit Oingo Boingo -- along with a catalog of other squalid entries, there should be quite a lot to say.Released in 1980, Forbidden Zone was directed by Richard Elfman (Shrunken Heads & Modern Vampires), founder of the Mystic Knights and a one-time boxer who has been more prolific in stage work than film endeavor. Nonetheless, F.Z. has earned Elfman -- along with, of course, his younger brother Danny, who leads the Cab Calloway-fueled musical charge -- a permanent place in the cult film hall of fame (if there isn't such a thing, there most certainly should be).The film opens at a vacant house in Venice, California where a local pimp, slumlord and heroin dealer stumbles upon a portal to the F.Z. in the basement and promptly, after retrieving his stash, sells the house to the Hercules', a freaky family we soon meet Ma and Pa; Grampa; Flash; and Frenchy (aptly named for her intentionally ridiculous French accent, a character hilariously portrayed by the director's wife, Marie Pascal-Elfman).The curious Frenchy, after being warned, ventures into the basement and falls through an intestinal labrynth only to be deposited (through an enormous pair of butt cheeks) into, you guessed it, (Hot damned!) the sixth dimension. She is quickly captured by the F.Z.'s King and Queen (Villechaize and Tyrell), and Grampa joins Flash in a rescue operation into the F.Z., humping everything and everyone in the place (soon followed by Pa and then Squeezit, the chicken boy, whose sister/brother has also been captured). Meanwhile, the King becomes taken with Frenchy, and when the ex-queen is rescued from imprisoned exile, mayhem ensues.That's about all of the film's engaging and sordid tale I'll give away, but viewers will also encounter such sites as a human, dangling chandelier; a bizarre and uproarious classroom shootout; resident freaks of the zone running around in Mickey Mouse ears; rampant and absurd, fully-clothed sex scenes; boxers belching along with the musical score (a Rhumba); and much more.With a combination of black & white animation and b&w film footage shot against cheesy painted sets -- not to mention the hysterical musical numbers -- the viewer becomes quickly pulled into what has the feel and spirit of a 1930s cartoon, one that has been injected with an overdose of just plain perversity, not to mention insanity and a quality of being unafraid to offend anyone.A highlight for this reviewer was the appearance by the Mystic Knights of the Oingo Boingo, led by Danny Elfman as a fantastic Satan, performing a twisted Minnie the Moocher-inspired song (Hi-de-hi-de-hi-di-hi! Ho-de-ho-de-ho-de-ho!) while decapitating Squeezit and turning the topless princess of the sixth dimension into an arm-flapping, chicken-like slave.The film winds up its long and savagely strange, careening path, with an absurd musical number involving all the characters. It should be noted that the actors and actresses in this film, instead of laboring under some delusion that this is a mainstream, real budget production, not only seem to understand the project's limited resources, their final performances give every appearance of having rejoiced in the wonderful cheesiness of it all (thank you, Mark).The F.Z. is probably not for the squeamish, prudish and sane, however, as the Austin Chronicle stated, more aptly and succinctly than I.Is this the quintessential cult film? The list of movies vying for that particularly title is probably an endless one. But since the term cult film is rather subjective -- although a valiant attempt has been made @ this site to explain it -- I'd have to say yes. Although biased by almost nostalgic feelings for the deranged flick, Forbidden Zone just seems to have it all.The bottom line is that great music, combined with surreal situations, a deeply mad storyline and splendidly grotesque characters, make this classic a must-see for anyone in possession of an active and intact sense of humor and the ability to appreciate the profoundly absurd. I give Forbidden Zone a solid A+.Although the VHS version of the F.Z. has long been out-of-print, those interested can still obtain their own (signed) copy at richardelfman.com and, reportedly, a DVD release is in the works. "},{"Title":"The Elfman Brothers Are Creative Geniuses","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" A strange tale involving heroin, a family of people who are mentally retarded and Jewish and French (but not at the same time), and a Sixth Dimension ruled over by a midget king. Featuring music by the Mystical Knights of the Oingo Boingo. Yeah, you want to see it now, I know.Some people are going to be put off my this film because it is black and white, has weird music and animation, and the production cost was probably three dollars. But for those who like cult movies or want to see the seed that is Danny Elfman, this is your dream come true.Richard Elfman (who went on to do a whole lot of nothing, apparently, besides becoming Scientologist spokeswoman Jenna Elfman's father-in-law) directs this odd blend of wacky nudity, singing, racially tasteless jokes and poorly simulated sex. Danny Elfman, who would go on to front Oingo Boingo and be a big time composer made the music, and stars as a very memorable Satan.This film is very much in the same vein as Rocky Horror Picture Show, though I actually prefer this film. Also, you can see how a weirdo like Tim Burton gets along with these guys.I don't know what to say... the movie is really too weird to describe. A woman who sings in French, a topless princess, chained up fat ladies, a man with a frog's head... and the midget from Fantasy Island. You really have to see it to believe it. "},{"Title":"My head is still spinning","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I saw this quite by accident on Showtime last night, and it's incredibly hard to articulate what I'm feeling at this moment. I have seen some really strange movies throughout the years, from a lot of different countries, but this has got to be the weirdest one I've ever seen (not the worst, just the weirdest; that honor goes to a movie who's title I've mercifully forgotten, regarding ninjas and vampires).For a second there I though I was watching a video from the Squirrel Nut Zippers, but then I realized it was an actual movie. It has to been seen to be believed, and if you watch it with an open mind and a total lack of expectations, you will go away amazed and in awe and saying to yourself Huh? "},{"Title":"How this inspired Tim Burton still puzzles me","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Me friend works at a videostore and recommended this movie to me saying it was the film that inspired Tim Burton to make films. I decided I'd give it a fair chance, as I do with most movies, but I honestly couldn't do it.I expected a somewhat bizarre movie, but this movie seemed to have no point. I turned it off half way through, so I can't comment on the conclusion (which means, no chance of ruining it) but here are a few things that caught my attention in the film. WARNING the following 4 - 5 lines may be considered a spoiler by some, although I highly doubt it.Some of the women in the movie were played by horribly cross-dressed men. A guy who was killed in one scene came back to life in the next. All of the women in the Forbidden Zone run around topless. The first scene in the movie has nothing to do with the film and serves only to mention that the house was once owned by a pimp.My friend who recommended it has watched it three times and still cannot find any hidden symbolism or purpose to the film. The acting is horrible (as can be expected with a low budget film), the sound effects are corny and the plot is nearly non-existent.My Recommendation Don't waste an hour and a half of your life, don't watch it. "},{"Title":"Shrill freak show","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I give this two stars for the Dr. Caligari like set design and a funny profane ABC song. The rest of it is unwatchable would be wanna be but ain't cult movie. Though it's in bad taste to mention this the main topless woman (and she's topless for the whole movie) has one breast that's obviously larger than the other. Was this the best they could do, or did they cast her on purpose because of that. Knowing the other works of director Elfman and writer Bright, odd instead of clever, usually tasteless and always noncommercial, it's probably no accident.This is a claustrophobic mess that is almost unwatchable at feature length, not funny and willfully noncommercial. If you're own dope I'm sure this is better, but then again wouldn't a good movie on dope be even better than this stoner's idea of a one note joke that lasts a long long time? This is one of those films that seems to start over again every 6 minutes or so and will never end. It's no wonder it took a long time for Elfman to direct again. Writer Bright has had better luck, but don't bother with this one. Tune in if your curious but you'll tune out long before it's over or wish you had. "},{"Title":"I really wanted to like this film, but...","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I've been told that people either love or hate this film, that it was weird and random; that it made very little sense, and that it would appeal to my appreciation for the bizarre. Though initially skeptical, I was sold by these words of warning. These were all the proper ingredients for a perfect film.Yet The Forbidden Zone, a compromise between Rocky Horror and Monty Python, directed with questionable funding, talent, and motives, didn't work for me. I feel that it's my duty in life to support all misunderstood cinematic acts of deranged genius, so it therefore troubles me that I don't feel compelled to celebrate this one. What could have gone wrong? I guess my search begins by attempting to define what makes a weird film work. In my opinion, there are two ways. The first is when a director leads you through the weirdness with care and craft. Even in a film like Napoleon Dynamite, which makes no attempt to explain or even acknowledge its own purposeless randomness, the director is very consciously presenting this as if it were perfectly normal of both life and cinema, creating carefully calculated reactions of confusion and humor. These films work because the directors make them work. They cause you to either embrace the weirdness or to at least appreciate it.The second way in which a weird film can work is quite the opposite. A weird film can succeed when the director has no intention of making it weird. These are the much beloved b-movies made by directors who had fully intended to be taken seriously, but who were simply too bizarre to be seen as anything else. Ed Wood's Glen or Glenda is my favorite specimen of this kind of film. No one really knows what expectations Wood had for this film, but unrestrained laughter at a Satan with pipe cleaners for eyebrows certainly wasn't it. These films work because they present weirdness in its truest form, without the hindrance of a conscious lens attempting to frame and explain it. They are pure weirdness incarnate. No artificial ingredients added.But The Forbidden Zone falls into neither of these categories. Its particular brand of weirdness can best be compared to a party. Imagine arriving at a friend's party and discovering that you don't know any of the guests. They all grew up together and know your friend intimately, which makes matters all the more awkward. Your friend makes only the most meager of attempts to introduce you and make you feel welcomed, so the conversation quickly descends into old stories and in-jokes with which you have no familiarity. The Forbidden Zone is this friend, whom you are dependent upon for clarity and involvement, but who makes no effort to tailor the conversation (film's content) to your level of understanding. Rather than make any effort to present it to you, it merely leaves you to bear witness to the madness, watching gags and humor that seem very entertaining to the actors and director, but which only manage to evade and confuse you.I'm the kind of person who can find the unexpected use of the word carrot funny, so I don't consider myself a prude when it comes to off-kilter weirdness. But carrot can only be funny when we have some guess as to why it was said; what reaction it was intended to provoke. A stranger on the street, muttering carrot without context or helpful facial expression, is someone who causes us to move to the other side of the street and avoid eye contact. It's more an anomaly than humor. The Forbidden Zone rubs me the same way. The plot is incomprehensible, the humor is odd, over the top, and carelessly delivered, and as we watch this whole mess unravel, we're given no entrance point. We don't identify with the characters, we don't care about the plot, and we're not given any context for understanding the weirdness (which is everywhere). Granted, a film can do without any two of these things. But for all three to be absent, it leaves an audience with no incentive for following along.The production value of this film is a similar problem. Imagine an amateur home video that some eight year old kids put together. Now imagine a masterpiece of cinematography, complete with ingenious special effects and evocative, expressionistic backgrounds. Now imagine a compromise, somewhere between the two, but far from being either. It's hard to tell when this mediocrity is fully intended, and when it's entirely accidental. No doubt the cardboard walls of Cell 63 are an intended part of the film's look and feel, but what do we make of the characters' entryway into the Forbidden Zone, which includes them pressing themselves against a wall with a giant mouth painted on it, for one second too long, before the scene cuts to a cartoon of them journeying down the esophagus? I personally have no idea.This film does have some high points that almost make the view worthwhile. Danny Elfman's appearance as Satan is highly amusing for the first two seconds, before his subplot descends into similar incomprehensibility and then ends just as quickly. My favorite moment had to be the death of the queen, which was surprisingly well done and clearly quite funny. Unfortunately, it was not enough to redeem the film for me.In all fairness, this film has no responsibility to make itself understood. It's important to keep in mind that this was a college project, no doubt produced for the pleasure of a very small and specific audience. In this sense, exclusive humor might well be appropriate. It's not Richard Elfman (director) who owes me a response to my dumbfounded What the F***? It's the fan base that I don't understand, the people who have kept this alive as a cult classic phenomenon. Clearly, they're seeing something in the film that I'm not, and that frustrates me beyond belief. "},{"Title":"Highest praise from an old trippster","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Last night I was sitting around with some friends, passing a blunt of nuggs, and happened on to this movie only five minutes into it. I haven't did LSD(or shrooms, or peyote, or mescaline, or DMT) in many years, but when I used to varied movies were a good occupation during the trip. From watching a soundless Wizard of OZ with Pink Floyd's Darkside of the Moon for the audio, Ninja Scroll(Japanese animation), Kubric's A Clockwork Orange, Pink Floyd's The Wall, Heavy Metal(Crazy animation, and well you get the idea of the movies to watch under hallucinogenic influence. Forbidden Zone(I was just stoned and had been drinking) had me rolling, scratching my head, and thinking what was wrong with the people that made this flick. It was the most random, outrageous, mind-numbing/dumbing, visual/audible explosion I have ever seen. One has to try very, very hard to create something like this movie. The thought it had to have taken to keep the simple story going, yet being so random and over the top and fresh scene to scene is unimaginable. I myself write screenplays, poems and music, but this was insane. I almost want to break down and do acid again just to watch this again. I don't know how I ever missed Forbidden Zone in my younger Lsd years, but I may have not been able to maintain during this film at a younger, less experienced age. If you are a fan of the off the wall, crazy, original, chaotic film genre, then this one is a must, must, must, must see!!! "},{"Title":"Another self-indulgent pop nightmare","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" I thought that HEAD by the Monkees and 200 MOTELS by Frank Zappa were horrible, self-indulgent wastes of celluloid made by pop icons...but I may have to re-evaluate them after seeing something even worse, namely FORBIDDEN ZONE. Obviously, from the comments on this thread, there are lots of people who find this dreck entertaining, but it is hard to fathom.Sadism, racism, profanity, vulgarity, even bodily function jokes...yes, all the stuff that drunk or chemically-influenced college boys might find amusing...they're all here in profusion. About the only redeeming factors in this movie are the 30s music tracks, the clever animation, and the references to 30s films and musicians.This film is an example of what happens when an inbred group makes a movie without any accountability or quality control. Avoid it at all costs. (Trivia bit this is Danny Elfman's first score, and even here he is using Steve Bartek to help with his arrangements. Bartek did orchestration duty on many of Elfman's later legit scores.) "},{"Title":"Don't Believe The Hype","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Musical","Review":" Some of the people commenting on this garbage have said there's no other movie in the world like it. Their right, because this is not a movie. I had the opportunity to see this on cable back in 1983 but I forgot to record it on my VCR that night and had never heard from it again. Recently, a friend of mine brought over some movies and when I saw he had this one, I asked him what his verdict was. He told me it did so bad in the theaters in 1980, it went straight to cable and was later dropped. That's one of the reasons it's out of print because there's no demand for it. After watching it I can see why. There's no point to it. It's in black & white, Danny Elfman appears as the devil while singing a Cab Calloway song- this is not enough to sustain interest, intensity, or comedy. Boring best describes this dreck.Score, 2 out of 10 Stars "}]