[{"Title":"great party movie","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hey, I grew up on Cheech and Chong films. Yet amazingly I'm not a potsmoker today. This is probably the second best of the lot, closely following up in smoke.If you don't like Cheech Marin or Tommy Chong, this movie probably isn't for you. Although Cheech's recent work doesn't resemble his work with Chong. If you like Tommy Chong in that 70's show, you will most likely like this movie. And if you have any interest in Paul Reubins in his pre-pee wee herman years, this is the movie for you.The story isn't much, but it has a semblance of a story to keep things moving fairly smoothly- unlike some other Cheech and Chong films. The gags and jokes work very well for the times, and hold up fairly well over time. This movie is less a variety show than later Cheech and Chong films. Although there are a couple sequences that don't seem to fit very well with the movie.This movie is a must see for any fan of the drug culture. And most fans of that 70's show will probably like this movie.Go watch this movie and Up in Smoke now!!. You can skip other Cheech and Chong titles "},{"Title":"A good solution for today's expensive gasoline ...","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" A typical romp through Cheech and Chong's reality which includes drugs, singing, more drugs, cars and driving, even more drugs, Pee Wee, aliens, gasoline, laundry, stand up comedy, surprisingly more drugs and SPACE COKE !!. It is not as coherent or plausible as Up in Smoke but it still is incredibly funny, without becoming as strange as Nice Dreams. There are some classic scenes, which include the opening scene where they get some gas for their car and the drive to work. Also funny is Cheech's song (Mexican-Americans) and Chong's follow up song. Another notable scene is the welfare office scene with Jones (human noise machine), from the Police Academy series, and the old laughing man. All in all, this is a great follow up to Up in Smoke and is quite watchable when sober or not.-Celluloid Rehab "},{"Title":"If you love this movie, you have to watch the edited version the next time it's on Comedy Central!","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  And I'll tell you why whoever decided to edit this movie to make it suitable for television was very ill-advised. EVERYTHING CONCERNING DRUGS IS CUT OUT AND COVERED UP!!! How do they do it, you might ask? Well, they don't do it very well, that's for sure. Anyway, instead of the marijuana which Cheech and Chong are supposed to have in their possession, they are said to have diamonds! Still, the characters go around in a haze of marijuana smoke stoning others along their way with no explanation whatsoever!  "},{"Title":"Second film starring the Cheech and Chong duo.","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cheech & Chong's Next Movie (1980) was the second film to star to pot loving duo of Cheech Marin and Tommy Chong. The lovable burn out smokers are now roommates. They live in a condemned building looking for ways to score more smoke and just lay about all day. But Cheech is the responsible one. He has a job and a steady girlfriend. One day, Cheech wants to get his freak on so he tries to get Chong out of the house. Another problem arises as well, Cheech's brother Red (Cheech is another role) is in town and wants to hang with him. Firguring that he could kill two birds with one stone, Cheech pawns Chong off and Red. What kind of adventures will Chong and Red get into? Will Cheech get his freak on? How long will Chong go without some smoke? Just watch CHEECH & CHONG'S NEXT MOVIE to find out!!Tommy Chong takes over the directorial reigns for the sequel. He received some experience when he did some uncredited work on UP IN SMOKE. Funny but not as good as the first film. But Cheech and Chong fans will enjoy it. Followed by NICE DREAMS.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Not they're best, but still gives a debut for Pee Wee","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Richard Cheech Marin and Thomas Chong's (or really Cheech and Chong) Next Movie doesn't match up to the original and best (Up In Smoke), but it is still funny.  A new plot has Chong taking care of Cheech's weird, blond cousin (also played by Cheech), while they have hijinks stirring with the real Cheech waiting for a date.  A little flat at times, but it delivers the goods in spots, primarily in Paul Reubens (credited here as the hotel man but sounds and acts like a early Pee Wee) with his first role cameo. B+ "},{"Title":"A slight drop-off from the first film but still watchable.","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was under the weather recently with a bad cold and fever and couldn't sleep. So I decided to see what would be on at 100 in the morning and Cheech & Chong's Next Movie was being aired so I checked it out.I've seen a number of their films and while they aren't the greatest comedies ever made they are much better than what is coming out these days. The characters that Richard Marin and Tommy Chong have created are so likable despite their many vices. Perhaps because the film seems more real and doesn't rely on over-the-top content makes the film a lot more entertaining. Of course, L.A. has always been a crazier city than Ottawa.In Next Movie, Cheech and Chong (unrelated to the characters of Pedro De Pacas and Anthony Man Stoner from Up In Smoke) are basically doing their thing in L.A., trying to find work and later go on Welfare. It's pretty much a Day In The Life of two stoners in L.A. in the first half of the film.In the second half, Cheech announces to Chong that he has a hot date and needs Chong to clear out as he plans to clean up their dumpy bungalow. He tells Chong to go see his cousin Red (also played by Cheech). Red and Chong have a crazy adventure together, starting with an attempt to get at the luggage of Red's. The hotel manager (Paul Reubens) won't allow him to get his property unless he pays his hotel bill. One of those bags contains tons of Mary-Jane. And it is the Mary-Jane that sets them on a wild adventure through the city.While the film isn't as laugh-as-loud as the first, there are plenty of outlandish moments, such as the antics of characters at the Welfare Office or seeing Cheech & Chong steal gasoline for their car. Chong annoys his neighbours with his own set of antics such as revving his motorcycle indoors and playing his guitar amped up to 11. The acting is uniformly good and nobody comes off as annoying. A good soundtrack is also offered.While Up In Smoke and Nice Dreams are the better films, Next Movie is still quite good. It's much better than the next trio of movies they made, including the disturbing Still Smokin'. "},{"Title":"Above average movie","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is fun to watch , doesnt have much of a plot (well, there isn't a plot), but there are good jokes and situations that you will laugh at. The basic storyline is Cheech is trying to have a nice date, while Chong is partying with Cheech's cousin (They smoke dope , go in a music store, a massage parlor, a comedy club, and even go into someones house they don't even know! Rated R "},{"Title":"Caught up in a haze of smoke, man.","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" To begin with I usually give out a basic outline of the plot, but on this occasion what occurs is pure incoherent madness switching back and forth without much of a purpose. Nonetheless I'll give it a shot. Cheech and Chong are now sharing accommodation in a condemned building, while their next door neighbour constantly tells them what he thinks of them. While, Chong is lazing about, Cheech has got himself a job and also a girlfriend. But the former one doesn't last for too long, but he picks up a chick at the welfare office where he invites her over for the night. So, Cheech kicks Chong out of the house to have some fun with his cousin Red who's in town. While, Chong and Red are out having a great time; Chong is left waiting for his girl. *Hmm* that was easier than I thought&#133; I guess that's it, well a basic rundown at least. Their follow up to Up In Smoke sees the risible doped up duo slumming it out again in some zany comical episodes in Next Movie. If you're easily offended don't touch it as it hilariously low brow and every scene utilises the chance to make a joke (and that's usually a crude one too). Just expect anything! Well, that is the case since the coarse film is rather plot-less and the side-splitting script rambles on about anything, which means you are assured of many crazy, goofy and implausible skits that hardly tie in together. You'll be in a daze of amusement&#133; and bemusement, which perfectly suit's the pothead humour with the guys cruising into one messy situation after another. Then it comes to a real spaced out, but ultra-cool ending. This outrageously, nutty feel in the last 10 minutes is totally off it's head and it goes on to be more prominent in their even more weirder film Nice Dreams. It just flies by oh so quickly. Just like the gags do, the characters come and go with one very memorable performance from comedian Paul Reubens as a pipsqueak hotel clerk and another from Sy Kramer as their uptight neighbour Mr. Neatnik. Also there's a very notable cameo appearance from Michael Winslow (Police Academy) doing what he does best. The perky interplay between the individuals makes sure this adventurous trip equals a fun time. The welfare office scene is a real blast and it's always funny how they always seem to pass the incompetent law officers with such ease. Everything just falls into their laps. Cheech Marin and Tommy Chong work of each other naturally well with ace timing as the bumbling, carefree potheads Cheech and Chong. Greatly enjoyable oddball performances from the two. They are what make the film! Especially their love for getting high. Cheech Marin also plays Cheech's cousin Dwayne 'Red' Mendoza with humorous results. The music is hard to forget too with its jazzy soundtrack that's smoking the high life with those pretty hip tunes. I've only caught the first three films of the series and even though I think this one is the lesser of the three (the others being Up In Smoke and Nice Dreams) it still has its fare share of unexpected laughs. Next Movie it's pure gibberish with an escalating amount of out-of-it stupidity and noisy gags. Definitely one for the fans or even just for some relaxing dumb entertainment you can't go wrong. "},{"Title":"Alternate TV version","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a fan of C&C, going back to their records, and liked this movie, but at one point in the mid-1980's on cable television in San Jose California, it was aired with an alternate plot line that destroyed the entire point of the movie. All references to marijuana were replaced with diamonds. The bag that Red drops to Chong has diamonds in it instead of marijuana, but the conversation still remains the same (...it's worth ~$3000/lb). There is also a subplot in which clips of aliens on a ship were added observing C&C, and talking to each other about getting the diamonds. At the end, instead of space coke, it's something else. I'm not sure who created this version, but it was horrible, and obvious that they were attempting to make it family/child friendly. It would have been better if that network had not aired it at all. "},{"Title":"Another funny but dumb C&C flick","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Second of Cheech and Chongs drug trilogy is easily the worst of the 3, but not incredibly bad, with guaranteed laughs for fans of the duo.  As with the other movies, the story is almost non-existent, and just there to provide the basis for a lot of gags and laughs.  Fans will definitely enjoy this one as well, however as I said, probably the worst of the 3. "}{"Title":"Cheech and Chong Strike Again","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The two stoners (Cheech Marin and Tommy Chong) and their friends go through another series of crazy, drug-influenced misadventures.Almost everyone agrees that this second Cheech and Chong film is not as good as the first (Up In Smoke). I would have to agree with them. Whereas the first film had so many memorable and classic moments, this one just does not have that level of impact. Still fun and funny, but not the cultural milestone of the first film.Where this film excels is in the casting of Paul Reubens, Phil Hartman, Elvira, Edie McClurg and the Groundlings. And, before the Pee-Wee Herman movie did it, the use of the song Tequila. Seeing the Groundlings together in one film before many (most?) of them broke into the big time is a special treat. "},{"Title":"Beaner done that","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The problem in making a great sequel to a popular original film is that the filmmakers involved with the sequel often end up trying only to match the previous films box office success. Rather than bother with the creation of something new, or at the very least a variation of the original, 'Next Movie' rides Tommy Chong into a sophomore slump (Chong was an unaccredited Director for 'Up In Smoke') of sorts, as the movie becomes nothing more than a faded carbon copy of 'Up In Smoke'. Following the familiar formula of success from the last film, this film has the duo falling into strange and sticky situations that somehow always leave them on the outside of the joke, just able to slip through each scene unscathed and unaffected. These excursions into the bizarre rarely hit for big laughs (the office scene excluded), but rather only lead to a semi comic payoff. You can't set your sights too high when the first words that are heard in the movie are those coming from Chong saying, This is bullsh*t. Seeing that Tommy Chong directed this movie, I'll take him at his word. The thing is, although I would agree that 'Next Movie' is largely bullsh*t, it doesn't really matter to Cheech & Chong as they continue to look entirely comfortable going down the same road of comedy, doing the same things for laughs. They wander the streets of Los Angeles, they smoke a lot of pot, they become involved in many different surreal moments of chance that ultimately culminate into a makeshift performance on a stage in a Los Angeles nightclub. Sound familiar? Did I just describe 'Up In Smoke' or 'Next Movie'? Fans of Cheech & Chong will defend the movie, but you would expect as much. If you've seen 'Up In Smoke' recently and liked it and have never seen 'Next Movie' then I would say you might like 'Next Movie', but don't get your hopes up too much. For the most part the laughs come out at you front on and totally obvious. On the rare occasion that a laugh comes at you from out of nowhere it almost always arrives not from Cheech & Chong, but rather from one the talented extras in the cast.The performances from the rest of the cast, most notably Paul Reubens and Edie McClurg are what stand out as good. Watching Paul Reubens loose his composure at the hotel desk, then later at the nightclub are by far the best scenes in the movie. Edie McClurg has a very small part in the film, but is funny in every scene she's in. And of course 'the office' scene where an narcoleptic man is constantly burning his own leg with a cigarette while nodding in and out of sleep while an old man sitting nearby offers no help, but only bothers to laugh at him at every burn is truly inspired. But the attempt from Cheech to play a new character named 'Red' doesn't really add much to 'Next Movie' and comes off as desperation wrapped in a wig with an endless supply of weed and zig zags. And let's face it, the only time this type of desperation is ever funny is when the paper is confetti and the dope under the wig is Rip Taylor.6/10 Clark Richards "},{"Title":"Hillarious movie!","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of Cheech and Chong's best movies. The part where Chong is on stage trying to re-tell a joke Cheech told earlier is classic! I'm going to turn this glass into a dick.... I laugh everytime I see this movie. You don't have to be high while checking out this flick. But, you'll certainly laugh a lot harder if you pull out the bong! "},{"Title":"it's a good life","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The second movie featuring the stoner duo has them continue their goofy adventures. There are gags with pee, songs, and even a brothel. Cheech & Chong's Next Movie is one cool litany of silliness! I understand that a heavily edited version appears on TV; like hell I'll watch an edited version of Cheech & Chong. I want to see those guys do what they're known for, and so I've only seen the full movie. A really funny one.Along with the main stars, the movie also has Evelyn Guerrero, Edie McClurg, Paul Reubens (as Pee-Wee Herman for the very first time) and Cassandra Peterson (sorry, not as Elvira).Yes, it's very much a period piece, but how can you not die laughing at what C&C do? "},{"Title":"The greatest in his kind","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The best Cheech & Chong movie so far!! Of all the Cheech and Chong this is most certain the best so far. I think I've seen them all about twelve times at least, and I love them all. But this is most definitely the best. Compared with the others this one covers a lot of themes and gives you a lot of good laughs. Part of the texts are still part of our language today, after 25 years. I hope that one day they can make another one, because they still are great comedians. I heard they are writing a new script so who knows... I guess these guys are the only ones who succeeded in making decent movies in this genre. I wonder if John Ashcroft ever watched one of them... "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The opening sequence alone is worth the cost of admission, as Cheech and Chong drag that big ol garbage can across the parking lot, filled with gas. Don't Spill it Man !, hilarious stuff.  And then, as 'the plot' ensues, you're in for one heck of a ride.  I watched this film recently and it holds up, being just as funny upon each viewing. check it out. "},{"Title":"More antics with the old hippies","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When you see the opening scenes with Cheech & Chong trying to siphon gas from a car, losing most of it because of a milk carton clog and the rest of it from reckless spillage, you know this film is going to be different.  From that point on the film accelerates us into the cinematic realm of two aging hippies who wander the dusty emptiness of late-70s east L.A., not knowing whether it's Tuesday or Saturday. Cheech is the 30-something Latino who acts 20-something, continually absorbed in a futile pursuit for parties and romance.  Chong's low-key character is an example of someone who, if a heroin user, would have overdosed long, long ago.  This brain-dead character is the epitome of boredom, and when left to his own devices he invariably ends up revving his motorcycle inside the house, making as much electric guitar noise as is theoretically possible, and consistently annoying the neighbors.The second part of the movie, unfortunately, lapses into a series of mediocre setpieces, featuring Cheech's cousin Red (actually Cheech Marin himself) wandering through hotels, nightclubs, and the Sunset Strip.  The movie then just gets bizarre rather than funny.This film is certainly the best Cheech & Chong movie and is is good for a few good belly laughs, but they are a little bit few and far between.  Good for a lazy Saturday afternoon.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of all time.","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Needless to say, this isn't just your garden-variety sequel. It has a new storyline to it. Cheech and Chong undergo several adventures at A movie set,their house,a neighbor's house,the welfare office,a hotel,a brothel,a music store,a rich girl's house,a comedy club,the ultimate weed field,and a ufo!! Cheech plays two roles, himself, and his red-headed party animal cousin Red. Chong is wonderfully deadpan, and Pee-Wee Herman shows up in the hotel and the comedy club! I personally suggest the comedy club scene and the welfare scene, and don't miss the Urine Test joke! Too good to be true. Better then Up in Smoke. "},{"Title":"The best of the dopey drug duo but not the best comedy.","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has the funnist jokes out of all the Cheech & Chong flicks. It's the first one I saw with these guys. I found it to be really good. My dad actually recommended me to get it. WHAT A GREAT ROLE MODEL, and my GRANDMA actually bought it for me, knowing what it was like. What a family I have. Well this movie is pretty good and great to rent when you want to see a good classic. I must warn you though, this isn't gut-busting funny. It has its moments but not as funny as There's Something About Mary. Check it out anyway. I'm sure you'll laugh. Unless your an anti-drug activist or something. "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, needless to say, this film is only going to appeal to a certain audience; namely stoners and like-minded people.That being said, if you are one of these aformentioned people, this film is a MUST. In fact, I think it should be mandatory for head shops to sell a copy of it to anyone purchasing their first bong. What Monty Python's Holy Grail is to geeks and nerds, so is this movie to potheads. I first saw this film 10 years ago or so, and I still crack up every time I watch it. The jokes perfectly lampoon the pothead lifestyle, far better than latter day knockoffs like Half-Baked attempt to.There isn't a plot, so to speak; the film is more of a collection of various skits; as the films protagonists wander around Los Angeles in their legendary haze. Despite this, the film has an excellent sense of pace, and doesn't drag at all. Many people cite Up In Smoke as C&C's best work, but I would have to say that Next Movie is superior.So if you're in the mood for an hour and half of belly laughs, light up, tune in, and let your mind float away =)Oh, and FREE TOMMY CHONG! "}{"Title":"I'm a Mexican-American ...","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERSA buddy of mine said NEXT MOVIE was the best Cheech & Chong flick and went out of his way to have me borrow it and THE BLUES BROTHERS. NEXT MOVIE has no plot, has no pacing, really has no anything of what defines a movie ... but it is funny. And for what it is worth, Cheech and Chong show some heart.Well, in this little paragraph I put in the plot, but being that four-fifths of the movie, nothing happens that would usually start a story. I will just say that Cheech 's cousin shows up.Was there no other funnier moment when Chong made Cheech drink the pee twice? What about the rooster? Was that Pee-Wee Herman's first movie appearance? You would have to watch the movie yourself to enjoy it. I don't think NEXT MOVIE has strong enough balls to make it awesome, but the movie has heart and hey, my buddy let me borrow it so it gets a 7. "},{"Title":"Stupid and FUNNY!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was stupid funny movie.. Cheech and Chong are the dopiest wasted guys ever... i rate this film a 7.. but if you like this one then go see Jay and Silentbob! There funnier and crazier. Now Cheech is a sellout working on kids movies..... wheres chong? "},{"Title":"Disappointing Follow Up","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cheech and Chong's Next Movie (1980)** (out of 4)This follow up to UP IN SMOKE really doesn't have any plot but just a bunch of gags dealing with Cheech and Chong getting into various bits of trouble and yes, most of it deals with pot. CHEECH AND CHONG'S NEXT MOVIE is a surprisingly lame and tame movie that hasn't aged very well at all. I remember watching this back in the day and thinking it was at least a middle ground C&C movie but when viewed today I have to wonder if I was smoking something myself. I think the biggest problem is that there's really no story here. Sure, UP IN SMOKE wasn't Shakespeare but it at least had the characters doing some fun stuff on their various journeys. Those journeys here just aren't all that memorable and even worse is the fact that we get very few laughs that work. You know you're in trouble when you get C&C, pot and aliens and no laughs. There's a long running gag set inside a sex house but there aren't any laughs to be found here either. Even some of the opening bits aren't nearly as funny as one would hope for but if a gun was at my head I'd say that the pee and bag of cocaine would be the best of the film. Needless to say, both Cheech and Chong are very good in their roles and we also get a fun performance by Paul Reubens. Cutl fans will also spot Cassandra Peterson, Michael Winslow and John Steadman who some might remember from THE HILLS HAVE EYES. I guess fans of the comedy duo will want to see everything the group did but there's no question that this here isn't one of their best. "},{"Title":"Harold and Kumar, Where are You?","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" BEGIN SPOILER Fitfully funny and memorable for Mr. Chong's literal roach-smoking scene Chong coolly mashes a stray kitchen cockroach into his pipe's bowl, lights up, coughs and hacks violently for a seeming eternity,then with perfect aplomb and not skipping a beat, re-loads the bowl properly, re-lights, re-tokes. END SPOILER. Alas, I began to lose faith less than half-way through the proceedings. It occurred to me that the lackadaisical duo are way obnoxious and less than relatable. I have come to appreciate the relative sophistication of contemporary stoners, Harold and Kumar. I simply prefer brighter company. Yet, the movie is probably a perfect fit for baked frat bros or those viewers who are so feeble-minded as to be outwitted by a stoner when they-- the former are sober. Notable guest appearance by Paul Reubens spouting obscenities in pre-Pee-wee form. "},{"Title":"One of Cheech & Chong's best","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's not as funny as Up In Smoke in my opinion. If your a heavy Cheech fan you may be a little disappointed because he sees limited action in this movie. A lot of zany action and comedy..overall it's worth watching. "},{"Title":"It's like--- Far OUT, Man!","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is like far out man I mean its like .. far out...man it's like--- WOW, Man I mean like.. its really... you know, FAR <bleepin> OUT!!!  These kinda movies will make you repeat yourself, man, and they will make you repeat yourself... man! REPEAT YOURSELF!! (man)  That's what came to mind as I watched this movie, Man! Like I don't do drugs, man, but sometimes I'm secretly sorry I don't! Cheech Y Chong seem to be having fun, and I had fun, too. Na, It's not The Godfather or Gone With the Wind but it is a BLAST from the PAST (the '70's past) and reminded me of those days I used to curl up with a C&C record and laugh my ASS off!!!  It's worth a rent- Hell, It's worth a BUY!!Whenever you feel blue- Job got 'ya down?? World seems hopeless?? Pop this Little Jewel into your VCR machine... Light up (If you do that sorta thing) and put your laugher in HIGH GEAR!!____________C & C  LIVE FOREVER (man)_________ "},{"Title":"What happened to Pedro DePacas and Man ?","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cheech and Chong are back but this time as themselves not as Pedro DePacas and Man. Paul Ruebens a.k.a. Pee Wee Herman also stars in this film. Cheech also plays his redheaded wild eyed loud and noisy Cousin Red who takes Chong a really wild night through Downtown Los Angeles. Cheech and Chong gave it there best shot with this film but did not hit hit the bullseye. If you look at the neighborhood that Cheech and Chong live in during the day shots you will notice that it is none other than the Universal Studios backlot. The house they live in is the house from Black and White movie classic To Kill a Mockingbird. Paul Ruebens plays a stuckup snobby Hotel Clerk who at night becomes comedian Pee Wee Herman. The big bag of weed storyline got changed for Comedy Central tv and the new storyline is a big bag of diamonds that aliens come to Earth for, therefore figuring in the U.F.O. scenario at the end of the movie in the Marijuana field. Look for a small appearance by black comedian Michael Winslow before he starred in those Police Academy movies. His sound effects routine in the Welfare Office keeps this movie laughable. Anyway thats about all I can say about Next Movie except that it could have been better if C&C stuck with Pedro and Man.  "},{"Title":"something good to say about this film..............er","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is possibly the worst film I have ever seen for the following reasons.... 1. absolutely no story 2. Irritating characters 3. NOT FUNNY the only things you laugh at is how terrible the whole thing is.AVOID AT ALL COSTS  "},{"Title":"Only Watchable Under The Influence","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me start by saying that this movie is completely ridiculous. This could be good or bad depending on your state of mind. This is definitely a stoners-only movie, and even then there are some scenes that are appalling. So, basically, don't watch this movie if you don't like marijuana. Because you will hate it even more after watching Next Movie.I say this because, despite of the (initial) PC message in relation to hard drugs, the movie continuously portray C&C causing havoc and chaos in the 'square' society and not giving a damn. In fact, everyone in the movie except for Cheech and Chong is pretty much non-existent. Regular laws do not apply. This reminded me of my favorite stoner movie of all time, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, in some ways - but not the good ones. Don't get me wrong, I appreciate this movie, and there ARE some laugh-out-loud moments indeed. But throughout it all I just got the feeling that instead of being funny stoners, they were being anarchist troublemakers. I don't think that's a good image for stoners at all. So, since most of the movie is based on gags that revolve around this, I didn't find much of it funny. And I usually like stoner movies.Now believe me when I say, you have to be completely blasted to sit through this. Because the whole movie itself seems like a dream. There are some very cringeworthy moments in the movie, and most of them courtesy of Cheech. Actually his portrayal of his cousin was much funnier than as himself, so that helped a bit. And mad propz to him for making that saxophone sound! Chong is a bit more interesting, civilized and leveled character, and the best scenes all involve him. Pee-Wee Herman makes an appearance, and well, he's Pee-Wee. And the ending... let's just say it sucked. A lot. Except if you're 12, then it's a real cool ending. So it all depends on your point of view really.I guess this is a movie to be enjoyed really really wasted, when you don't want to think at all, and with stoned friends who might have seen it before a couple of times. A good day to see this would be when you're hungover from the night before. The only problem is, your night will probably have been more fun than this movie.Up in Smoke is a lot better, this is for C&C aficionados only. 5/10, and I'm being nice. "}]