[{"Title":"Just mountains of fun...","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"43 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Considered a classic of the kung fu genre, Jackie Chan's Drunken Master is everything I thought a kung fu movie would be poor acting, worse humour (it's hilarious still ala Neil Hamburger) and superhuman fighting. It just gels so well together that I don't know why I have missed seeing this movie for so long.The longer the film runs, the more ridiculous it gets yet it doesn't lose sight of the fact that it is to entertain and provide a spectacle. The Matrix boasted great fight scenes but even with their expensive technology, they couldn't beat this little killer from twenty odd years ago.Essential viewing.  "},{"Title":"The film that propelled Jackie to stardom","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I am not very familiar with the true story of Wong Fei Hung. I've read about him before, and from memory, he was an exceptional martial artist (he practiced Hung-Gar) and became a folk-hero to the people of China, much like his father, Wong Kei Ying. So there is the true story, and then there is the 200 or so movies made about him. 'Drunken Master' is one of these.I haven't seen most of those 200 movies, except for the Drunken Master movies, Jet Li's 'Once Upon a Time in China' series, and 'Iron Monkey'. The 'Once Upon a Time in China' movies and 'Iron Monkey' may be somewhat over-the-top wu xia movies, but they portray Wong Fei Hung as a serious hero. 'Drunken Master' features a very different take on the character.Jackie Chan's Wong Fei Hung is a rebellious trouble-maker. His father, Wong Kei Ying, has given up on disciplining him, and sends him to his uncle, So Hai, the master of drunken boxing, hoping that a year of training with So Hai will sort Fei Hung out. Fei doesn't seem to learn his lesson until a chance encounter with Thunderfoot (Hwang Jang Lee)...Story-wise, it is a bit of a standard kung-fu plot. However, in a documentary on Jackie Chan (I can't remember the name, I know that as of this review, it isn't listed on IMDb, but it was shown on SBS in 2003), 'Drunken Master' was mentioned as his breakthrough hit that nearly killed his career Apparently Chinese viewers were insulted by Jackie's portrayal of Wong Fei Hung and nearly boycotted him when he was just gaining fame as an actor.Onto more important matters. Like kung-fu. 'Drunken Master' is one of the kung-fu classics. Boosted by the presence of martial-arts star Hwang Jang Lee, this pretty much made or solidified the careers of Jackie Chan and Yuen Woo Ping (in his directorial debut). 'Drunken Master' features some very well choreographed fights and training scenes. 'Drunken Master' is very funny too, and is one of two movies I know where a young main-character gets beaten by an older middle-aged lady (which is always funny, more movies need a scene like this) - the other movie is Battlefield Baseball.As a matter of interest for Jackie Chan fans 'Drunken Master' signaled the end of Jackie Chan's work with director Wei Lo. Yay. In fact, the Columbia Tristar DVD release of 'Drunken Master' includes audio commentary by experts on Hong Kong cinema. I will check that out sometime, but it sounds like it would appeal to fans of kung-fu movies. Some more trivia - the latest release doesn't have the complete Cantonese sound track, and so the English dub is used where the Cantonese track is incomplete.'Drunken Master' features awesome kung-fu scenes, and has some interesting historical perspectives. Ah, kung-fu movies and history, some of my favourite hobbies together at last - 10/10, a must see for any fans of Jackie Chan or kung-fu movies, 'Drunken Master' is kung-fu perfection. "},{"Title":"not only lives up to legend, it creates it","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It is said that this is the film that made Jackie Chan a star, but that isn't really true, since Snake in Eagle's Shadow actually had a bigger impact at the time, and allowed Chan to make this film. One way we know this is that there are some two dozen films made in the late '70s- early'80's designed to imitate Snake in Eagle's Shadow, and only a couple imitate this film. By the time Drunken Master had become legendary world-wide, the chop-socky cycle (to which it still belongs, to an extent) had passed into history, and Chan himself had abandoned historical 'fu films for contemporary comedy-thrillers.It should be noted that the idea of making a film based on the early years of Wong Fei Hong was not original to Chan; at roughly the same time this film was being made, well-known martial arts choreographer Liu Chia Leung made a straight (non-comic) version of the story (without drunken boxing) over at Shaw Brothers, Challenge of the Masters, with Gordon Liu as Wong Fei Hung.The defining moment for the Chan-Yuen version of the film is the use of Drunken Boxing. There is no real evidence that the historical Wong Fei Hung was a master of this style; his more famous innovations involved the development of the shadowless hand technique and the no-shadow kick. Interestingly, in order to highlight Chan's use of Drunken Boxing, these other two techniques, better identified with Wong, are assigned in the film to the villain, Thunderlegs played by Hwang Jen Lee.At any rate, it would not be clear that one could consider this a Wong Fei Hung film at all - if it weren't for the fact that this film effectively redefined the Wong legend, so that it has since become pro-forma to assume that Wong was a bit wild in his youth. (Just to set that record straight, Wong was actually extremely studious, and recognized as a real child-prodigy in the martial arts, winning his first major public duel at the age of thirteen.) Drunken Master is solid martial arts entertainment. There are decided weaknesses in the plot and over-all staging of the film, but these can easily be ignored, as the film thrusts us along with kung fu and comedy to the grand final fight at the end. It must also be noted that these characters - even the villain - are well acted and quite likable and familiar, and thus add a credibility to the film. And Yuen's direction is also very professional and a couple notches above the average for a Hong Kong genre film of the time.Lives up to its own legend, and well-worth the viewing. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Fun","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the quality films from Jackie's early years made the year after Snake in Eagles Shadow with much of the same cast and crew this built on the comedic style of Kung Fu action that Jackie was to make his own. Of the two films I actually prefer the earlier Snake in.... but its this later film that is more often considered Chan's earliest masterpiece.This is a more traditional set kung-fu film than the later stunt fests that made his name. The fighting styles on show are unique, inventive and fascinating to watch. The showdowns are impressive and with no trick photography, CG or massive effects fueled blow outs and shows just how good a martial artist Jackie is. The comedy works well and Jackies on screen master is very funny and they spark well off each other as a team.This is a really good old style kung fu flick fans of Jackies later work such as Rush Hour etc. may not find what their looking for here this is Jackie in one of his most pure kung fu movies. But for anyone who loves martial arts you must see this!! Great entertainment 7/10 "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan's finest hour","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This for me is Jackie Chan's finest, and is the film which propelled him to super stardom in Hong Kong. Whilst other martial artists were trying to be the new Bruce Lee, Jackie did something different. Why replace the irreplaceable when you could do something completely different? What Jackie did was introduce slapstick into the Kung Fu formula, the rest as they say is history. Jackie stars as Freddy Wong aka (Wong Fei Hung) depending upon which dub you watch. A juvenile delinquent with a penchant for feeling up immediate female members of his family. His father, fed up of his delinquency hires Sam Seed aka The Drunken Master to teach him some discipline as well as his secret fighting style. Naturally the two get off on the wrong foot but learn to respect each other as the film goes on whilst of course getting into the obligatory scrapes and japes. There is of course a villain of the piece in this case its the Tae Kwan Do master Hwang Jan Lee as the underworld assassin Thunderfoot who in real life was just as badass as he is in the film. So it's all pretty derivative then? Well yes and no. There is a genuine rapport between Jackie and Yu Su Tien as pupil and teacher. The martial arts is brilliantly choreographed and inventive (the scene in the restaurant is probably my favourite) and the whole thing has a joie de vivre. Watching it, it seems to me that the actors had a ball making the film. Which is just as well as I had a ball watching it. "},{"Title":"Classic Chan","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is my favourite jackie chan film. It's one of the funniest films i've ever seen. It starts with a fight and ends with one,so the action crowd won't be disappointed! Plus it contains the funniest scenes chan has ever put on film,such as the taunting of his idiotic teacher and the horror of realising the woman who he picks a fight with is his auntie!Brilliant. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan's finest hour","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This for me is Jackie Chan's finest, and is the film which propelled him to super stardom in Hong Kong. Whilst other martial artists were trying to be the new Bruce Lee, Jackie did something different. Why replace the irreplaceable when you could do something completely different? What Jackie did was introduce slapstick into the Kung Fu formula, the rest as they say is history. Jackie stars as Freddy Wong aka (Fong Sai Yuk) depending upon which dub you watch. A juvenile delinquent with a penchant for feeling up immediate female members of his family. His father, fed up of his delinquency hires Sam Seed aka The Drunken Master to teach him some discipline as well as his secret fighting style. Naturally the two get off on the wrong foot but learn to respect each other as the film goes on whilst of course getting into the obligatory scrapes and japes. There is of course a villain of the piece in this case its the Tae Kwan Do master Hwang Jan Lee as the underworld assassin Thunderfoot who in real life was just as badass as he is in the film. So it's all pretty derivative then? Well yes and no. There is a genuine rapport between Jackie and Yu Su Tien as pupil and teacher. The martial arts is brilliantly choreographed and inventive (the scene in the restaurant is probably my favourite) and the whole thing has a joie de vivre. Watching it, it seems to me that the actors had a ball making the film. Which is just as well as I had a ball watching it. "},{"Title":"I wish I could fight Drunken fist Style.","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is easily one of Jackie's best, even if it is one of his first roles where he plays a significant part. The fighting was amazing, and the training sessions with the red nosed master were funny as hell. I don't see Jackie complaining as much as he did as his character, but that didn't hurt it too bad.The only thing I didn't like about this movie was in the English dub, they refer Wong Fei-Hung as Freddy Hung. Seriously, Freddy?! That doesn't even sound like a name a martial artist would have! The kid that got his father knocked down also kind of irked me, as his voice sounded like it was being done by a older guy trying to imitate a kids voice. It just doesn't work.The movie also had some kind of annoying sound effects, as was accustomed to older kung-fu movies. That loud whip-cracking noise whenever someone threw a blow, or got it blocked or hit someone. And there was also that wind cutting noise whenever someone threw a strike or moved their hands or feet. Besides these little annoyances, this was a great movie.I actually tried to see if there were teachers that could teach me Drunken Boxing, but I found out the style can take many years to learn as it requires much former training in previous martial arts. "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs Up, and Kicking the Crap Out of You, Like a Drunk...","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" What a wonderful film. This film has to rank amongst Chan's ultimate. There are so many incredible fights in this film, that you will certainly feel you're getting your money's worth.The action is entertaining and beautiful. The comedy is rich and memorable.I love the different factors that make a Hong Kong movie what it is. One of these factors is the quick zoom out from a shocked face, to the completed action. My favourite of these is in the restaurant, when Yuen Woo Ping's father laughs, then stops, as a fist comes into shot. The punch is blocked, and the camera zooms out, for the rest of the moves in the take. It's wonderful to watch, as it adds personality to the film, and tells you, I'm from seventies Hong Kong, and I'm not gonna change for you! Overall, one of my favourite films, and definitely one of Jackie's best. "},{"Title":"Simply Jackie Chan at his finest","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I don't have masses to say about this film, other than this by far Jackie Chan's finest hour. From the slapstick comedy and facial expression he always pulls out the bag, to the quite incredible feats of strength and endurance. There's not wires and extra stunt men, what you see is what you get! If you never see another Jackie Chan film see this. It's a shame he's taken so long to crack the mainstream, I've been a fan for years. I enjoy some of his more mainstream too, don't get me wrong, but if only western audiences were more familiar with his work 2 years ago, then perhaps he wouldn't have resulted in selling himself out for such films as the medallion.If you liked this then check out some more of his back catalogue, a few personal favourites being 'police story' and rumble in the Bronx. Long live the kung-fu master that is... "}{"Title":"Old School diamond in the rough...","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Way back before wirework and cgi became the order of the day, there was something called old-fashioned hard work (which led, over a period of time, to skill, which could be refined). Jackie Chan paid his dues many times over and nowhere is it more evident than here, in one of his earliest efforts. While he would go on to do the spectacular LEGEND OF THE DRUNKEN MASTER (in which he literally brought the house down), DRUNKEN MASTER also showcases his many and varied talents to great effect. Watching him being put through his (often excruciating) paces makes one aware of the years of preparation that had to go into his training. And while his characters are more often than not put through the proverbial ringer physically, it's the mental and emotional pounding they take that makes them so sympathetic (see NEW POLICE STORY, in which Chan and his young co-stars go through the tortures of the damned before the final showdown). Great gung fu feature. "},{"Title":"THE BEST OF THE MARTIAL ARTS COMEDIES","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  There are those who prefer Jackie Chan's later work (the POLICE STORY series, WHO AM I?, RUMBLE IN THE BRONX), but give me the early stuff! DRUNKEN MASTER is the perfect balance between action and humor, and the story is pure fun from start to finish.SPOILER WARNING!!!Sort of a remake of the previous year's SNAKE IN THE EAGLE'S SHADOW (which was again sort-of-remade right after this one as THE FEARLESS HYENA), DRUNKEN MASTER tells the story of Freddy Wong (Wong Fei Hung in the original Chinese), the troublemaking son of a martial arts teacher, who is simply incapable of not getting into fights. At his wits' end, his father calls in his Freddy's uncle, the infamous Sam Tse, to discipline the boy. Sam Tse also happens to be a master of the eight drunk gods technique, which is fueled by Herculean ingestion of wine. When a drunken master gets loose, God help anyone foolish enough to fight him!!!Freddy's training is so harsh that it could be seen as torture, so Freddy runs away because he is too lazy to learn it. Besides, he already knows his dad's style of kung fu, right? He promptly runs into a killer-for-hire who teaches the kid a humiliating lesson in the art of ass-whuppin'. He also engages Freddy in one of the all-time classic exchanges in a genre that is replete with classic exchangesBAD GUY- Hmmph! Who teaches you that kung fu? FREDDY (proudly)- My dad does! BAD GUY- Hmmph! Judging by your kung fu, he's useless! I wouldn't hire him to wipe my ass!!! (He then seriously kicks Freddy's sorry butt)After that, Freddy trains hard in the eight drunk gods, and his transformation is a joy to behold. The sequence in which Jackie demonstrates seven of the eight forms is a jaw-dropping display of what a highly-trained martial artist/acrobat can do. YOU WILL BE AMAZED. Highly recommended, and whatever  you do, don't miss Jackie's fight with an old lady in the middle of the street (old school kung fu fans, you know the rule if the person is really old, DO NOT FIGHT THEM!!!), and his drunken-style fight with the king of sticks. It's not  as slick as Jackie's later films, but this one has fun and energy to burn! "},{"Title":"A classic martial arts action-comedy","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" 1978's Drunken Master contains the same manic, slapstick humor and acrobatic martial arts talents that would become a later trademark of Hong Kong action star Jackie Chan. This movie will have you rolling in your seat with laughter. Seriously, it has elements of The Three Stooges and balletic Keaton-like stunt-work so that in essence, Drunken Master is the perfect action-comedy.Directed by Yuen Wo Ping, who would later become well-known to American audiences for his work on the Matrix films and the Kill Bill flicks, Chan stars as an undisciplined troublemaker who happens to be an expert martial artist. When his father disowns him following an incident with a close relative, Chan goes and finds apprenticeship with a drunkard hermit, who teaches him the ancient kung-fu fighting style of drunken boxing.For those that don't know, drunken boxing (a.k.a. drunken fist or drunken master), as the title would imply, is a martial arts style that utilizes the staggering, unfocused movements of the typical drunkard. Chan exercises the movements gracefully in one training sequence, and it's one of the most effective fighting techniques though one may need to have an incredibly flexible body to master it. Because of the apparently unfocused posture of the fighter, his movements are concealed from the opponent, making it nearly impossible to anticipate his strikes. (To be able to use the style though, I'm not sure if one needs to be genuinely intoxicated to master its movements.)Chan eventually masters the techniques taught to him, and then uses his newfound skills to battle a lethal assassin who has since arrived to collect a price on his father's head.I don't know what it is exactly that made me enjoy this picture so much. The character Chan plays has been the object of Chinese folklore for nearly two centuries, but he would later find more serious film characteristics in the Once Upon a Time in China movies with Jet Li. Drunken Master shows why Chan is the star he is today. The film captures his talents masterfully and is forthright in its execution of his hyper-active skills in the many fighting sequences.I guess time has been good to Drunken Master, since it's appeared on several all-time favorite lists for martial arts movies.10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the Quintissential Martial Arts Movies","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" When I was a kid, I watched the animated TV show Jackie Chan Adventures everyday before school. I thought that it was really cool, with the standout being Jackie Chan himself. Now, I finally decided to seek out some of his films. I decided to start with Drunken Master, a film that blends action with comedy. Chan plays a young man who has embarrassed his family. He is sent to train and be disciplined. Chan is great. He does all of his stunts (which look fantastic) and he is very talented in Martial Arts, on perfect display here. The titular Drunken Master is excellent. He is a great addition to the wide variety of the wise old man characters. The story is very cool. We see Chan go from a foolish loser to brave fighter. The action in the film is top-notch. The comedy is also amazing. The film is just filled with laughs and thrills. If you're interested in Chan or Martial Arts Films in general, this is definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"Jackie is staggering.","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Directed by legendary kung fu choreographer Yuen Woo-Ping, Drunken Master is considered by many martial arts fans to be one of the best films of Jackie Chan's career, but while it certainly displays the star's kung fu and acrobatic ability to great effect, and is a thoroughly enjoyable watch, I found the plot just a little too generic (and the comedy a little too broad) to rate it any higher than an 8 (I actually give it a 7.5, but I've rounded my score up for IMDb).There really is very little going on here in terms of storyline, and what there is most seasoned fans of old school martial arts fans will have seen countless times before a young upstart, Wong Fei-Hung (Chan), causes trouble in his local town and is sent by his disappointed father to train with a kung fu master, Beggar Su (Siu Tin Yuen). Beggar Su's techniques are harsh but very effective, so when an assassin named Thunderfoot (Hwang Jang Lee) is hired to kill Fei-Hung's father, the young man is able to step in and save the day.Jackie Chan's comedic style is very much in evidence here, with buffoonery, slapstick action, and fart and poo gags, plus quite a few characters with peculiar facial features (a hairy mole, a red nose, drawn on freckles and goofy teeth), and the humour will not appeal to all (I nearly always struggle with Chinese comedy). Thankfully, the excellent fighting more than makes up for the silliness, with Jackie performing some mind-bogglingly amazing feats of physical prowess, making the absolute most of his Chinese Circus training. He leaps, he flips, he tumbles, he kicks, and he punches, performing snake style, monkey style and&#x97;of course&#x97;drunken style, all with incredible energy, speed and split second timing; it's absolutely breathtaking to behold.Naturally, Beggar Su and Thunderfoot are no slouches in the chop socky department either, the old drunken beggar pulling off some very cool moves against a baddie called The Stick King (Hsia Hsu) and Thunderfoot more than living up to his title with his technique 30% hands and 70% legs, Hwang Jang Lee is given plenty of opportunity to show off his legendary kicking skills. Also very impressive in her small role as Wong Fei Hung's auntie is Linda Lin Ying I don't know much about her, but the one fight scene she shares with Jackie is quite stunning&#x97;her flexibility and leg control made my jaw drop (I must check out some of the other titles in her filmography&#x97;Dance of the Drunk Mantis also stars Hwang Jang Lee, so that would seem like an obvious place to start). "},{"Title":"More than what I expected! It really shows what Jackie Chan was capable of doing in films","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Now I saw Legend of Drunken Master first which is a kung-fu film that blew my mind because of it's awesomeness. And since this film didn't seem all that notorious, I shunned this one sorta. Despite it being the film with Jackie Chan showing his drunken boxing and being kind of a pioneer of that style. I just wasn't expecting this film to be so darn entertaining. Sure, it doesn't have that much resources going for it. But Jackie did just about everything physically possible. And it really did pay off. I also wasn't expecting such high comedic moments even for a Jackie Chan film and I was wrong in every way. This film has all that trademark Jackie Chan elements and it's highly entertaining and humorous. Sure it is kind of cheesy but it actually works for a film like this. And for a Kung-fu flick from the 70's it seemed to be ahead of it's time. I was either smirking or laughing most of the way through while watching this amazing kung-fu film. The plot does seem a bit random at times and more bonding parts with Jackie Chan and the Drunken Master would have been cool. This is like the way better version of The Karate Kid, comparing because it does have slight similarities. Except this film came first. The creativity in this is also top notch, especially when it comes to the fight sequences. This film was made during the prime of Jackie Chan and it does show what Jackie is capable physically and athletically. I saw this with English Dub and despite Jackie's British accent, it wasn't bad. Drunken Master is one of Jackie Chan's best.8.4/10 "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Drunken Master is probably the movie that cemented Jackie Chan's stardom (credited as Jacky Chan). Although slightly addled by some the corniness that is common in Chinese comedies, there are also some very funny moments. But a martial arts movie, of course, is really about the fighting. What can I say? The kung fu starts out good and gets better and better and better until the final fight scene that you will want to watch multiple times (some parts in slow motion). The situations of the film will feel fresh and original to viewers that have seen mostly Hollywood films. As to be expected from an 1978 Asian movie, the sound and video are not up to today's standards and shouldn't be criticized because of that as is often done by young and naive viewers. This film offers you a chance to see expert martial artists doing physical stunts that almost nobody can do. If you can see the beauty in that (or dance, or bodybuilding, or anything else that requires dedication and loads of practice before the end product) you will love this movie. If not, Drunken Master will make you laugh a few times too. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Everyone's comments say it all. This movie has incredible fighting and incredible comedy. Make sure to check out the Snake in the Eagle's Shadow which also features the Drunken Master up to his tricks again...he is amazing with those gourds full of wine! "},{"Title":"Drunken Dubbing Master.","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I just bought a DVD copy of Drunken Master, having owned it on VHS about 10 years back (but had lost it in my movements). I was shocked and disappointed to find the new version's dubbed English is a different and (in my opinion) far less amusing voice-over. Does anyone know where I can find the version that was for sale in the 90's- The one with such characters as Old jade seller, Sam Seed and The tough old bitch with their 'proper' voices? I am at a loss to work out why the second English version exists at all- I only hope that some DVDs exist of the original. The later dubbing isn't as bad as all that, but people who have heard the original will agree (I hope!)I realise purists will always prefer Cantonese, but for this single film I respectfully dissent. "},{"Title":"#1 FOR JACKIE CHAN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film rocks!!!!!!!!!!!!! This is the film that made Jackie famous at that time. This film is great on all levels. Lots of action plus comedy involved here. And of course the end is were we see Jackie get really drunk and fight the bad guy. Just like in The Legend of Drunken Master. This film isn't as good as the sequel but still has it's moment's. This film has couple fight scenes but the end is the best I think. But I do like the very cool training sequence. Also you get to see Jackie fight Bolo Yeung. A very good fighter. I licked the fight in the bar or what ever that was. I also liked the two or three fights were Jackie beats up some thugs. I think this film is really good. And I hope you agree. So go see Jackie get drunk and beat up on some thugs.   "}{"Title":"bruce lee meets the three stooges...","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  i have seen other jackie chan movies and have been glued to the wonderful choreography of the fights and laughed at his henny youngman-type humour but this is by far the BEST jc movie. i would have to say it's one of the best all around kung fu movies, too.there is LOTS of humour, LOTS of shtick, and of course LOTS and LOTS of kung fu... crane kung fu, snake kung fu, tiger kung fu- i didn't know there were so many types of kung fu! seeing jc go through the disciplines is painful to watch, and auntie is cool! she makes sailor moon look like a power puff girl. this chick kicks a** with so much grace and style - and not a hair out of place! great, fun, popcorn-popin' movie. "},{"Title":"A wonderful string of fights with some sort of story squeezed in","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Judged by the standards of good filmmaking, Drunken Master leaves a lot to be desired. The story is slight, the acting is cartoonish, the humor is juvenile, and the occasional dramatic moments are ludicrous.And yet...Drunken Master is awesome. It's a Buster Keaton Kung Fu ballet, a series of marvelous fights, with little between them. I am not actually that familiar with early Jackie Chan, and know him more for his later, prop-comic fights. What's wondrous about these fights is how simple they are. Not that I don't love those prop fights, but the acrobatic is thoroughly entertaining throughout. Coming to it from later Chan movies would be like being familiar with a composer's brilliant symphonies and suddenly coming across a piano sonata that has that same genius in a simpler form.Honestly, I enjoyed this so much I feel like giving it a 9, but my sense of what filmmaking is supposed to look like makes me feel I shouldn't. Whatever I give it, it's terrific fun. "},{"Title":"Enlivened by Jackie and comedy","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" In several aspects, Drunken Master is a typical 1970 kung fu movie from Hong Kong. It's a period piece instead of taking place in modern times. The production values are low. The soundtrack is full of whooshes and heavy thuds. There are chortling villains. And there isn't much of a plot.Despite those attributes, the movie in the end manages to be entertaining enough. Unlike many other Hong Kong kung fu movies of the time, the movie is mainly played for laughs. And while a lot of the humor is juvenile, silly, and slapstick, there is a good and appealing nature to it all that often makes it amusing. The star features of the movie, however, are Jackie Chan and the fight sequences. Chan is in great form here, and goes all out in his fights, fights that are simply amazing (and amusing) to behold. It's easy to see why this movie made Chan into a superstar. While the movie is not perfect, it is essential viewing for people who have an interest in Hong Kong cinema. "},{"Title":"One of Jackie's best early pictures. It's very entertaining and bursting with creativity","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Jackie is an arrogant buffoon, who embarrasses his father with the stunts he pulls. After Jackie belittles his aunt, Jackie gets sent off to learn Drunken Kung Fu as a form of punishment for his unscrupulous behavior. Jackie thinks it's a cinch, but little does Jackie know the old man is relentless and wily. After Jackie gets humiliated by a mysterious stranger, Jackie humbly accepts the old man's training. I'm a big Jackie Chan fan. He made some cheap stinkers when he first started out, but there were a few gems he put out, one being Shaolin Wooden Men, and obviously this movie. Unlike many early Jackie Chan films, where the comedy would be obnoxious, it's actually very effective here with some great slapstick. Because of the dubbing we do get some cringe inducing lines, such as You have a big mouth, and a wet ass. It should be taught some manners You watch out. You'll have a body with no ass! I'd love to be able to find a subtitled copy, but no sense in carping. The fight scenes are not only very exciting, but innovative as well. Some of the training sequences had me in awe. It makes Jean-Claude Van Damme looks a bit tame in comparison. I was especially impressed with Jackie's incredible ability to maintain his balance, while acting as a drunk. It was very convincing. Jackie's charm is undeniable, even when he's grossly pigging out on food. Some may find his arrogance a bit overbearing, but I didn't. I wouldn't call it a great performance, but he's fun. Siu Tin Yuen is absolutely tremendous and great fun. His chemistry with Chan was just excellent. The villain is rather plain, but he fits the bill, and is there to be menacing. The end fight is lengthy and absolutely marvelous. Final Thoughts It's just a lot of fun for a martial arts film at this stage. If you're a big Jackie fan, or a martial arts fan there is no excuse. You must see it. End of story!8/10 "},{"Title":"A star is born...","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The much-imitated Drunken Master confirmed Jackie Chan newfound stardom after his breakthrough film Snake in the Eagle's Shadow when Hong Kong producers stopped trying to turn him into just another action hero in the Bruce Lee-wannabe mold and finally realised that his unique selling point was the combination of physical comedy with action. The plot's pretty basic - Chan's undisciplined young future folk hero Wong Fei-Hung has to learn 'Drunken' kung fu to take on a killer - but it's just there to provide enough of a excuse to allow a comic action scene every reel or so, most of them wonderfully ingeniously choreographed and just great fun. It's not a deep film or a deathless masterpiece, even though it is almost perfectly directed by Yuen Woo-Ping it's just a pure entertainment that manages to be purely entertaining in the very best way.the DVD releases, sadly, are problematic. Sony's release doesn't have the plethora of extras from Hong Kong Legends' original UK released, but unlike that version is in the right widescreen ratio - 2.351 instead of HKL's 1.851. The opening fight is still cut due to negative damage and parts of the original Cantonese soundtrack are missing (replaced by the odd bit of English), but the film really benefits from being seen in the right ratio, showing off the stunts much more comfortably. The only real extra is a commentary from Ric Mayers and Jeff Yang carried over from Sony's Region 4 Astralian disc (which also included the similarly entertaining Snake in the Eagle's Shadow), but it's still the best version of the film itself available to date. "},{"Title":"My Dave Kung-Fu Movie.","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I have seen 2 versions of this movie, only the dubbing is different. The superior version was on VHS, to check you have the best version go to last fight and the 'wine' thrown to Chan is named as 'WHITE LIGHTNING'(not the best line but memorable in my friend circle). Has a classic washcloth fight scene(washcloth becomes a solid block at one point, you have to see it to get it). The Master is the best character(unbeatable as long as he's drunk, loses once when his wine is watered). Chans punishment's at the start is interesting but a little unnecessary. Fight scenes are classic as is early play with incompetent (school?) teacher. "},{"Title":"Oh my God its Jackie Chan","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Drunken Master, the film that made Jackie Chan a star. The first major martial arts film since the great Enter the Dragon.Set in Hong Kong, Freddie Wong (Jackie Chan) is a skilled material artists, but a young man who often gets in trouble, fighting with his instructor, flirting with a young woman and beating up a young thug. His father a kung-fu school owner tries to install discipline on his son but fails, so recruits the services of So Chan (Siu Tien Yuen), a notorious instructor who forces Freddie into a tough regime. Freddie even attempts to run away from So Chan, but ends up running into Thunderleg (Jang Lee Hwang), a skilled assassin and insults Freddie's father and his teaching techniques. After that Freddie goes back to So Chan and demanded to work hard with material arts, and learn So Chan's techniques. The two even form a friendship and work together whilst fighting.After the unfortunate death of Bruce Lee, Hong Kong cinema entered into the brief period of Bruceploitation where lookalikes attempted to make martial arts films, many failed. Jackie Chan did martial arts very differently, he made them comic, and the fights in Drunken Master were slapstick in nature. Some are very comical, but they are all well done and exciting to watch. Like Bruce Lee, Jackie Chan is a skilled Martial Artist and possibly the man closest to him in the film world in skill terms. Like any film they is a villain in the piece, Thunderleg who gives Jackie Chan a good challenge at the end. That scene in itself is worth watching. The plot is pretty simple, but who cares? Its still stronger then some of what Hollywood can product.The major problem with the film is some of dubbing. I hate dubbing and the fact that when the characters do speak in English they sound American, not Chinese. Also some of the humour is not to my taste.But Drunken Master is a worthy film for Martial Arts fans, especially during the golden period of the 70s. "},{"Title":"One of Jackie's greatest achievements.","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The fights may look robotic in a way and the comedy is sometimes overacted but this stunt actually brought this movie into recognition.A young Jackie Chan displays his skills here fluidly and his cheeky character is well played. The story fits well with the character, although it is nothing new even at that time and somewhat redundant if you come to your senses, that is if you can. This film barely gives you time to think as one fighting scene leads to another and the next thing you know you're already watching the final fight.Yuen Woo Ping makes alibis for every action sequence by having Fei Hung walk into situations and starting a fight. It's not a deduction in my criteria, in fact I find it amusing how come up with these things.The characters in the film are in no way uninteresting either. From the supporting actors to the main cast they deliver the effect that is needed for a particular scene. The only problem I had with this was that Fei Hung's aunt should have played a bigger role in Fei Hung's lessons. Maybe she could have made an appearance at the climax.Jackie really showed a lot of promise in this movie and look at him during the 80's and 90's. It's just sad to see him doing mediocre-rated movies nowadays. "},{"Title":"Martial Art Classic","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" After the local success of Snake in the Eagle's Shadow, Seasonal Studios decided to follow it up with another kung fu comedy. The new film would use much of the same plot, director (Yuen Woo-ping) actors and, of course, Jackie Chan. The difference would be an irreverent look at the growing up of the legendary Wong Fei Hung a famous herbalist, teacher, physician and kung fu practitioner of Hung Gar. This character has been portrayed in a plethora of films and would continue to be though for many this character is synonymous with Kwan Tak-hing and the original series of 99 films he portrayed him in. According to Jackie, ...rather than show him as a heroic adult, we would explore what he was like as a young man before he grew into his legend &#150; lazy, naive, ignorant, and rebellious. This humanizing of a legend, immensely popular in Chinese culture, allowed people to relate to this story and it was a gigantic hit. It is one of my favorite Kung Fu comedies and along with Fist of Fury (American title The Chinese Connection) one of the most beloved of the Hong Kong Kung Fu films.Jackie stars as Wong Fei Hung a troublesome teenager who cannot please his father the venerable Wong Chi-Ying (played by the venerable Lam Kau who seems more like his father than Ti Lung in Drunken Master II), the master of the Po Chi Lam studio and clinic. He goofs off, picks on Dean Shek (in a familiar role) and attacks his Aunt. The fight scene where he takes on actress Linda Ling Ying (unknowingly his Aunt at the time) is excellent because of her flexibility and martial art skill. Too bad it is so short. But this confrontation and other misgivings eventually leads to Chi-Ying hiring Su Hua-Chi to train, a nomadic and curmudgeon man who has been rumored to maim and destroy his students. Hua-Chi was played by Simon Yuen, the director's father, who was nearing the end of his career though rising in popularity. He brought a sadistic yet comedic touch to the role of the elder master of the drunken style.Wong did not want to train under such a wicked man, so he ran away from home. Unfortunately, Su saved him from a massive beating after Jackie could not pay for the food he ate at a restaurant. Fei Hung later realized that the old beggar who saved him was the old man who was supposed to torture and school him in the martial arts. Wong did not like the initial training so he ran away after tricking Sifu Su into a water container. While trying to dry his clothes he ran into Thunderleg (the awesome Korean kicker Hwang Jang Lee) who mercilessly beat him and made him crawl between his legs for being impertinent and not leaving his dingy area. This upset him, but what angered him the most (this seemed funny) was that he burnt his clothes. After being destroyed physically and emotionally he went back to Master Su to train some more.Like many of the earlier Kung Fu films Chan's training sequences are awesome to behold. Jackie being in excellent shape and having masochistic tendencies brought on from his younger days under Yu Jim-yuen, would be tortured by Sifu Su by being his puppet, doing upside down sit-ups while bringing small water cups from barrels below to barrels above and a variety of evil exercises to get him into excellent shape. Though Kung Fu columnist Ric Meyers has stated that the training scenes, and other scenes from this film especially the beginning fight scene between Thunderleg and Chen Kuo-Wei, were originally a lot longer but the original print has possibly been lost.This training was so Wong Fei Hung could learn the secret of the Eight Drunken Gods. Wong learnt all of these fluently, while being inebriated, (along with the snake and crane forms he already knew) except the Miss Ho forms which he felt was sissy, though in later films Jackie would have no problems fighting as a woman --Young Master.All of the training, scenery and Cantonese comedy is fun to watch, but the main reason most people love this film is because of the awesomely choreographed and directed martial art scenes. The highlight is the sublime showdown with Thunderleg. It is Chan's Drunken style versus Hwang's Tae Kwon Do (Jackie calls this his fourth favorite fight scene in I am Jackie Chan. Hwang's use of the Devil's Kick and the Devil's Shadowless Hands is superb with his adroitness. I also like the fight scene with the Bamboo King (Hsu Hsia) and, well, just about all of them and there is a lot in this nonstop action film (yes I even like the fight with Bolo look alike Lee Chun Wa).This film was so successful that it helped ignite Jackie's career (made him 50,000 HK dollars) and gave more recognition to Yuen Woo-ping whose contribution to this film is Titanic. Drunken Master influenced many future HK films (of course Drunken Master's plot was not original either) and helped HK get over it post-Bruce depression. This film also influenced directors such as Quentin Tarantino who made his actors on Kill Bill watch scenes from this movie. It is also responsible for another great martial art film &#150; its sequel. Though the irony is that this film was only initially seen in grindhouse theaters and occasionally mentioned in martial art magazines; it was not seen as much by western audiences until Legend of Drunken Master (Drunken Master II) came out. "},{"Title":"A little insight to Wong Fei Hung","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  To appreciate this film entirely, you have to realize a little about Hong Kong Cinema. Wong Fei Hung (Jackie Chan's character) was a very popular character to feature in martial arts films. I know I have seen at least ten or so movies where Wong Fei Hung was mentioned or the lead role. The difference in this movie is what kind of character Wong Fei Hung was portrayed as. Usually Wong Fei Hung is portrayed as a noble fighter or a great doctor or both; a character deserving of much respect. In this film, he is seen as a wise-cracking prankster who has little regard for his kung fu training. This was unheard of when is came out and is probably one of if not the only film Wong Fei Hung is portrayed as such. As far as the comedy, one really has to have a love of Martial Arts comedy to enjoy this film. I personally love it. It may be just slapstick comedy to some, but I'd give it three out of five stars.  "}{"Title":"Excellent Kung Fu Comedy","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  A young Jackie Chan gives an energetic and funny performance as Wong Fei Hung, an often fictionalized character in Chinese folklore but who actually lived and is remembered with great reverence in China.Here, Wong Fei Hung is the dissolute son of a town leader and martial arts master. Shaming his family, Wong is driven from the nest to suffer under the tutelage of a drunken uncle who happens to be a master of the fighting styles of the Eight Drunken Gods.Enduring excruciating exercises does not prove worth it to young Wong until he encounters Thunderfoot who beats the daylights out of him in a fight. Returning to his uncle, or Drunken Master, Wong finishes his training just in time to face Thunderfoot again, this time for keeps.As a casual watcher of Kung Fu films as opposed to a true devotee, I would highly recommend this movie for its humor, interesting fights, and often hilarious English Dub Track. The current DVD Release available through Amazon and other outlets (I found my copy for 9.99 in the big bin at Wal-mart) has a few flaws. Portions of the original soundtrack are missing, so dubbed-in english is substituted. Some of the renderings are just hilarious. However, the print is much improved over the old VHS release from 6 or 7 years ago.At this point I have to comment on Jackie Chan's performance. The guy is simply a master of physical comedy. Chan is easily the equal of Harold Lloyd or Buster Keaton -- every bit as daring and imaginative. Couple that with his martial arts skills and engaging personality and you have a modern marvel of cinema. I think Jackie Chan could well be the most accomplished master of physical comedy in movie history. He is THAT good.Add to this the fact that Yuen Wo Ping directed this film. This is the same Wo Ping who later choreographed fight scenes for The Matrix series, as well as Crouching Dragon and Kill Bill.No, Drunken Master is not, of itself, a masterpiece. It is a flawed but honest low-budget kung-fu flick with a load of good humor thrown in. I give it a solid 3.5/4 stars, and heartily recommend it for an enjoyable evening of good-hearted movie thrills and laughs, as well as for an early look at the work of a couple of real masters. "},{"Title":"classic kung-fu comedy","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  As hokey as this film seems, it is not without its charms.  The plot seems almost formulaic, but the fight choreography is astounding.  Try counting the number of moves per shot, and compare it to other, more recent, martial arts films.  The characters are archetypal, but that doesn't keep them from being compelling.  The use of second-long flashbacks adds deepens the characters (especially Chan) and brings an additional element of style to the final fight scene.  The music is also very well done, much better so than other Kung Fu movies.  And whatever you do, DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE IN ENGLISH.  It's painful.  Cantonese with English subtitles, please. "},{"Title":"Awesome!!!!!","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one that made jackie really get noticed. there are so many action sequnces that it is only topped off by the climatic end fight between jackie and whang jang lee.P.S. jackie was doubled in this movie 1 or 2wice. once in the training scene where goes far back is yuen biao. the second i think is when jackie fights the stick king for the second time, i was some kind of acrobatic move also done by biao. But DONOT let that steer you away from this movie jackie still is amazing in this movie no doubt about it!  "},{"Title":"Most impressive Chan movie...","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Jackie Chan has established himself as a powerhouse in the martial arts movie business. From his start as a lonely stuntman to his blockbuster U.S. hits, he has done it all. While many people are in awe of his recent hits Rush Hour and his US-breakthrough Rumble in the Bronx, not as many are familiar with the 1978 masterpiece Drunken Master. If you enjoy watching impressive fighting and stunning kung-fu choreography, you simply must have this movie. Of the nearly 2 hour running time, nearly an hour of the movie is pure fighting. From the goofy monkey kung-fu to the kung-fu of the eight drunken gods, Chan proves that he can give an on-screen martial arts/gymnastic performance that few, if any, can match. Chock full of comedy, fighting, and surprisingly decent dubbing, this movie is probably Chan's best athletic performance ever. Buy it.  "},{"Title":"Less plot, which is good..","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the many near-indistinguishable old school movies starring Jackie Chan, all set in the same village, same restaurant, same clearing outside the village, same woods, . . .The plot here is actually relatively low-key, which is a good thing -- the acting is, as always, pretty sketchy, and the humour is very much a matter of personal taste.What this movie has going for it over, say, Fearless Hyena, is that there's next to no plot. There's a fight scene, about 30 seconds of plot, more fighting, a tiny bit of plot, more fighting, training scenes, more fighting, a shred of plot, etc. You get the picture.The fight scenes are, as ever, incredible -- and there's a _lot_ of them. I can't really see anyone watching these films for the plot (though I may be wrong) so this one wins out because they don't waste any time with that, there's just fight after fight after fight.. "},{"Title":"Strange but still a great Chan!","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I'm sorry about my other review for this title.  My review was actually for the film DRUNKEN WUTANG.  Anyway... I recently won this film on DVD and, well, what a film!  While of course not as good as the later THE LEGEND OF DRUNKEN MASTER, this film is still funny!  I love hearing the wooshing of the wind and slam of the punches.  It was very funny! This film answers the question of how Wong Fei Hung (here called Freddy) learned Drunken Boxing.  From his uncle, Sam Seed!  This is a very great film, and I recommend to all film viewers (except for the picky ones) and a must-see for all Jackie Chan fans! "},{"Title":"Watch jackie chan get drunk and beat up kung fu masters with bad hair cuts !!!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Drunken master is an important film. Not only is it responsible  launching Jackie  Chan into super stardom ,  it also revitalized an other wise stagnant kung fu film genre . So is it any good ? well yes it is , its very good indeed .Featuring  some brilliant and inventive fight scenes, well judged slap stick humor  and a suprisingly coherent plot line for a film that is really all about fighting  , drunken master makes for excellent entertainment . But the entire affair wouldn't work as  well  without the relationship and training sequences that occur between Jackie Chan and sui tien yuens characters, these moments are among some of the best in the film .And on the action front  drunken master does a good job of  giving you a hard time deciding  what your favorite fight scene was .  Theres that excellent fight scene in the restaurant , the fight with  Wong fei hungs aunt ,  the fight with the king of sticks , the final confrontation ... the list goes on and on.So if you like your action  , choppy ,  funny and fueled with alcohol, make yours drunken master !(out of 5)  * * * * "},{"Title":"8 out of 10","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  now this is good, classic chan. i love this film, folks. everything about it. every punch, every joke, every time that drunk old man hits someone with his stick, every single badly-dubbed word. i have never seen another film that kept a stupid wide grin on my face like this one did. everyone needs to see it. "},{"Title":"Jackie at his best","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Drunken Master is, without doubt, the greatest Jackie Chan film I have ever seen. It is also one that I have seen countless times. It is classic Chan - everything you could ever want. Fight after fight with as little plot to interupt the entertainment as possible. Plus, Jackie's very own brand of physical comedy of course. The fights, as well as being plentiful, are all beautifully and painstakingly choreographed and executed with great style.The plot is far from original - Jackie is a naughty boy, gets sent to train with his cruel, and drunken, uncle and ends up a master, this time in Drunken kung fu. The acting and script is what you'd expect. The sets are basic and the film quality and sound and hardly top-notch. But none of this stops this being a thoroughly entertaining film. Even my kung fu hating housemates liked it. And that is saying something. "},{"Title":"Couldn't stop laughing!","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If possible, pick up the widescreen, English dubbed version of this film. If you can, you will see possibly the most unintentionally funny film in your life. Choice dubbing and sound effects make the film a classic!I picked this film up at Blockbuster after enjoying 'Rumble in the Bronx'. Expect nothing like the polished films that Jackie Chan releases now (e.g. Rush Hour). This is pure, low budget, kung fu nonsense!A gem! **** out of ***** "}{"Title":"Classic Jackie Chan","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  As a martial artist, I am a Jackie Chan fanatic. I love the way that the whirl and twirl of limbs (and those funky punching sounds) just makes me want to go out and do a couple of roundkicks to a lightpole.But as a movie critic, I have cringed at Chan's last few movies (Mr. Nice Guy, Rumble in the Bronx). The story seems a bit too contrived for his action sequences, as if the writers write the scenes based on the choreography, rather than on the story.Drunken Master was not the case. Sure, there is mindless and drawn out choreographed fights. This is a kung-fu movie after all. But the scenes stick to the story, not to the budget (ie. Hovercraft fight in Bronx) and the characters are colorful and have more depth than three axe kicks and a line of bad dialogue. "},{"Title":"great scenes","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Just enough plot to take Jackie from one fight to the next. Several scenes you have to rewind and see again, and some of his training methods you've got to try yourself to see exactly how painful they must be. Except for miserable white-on-white subtitles (but who needs to know what they're saying, anyway?), it's a great flick. "},{"Title":"Astounding, Amazing and Action-packed!","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is it. This is the one that took Jackie Chan from being a star in Asia to being a Superstar. Zui Quan (Drunken Master) is full of terrific fight choreography and, although most of the time you can tell that that's exactly what it is, it still keeps us glued to the screen. It's like a deadly ballet, and it's fascinating to watch. The plot itself is light, but that's all it needs to be; anything more would have been too heavy. It underscores the action and moves us from one fight to the next without too much suspension of disbelief. Chan proves himself to be a gifted comedian here, as well intense and tough - there is simply _no_ way to fake those back-handed push ups he does during one of the film's training sequences. Don't miss this movie. "},{"Title":"Good Jokes VS Bad Acting","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Hong Kong films are known in international film industry for their action and gangster productions, which were banned by mainland China until Deng Xiao Ping's time. Its famous fancy gun play and choreographed flight scenes attracted a huge amount of attention from international viewers. Bruce Lee effectively established Asian martial art films back in 1970s, it was the reboot of the Hong Kong film industry and soon the martial art films became very popular. Then Kung Fu films are stamped Oriental identity. The Hong Kong film industry reached its golden time between 1986 and 1992. It had the third largest film production after India and the United States. Many of us get to know Jackie Chan in the Hollywood action comedy blockbuster Rush Hour in 1998. This film made a star of Jackie Chan internationally. Jackie Chan entered Hollywood after he succeeded in the Hong Kong film market by his martial art/ Kung Fu performances. Many western viewers were introduced by Bruce Lee to Chinese Kung Fu - Asian martial art films. Hence a lot of people compare Jackie Chan with Bruce Lee's performances. In earlier days Jackie Chan was not actually doing much acting in the action films. He was a stuntman in Bruce Lee's film New Fist of the Fury and Enter the Dragon. Later on he was discovered by a film maker and tried to promote his Kung Fu performance which differentiated him from Bruce Lee's This is Chinese Kung fu image. His first breakthrough &#x96; Drunken Master in the Hong Kong film market earned him high ratings from Chinese audiences. It is one of the earliest action comedies that stared Jackie Chan. This film is no exception to his other action comedies &#x96; hilarious and loads of fun. It has to be a Kung Fu fans' favorite movie. The fights are inspiring for the ordinary viewers like me. Silly jokes make this film work. It involves many different and difficult Kung Fu styles and techniques. It can be classified as one of Chan's pure martial art performance films. The story is based on a Chinese hero Wong Fei Hung. What we do know about him is that he is born in Guangdong Fo Shang in Qing Dynasty and he is a Kung Fu master. There are at least 200 films made in China based on this man. Drunken Master is more like a fiction movie with a comedy twist. It is set in later Qing dynasty before the Japanese invasion. As we know, Qing government is pretty corrupt and the poor get bullied by the rich. Therefore a hero is created to save the poor and the weak. Wong's dad is also a Kung Fu Master, different from the style that Wong was taught. He is kind and brave and he teaches young men in the village to protect themselves. He wants his own son to be the same as him, but Wong Fei Hung is too naughty to be taught by his own dad. The story is mainly about the young Wong Fei Hung played by Jackie Chan and how he is transformed by his master Su Hua Zi and becomes successful in this particular sort of Kung Fu &#x96; being drunk and unbeatable at the same time. He saves his dad from being killed at the end. It is a typical story that all Chinese loves - naughty boy turn out to be a good man. Confucian tenet is still part of the guideline for these older films &#x96; respect the seniors and be a good man. Many of us have heard of this particular Kung Fu style a lot but never actually seen it. Jackie Chan has provided us a full demonstration of it with style. The film maker also captures how hard Jackie Chan was made to practice again and again on the same basics techniques. It was overwhelming to watch. It is similar to a scene in Farewell, My concubine &#x96; Kids are made to practice on basics, otherwise they will get punished for their laziness. There are lots of Chinese movie showing this traditional belief &#x96; the harder you practice, the more you get from it. No doubt Jackie Chan was young and had been trained; still, doing pushups with the wrists turning up and down at the same time as the legs up the air are not easy. I just cannot bear to think how much damage it causes to the hands for the sake of the film. The director, Yuen Woo-ping, has been actively involved in Hollywood blockbusters in recent years, for example, The Matrix series (1999-2003), Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon (2000) and the Kill Bill volumes (2003-2004). This film is his second film as a director. It is also a corner stone, establishing his career as an action movie director in the Hong Kong filming industry. He was a martial arts choreographer turned director. Hence he was keen to prove his knowledge of different and difficult Kung Fu styles to the audience. Unlike Bruce Lee's films, his film doesn't involve much political elements. So it is easy to watch. I personally think his way of shooting this film is rather raw, more like jumping one chapter to another without much connection. The screen resolution of the movie was low and the colour quality was dull back in 1978. Generally the acting is stiff, and the conversions are predictable except his martial art performance is spotless from my personal point of view. Comparing this earlier film with the films he did in recent years, there is a lot more Kung Fu and less talking in these earlier films. This film is also known as a low budget film. Not much had been invested on sets, makeup or costumes; its success comes from the witty dialogue and plenty of Kung Fu. "},{"Title":"Roundly entertaining with plenty of impressive action","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Wong Fei-hung as a young man has a reputation different from that awaiting him as an adult. With a nickname of Naughty Panther, Fei-hung is in constant trouble with people and, no matter his intentions to help out just makes things worse for himself. When his father has had enough he sends Fei-hung away to be trained by a wine-guzzling master Su who is not only famed for his 8-Drunken Genii style but also for crippling many of his students. Fei-hung tries to get away from this fate but it is not long till his drunken teacher tracks him down and teaches him, whether he likes it or not. However, when he is humbled by the mighty killer Thunderleg, he decides to train to be better no matter what it takes.I've not given up on modern releases totally but a real death-march of uninspiring films of late has seen me using my DVD rental subscription to get in touch with older films and also genres that do not often show up on my basic TV package. Recently this has seen me getting some old-school martial arts films and of course Drunken Master had to be one of the first to be seen. When watching it, it is important that you keep your genre frame of reference because as a film (with no riders or expectations) it could be dismissed as having no substance to speak of - an accusation that I myself level at many blockbusters that offer me nothing to engage with. In this case though one does have to wonder if it matters because in terms of pure entertainment value there is just about sufficient story to pull a basic frame together for an amusing and exciting film.I say this because the plot doesn't do much other than set up the many fight sequences that the film has and really these are the reason why we are all here. Without exception, these are technically and visually impressive. The physical strength and control of the actors is just as impressive as the choreography and, unlike modern films, the camera sits back so we can see and doesn't get into the close and frantic editing which reveal the actor perhaps could only do one short movement at a time and needed lots of help from the camera. Speaking of camera movement, one of the joys of the film is to see what has now become the genre-defining zooms in on faces and other such clichs.Speaking of which, the acting also fits this mould as it is the wonderful OTT style of acting, with big hair and exaggerated performances that owe a debt to silent cinema. Chan is not at his funniest here (partly because his character necessitates a degree of arrogance that takes away a little) but he is still very comic and self-effacing in his comedy. He is well supported by Yuen, who is also very skilled and able to do comedy, while Hwang's villain is wonderfully 1970's martial arts and full of camp menace. The support cast features some familiar faces who bring stuff to the table such as the high-kicking Linda Lin and the amusing Dean Shek.Drunken Master is very much a genre film and those who do not like the conventions of the genre should not be too shocked to find that they don't like it here. However for martial arts fans and the casual viewer, this is a great film with plenty of brilliant action blended with a genial and comic tone that allows it to be solid good fun. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Funny !!","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This of course is the famous movie that propelled Jacky Chan into stardom with new style of action movie - Kung-Fu comedy. But even for his movie, this one somehow is a notch funnier because the timing is so quick and action so raw. Back in the '70s people made no apologies about beating scoundrels up, and this strait forwardness in beating the opponent adds extra humor to the action.This was before Jacky Chan had a family, and 24 year young Jack Chan's moves although not as refined as his later movies, have edge that's refreshing to watch. For the first of its kind, this movie is so well made, and it still stands as one of the best kung-fu action comedy.If you've missed seeing this movie, you really owe it to yourself to see it at least once.History of Hong Kong cinema being made right in front of your eyes, that started the fantastic entertainment industry that is Jacky Chan and his movies, spanning the next 30 years and still counting. "},{"Title":"Hokey.","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Let's make this clear Drunken Master has less sophistication than an episode of The Smurfs and less plot than a porn movie. The comedy is unbearably stupid at times, the dialogue is hokey and the sound effects are too silly for a live-action film. The fight scenes seem too rehearsed, too choreographed; they look less like real fights than like shows that have been carefully set up to demonstrate the various kung-fu techniques. Nevertheless, it is a fine showcase for the skills (comedic and otherwise) of Jackie Chan, and he remains funny and likable throughout. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Poor Story, Amazing Choreography, Good Martial Art Movie","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Drunken Master was the title of this movie when I first saw it 12 years ago. As a movie fanatic I think every type of Movie can be interesting. The Hong Kong Movie Industry has produced Masterpieces from a design, a choreography and a physical performance point of view. Drunken Master (Zui quan) may be considered as one of these very good movies. The story is a very classic (poor) one and the acting is not the best ever from a western view point but is very Chinese (almost like a drama play), however and as I stated the choreography and the physical skills of Jacky Chan are amazing. The extraordinary fighting scenes (90% of the movie) make this movie worth watching and probably one of the 10 legendary Kun-Fu movies made so far. "},{"Title":"Get drunk with this Kung Fu comedy...","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Being a fan of Jackie Chan and never having seen Drunken Master before 2012 is sacrilege, I know, but I just never gotten around to it, not even with all the high praises for this 1978 movie.Well, I finally got around to watch it and it was with some expectation and anticipation to it. Was it worth it? Well, yeah it was, but at the same time it wasn't all that I had expected.The story was fun and well-thought through, about Wong Fei-Hung who is a rascal, dishonoring his father who is a Kung Fu master. As a punishment he is to train with his uncle who is said to be ruthless and mean. The young Fei-Hung is in for some rough training, but eventually comes to see the meaning of the tough training.Drunken Master is more of a comedy (or Comedy Fu, if you will) than it is an actual Kung Fu movie. There is a lot of slapstick comedy in this movie, as is to be expected from a Chan movie. But it also shows off the grace, dexterity and skills of Jackie Chan quite well. However, for the Kung Fu, well it was fun to watch, lots of great movies and funny situations, but wow it was so horribly staged that it was painful to watch at times. It just lacked that natural flow to it, to make it seem realistic and natural. I am not saying that it wasn't enjoyable, far from it, just don't expect it to be all that and a bucket of chicken, because it was really staged from start till end.This Jackie Chan movie is a definite must have in any DVD collection of any Jackie Chan fan, just don't do the mistake that I did that compare this movie with the movies from the last two decades.I got a Sony DVD release of the movie from Amazon, and despite playing the original Cantonese language track, it kept changing between Cantonese and some seriously doubtful English dubbing. The dubbing was so bad it was beyond belief, they were even doing racial, stereotypical slur at the dubbing - it was just horrible. Luckily the DVD was in Cantonese most of the time, but when it changed to English dub (by its own will) it was just painful to listen to. These movies are meant to be watched with the original language track. English dubbing always has, and always will, be a horrible experience.And the ending of the movie, well I was stunned at that. It just ended immediately after the final showdown. It was the most abrupt and sudden ending to any movie that I have ever witnessed. "},{"Title":"More wine please!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Wonderful, brilliant, fantastic are a few words used to describe this film. This is one of the few Jackie Chan films that have got everything including, of course humour. The Kung-Fu is top rate and it's good entertainment. Let's hope Jackie Chan can get back to this top form.  "}{"Title":"more  than  action","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" the beauty of fight scenes choreography. the humor. the story. a rare film for the precise science to create a charming atmosphere using small pieces of story. Jackie Chan does one of his memorable roles and that fact is result of beautiful art of character nuances exploration. a film about basic values who has the rare gift to be more than a fight one or a good comedy but an inspired mixture of different ingredients who reminds Hong Kong cinema industry inspiration. the honor, the relation master - young disciple, the courage and the force of good are the same like in many films of genre. but something is different. and that detail is important for impose Drunken Master as a real great example of action films genre. "},{"Title":"a old dated Chan film but entertaining","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Drunken master 1979 is old and dated . It was disappointing since it has a reputation to be a Chan classic , it is no classic the performances by a the cast were OK and annoying for a martial art film it does deliver as Jakie and beggar Sui go through training and long term practice so Jakie can master the eight drunken gods a martial art style of drunk mortal fight art. So the comedy of drunken master was fun there are many gags and characters who fight Chan that result in an funny ending , it is annoying that the films quality in every aspect is bad but the film was a lot more fun in 1979 . So it has fun elements and decent effects and martial arts fights of the time but its dull .Jakie in the film plays a comic look on Chinese folk hero Wong fie hung that is boring and yet again he is called Freddie Wong shown in the subtitles .My review drunken master is half entertaining and half dulla "},{"Title":"True Classic","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is classic. Sure it is a great kungfu movie but I think everyone who watches movies not only for entertainment should watch this movie as well. Not the best movie ever made, but on the other hand it is classic Jackie Chan movie, and at least one of the most important movies ever made in Asian Cinema. It's one of those movies which you can see it and then have an exact idea how the movies from that decade looked like.The movie has funny scenes and some nice fight scenes. I personally prefer teacher-role from Snake in the Eagle's Shadow, but this one is good as well. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and full of action!","Date":"23 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is the movie which made Jackie so popular. He plays Wong fei-hung (Dubbed as Freddie wong - haha) a 20 year old martial arts student sent to train with his Uncle. He defeats an assassin named Thunderleg. It is based on a true character called Wong fei-hung but you don't need to know about him to be able to understand the movie. Most people just enjoy the movie on its own.I'd sayHumour 9/10 Action 9/10 Entertainment 9/10I love it!But the acting could actually be a bit better, especially Charlie Way at the beginning. But this is a must-see for any Jackie Chan fan. Watch it now! "},{"Title":"Funny and great 70's kung fu film.","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Rated PG-13 for martial arts violence and language. Quebec RatingG Canadian Home Video RatingPGDrunken Master was the film that made Jackie Chan famous in China.The sequel to this film Legend Of The Drunken Master(which most of us know) was released in 1994 then in 2000 in America.Legend Of The Drunken Master is arguably Chan's best film.This film and Snake In The Eagle's Shadow introduced the now famous martial arts/comedies.Drunken Master is more than just a cheap Kung Fu film from the 70's.It has a better story and its just more funny and good than others.This film is about a young boy who always jokes around and causes trouble.So his father sends him to an old drunk man who teaches him the art of drunken boxing.There is also an assassin called Thunderfoot who is at large.Using Drunken Boxing Chan must kill Thunderfoot and save his father from being killed.Drunken Master is a great Chan film and I recommend it.Runtime112min 9/10 "},{"Title":"Starts out great but loses itself in exercising sequences","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I must admit that Jui kuen is one of the better martial arts films I've seen from Hong Kong, but it is certainly not one of the best. As a rule I prefer Jackie Chan to Bruce Lee and it was obvious from the beginning. There is a lot of comedy in Chan's film and that, together with the good acting by the cast made a great beginning of the film. Towards the middle though, the film tended to follow standard formula and got a bit boring (as do most martial arts films) as we watched Jackie train and train and train. After that the film just never got back on his feet and even some of the supposedly funny scenes and comments made a somewhat cheesy impression on me. I, for one recommend everybody to go and see Jui kuen II (The Legend of the Drunken Master) which is a real masterpiece and recommend this only to the real martial arts/kung fu fans.6,75 out of 10 (a 7 given upon voting)  "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan's Best Movie Ever","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Before I start, I've seen a good number of martial arts movies before and flat out, Drunken Master is the best of them all. To truly enjoy this film, you should purchase the DVD-version. The only flaw comes during the dubbing between the English and Chinese/Cantonese. For me, I much prefer watching films like these in its original language, but even if you set up for Catonese, some of the scenes are still in English. Doesn't matter, it sure won't kill the fun of Drunken Master. Besides all the kung-fu action going on, Drunken Master is simply hilarious with Chan showing that he is a talented actor, both stunt coordinated and comedic. Never mind his horrible US films such as The Tuxedo and Rush Hour 2, Drunken Master is Jackie Chan's best performance ever.And you know what? Drunken Master has a pretty damn strong supporting cast as well. Yuen Hsiao Tien is absolutely wonderful playing So Hi, or known as Sam Seed in the English version. His ragged persona helps bring character to his drunken kung-fu style. There's also great and funny characters such as Bullet Head, Mr. Stick, and Gorilla who happen to play as Fei-Hong's nemesis.I must admit, Drunken Master lives up to be one of the movies that deserves classic status. You have to understand that this movie is part of the Hong Kong film industry which focuses on kung-fu movies. But to me, Drunken Master is way much more than a kung-fu flick. It's unfortunate that this film isn't a cult hit because it easily could have made a following. It's rare to see a film such as Drunken Master to have an emphasis on both martial arts and comedy. Bruce Lee would be turning in his grave if he witnessed Drunken Master, but amazingly, that's what the highlight of the movie is. Don't let this one pass you by, this is a title you would want to keep for a long time. "},{"Title":"Classic Chan","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Yuen Woo Ping's legendary comedy/kung fu film Drunken Master (1978) was the film that made Jackie Chan finally the star he is even today. Snake in the Eagle's Shadow (1978) by the same people was also a huge hit and popular and gave signs of the forthcoming Chan phenomenon. There's hardly any plot in Drunken Master, but Jackie plays the hero Wong Fei-Hong, a wild and young boy whose father sends him away from home to the torturous training of Beggar Su/Sam Seed, played again by Siu Tien Yuen, the father of director Woo Ping. He played the same role of the sympathetic old man also in Snake in the Eagle's Shadow. Jackie soon learns the drunken kung fu style, a unique fighting technique, which he eventually uses against those who are planning to kill his father. To be honest, the plot isn't necessary in this film, it is even more unnecessary than in Snake.The fight choreography and techniques are great to say the least, and those this film definitely delivers! There's hardly any boring moments and there's always something going on. The training sequences are painful looking but also look effective and thus understandable in order to learn the martial art. The fights are very imaginative and funny, and what makes this film even more enjoyable is that it is genuinely funny in most cases and made me laugh or smile, which isn't always the case with Hong Kong comedies. The humor works, but I think the jokes involving eating and/or puking aren't really funny but tasteless and unnecessary, as well as those stupid face expressions of Jackie's and some others' as they just try to make the film more entertaining and lighter, which I don't think is necessary, because they are too EASY ways and surely appeal to the audience which doesn't really like any more challenging cinema or something more serious.Drunken Master is not as serious or impressive as Tsui Hark's Wong Fei Hong films Once Upon a Time in China (starring Jet Li), but still I like Drunken Master very much due to the fact that it is funny for most of the time and irritating just occasionally. This film hasn't got many things to say and depict like Tsui's films, for instance, but rarely these comic kung fu films do. They have marvellous martial art fights and choreographies, and on this level, Drunken Master isn't an exception.8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best ever!","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Generally, I don't think of martial arts films as being spectacular entertainment for everyone. However, this movie is unique in the way it handles story and action. The story is simple, yet solid (A young unruly kid sent to uncle for discipline - it's a film about growing up. He must also overcome the dark forces that shadow his uncle and, as a result, himself). Also, the characters all have great depth. What's on the surface isn't what is always in the heart. The Drunken Boxing developed for this movie is brilliant! Even one not normally into fight sequences will be drawn to watch in amazement.As good as the movie is, not everyone will like it, and that's understandable. Still, I can't think of one person who can deny the fact that this movie has some of the best realistic martial arts fight sequences of all time! If it isn't number one, it's real close. If I had to pick one martial arts film for someone to see as their first, I would pick this (Karate Kid doesn't count!). "},{"Title":"I LOVE IT!","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is it what we all have waited since we were born(-81). Jackie is the MAN! I think we all have to see this to feel ourselves smart or atleast pretty good martial artists... "}{"Title":"The definition of a game-changer","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" You know all those average-to-terrible late 70s and 80s kung-fu comedies where some rural brat goes under the reluctant tutelage of some hard-headed old beggar? Blame Drunken Master. Yes, it's a continuation of the direction the genre was heading--the identically casted Snake in the Eagle's Shadow was basically the prototype to this movie--but this one takes that formula to such kinetic, physically generous and poetic levels that it has to mark the middle of that U-turn from chivalry to scrappy underdog stuff. It's the little things that make it work Yuen Woo-ping's sudden fearlessness about injuring his actors. The film's embrace of nature, capturing vast coves and dragonflies buzzing about during fights. The three-dimensional love-hate relationships between Jackie and his father & master. Tasteful music selection, ranging from traditional Chinese stuff (not the faux-ethnic Panda Express kind!) to a sort of cool, understated funk, to a tastefully ominous orchestral motif accompanying drunken boxing shapes that invoke gods. Also, the directing is surprisingly experimental for this sorta thing note spacial gags like when Jackie secretly uses a bench in horse stance, and the camera sees it instead of the characters due to its position. Also, that part where the image of Hwang Jang Lee reflects off the surface of a closeup of Jackie's eye (!!!) while delivering a flurry of misdirecting hand movements. While some of the physical comedy surprisingly hits its mark, it can admittedly get rather painful, but it's sort of a matter of degrees with old kung-fu movies; it's never really obtrusive here, which counts a lot.While the 90s sequel Drunken Master II (known in the US as Legend of Drunken Master) has a more iconic, distinctly aged Jackie pushing himself even further physically, it's disastrously plotted and lacks the bustling energy & pure archetypal oldschool vibe of this one. I'd say it shows Golden Harvest on their last leg creatively speaking, but no one seems to notice because IT HAS JAKKY CHEN. Anyway. The more I see this one, the fewer peers I realize it has. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan's Best Pre-1980 Film","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This film is notable as Jackie Chan's best pre-1980 film. He stars as the legendary Wong Fei-hung in this outstanding example of a kung fu comedy, which would later become Chan's unique trademark. It is was his best film to date. Wong is an undisciplined, mischievous young man that is sent to learn maturity and discipline in the form of a special variety of the martial arts. His teacher is an old master Yuen Siu Tin, the director's father. The training and discipline sequences are simultaneously grueling and comic. Director Yuen Woo Ping expertly blends the fight sequences with the comedy in a manner, which had previously not been seen. For example, note the scene where Jackie does the sit-ups suspended upside down, while having to fill a bucket with water using sake cups! It's very impressive physically as well as being funny. The fight choreography is outstanding from Yuen Ho Ping and Hsu Hsia, who both are in the film as well. In particular, the Eight Drunk styles of fighting training sequence and the final fight with Huang Cheng-Li as Thunderfoot are highlights. However, the acting is mostly below average, as usual in kung fu films. The dialog isn't very good either at times. There is no real plot development to speak of, just an endless barrage of fantastic fight sequences. What is unique is the execution of the formula in conjunction with comedy a strong indicator of what was to come in Chan's career. This film also marked the end of Jackie's association with legendary hack director Lo Wei. He was on loan to Seasonal Films for this production and the film became a huge box office success. **1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Best martial arts movie ever!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Jackie Chan shows off his talents in martial arts and comedy in this entertaining movie. Yuen Woo Ping (who also choregraphed the kung fu scenes in the Matrix) manages to blend action and comedy and gets great perfomances from the cast including his father(Yuen Siu Tien)who plays Sam Seed. "},{"Title":"110 minutes of acrobatic physicality that is mindless, heartless, and without a story","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The film that made Jackie Chan a star, Yuen Wo-Ping's Drunken Master constitutes a departure from previous Hong Kong cinema with its intensely comedic elements, while paying tribute to more ancient Chinese cultural traditions. The movie has very little plot relying instead on Jackie Chan's low-brow, Three Stooges-esquire comedic timing, and his acrobatic ability.It begins with an action scene and really doesn't let up until the very end of the film. The plot concerns a feckless kung fu student (Chan) whose father forces him to study the fighting style of the Eight Drunken Gods. Of course, this means that Jackie fights his many opponents acting as if he is drunk. His physical comedy is impressive, such as his drunken stagger, his slapstick demeanor, and his acrobatic artistry is breathtaking. Chan was raised in the Peking opera, where he learned acrobatics and dancing in addition to the martial arts. This gives his fighting style a unique fluidity, as he tumbles, falls, and leaps out of the way of opponent's blows rather than confronting them head on, fist-to-fist. Most of the movie is really just him using his acrobatics to escape from superior enemies rather than actually fighting them. As impressive physically as this is, few fights actually seem to have any resolution, meaning that the fights do little to advance the narrative, functioning similarly to Busby Berkeley show-stoppers in his 1930 musicals. Most of Chan's comedy is low humor, involving bodily functions, vomiting, hitting other people a la the Three Stooges, drunkenness, and harassing the opposite sex. The action scenes become monumentally repetitive, having a mind-numbing effect on the viewer by the time you reach the end of the movie. The acting is distorted and exaggerated for comedic effect, but becomes shamelessly boring when combined with the redundant action scenes. The only reason why I give this movie a 5 is for Chan's acrobatic ability. Really, that is the only thing going for this movie, since Yuen Wo-Ping doesn't concentrate at all on mastering the film's formal qualities. The editing is choppy with poor coverage of the individual scenes. Clearly all the fight scenes were edited in camera, so the emphasis is more on the choreography of the fights rather than the filming of them, making them seem rather static and lifeless actually. The movie fails in its formal, textual qualities, so its only draw is Jackie Chan's childish humor and acrobatics. "}]