[{"Title":"A Great Mature Kurosawa Film","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"52 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I am a fan of Kurosawa and have seen many of his films many times. There is a sweep and an ache to Kagemusha that is genuine and has remained in my heart's memory. Unlike Ran, it is not Shakespearean. Unlike Seven Samurai, my favorite all-time film and I believe the best film ever made, it is not a western. Although epic, it is about a sweet and rueful soul swallowed by karma and history. It is redemptive without overt sentiment, and the lead performance by Tatsuya Nakadai is nuanced and unforgettable. I will always remember this film, not for its complexity or savagery, but for the simplest moments between Lord and subject, between the highest self and the lowest self, and most particularly, the very real pain of a man caught in the vise of his own life and death. "},{"Title":"A great film that grows on you","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"45 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Kagemusha is one of those films which wasn't intended as a great success, yet it became that, winning the Golden Palm and giving Kurosawa back his much needed acclaim in Japan and re-establishing his reputation as the giant of Asian cinema. Although Kurosawa himself thought of this film as a mere dress rehearsal,a preparation for Ran, Kagemusha carries its own distinctive essence which makes it a work in the same category as its successor.The story deals around one of the greatest feudal lords and generals in Japan's history, Takeda Shingen, showing his unexpected and untimely demise. Although Shingen is the most powerful figure here, he is used as a monument around which everything revolves and not as the principal hero.This film is full of sad and tragic moments, starting with Shingen's untimely death and culminating with the rebuking of his impersonator, Kagemusha. Nakadai plays the dual roles wonderfully. He is so emotionally involved in his part as Kagemusha that it seems almost uncanny. Thus we see why Kurosawa has chosen him as Mifune's successor. The other actors are also splendid and specially young Daisuke Ryu makes a startling appearance as Shingen's arch rival Oda Nobunaga.The ending is very hard to watch, both the scene where Kagemusha is thrown out in the rain and the last scene which illustrates the death of the Takeda clan. What makes this film a pleasure to watch is the incredible cinematography and photography, specially in the incredible dream sequence where the ghost of Shingen chases Kagemusha through red clouds, as well as the hauntingly beautiful music and marvelous performances.All in all, this is a great film that will grow on you the more you watch it. Although Ran is more spectacular and gripping, Kagemusha is more compelling because of its epic nature. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Better than Shakespeare","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"59 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I saw the director's cut about twenty years after I first saw the film. Kagemusha is as magnificent now as before, but what has changed in the meantime is my appreciation of the meaning of Shakespeare's plays. The history plays and most of the tragedies were about the political dilemmas facing the new Tudor state. The Elizabethan audience sat on the edge of their seats waiting to see how political order might be restored once it had been set in disarray. The Wars of the Roses sequence culminates in the late political tragedies -- Julius Caesar, Macbeth, Hamlet and Lear. The question is always the same. How is an impersonal modern state possible when its leader is a person, the King? Or is rule by office compatible with the human flaws of the person occupying it? Shakespeare was the client of a conservative aristocratic faction, no rabble-rousing democrat he. But he went so deep into this political question in the course of writing all his plays that he dug deeper into this core issue of modern politics than anyone since.Kurosawa approaches the same question through the notion of a double,the shadow of a warrior, Kagemusha. Here the contrast between the office of the political leader and its personal incumbent is brought vividly to life in so many ways. The period is the Japanese equivalent of England's War of the Roses, the transition from feudalism to the beginnings of the modern state. The losing side in this case is the one that tries to resolve the contradiction of personality and office by a subterfuge, a thief masquerading as a lord. The winning side and founder of the Japanese state is the Tokugawa clan. The climactic battle symbolises the passage from traditional to modern warfare, as the horses of the losers are mown down by fusillades of gunfire. The credits run as the corpse of the double crosses a submerged flag whose abstract symbolism shows us which aspects of feudalism the modern state will borrow. Personality is vanquished.The aesthetic vision animating this movie is incredible. There is so much to look at and admire, perhaps interpret. One striking feature for me was the persistent strong breeze ripping through the banners, a symbol of the winds of change running through 16th century Japan, contemporary to Shakespeare's period. Because this drama was made by and for the modern cinema, in many ways Kurosawa's masterpiece is better than Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"My God, Look at Those Colors!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"66 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Akira Kurosawa is certainly one of the most important directors who ever lived. Most of his most famous films were made in the 50s and 60s. Rashomon, Ikiru, Yojimbo, and The Seven Samurai may be the four most famous films he made, and they were all in black and white. That format was wonderful. His films had a definitive look in that era. I would like to suggest, though, that he was the single best director of the color image who has existed thus far (whose work I am familiar with). I have only seen two of his color films (I don't even know how many he made), this film and Ran, but his sense of color in these two films is exquisite. I had to pause it several times during Kagemusha just to stare at the beautiful composition. I personally think that Kurosawa's talents rested mainly in the technical aspects of his films rather than the content (and I'm sure many people would argue against me here). So as for the film itself, I'd give it a 9/10 for two reasons. I was only emotionally involved during small sections of the film (the end was particularly powerful), and the story was somewhat difficult to follow (I was confused during Yojimbo and The Seven Samurai, too). I prefer Ran to this film (and to all the other films of his I've seen, which include Rashomon, The Seven Samurai, and Yojimbo). Still, Kagemusha is very good. "},{"Title":"One of the best serious samurai-movies","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This film is one of Kurosawa's masterpieces and gives an profound insight in the pre-Tokugawa period of Japan. Especially remarkable is the very elaborated atmosphere of this film to which contribute the pure and simple dialogues and the use of very well-made sceneries. Kurosawa's favorite actor Tatsuya Nakadai is here at his best.  Although the atmosphere is very elaborated and almost perfectly historic; tension of the viewer is heightened by the simplicity of the scenes. Kurosawa leaves certain parts to the viewer's imagination rather than showing it. The movie is highly philosophical as well as emotionally touching and presents the soul of the way of samurai and Japan's old samurai system much better and more serious than countless cheap- and bad-made martial arts movies about samurai. This is a warning to all who expect fast martial arts action and blood covered katana. This film is a Kurosawa-style mixture between opulent costume- drama, a philosophic and tragic story and the sensitivity only Kurosawa has displaying Japan's traditional way-of-life.  "},{"Title":"A grand spectacle of samurais and shoguns.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  What happens to the doppelganger when the original dies?  Does he flitter out of existence or does he find his own.  Kagemusha (shadow warrior in Japanese) is the story of a thief who is to be hanged, but is saved by a warlord's brother, Katsuyori Takeda, because of a peculiar resemblance to the king Shingen Takeda.  Tatsuya Nakadai brilliantly plays both roles of Shingen and the thief.  The thief is trained to fill in as Shingen's double, a position previously played by his brother Katsuyori.  Shingen receives a mortal wound during a siege and the Takeda Clan retreat.  His dying wish is that he wants his death not to be known for at least three years.  Kagemusha eventually acquiesces to the role of not just doubling for the king, but being a figurehead twenty-four hours a day. The intimate circle of Shingen's family and guard knows about the double.  They advise him about how to be like Shingen.  He plays the part well.  Shingen's son Nobukado, who knows that he is the double, is convinced that his father did this to spite him.  Nobukado was passed over as king and that position was granted to Shingen's grandson and Nobukado's son Takemaru as soon as he reaches of mature age.  Later in the film, we realize that Shingen did this because Nobukado is too aggressive and is not leader material, not to spite him.  The backing of Kagemusha helped Nobukado's one great military victory.  Nobukado would forever be in Shingen's shadow. The relationships between the thief and the Lord's men make this a fascinating film.  There is a rich tapestry of multidimensional characters.  To some critics the action was too slow.  It was not as fast paced as The Seven Samurai or Yojimbo.  I think it is a mature film from a maturing director who would go on to direct another of my favorite films Ran.  This film was nominated for two academy awards and would co-win the grand prize at the Cannes Film Festival.  The juxtaposition between the titanic and minute is a favorite concept of Kurosawa.  Stolid men have tragic faults. Beggars can be kings.Kurosawa is one of the world's most famous directors.  Yet in the 1980's, he did not get much respect from his home country Japan.  He had not had released a film since 1975 -- the beautiful and brilliant Dersu Uzala and he was reportedly suicidal.  This film would not have been made if it were not for George Lucas and Francis Ford Coppola whom helped finance this film.  Lucas has always been a big fan of Kurosawa.  Star Wars was partially influenced by Kurosawa's film The Hidden Fortress.  I am a big fan of Kurosawa too.  His films always have the most beautiful cinematography, intricate plots and grand characters. Kagemusha is no exception.  "},{"Title":"incredibly BIG and beautiful but also very sterile","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"56 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I have seen nearly all of Akira Kurosawa's films, so my opinion shouldn't be completely ignored. Although I am in the distinct minority, I didn't particularly like KAGEMUSHA. Yes, it was big and beautiful and had great scope but it was also emotionally sterile and bore little resemblance to Kurosawa's earlier, more famous works. The same, by the way, can be said about RAN. Both films had relatively HUGE budgets but the dialog and connectedness between the characters was lacking. As a result, I felt pretty bored when I watched both of them--especially this film. So, if you compare these two movies with THE 7 SAMURAI or YOJIMBO, for example, they seem VERY different. These older films, though not filmed in color, had a greater sense of humanity about them--great importance was placed on the INTERRELATIONSHIPS between the characters AND the camera work was very different, with more closeups and a more intimate feel. So, while RAN and KAGEMUSHA were pretty to look at, I felt much more detached from them and cared much less about the characters. I really think the problem with these two movies, and the reason I like them less than the average Kurosawa film, was that the big budget in these later films actually HURT them, as too much emphasis was placed on effects and dialog was purely secondary.So, in summary, I am the odd-ball that didn't love this film. You will probably disagree and might be tempted to mark my review as not helpful, as the reviews on IMDb are generally glowing. But having seen many Japanese films, I can't help but feel there are better films out there waiting to be seen. Most any other Kurosawa film, and films by other great directors (such as THE SAMURAI TRILOGY, the films of Yasujiro Ozu) are more appealing to me. I think the popularity of this film is in part due to its having been seen in theaters by more Westerners than any other of Kurosawa's films--SEEK OUT HIS EARLIER AND MID-CAREER FILMS--they are better and far more emotionally involving. "},{"Title":"Another spectacular samurai film from Akira Kurosawa.","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Kagemusha is one of Kurosawa's later films, in which he deals with such themes as vicarious existence and other personal illusions. One of the main ideas in the film is that if you deny your own personality as an individual and take on the superficial appearance of someone else, you may experience gain and even happiness, but eventually you are sure to be forced back to being yourself again, and you may find yourself worse off than before.  There is a piece of dialogue in the film that very clearly backs this up. The late Lord Shingen's brother, in an emotional scene, says, `I was once in my brother's shadow. Now that I have lost him, it is as though I am nothing.'Kagemusha is the story of three different warlords who are all fighting for sole leadership of Japan. This premise is the foundation for the plot of the film. When one of the warlords is killed by a sniper, his clan tries to keep his death a secret so they can avoid invasion and defeat at the hands of the other two clans. In order to do that, they make use of a petty thief who bears a striking resemblance to the late Lord Shingen, and he is put in the place of Shingen so that his death is not known by the other clans. At first, this thief (known as Kagemusha), revels in the luxury and comfort of being in the place of Lord Shingen. He is thrilled to be the king, and he literally becomes the leader of the clan simply because he bore such a strong resemblance to the previous leader. As his true identity gradually becomes clear, the other clans begin to investigate his death, suspecting that he is not really dead. Kagemusha's true identity is soon discovered (although in the story, he remained in Lord Shingen's place for over two years), and he is coarsely cast out of the castle and into exile. Kagemusha is left to helplessly witness the subsequent overthrow and destruction of the clan, over which he understandably seems to have developed some paternal feelings. He must now live his life with the feeling that he failed all of those people and was responsible for the destruction of their clan.When we are first introduced to Kagemusha (in the opening scene of the film), we find out immediately that he is a petty thief, as Lord Shingen and one of his advisors are discussing (in his presence) his striking and almost disturbing resemblance to Shingen. For the vast majority of the rest of the film, Kagemusha is seen in the place of Lord Shingen, and he is ironically more likeable than the late Lord. He is more humorous, he treats his mistresses better, he even gets along with the Lord's own immediate family (especially Takemaru) better than Shingen did, so the audience is able to develop a very positive attitude toward him. However, it is always subtly known that he is still the thief that was picked off the streets early in the film, and this is the life to which he eventually is forced to return.There is a fairly significant example of irony in Kagemusha, because of the events following Kagemusha's &#145;inauguration' into the place of Lord Shingen. He is a petty thief in real life, and he is put into the place of Shingen for no other reason than that he looks so much like him, yet he turns out to be a very competent leader. His skill in making decisions led to the victory of many battles; it even seemed that he was a more capable leader in this way than the rest of Shingen's council. It is ironic that a thief could be picked off the streets and put into a position of power, and lead as skillfully as Kagemusha does. Kurosawa utilizes extensive long takes, employing a film technique that seems to draw more attention to the story itself rather than the cinematography. As is almost a Kurosawa trademark, there are many shots in the film where the camera as well as the characters on screen are largely motionless, but they are engaged in significant an often heated conversation. Keeping in mind that Kagemusha is at least partly a war film, this particular technique suggests that Kurosawa wanted the audience to have a deep understanding of the story behind the film, and he used this muted technique to make sure that people were not distracted during important scenes. Kurosawa uses this realistic filmmaking technique to allow the characters tell the story, rather than to fill the movie with fancy camera tricks. Very unobtrusive, with incredible results.  "},{"Title":"A Colorful Art of the War","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" In 1572, there is a civil war in Japan, and three powerful clans, leaded by the lords Shingen Takeda (Tatsuya Nakadai), Nobunaga Oda (Daisuke Ryu) and Ieyasu Tokugawa (Masayuki Yui), dispute the conquest of Kyoto. When Shingen is mortally wounded, the Takeda clan hides the incident and uses a poor thief to be the double of the strategist Shingen and keep the respect of their enemies. Along the years, Kagemusha incorporates the spirit of the warrior of the dead warlord.Kagemusha is another awesome movie of Master Akira Kurosawa, where the colors are very impressive. I can highlight, for example, the nightmare of Kagemusha on the clouds; the rainbow on the beach; the flags and costumes of the warriors in the battlefield. Therefore, the cinematography of this film is spectacular, especially because most of Kurosawa's movies are in black & white. The performance of Tatsuya Nakadai is stunning and very touching in the final scenes, when he is expelled like a street-dog from the clan, and in the fields during the final battle. The strategies of the war used in this movie, with the wind, the forest, the flame and the mountain, recall parts of the famous Sun Tzu book. I like also to see the medieval feudalistic Japanese culture, totally different from the Western standards, and is also a great attraction for me. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Kagemusha &#150; A Sombra do Samurai (Kagemusha &#150; The Shadow of the Samurai) "},{"Title":"Another Brilliant Epic","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This is a great epic of war and a film of great emotion. At the center is a man who has nothing. He is thrust into a world he didn't create. He is a petty thief and really would like to just get on with his life. What he also has is great loyalty to his now deceased lord, and despite his great concern for his ability to carry it off, he agrees to the position. He has to know that at some point this will all come crashing down. The Samurai code makes it so that he has few options. He runs the war the best he can but occasionally falls victim to who he is. Even with advisers watching his every move, he becomes so much a part of the entire picture that he is left to destroy himself, and, in the process, the clan that he represents. The battle scenes are remindful of the other huge films like Ran and Throne of Blood. They sweep across the screen with the flag carrying horsemen and the infantry fighting until there is nothing left but total carnage. Because of the complexity of the story and the wonderful acting, I would put this at or near the top of my Kurosawa list. "}{"Title":"Akira Kurosawa Strikes Back!","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  After spending a decade (or so) in solitary confinement from the Japanese Film Industry Akira Kurosawa returns to make his semi-masterpiece Kagemusha, which he called a dress-rehearsal for Ran, made in 1985.Kagemusha is, probably, the best example of cinematic overkill where nobody actually cares. Cinematic overkill is when someone constructs a complex multi-layered movie, stage epic-battles, introduce likeable and complex characters without having a very complicated message. The message of Kagemusha is simply this If you pretend long enough to be something else you'll become it. Too simple, maybe, for what's delivered.Not that Kagemusha is a bad movie. It's haunting, it's spectacular and it's just great. I keep thinking about it over and over. I can't get it out of my head. Simply put Kagemusha is a masterpiece, albeit one up for debate. Not all Kurosawa fans would like it, but that's they're business. Personally, this is one of the movies currently that I'd really like to see again.PS Thank goodness for George Lucas and Francis Ford Copolla who funded this movie.  "},{"Title":"A Long, But Fantastic, Film.","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Akira Kurosawa's Kagemusha (1980) is one of those tremendously long films that somehow never drags. The plot is about a petty thief who is about to be crucified but is saved by a Japanese warlord called Lord Shingen because of his amazing resemblance to him and is used as a double. When the Lord is killed, and because of a plan laid by Shingen before he died, the so-call Shadow Warrior must impersonate the Lord for three years. Aided by this clever plot, Kurosawa shows us Japanese court ritual, with help by a brilliant performance by Tatsuya Nakadai, gives a fascinating picture of fifteenth century Japan. This a fabulous movie, with a particularly moving ending, that shows just how great Akira Kurosawa is. "},{"Title":"A big, beautiful bore","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This one is known by many to be a 'warm-up' to Ran. Perhaps that should have been a warning, as I wasn't a huge fan of that film. But still, I remained interested in this one and it looked good. But lordy did I find this one a big, beautiful, empty bore. I mean, sure, the visuals are crazy good at times, lovely colors, and it is just in general a great looking movie. Excellent design and all. But at the same time I sort of feel that's all that was to it.The performances here aren't nearly as stilted or obnoxious as some in Ran, and in fact I really like Tatsuya Nakadai in this. The problem here is that I don't think anyone involved was given much interesting material to work with. It isn't that I don't think there is an interesting story to be told here, but I sort of see this movie as a missed opportunity. Instead of focusing more on developing the character of the impersonator, too much time is spent on scenes of rival sides scheming and questioning if Shingen is alive or dead. Things seem to only be addressed on the surface and the character interactions are never given enough time to breath. More importantly, this might not be as much of a problem if the film didn't move at such an excruciating pace. Some films are deliberately paced a certain way and some films are slow-burning, but this one just feels slow, period, and without much of a purpose most of the time.Additionally, I often found that scenes and drama were laboriously set-up within the story, then those scenes slowly unfolded, and then there is little actual pay-off. Take for instance the section of the story where the one Clan leader decides to send a priest carrying medicine as a supposed gift to Shingen, but really they want to find out if Shingen is actually alive or not. This is thoroughly explained by the Clan leader. Then when the priest arrives, Shingen (or the impersonator) and his fellow leaders discuss how they KNOW what the other Clan leader is up to, and how they must hide it! Then when the scene actually HAPPENS there ends up being little to no tension and nothing actually comes of it. It's just completely frustrating to watch! Scenes go on forever and sometimes the film just feels dead. All of a sudden then we'll cut to a scene of rousing music as men on horse-back prepare for battle. It felt like it all had no real flow at all. Even the battle scenes were really disappointing -- the ones at night were very hard to follow.I will admit that the movie can be a stunner at times. That ending is really something, but even then it feels like the film is shouting LOOK HOW EPIC AND TRAGIC I AM!!!! Sort of like Ran, really. But in retrospect, this film makes me appreciate Ran even more, for where that movie sort of falls apart for me in its later stages, at least it had a little umpf to it. Kagemusha feels like it never actually gets off the ground. Kurosawa is a great filmmaker, but I can't get behind this one. "},{"Title":"perhaps the most visually stylistic in the plethora of films by the greatest Japanese director and one heck of a motion picture","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Akira Kurosawa (1910-1998) was one of the true masters of the cinema. It was he and people like him that proved to the audience that film-making is not merely a gallimaufry of the various forms of entertainment, but art. Film-making is art inside as well as out. And Kurosawa's dark and brilliant 1980 film Kagemusha qualifies without fault. Though the art is more apparent on the outside, there is plenty of it inside as well.Kagemusha translates in English as Shadow Warrior the alias given to the unnamed protagonist of the film. The Kagemusha is a condemned bandit who is saved from the gallows when the brother of daimyo Takeda Shingen discovers that he bears a striking resemblance to the bloodthirsty dictator. The bandit is promised freedom if he impersonates the war-mongering lord for three years in order to confuse his enemies. However, when the real Shingen is shot and killed by a sharpshooter, the Kagemusha is forced to take all responsibilities of the lifestyle of the lord such as commanding his armies, outwitting his enemies, and serving as a father-figure to his grandson.The Kagemusha is played by veteran actor Tatsuya Nakadai, whom fought against Toshiro Mifune in both Yojimbo and Sanjuro and would later work on Akira Kurosawa's highly acclaimed 1985 film Ran. He also plays the real Takeda Shinge in the opening portion of the film and Nakadai is utterly brilliant in the way he switches between both roles even though these two men are, in a way, identical. It's the way Nakadai acts that we can sense a character difference between the two. An enormous deal of credit is also due to the writers (one of whom is director Kurosawa) who made the brilliant decision of never revealing the actual name of the Kagemusha. And strangely enough, because the writing is so good and Nakadai's acting is so pure, though we don't know the man's name, we can identify and sympathize with him, which is exactly what we do in the last third of the movie. The most brilliant element of the film's human level is the way Nakadai bonds with the grandson of the man whom he is impersonating and the way he discovers that he is not only a better father figure, but a better person, than the actual ruler.Regardless of your opinion on the movie, there is one thing everybody agrees on there is beauty painted all over the screen. There's not a badly-lit or badly-composed frame in the entire film. We get a surreal, array-flooded nightmare sequence, gorgeous landscape shots, majestic views of the ocean, and much more. Kurosawa always storyboarded his films using painting as opposed to sketches and here he just let loose an array of passion and colors that undoubtedly mirror what he did while trying to sell the story to distributors. Like he would do with Ran, although not quite to the same extent, Kurosawa graphically re-enacts violence with an artistic, but harrowing nature that is completely foreign to the glorified, stimulating duels of Yojimbo. Blood is let loose in torrents throughout the film, but Kurosawa does not overdo it to the point where it might condescend into some kind of an unintentional comedy. The climax of the movie, a recreation of the 1575 Battle of Nagashino brilliantly generates a reaction from the audience and the famous four-minute montage of death and suffering that follows is truly gripping. Like the final showdown of Sergio Leone's The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly very little happens and this may sound like a premise for an overdrawn sequence, but every second of it is overwhelmingly strong. Perhaps the reason why Akira Kurosawa had such a difficult time getting backers was because he wanted absolute control over his films. Well, he hardly got support and in this case he needed financial assistance from Western admirers George Lucas and Francis Ford Coppola, but when he did have the money and the control, Kurosawa was relentlessly brilliant.The running time of Kagemusha will question the full extent of its audience as will the scenes where very little happens for a while, but for those who appreciate a good movie and have three hours to spare, this is a tremendously enthralling experience. Kagemusha boasts a lot of exterior display, but unlike a great many other movies that have the same accolade of looking good, Kurosawa's movie shows beauty beneath as well, on the human level, encompassing the audience with a heck of a story. It had me drawn in right from the very beginning. This is the definition of a motion picture.Footnote keep an eye out in the film for Takashi Shimura, one of Kurosawa's veterans (Seven Samura, Ikiru, Yojimbo, etc.) in one of his last performances. "},{"Title":"World's Best Movie Ever--Especially in Cultural Context (SPOILER ALERT)","Date":"27 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This is the best movie I have ever seen. In any language from any culture. I thought so when I first saw it thirty years ago and I still think so now, despite not being able to see it in its original mind- blowing wide-screen form. It is not just one of the most visually beautiful films ever done. The positive reviews are all accurate, but many focus too much on Kurosawa in general rather than on the particular theme of this film, which is closely tied to Japanese history and ideals, and which unites all the specific beauties of text and technique. This is not simply a film about historical belatedness (a lament that the ancient idea of heroes is now exposed by the modern world to be a hollow fantasy, as Ebert and other suggest), or the Shakespearian tragedy of inevitable discrepancy between individual and historical role, as in Henry V), although the film includes something of these elements. It is more--a beautiful elegy to a positive feudal ideal of leadership that goes beyond individual power to sacrifice for country--embodied in the figure of Takeda Shingin. Great tactician, unsurpassed rider of horses and women, inspiring and fearsome military leader, he is also a student of the Sutras and a man who stepped right into people's hearts, as one of his aides says. The opening scene shows he listens to criticism and has a sense of irony about himself; when the thief who is to play his double accuses him of being a murderer, he agrees but says he will do anything to unite the country in order to prevent endless war and bloodshed. The same actor plays the lord and his double with incredible depth and subtlety. Shingin is killed (by a gun) early in the movie; as he is dying he tells his generals not to let anyone know he's dead for three years--to let the thief replace him, so as to give the clan time to prepare for confrontation with the western- armed enemy--and, given that his clan is not armed with western firearms, not to move out of its own territory. The double or shadow warrior who takes his place begins to identify with the role and finds out that literal crucifixion (for theft) would have been nothing compared to the loneliness at the top where the weight of the world is on the leader's shoulders. Every moment of his existence requires that he sacrifice everything personal to a role that no one can ever fill perfectly, and that is now bereft of the one man who came closest to doing so. The kagemusha doesn't have Shingin's riding ability or his wounds or the depth of self-understanding to fill the lord's role and, when he cockily believes he can do so for a moment, he is discovered and thrown out. Neither he, nor any modern man trying to live an identity larger than himself--including the artist who, like the kagemusha, is creating a shadow of the ideal--can replace this feudal ideal which was superseded (literally, massacred at the end) starting over 400 years ago by Christianized and technologized decadence, represented by Nobunaga and Ieyasu. The kagemusha learns slowly, as we do, what the ABSENCE of the irreplaceable Shingin means to his people and symbolically to Japan. Many scenes build up as if to a great battle or political confrontation, and the generals keep the show going, but it is all hollow--the leader is gone. Shingin's ambitious and over-eager son then leads the Takeda clan out of the mountains--to a destruction by western technology reminiscent of Hiroshima and Nagasaki (especially since the historical battle was at a place named Nagashino). The point of the film is to show a lost ideal of the past which can never be regained and without which everything afterward is a shadow, like the kagemusha (shadow warrior). The double (like the artist) seems possessed with Shingen's ghost in the last scenes as he watches in horror while the son, in a self-centered Oedipal frenzy, destroys the flower of his people by moving beyond the legitimate limits of his territory and his scope, and the double can only throw a futile spear at the modern weaponry which destroys him. But a shadow identity from a meaningful past is better than none at all (Kurosawa shores these fragments against modern ruins at least as well as T.S. Eliot in The Waste Land). "},{"Title":"A mostly great effort by Kurosawa","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Another samurai epic by the master of the genre Akira Kurosawa; which, I find to be a mostly fulfilling attempt.The film follows the life of a peasant thief named Kagemusha who happens to look like the warlord of the Takeda clan Shingen. He is found by Shingen's brother Nobukado where he is trained to be Shingen's third body double in case of emergency. Of course this fate is realized when a assassin's sniper rifle finds Lord Shingen during a battle. Shengin remains alive for a while to let his men know that he wanted to be alive three more years for it was his goal to capture Kyoto and if he should die he would want it kept a secret so his clan would not go into disarray. Unfortunately Shingen passes from his wound and it is decided by the his cabinet that Kagemusha must pretend to be Shingen for three years (this secret is even kept from Shingen's family).It is important for his double to keep his persona for if his enemies were to suspect lord Shigen dead then they wouldn't have fear of attacking, but knowing that he may still be living made them second guess their attacks and kept the clan safe. It also helped to protect the clan from itself for the warlords replacement was a mere boy and a son who is blanketed by his father's shadow who is trying desperately to find himself(which is a major theme of the film).Their are many themes in this film of which to talk about but the most important one is finding ones self. Shingen's son Katsuyori is very lost even before his father's death. His son is the next in line to become leader of the clan ,which; brings him much embarrassment for he has felt his father was not fairing of him making him want to distance himself from Shingen's lore. These feelings later in the film become cataclysmic as certain discoveries are made. Kagemusha himself is lost between loyalty to his master and still knowing himself ,which; he is not able to be under the circumstances. There is a point in the film when he takes the persona too far it has dire consequences, but it puts things back in perspective for him where he finds what he truly loves.The first two hours of the film are phenomenal, but the battle sequences once began got a little confusing at times especially a scene at night where you're not sure who the friends or enemies are. I didn't fully understand the sequence until it had ended and I felt it was the weakest part of the film lasting I believe between 15-20 minutes. I wasn't a big fan of the ending also it felt a little rushed to me for Kurosawa ,which; I find to be out of character for him, but I will say the films final shot was magnificent.To Conclude I would say that despite the weak final act the rest of the film was very entertaining with an interesting premise and strong characters. If you are a Kurosawa fan you will love it as I did, however; it is definitely not in the category of Seven Samurai, or Roshomon. Visually astounding(the nightmare sequence was my favorite) at times and maybe a little confusing at others in the end it is to good of a film to pass up on even if it has its flaws. "},{"Title":"The shadow of a man","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Akira Kurosawa, acclaimed Japanese film writer and director, is probably best known in the west via his influence on many notable new wave era filmmakers. Here two of those Kurosawa acolytes, George Lucas and Francis Ford Coppola, repaid the debt as it were by helping to finance the Japanese veteran's most ambitious and stupendous epic yet. In spite of its grandeur, Kurosawa would later dismiss Kagemusha as a mere dress rehearsal for Ran, his even vaster epic of 1985. But when watching this earlier picture's awesome pageantry and historical re-enactment, one's likely response is some rehearsal! Kagemusha takes Kurosawa back to his biggest hits of the 1950s, being set in war-torn feudal Japan. However the focus is very different, moving away from the peasants, bandits and disgraced warriors as protagonists and small-scale human relations as his themes, now looking at the machinations of the highest echelon of that society, with an often cold and distant eye. Since his 1971 suicide attempt Kurosawa seemed to become more cynical and detached from human affairs, not just as a writer but also in his technical style as a director. Kagemusha contains very few close-ups, with even key dialogue scenes filmed with vast gaps between camera and actors, and objective god-shots for the busier scenes.And yet there are similarities here with Kurosawa's much earlier pictures, especially in the director's aesthetic use of movement and stillness within the frame. Check out the scene in which the soldiers hear an enemy playing a flute from across the lines. The men are completely motionless, and the only movement is a flickering fire in the background and the occasional twitch of a flag in the breeze. It makes for a considerably mystical moment. But this approach has a function beyond the aesthetic. The opening scene, filmed all in one shot, shows Lord Shingen, the impersonator (both played by Tatsuya Nakadai) and Nobukado (Tsotomu Yamazaki) all sat in the throne room. The impersonator does not speak until near the end of the scene, but our eyes are drawn to him because of his movements &#x96; the occasional change in posture or flash of the eyes &#x96; and the comparative stillness of the other two. This long unbroken take means the room, with its great floral crest, is imposed into our minds, and resonates later on when we see Nakadai in the same room, now instated as the lord.And despite the distances between camera and cast, the colourful costumes against plain backdrops really puts an emphasis on the people in Kagemusha, allowing them to express themselves through body language more than facial expression. Lead man Tatsuya Nakadai is really adept at this, putting so much feeling into a shrug of his shoulders or a turn of his head. When you see, in this picture, the complex vocal arrangements and stylised movements of the Noh troupe, or the drummers who are able to make two strikes a fraction of a beat apart, you see examples of precise co-ordination in many formal rituals of Japanese culture. Nakadai has that same precision and control over his body, and turns them towards both theatrical gesture and realist reaction. And in those one or two cases in which we get to see his face close-up we see his talent there too, an ability to display a real look of emotional injury.So far there is very little I have said about Kagemusha that one could not also say about the later epic Ran, with the exception of Ran being a little an even bigger production and a little more stylised. So perhaps Kurosawa was right to think of the earlier picture as being a lesser forerunner to the later one. And yet, Kagemusha has the edge over Ran in one aspect. Whereas Ran is a totally dismal and inhumane affair, Kagemusha retains the heart and humanism of Kurosawa's older pictures. Composer Shinichiro Ikebe provides a rousing orchestral score, shot through with a touch of melancholy, and this beautifully matches the tone of the whole piece. It may lack the hopeful message of Seven Samurai or Rashomon, but it has the same warm regard for its characters that, even with a more objective eye, Kurosawa allows us to share in. "},{"Title":"a wealth of historical color","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The tremendous Kagemusha is growing old. Kurosawa's genius, however, never dies, and this phenomenal three hours of Japanese color is as young as any film in the archives. The 180 minutes fly by watching such splendor. There are many memorable minutes that flare out brightly in this unbelievable film. Too many to bring back in one review. --SpoilersI'm especially thrilled to think of Shingen's royal crest, with this motto. The great Shogun Swift as the Wind, Silent as the Forest, Merciless as Fire, and Immoveable as the Mountain. Yet, his banner at the final frames of this gorgeous movie; with those words on it, lies beneath the waters of a seashore; finally beaten down. Kagemusha, his shadow warrior is seen above it, lamenting.Leading up to the climax, a particularly exquisite scene has the victorious foe Oda Nobunaga singing defiant words of a mighty Samurai. For the life of me, I wish I understood them. This wonderful actor, Daisuke Ryu; is absolutely mesmerizing as he dances, holding a fan in his hand! Only Kurosawa could have directed it. The thief who is made Kagemusha had the best lines in this script; Tatsuya Makadai, on his knees but laughing. He responds to the Lord; who denounces him ME, the THIEF? I only steal coins, You steal whole domains! What an unforgettable film! "},{"Title":"Historically Incorrect","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" In the midst of war between the warlords in the late 16th century, the most prominent of them all Shingen dies. A thief is hired to emulate Shingen so that Shingen's death remains a secret. After three years he is thrown out. Kagemusha is another great movie by Akira Kurusowa. Movie works at all levels. Action, direction, acting, plot and above all the message that its the designation thats important not the man. I have a personal problem with any script which talks about real people but tempers with the facts. This movie does that. Shingen is the most important figure in the medieval period in Japan. There is no mention anywhere in the history that his look alike ruled for three years. Other than that Its awesome. I think Kurusowa is one those great directors whose movies are bigger than the screen itself. The movie is unbelievable. Its a tear-jerker at times and very hard hitting. The whole movie is just about shadows. It seems movie is a good documentation of the behavior of the people in those days. Too good. A must watch. "},{"Title":"Under-rated and magnificent Shakespeaean return for Kurosawa","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I first saw this magnificent film at Cannes in 1980. In those romantic days before the building of the new Palais des Festivals in ugly concrete, the old Palais was a shining white building in the centre of the Croisette. I was there as a journalist and usually - even for the largest films (E.T, for example), the press conferences were in a top floor salon that accommodated around 150 maximum.For Kagemusha, however, the press conference was held in the auditorium of the Grand Palais itself. We all waited with baited breath as the great man appeared in his characteristic black outfit, to a thunderous applause about five minutes after the end of the film. I can't remember who moderated the questions, but I can remember how Kurosawa deftly skirted around questions of finance, which were passed over to a representative of Coppola and Lucas, but was thorough and forthcoming in answering questions about the shoot and his views on the thematic side of the film.But no one was very critical, as we had almost all been won over by this magnificent film - his first Japanese film for almost a decade. Although it was not alluded to in the press conference, the more I thought about Kagemusha, the more it seemed to me to be really very Shakespearean in theme - about the concept of kingship, and expressed the notion that the responsibility of kingship in itself imposes a certain nobility on the person who assumes it.In the early scenes, the Great Lord Shingen who commands the throne as the film opens, is totally regal in his comportment, which is greatly contrasted with that of the thief who is chosen to become his 'kagemusha' or shadow warrior. But gradually, as the film progresses, the kagemusha assumes more and more the regal characteristics of Shingen, while Shingen's relatives prove themselves unworthy.The film, like all of Kurosawa's mid- to late-period works, is visually magnificent with often symmetrical sets and bold clear use of colour in a quasi-symbolic way. At that time, when I was in my early thirties, I had drifted away from the earlier reverence I had for the director, in a misguided belief that one had to choose between Kurosawa and Mizoguchi &#x96; much as some people still think that you have to choose between Chaplin and Keaton. But Kagemusha made me realise that in Japanese cinema there was really an extraordinary triumvirate in Ozu, Mizoguchi and Kurosawa and no choice was necessary. I do not find this film any less wonderful than 'Ran'. "}{"Title":"Not one of Kurosawa's best.","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Kurosawa said it himself, this is a film that was designed as a dress rehearsal for RAN, and you can see it. Kagemusha has a lot of experimentation with shots, colors, and a fairly loose editing style with a kind of free form structure. It's essentially a giant experimentation for what could work in a film, and what doesn't. The style is fairly rushed as well. The kind of care or calculated artwork that we'd normally get from a Kurosawa film is simply not here.That's not to say that the film is bad, because it isn't, but the kind of careful craftsmanship that we're so used to with a Kurosawa has been given some high octane fuel, and as such we don't get shots that linger too long on one subject. Not shots that are muted in tone. We get lots of moving shots as well; pans, a few subtle zooms, and the occasional tracking shot. This isn't normal for a Kurosawa film. Again, here we have a kind of let's shoot this to see what we've got kind of movie. The culmination of which we will eventually see in the film he shot afterwards; RAN.Kagemusha is also a bit of a departure for Kurosawa in that it deals with real historical events and characters. Most of the films I've seen by Kurosawa have dealt with traditional fiction. But here we a kind of docudrama, albeit altered for dramatic effect and for the big screen. Again, not such a big deal here, because the film does work.Lots of people heap praises on this film, and where I admit to its craftsmanship, it's essentially a preparation for another film. Watch it for what it's worth and enjoy what you can. "},{"Title":"Kagemusha (1980)","Date":"10 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Akira Kurosawa's 180-minute, 1980 comeback film Kagemusha is one of the director's most ambitious films. Like I already stated, it clocks in at 180 minutes, but the film is never once boring. Having watched his later Ran (1985) yesterday and then having watched this movie today, Kagemusha is very much a dress rehearsal for Ran since it can be seen that many ideas/themes from this film were later used on Ran. (Having watched both movies, however, I can conclude that Ran is the better movie.) Kagemusha (which means shadow warrior) and is set over the course of a two-year period between 1573 and 1575 in Japan, concerns a petty, unkempt thief (Tatsuya Nakadai) who is plucked from imminent execution to be the double for the 16th-century warlord Shingen Takeda (also played by Nakadai), due to his striking resemblance to him. When Shingen unexpectedly expires, the thief is forced to take his position as leader of the Takeda Clan. This could have been an amusing comedy, but Kurosawa was too smart for that, and his scope of the material went way beyond what would typically be silly Hollywood comedic theatrics, like a comedy about role-/body-swapping (even though Kurosawa sought financial backing from American filmmakers George Lucas and Francis Ford Coppola - two well-known admirers of his from the United States who are also well-known admirers of his impressive body of work over the decades). The main theme of Kagemusha is the battle between illusion and reality The Double effectively deceives a great many people with the illusion that he is the real Shingen (including his grandson, mistresses, and sworn arch-rivals), and the real Shingen's generals (including his brother Nobukado - played by Tsutomu Yamazaki - who also bears an uncanny resemblance to his late brother) must keep up the elaborate charade - while also somehow managing to keep The Double out of trouble and keep away anyone from discovering their ruse. The film ends with an epic, large-scale massacre marking the downfall of the Takeda Clan, but the magic there is that we never actually see any real combat. Instead, we rely on the horrified reactions of the characters as they witness the unrelenting bloodshed of battle. It's a truly powerful moment in a film that never ceases to cause wonder and stir up strong emotions about the enormous responsibilities that come with such elaborate deception and the swift fall from power.10/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting Facts about KAGEMUSHA","Date":"29 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I thought that it was very interesting to find out that this movie actually had problems getting the funds necessary to finish the film. George Lucas and Francis Ford Coppola helped convince 20th Century-Fox to fund the remaining portion of the budget in exchange for international distribution rights for Kagemusha. I thought it was neat how Kurosawa create huge battle scenes with little funding. He created the 'illusion' of a huge battle by showing scenes of marching soldiers, small clips of battle scenes, and sound effects. It is unbelievable that this film was so close to not getting produced because of the funding difficulties. I am very happy that this film got the funding it needed. "},{"Title":"Katsu's Kagemusha","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Katsu's KagemushaKagemusha (1980) is unique motion picture. The cinematography and epic scope are at times simply stunning but something still haunts this motion picture, the what could have been? In Kagemusha, the lead roles of Lord Shingen Takeda and the thief, were written for the actor Shintar Katsu but due to an on-set falling out with Akira Kurosawa, Katsu was promptly fired and Tatsuya Nakadai was quickly re-cast. Some have said that Akira Kurosawa wanted to make Kagemusha a comedy. This assumption is strengthened because Shintar Katsu was famous in Japan as the endearing and comic character Zatoichi, the blind wandering Yakuza. Yet Kagemusha while having some comic moments was never intended to be a film trapped by a single genre. Seven Samurai/ Shichinin no samurai (1954) has many comic scenes but no one would call it a comedy. Kurosawa's life experiences had made him understand that tragedy and comedy were frequent bedfellows. Often in times of stress, disaster or war, humour is a necessary release. Even Kurosawa's darkest films have elements of comedy.The main complaint about Kagemusha is that Tatsuya Nakadai gives a theatrical and cold performance. In Tatsuya Nakadai's long acting career, he excelled in villainous roles. As an actor he retained a certain detachment that suited cold-blooded parts. He could not translate an easily identifiable or sympathetic humanity for an audience, nor could he effortlessly employ humour as Toshir Mifune or Shintar Katsu so often did. While Tatsuya Nakadai gives a heartfelt and dramatic performance as the thief, the audience remains an observer rather than an investor in the character.Shintar Katsu was a talented actor. He had the ability to give each part a striking individuality. His Zatoichi character became one of the most popular in Japan and spawned 26 movies and over 100 television episodes. Yet in other film roles Shintar Katsu showed his abundant skill by transforming himself so completely that the blind Yakuza, Zatoichi became unrecognisable. Shintar Katsu's natural charisma can be seen in his superb performance in Hitokiri/ Tenchu! (1969) as a block-headed samurai assassin, Izo Okada. Incidentally, this film co-stars Tatsuya Nakadai as another cold and calculating character, a clan leader that orders Izo Okada from assassination to assassination with heartless efficiency. Shintar Katsu's character is a murderer and kills on command yet his performance allows the audience to sympathise with his dilemma. When Izo Okada breaks down in a stunning scene of heart breaking grief, the audience is firmly on his side. Playing a ruthless and dim-witted killer could so easily alienate the audience and it is a testament to Shintar Katsu's talent that the bloodthirsty character becomes so sympathetic.Shintar Katsu's other famous, or should I say infamous, creation is the character of Hanzo The Razor, a perverted and sadomasochistic policeman, in a trilogy of exploitation films. The first and the best is called Goykiba/ Hanzo the Razor Sword of Justice (1972), directed by the underrated and hugely talented Kenji Misumi. Yet again, Katsu plays a thoroughly despicable character that the audience can root for. It is clear that the casting of Shintar Katsu was an inspired decision and it seems the actor was enthusiastic and excited to be given the chance to play the role. Like Toshir Mifune, Shintar Katsu had been making films for his own production company. He had the reputation as an individualist with at times, an unbridled ego. Unfortunately Shintar Katsu was unable to subjugate himself to Akira Kurosawa. He needed to put aside his own presumptions of being a famous Japanese movie star and submit completely to Kurosawa's direction. This he was unable to do and it resulted in a row that led to Akira Kurosawa firing Shintar Katsu on the spot.It is a lasting shame that someone as talented as Shintar Katsu could not reign-in his own ego for the duration of the Kagemusha production because this would have been the first time that Shintar Katsu, the actor, would have been presented to an international audience by one of the worlds most esteemed directors. He may have been remembered as one of Japan's great leading men rather than the popular yet domestic star in a series of Zatoichi movies.What would have Shintar Katsu brought to the roles of Lord Shingen Takeda and the thief, Kagemusha? Lord Shingen Takeda would have been much the same as is seen in the final version of Kagemusha. A Lord that is stayed and dignified. The dynamism would have come with Katsu's interpretation of the thief. Here we would have seen the effortless comedy coming from the actor and also the accessible humanity. The audience would have had a despicable yet charming character to empathise with and enjoy.Presumably, there would also be moments of inspired improvisation with Shintar Katsu experimenting with comedic options or tragic interpretations. This may have caused on-set difficulties but Kurosawa would have accepted differences of interpretation if the actor's motivations were authentically based on the character's motivations and not simply expressions of an actor's ego. Still the filmmaking involved in Kagemusha is so assured and striking that it can arguably be regarded as one of the most beautiful pictures ever made yet what remains is the stunning artistry of the images and not the performances or emotion.Shintar Katsu would have given the film a much needed heart. As it stands Kagemusha is an Akira Kurosawa movie rather than a Shintaro Katsu tour de force. "},{"Title":"Japanese Epic from Akira Kurosawa","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Kagemusha is not as well know as some of Kurosawa's other films, but it is still excellent viewing and shows that he was Japan's best film director. It is a strong story with American financial backing, yet still a very Japanese film.Kagemusha is a Japanese word meaning both Shadow Warrior or the Double this tell you a lot about the plot before you start. The film starts with the recruitment of a kagemusha to a leading Japanese warlord. He was a theft who was about to be cruifixed when the brother, Nobukado, of the warlord saves him and trains him to be like Lord Shingen. It then gives you a brief synopsis of the situation in Japan in 1573, where three warring clans were verging for power and trying to rule of the whole of the nation. Lord Shingen's factor was the strongest and was in the middle of siege of Kyoto, the capital at the time. But during the siege Shingen is fatally shot and his dying wish was to retreat, forget the dream of ruling Japan and hide his death from the public for three years. This is when the Kagemusha is brought into play, but even he doesn't know that Shingen had died. He only finds out when he goes back to his old ways. But he still offers himself, to help protect the domain. When they return to Shingen's castle the Kagemusha has to fool the people, and even Shingen's grandson and mistresses. Nobukado has to cover for the Kagemusha saying he suffered an illness and teaches him how the court works and act like the dead warlord. In the middle of this the rival factors attack the domain, wondering what was happening in the court because they were confused about whether Shingen was dead or not and why his army retreated. There are also enemies within the court with Katsuyori, Shingen's son, who was no longer the heir, and was replaced by Shingen's grandson. He still lives under his father's shadow and wants to prove himself. He is also not happy that he has to call a theft father.The basic plot isn't new, but Kurosawa has the great ability of making it well. It has a strong script behind it with some excellent dialogue, it doesn't not matter that it's in Japanese. The acting is superb, especially from Tatsuya Nakadai who played Shingen/Kagemusha. They was also an interesting look at the court of a Japanese warlord and the politics of the time. The power-plays were interesting and it added some complexities to the plot. Kurosawa knows how to do it. Kurosawa is also an excellent visual director and they were some truly great shots. One shot that I really liked was the army marching during the sunset and all you get to see is the silhouettes of the soldiers. They are some nice shots as well in the Japanese mountains, showing the beauty, but also the harness of terrain. My only real criticism is that the war scene could have been better. They was well done, and the troops did look authentic, but at times it was a little hard to follow (espeically the night scenes) and the film could have shown more. But they are some gems within those scenes.I recommend this film. "},{"Title":"The Dimension of Self","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Akira Kurosawa's `Kagemusha' (1980) is one of my favorite films, and has great resonance for me. I empathize deeply with this thief who assumes the position of double for a very important warlord - a role that reaches epic dimensions as this `shadow warrior' eventually loses his own identity, becoming a sacrificial figure in the demise of one of Japan's great sixteenth century clans.Kurosawa's `Rashomon' (1950) explored the nature of perspective, truth, and reality, and may have resonated with the Japanese people of the decade in which it had been made - a time of recovery from the devastating defeat in World War II, and the wrenching pain associated with the failure of traditional Japanese moral, ethical and social values. `Rashomon' raised the specter of individuality at its most basic level - within the human psyche. Thirty years later much has changed in Japan, and Kurosawa was reaching the end of his career. `Red Beard' (1965) marked the end of a most important part of the director's creative production. Though critically acclaimed, he had to fight harder and harder for funding for each new project. Discouraged with 20th Century Fox, with whom he had agreed to work as director of the Japanese sequences for `Tora! Tora! Tora!' (1965), he dropped out of the project. A production company he had formed with three other prominent Japanese directors (The Four Musketeers Keisuke Kinoshita, Musaki Kobayashi, Kon Ichikawa, and Kurosawa) produced but one film, Kurosawa's `Dodeskaden' (1970), a box office failure. Kurosawa even failed with an attempted suicide.At the invitation of Mosfilm following and during his recovery, he made his only non-Japanese film, `Dersu Uzala', which was released in 1974. There followed  another long period of inactivity before American directors, George Lucas and Francis Ford Coppola, long time admirers, helped secure funding for `Kagemusha' as a joint project of Toho Films and 20th Century Fox which was released in Kurosawa's 70th year. Once again he depicts the suppression of the individual to the social order. Once again he explores these old values being replaced-but this time the view is nostalgic.He chose an historical subject - the great battle of Nagashino in May of 1575 in which the forces of Shingen Takeda were annihilated by the coalition armies of Oda Nobunaga and Tokugawa Ieyasu. It was a period in Japanese history when all three warlords were vying for control of the old Japanese capital of Kyoto. Shingen had been legendary in battle, carrying banners with the legend, `Swift as the wind, quiet as the forest, fierce as fire, and immovable as a mountain.' (These four attributes are represented in the diamond shape of the Takeda banner, which is in turn composed of four diamonds). But the Nobunaga-Ieyasu forces used muskets on a large scale, and the result was a catastrophic loss for the Takeda clan.`Kagemusha' opens with a long shot of Shingen flanked to his right by his brother, Nobukado Takeda, with the thief to his left in the foreground. We see that Nobukado has enough resemblance to Shingen that he has served from time to time as his `kagemusha' (double, or shadow). Recently he had discovered a common thief who was about to be executed (Curiously, the subtitle translation is `crucified', a Christian term that I doubt is in the original. Christian references of this nature are used in the subtitle translations later with a reference to a `cross he has to bear'.). Nobukado is struck by the uncanny resemblance between the thief and Shingen, and he has brought him, bound, to be interviewed. The entire sequence, which takes several minutes, is done entirely in a single take. Here is a place where the impact is lost in television, particularly in the commercial VHS copy which crops off part of the brother's image.The thief is a proud man-demonstrating a strong sense of personal honor despite being a criminal. Shingen, who is duly impressed with the likeness, is disappointed to find it in one who is such a crooked reprobate as to deserve execution. The thief scoffs at this, pointing out that while he has stolen for a petty subsistence, Shingen has been responsible for the deaths of thousands in his military campaigns. Along side the crimes of the warlords, he proclaims, his petty thievery is meaningless. This act of defiance impresses Shingen, who nonetheless, excuses his own excesses as necessary to bring about a unified Japan. The thief is trained as a kagemusha, and the story unfolds.Some have suggested that `Kagemusha' would have been a better film if Kurosawa had once again turned to Toshiro Mifune for the part of the thief. Instead he chose Tatsuya Nakadai, who had been for a time Mifune's chief rival as a samurai film star, and had even appeared in several films with him (notably `The Seven Samurai,' `Yojimbo,' and `Sanjuro.' Nakadai had been associated strongly with Musaki Kobayashi, and actually came to this role after Kurosawa's initial choice, Shitar Katsu had to drop out.). But I do not find fault with the selection. Mifune, with his powerful screen presence, might have taken over the film. `Kagemusha' is about a man who loses himself to the power of another. Nakadai, for me, gives a very moving and sensitive performance. Those final scenes are unforgettable, not only for the devastating impact of fire arms on an army of medieval weapons, but for Nakadai's haunting transformation. "},{"Title":"Top Ten All Time","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The visuals are equal to if not better than the more recent Asian imports such as Hero. In contrast to these modern wannabe's, the story is superb (also being true !!!). And the acting is fantastic, completely unforced. You feel like you are there in the 16th century.Akira Kurosawa was one of the 20th century's greatest directors and this is what I consider to be his best work. He made other more trendy films but this one is a pure work of art. And it shows. This is a rare treat if it can be found at a library or video store. A very worthy candidate for digital re-mastering and DVD re-issue.In any case, however you can Find it and enjoy ! "},{"Title":"some knowledge of Japanese history is useful in appreciating this film","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This film is set at the beginning of the Warring States era of Japanese history, which most Japanese film viewers would have studied extensively in school. Unfortunately for Western viewers, these historical aspects are therefore given little exposition, making some aspects of the film hard to follow for those without such schooling.Here are some attempts at liner notes to help in understanding and appreciating the film (warning I'm not Japanese and have not had Japanese schooling)* Shingen Takeda is a warlord vying for power with Oda Nobunaga and his ally Ieyasu.* Takeda had a reputation for the military prowess of their cavalry. Thus, you see lots and lots of horses featured in the film.  Horses were important to the clan. Takeda's symbol is the four diamonds (the exact symbolism is explained in the film). Just as in the West, use of such heraldic symbols in war banners and clothing was very useful in figuring out who is who. So, keep in mind that when you see the four diamonds, whatever their color, those are Takeda forces.* Nobunaga was known for his adoption of many Western ways. This is why he wears European-influenced clothing and doesn't have the standard samurai haircut (basically, shaved head, topknot). Nobunaga was also known for his use of rifles in battles. So, one of the themes of the film is the struggle of tradition against the influence of the West (in the film, mostly shown through the use of guns although their is also a brief shot of some clerics). Nobunaga's symbol is the five-sectioned flower. Nobunaga is also known for his love of Noh dramas, a dramatic form incorporating difficult-to-understand archaic language and restrained, careful action, somewhat like the film Kagemusha itself.  Nobunaga launches into a bit of Noh at one point in the film.* At this early time, Ieyasu was mostly known for his political survival skills. Ieyasu is probably best known to American viewers as the basis for James Clavell's Toranaga character in Shogun.  (Nobunaga is also in Shogun albeit as a minor character and under a different name.)  The events in this film take place roughly two decades prior to those in Shogun.* Takeda's generals each also have their own symbols to help you track them. One of Ieyasu's generals also has a symbol (actually, the character hon, which IMDb will not display).* Haircuts are a sign of rank. This is why all the lords (except Nobunaga) have a certain haircut, all the pages have the same hairstyle, and so forth. The haircut~rank connection figures even more strongly and explicitly in Kurosawa's Throne of Blood.* Japanese men during this period often changed their names as their status changed. For example, in Toshie to Matsu, Toshie, who is one of Nobunaga's (and, later, Hideyoshi's and Ieyasu's) generals/lords is granted the honor of changing his name to one which incorporates part of his lord's name into his own. Keep this in mind as Takeda's son discusses the use of his father's name and symbol.* Miltary success and bravery in battle were key means of advancement. Thus, military leaders of this time are often depicted as ever-volunteering to do brave (even stupidly brave) things in hopes of gaining greater status. In Kagemusha, Takeda's son is desperate for such advancement. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate in Epic Samurai Tales","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" A petty thief with an utter resemblance to a samurai warlord is hired as the lord's double. When the warlord later dies the thief is forced to take up arms in his place.George Lucas and Francis Ford Coppola are credited at the end of the film as executive producers in the international version. This is because they convinced 20th Century Fox to make up a shortfall in the film's budget when the original producers, Toho Studios, could not afford to complete the film. In return, 20th Century Fox received the international distribution rights to the film.According to Lucas, Kurosawa used 5000 extras for the final battle sequence, filming for a whole day, then he cut it down to 90 seconds in the final release. Many beautiful special effects, and a number of scenes that filled holes in the story, landed on the cutting-room floor. The version I watched was edited for international distribution. Now, if there is an even longer version than the Japanese version, this is one heck of a samurai epic. That would be what, four hours? And definitely among the best -- if not the very best -- of Kurosawa's later work. Holy moley, those colors! Again, the version I saw seemed to be in standard definition. If Criterion released this in 4K, it would blow minds. (Maybe they have, I don't know.) An absolute must-see for Kurosawa fans or fans of the samurai film (two groups that I presume have plenty of overlap). "},{"Title":"Spectacular Japanese Widescreen Epic","Date":"13 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This movie is, far beyond just a mystically entertainment experience, truly a study in brilliant film making and resultant audience enthrallment. Everything is lavishly displayed and brilliantly portrayed here -- the magnificence of the cinematography and costuming elevate the film far above and beyond the absolutely brilliant character portrayals. To say that this film is a visual feast is understatement, because visually it should emotionally move any true film devotee and big-screen, epic movie fan. Other reviews which you can read here at IMDb spell out the plot, so simple enough here to state that the plot is about territory and rival power in 16th Century Japan, and better to focus on the masterful art of the film. Sumptuous, gorgeous, captivating, with character interest enhanced greatly, but accentuated rather than overwhelmed by, a big screen canvas masterwork, this is a must-see, if not must-own, film to be dined on, cinematically and metaphorically speaking, in the richest sense of fine dining; it is a delightful aperitif, followed with a mouth-watering starter, then a beautiful entree, and finished with dessert of choice accompanied by a perfect accompanying liqueur. You are completely satiated by the finish of the film, having dined finely on a cinematic feast. "}{"Title":"Great cinematography, a story that grows on you","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Kagemusha is really gorgeous to look at, like most Kurosawa films. The costumes and sets are impressive and the locations are nice. The imagery is primarily made up of the aftermath of battles and seated discussions. He seems very patient - he will not compromise his artistry to try to keep an audience's attention. Thus, parts of this movie can feel slow. But by the end, once you understand what it's about, I feel it was all very enjoyable. Why should movies have to rush through their plot points? Why can't we admire the scenery and dwell on some thoughts and feelings before moving on?The main character is a thief that looks remarkably like The Mountain, the head of the Shingen army. This group is in competition with 2 other clans. The leader becomes fatally ill and thus this man is made to be his double for some time. This avoids panic and keeps the enemies intimidated as they believe The Mountain is still alive.Both roles are played Tatsuya Nakadai. He says a lot with his eyes. Sometimes expressing confidence and jocularity, sometimes looking haunted and fearful. The thief initially remains petty and uncooperative but is eventually affected by the aura of the man he is replacing. Perhaps he does gain some real power simply through his appearance, especially if dressed up and in public. He's a bit like a scarecrow. It's quite surreal for him to sit in the position of power, quietly trying to avoid giving anything away. Those that know the secret are emotionally affected by his similarity to The Mountain. And for those that don't know, he has as much power as they grant him.By the end we feel he has been deeply affected by his experience. Maybe his life started to mean something. But that period of usefulness will not last forever. What is he meant to do after that? Kagemusha has plenty of food for thought. And it gives you the time to admire its story, characters and images. I'm not sure I yet fully appreciate the potential meaning of Kagemusha. But I'll remember the little man who unexpectedly became the centre of attention and affected history. "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Film","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This movie takes its place in feudal Japan during the 16th century in which certain warlords are fighting amongst themselves to attain total supremacy. As luck would have it, a thief by the name of Kagemusha (Tatsuya Nakadai) just happens to bear an alarming resemblance to one of these warlords named Shingen Takeda (also Tatsuya Nakadai) and this strange coincidence is immediately seized upon by Shingen for its practical applications. In essence, this gives Shingen a perfect double in which to confuse his enemies. At least, that was his original intent. Unfortunately, Shingen is shot not long afterward and rather than allow his kingdom to totally collapse he convinces his brother keep his impending death a secret for 3 years to give his generals some time to adjust to the situation. This means employing Kagemusha to his fullest extent. And even then it might not be enough. Now rather than reveal any more I will just say that this was a magnificent film which incorporated stunning visual effects to achieve an incredible film experience. An excellent movie. "},{"Title":"The Mountain Moves","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Do not fear when the earthquake comes, and the mountain falls into the sea. - Psalm 462On December 22nd, 1971, Akira Kurosawa slid his body into a bathtub and slit his wrists with a blade. He was hospitalised and recovered several weeks later. Biographies differ on how many times Kurosawa slashed himself, but most agree that the 1971 incident was the last of at least a half-dozen other attempts at self-harm or suicide. Why did Kurosawa want to kill himself? Biographies typically offer a cocktail of explanations depression, existential crises, a family history of suicide (his brother committed suicide in 1933), the critical and financial failures of his recent films and so forth. Whatever the reason, one thing remains clear the once mighty director had been dethroned, humbled and so forced to reassess his powers, position and life.Similar themes run throughout Kurosawa's The Shadow Warrior. Released in 1980, it stars Tatsuya Nakadai as Takeda Shingen, a Japanese warlord who rules during the Sengoku period (1460s - 1600s). Nicknamed the mountain (A mountain does not move, Shingen tells his generals), Shingen is feared by all rival warlords. They perceive him as being omnipotent, omniscient and omnipresent. His presence looms menacingly over all of central Japan.But Shingen's begun to confront his own mortality. Making preparations for his death, he's arranged for body-doubles to take his place should he die in combat. These doubles are designed to stave off death, to preserve Shingen, to offer him some semblance of immortality in the face of a Nature expert at dethroning arrogant humans. But will they work?Midway in Shadow Warrior, Shingen is killed by a sniper's bullet. Kurosawa films this sequence like a police procedural, Shingen's rivals attempting to ascertain how one of their own snipers &#x96; a lowly moral &#x96; proved capable of downing a God like Shingen. Hilariously, even when all indications point to Shingen having been killed, these rival warlords refuse to believe the evidence. Afterall, mountain's do not fall!Odd for an epic about warlords, The Shadow Warrior thus concerns itself not with combat, but with espionage. Every warlord in Japan is busy sending out spies, each desperate for irrefutable evidence that Shingen has fallen. These warlords become increasingly uncertain when Shingen's doubles and generals begin launching attacks on rival kingdoms. Are these attacks proof that Shingen is still alive? Why would Shingen's generals attack others without a mountain on their shoulders?Before he died, Shingen provided his generals with clear instructions should he be killed, they are to cease attacking rival kingdoms and focus instead on territorial defence. Whilst Shingen's tactical conservatism baffles his generals, they make increasing sense to Kurosawa's audience. Afterall, if the mountain has proved to be fallible, why risk further losses by attacking rivals? More importantly, if all previous certainties have revealed themselves to have rested on sheer belief, on sheer shared delusion, then what other assumptions might be toppled?These issues of belief become the chief theme of Kurosawa's final act. Here Shingen's men hold fast to their insane convictions; they are invincible, they are mountains, they are Shingen incarnate, they tell themselves. But of course they are not. And so frauds, impostors, doubles and soldiers die on a battlefield, hundreds slaughtered, arrogance giving way to defeat, egos giving way to death. The fifty years of a man's life are short compared to that of this world, a character tells us. The film then ends with the corpse of Shingen's double floating down a river. Floating with him is the banner of Shingen's kingdom &#x96; the Takeda flag &#x96; which speaks of mighty rivers, winds, fires, mountains and soil. These entropic certainties ironically counterpoint the film's frail corpses. In The Shadow Warrior, downfalls greet all kings, clans, directors, actors and men. To think otherwise is folly. And if to behave differently is fraudulent, all men are impostors.The Shadow Warrior is the first Kurosawa film that might be termed Brechtian. The sentimentality and more populist aspects of Kurosawa's previous works are replaced with a distant, dispassionate tone, and most sequences are filmed with stagnant medium and long-shots. Elsewhere metaphysics takes precedent over motion, Kurosawa asks us to examine and ponder the subtleties of each scene, and all characters are held at distance, such that they become faintly absurd. Kurosawa would resurrect this style for his 1985 masterpiece, Ran, an epic to which The Shadow Warrior is often unfairly compared. The Shadow Warrior may be flawed &#x96; it becomes repetitive, its bloodbaths are oft cheesy rather than profound, and filming in modern Japan forces Kurosawa to rely on claustrophobic exterior shots which hamper the philosophical scope of his picture &#x96; but it is nevertheless peppered with many masterful moments. Famously, the film was executive produced by George Lucas and Francis Ford Coppola, who convinced 20th Century Fox to make up the shortfall when the film's original produces, Toho Studios, proved unable to afford the film's completion.8/10 &#x96; Worth multiple viewings. See Ran, Barry Lyndon and The Red and the White. "},{"Title":"What A Nightmare Comes From This Burden","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The smoke in Kagemusha lingers in my mind, whether it comes from the morning fog over a lake, or the end of a barrel from a gun in its spectacular battle sequences. Tatsuya Nakadai plays both the Warlord and the Imposter, and how captivating he remains during this plight. Though Toho Studios couldn't afford to complete the movie, longtime Kurosawa enthusiasts George Lucas and Francis Ford Coppola convinced 20th Century Fox to pay the remaining budget for international distribution rights. Lucas and Coppola were awarded executive producer credits.Set in the Sengoku period of Japan, a thief is spared death and taught to impersonate a dying warlord in order to dissuade opposing lords from attacking the vulnerable clan for the next few years. Though initially reluctant and unworthy, the imposter begins to earn the clans respect and comes to enjoy the love of his people and his position. The story is based on daimyo Takeda Shingen, and the film culminates with a stunning portrayal of the 1575 Battle of Nagashino.The colours of this movie are beautiful, the highlight being the unforgettable nightmare sequence in all its gorgeous silence. Shintaro Katsu (Famous for playing blind blade master Zatoichi, for some 25 movies) was originally the lead, however he supposedly angered Kurosawa when he brought people along to film Kurosawa's directing abilities. This lead to the employment of Mr. Nakadai, and easily remains his best performance in his line of Kurosawa pictures. Sure he already appeared as the Uber cool gunman in Yojimbo (1961), and would also go on to portray a heartbreaking rendition of insanity in Ran (1985). Here he is two separate people imitating the other one seamlessly. Being a 3 hour picture and in terms of pacing it is possibly the slowest of Kurosawa's filmography, and I think 20 minutes of this movie could be removed and you wouldn't be able to tell the difference. With all that said though, Kagemusha won the 1980 Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival, and I still remember all of its imagery vividly.Final Verdict One of Kurosawa's last great epics, and certainly one of his period drama's worth watching. 9/10. "},{"Title":"epic with static scenes","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" A petty thief is pulled from crucifixion and made to be the double of the ruthless powerful warlord Shingen Takeda. Both the warlord and his brother Nobukado are impressed. It's 1573. Shingen is mortally wounded at a siege. He orders his generals to hide his death for at least 3 years and not to advance from their domain. When he dies in secret, Nobukado proposes to use the double. However the double is uncontrollable and he discovers the dead body. Meanwhile spies are looking for the truth.Director Akira Kurosawa has made a meticulous movie. It is big. There are lots of costumes. The battles have lots of participants. It's real. It is 3 hours and lots of it is very static. It's very old school in that respect. The action isn't very visceral. It is more cerebral. What I mean is that it is visions of formation. There are few actual fights and little blood or gore. The big battle is seen not in the action but in the reaction of the people seeing the action. It is a different way of doing action. It's poetic but also a bit sterile. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films set in the Sengoku Jidai","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Well I watched this movie years ago, it even compelled me to read up on Shingen Takeda and my goodness he was one of the most interesting characters of the Sengoku period! Also he was known for the 'Fu-Rin-Ka-Zan' motto emblazoned on his war banners.This is interesting take on how things went after the death of Shingen and how the Kagemusha was able to impersonate Shingen but the way the story is told is incredible! Tatsuya gives memorable performances as both the real Shingen and the Kagemusha also the actors who play the Takeda generals performances are also nothing to be sneezed at.This is as we can expect from not just a great director like Akira Kurosawa but also him as a descendant of samurai.Definitely recommended for those interested in the Sengoku Jidai (Age of the Country at War) or for fans of samurai films in general. "},{"Title":"absolutely powerful...a masterpiece!!","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" i saw the film more than a couple of times,i love it..30 years is plenty of time to prove us that movies of today had a lot to learn from this ones...a lot of things had change in the way of making movies..and not necessary good ones.watch this film with a clear mind,not tired,relax..and enjoyed!the strenght of a mountain.. the essence of human.. the shadow of a warrior. everything in this film is wonderful,the images and score music are so powerful.kurosawa give to us another almost perfect piece of art. the scale of battles scenes in this type of movies are huge and the choreography for the warriors and horses is amazing. this is a pleasure to watch. beautiful and timeless "},{"Title":"Another great film from Akira Kurasawa","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" While not in my top 5 Kurasawas(Seven Samurai, Ran, Ikiru, Yojimbo, The Hidden Fortress), it is a very impressive film in its own right. The use of colour and the camera work are absolutely wonderful, as is the delicacy and ambition of Kurasawa's direction and the hauntingly beautiful music. The last part of the film seemed rather rushed to me(though the very end is indeed powerful), but the rest of the story is very poignant, stirring stuff with a good mix of simplicity and complexity. The script is almost Shakespearean in quality, the characters are multidimensional with the relationship between the Lord's men and the thief Kagemusha's most fascinating assets and the lead performance of Tatsuya Nakadai is outstanding, as far as I'm concerned one of the finest lead performances of any Kurasawa film that isn't Toshio Mifune. In conclusion, not one of my favourite Kurasawas but still a great film with much to admire. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"an important piece of Japanese cinema","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" excerpt, more at my location - Kurosawa's epic historical drama details the demise of an aging Japanese daimyo and his crumbling empire. Kagemusha is loosely based on the real life story of Shingen Takeda, and the circumstances surrounding his death.What Kagemusha represents is an experimental Jidaigecki, portraying the beginning of the demise of feudal Japan, and the encroachment of modernity and upon its dying traditions. There is no outright hero or villain, and it is difficult to argue whether the protagonist is really the thief or Shingen. In one poignant scene, one of the retainers muses A double means something only when there is an original. When the original is gone, what will happen to the double? However, in Kagemusha it is this meaningless double that we identify and sympathise with, demonstrating the postmodern idea of simulacra and signs. The thief is just a signifier for the real Shingen, who exists in the hearts and minds of his subjects as nothing more than a symbolic concept. Ultimately, Shingen's power and influence is something that transcends the real Shingen, and is able to survive independently even after his death. Kagemusha is an important piece of Japanese cinema that reinvents the Jidaigecki genre to reflect the concerns and effects of modern society. Its sumptuous costumes, epic battle scenes and skillful storytelling once again confirm Kurosawa's place as one of cinema's greatest auteur. "},{"Title":"A common thief becomes the daimyo of a major clan vying for supremacy in feudal era Japan.","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I prefer Kagemusha over Ran because the former is semi-historical while Ran is well, just another story, never mind even if it is from Shakespeare. True there are more battle scenes in Ran and they are truly massive and moving. But I was impressed by the characterization of the thief turned warlord in Kagemusha. The dream or more appropriately nightmare sequences are evocative of Dali paintings.By the way, I visited that castle in Kumamoto where Kurosawa often filmed his samurai movies. It has been turned into a museum with great displays of armor, weapons and costumes from Japan's feudal age. Inside I came upon what looked like steps to the donjon (a tower serving as castle keep used as the final shelter defense during a siege) of the castle which seemed impossible to climb for a normal person. The steps are too high and steep and I could only imagine a leaping ninja scaling them.Visitors are not allowed to climb those stairs and they have to go by another way. The displays include table dioramas of battles and sieges that took place centuries ago in the castle environs and they show the disposition of the troops of the contending forces. I visited the castle in winter and the castle and its grounds looked magnificent in the snow. The film in my camera froze and when it thawed in my overheated quarters, it caught moisture. As it was weeks before I returned to my country, it had grown mold and could not be processed. I would do anything to return to that castle. "}{"Title":"Sometimes the fresh fogging with some strokes","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" After six years of break -his last great film, Dersu Uzala had made in the Soviet Union in 1974 - Akira Kurosawa had the support of influential Americans Francis Coppola and George Lucas, who interceded with the Fox to that funded his project Kagemusha in exchange for worldwide distribution rights of the film.Everything that came after the film had the technical aspect of a great production Hundreds of extras, a carefully staged appropriate to the sixteenth century, apparel obtained from museum collections true, picture of high relief, a majestic soundtrack performed by a full symphony, and a protagonist of many carats and was Tatsuya Nakadai. They wanted to recreate the intricacies of power, the life of the great warlords with their rivalries, their struggles gut, their affections and passions, his stratagems&#x85; and his use of humans for its sole convenience. By the way, we have to have their protocols, their heavy meetings and their actions are sometimes too slow and monotonous. A perfect picture of a happy society disappeared, which, Kurosawa is able to look with loving eyes as critics.The humble thief character, able to supplant the warlord Shingen Takeda, is charming and full history a warmth and human depth, as expected, the feudal lords never understand, and only Takemaru, the little heir to the throne, discovers the emotional force within him and get to share with him a sense emerged from the heart. The film, in my view, is suffering in part by excessive floor meetings (I counted about a dozen in the first hour and a half), and not for the quality of the dialogues, the torpor may have reached more than one. The scene of the dream, however have excellent scenery, I also is not very eloquent, and two or three scenes, could well abandon some of his footage. For these reasons, I believe, Kagemusha is enjoying half. In any case, I find no grounds for placing it among the highlights of the master Kurosawa. "},{"Title":"film as canvas","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I watched my first Kurosawa 7 years ago. I'm 24 so that's a relevant amount of time. Still, i feel i'm a beginner, also because i only have a couple years of seriously watching films, learning them and from them. So i'll comment more like an approach, for sure naive, but to fix some ideas i got from this first watching of Kagemusha.24.10.2008 -Kurosawa works like a painter. It is well known that he painted most of what he shot, and that helped him create in the mind what he would bring to the eye. The paintings are in themselves worth seeing; an extra in the DVD had an editing with dialogs in the film over posing the storyboard, in the order they show in the film. It's a good experience just by itself. So we have shots perfectly and exquisitely taken care. The composition is great, balanced as only a good artist would make;-in a way, this is the first Kurosawa film in colour, because it is the first one in which he truly works with it and makes it part of the composition. The previous experiences in color could work as well in b&w. Not here. I noticed how the colours carry the actions, how the perfectly balanced frames get alive because of the colours. The skies are amazing, of course, and the dream in the clouds as well. The artificial environment of it makes the film look sketchy, as it was in fact, for it is known that Kurosawa was preparing the big project (Ran)-The editing was great; The framing he gives is mostly still, his eye works like that of a painter, but the editing sequences all shots perfectly and it makes us believe that after one certain shot, the only possible shot that makes the thing work is the next one. It's a sublime structure, solid as a rock, and if you work mentally you'll see you wouldn't take anything or put anything. Kurosawa might. I guess that the editing was a mental process for him, he would beautifully paint the storyboard, but in his mind he would also build the editing scheme. That's why he could edit by night what he'd shot during the day-the story is, as many, about actors acting. The role of a leader has in itself lots to do with acting. That need to seat in battle, not moving, not showing fear, is showing something to the surrogates, and to the enemies, which may not correspond to the truth. Here we have a double pretending to be that leader.-Coppola and Lucas deserve being thanked for allowing this to happen. However, when they speak it's clear that Coppola is much more aware of what the film and the work of Kurosawa is about, while Lucas is bedazzled but the visible effects. This is meaningful. I never made a film, i which i could, but i don't think creating one has so much to do with what lenses you use, or how you manage multiple cameras shots as much as it has to do with what you want to say (and how). The first issue is technical. The second moves with your soul. That's why, of the both, Coppola was the one who recognized the global flaws of this good film - breathtaking if you think of it as a table of experiences, the canvas of a painter.My opinion 4/5http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"A Shadow Cannot Exist Without the Man","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Kurosawa's beautiful film Kagemusha is a meditation on subjects that have haunted the director throughout his career in cinema the doppelganger or double, (which brings to question identity and how identity is formed, and where identity is located; is it in appearance, world views, actions, attitudes or loves? How does individual choice create a man? What if one's choices were different?) transformation (all Kurosawa heroes go through a transformation) the tragedy of war (note the elegiac images of horses struggling in death throes in the aftermath of the massacre at the film's conclusion) and despair (Kuroswa has investigated despair as few other filmmakers have...from The Lower Depths and Stray Dog to Ran, many of his films meditate deeply on human hearts without hope).I cannot help but think that Kagemusha's deep feeling comes from the autobiographical a man (the thief, played by Tatsuya Nakadai) must assume the role of the Lord (or, why not...they say it in the film...Tenno...or Emperor...used to describe Kurosaw himself).Kuroaswa must have wondered, in his time of financial difficulty, after the dismissal of Dodes-Kaden, after his suicide attempt, after losing his status, during his struggles to find financing for Kagemusha...he must have thought about what it is to assume a role of great authority, and to be dismissed from the role that gave his life meaning.Tatsuya Nakadai being ejected forcibly from the castle...retainers throwing clods of mud and stones after him, like a stray dog being pelted and driven from the gates of a house...maybe Kurosawa felt that this is how his life had been. He has said, I am afraid that me minus movies equals nothing. His identity, so involved in the creation of film, in making his meditations and dreams communicated through the medium of film, and the life that grew up around the creation...the friendships, the experiences, the world of making that makes a world...it must have been horrible for him to realize how fragile and easily shattered that world could be! Federico Fellini once said in an interview that criticism felt somehow impertinent...that his work was a reflection of who he was as a human being, and to judge one's work seemed an insult. I remember this as I think about Kagemusha and the other films of Akira Kurosawa. It is with great humility that I approach my thinking about these films, and would refuse, even if forced, to rank them. That really would be impertinent, and an insult to a life dedicated to the highest good an artist can achieve an honest look at human experience with the intent of understanding the mysteries of the human heart. "},{"Title":"A Japanese Dave","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Let's put aside the technical brilliance of this film.  (Of course, there's no way to understate the magnificence of every battle, scenic shot or other picture, and they are back-to-back throughout the movie...but we're putting them aside.)The STORY, which seems to be the subject of the most criticism in these reviews, is anything but subtle.  Its premise parallels the American movie Dave, where an impersonator is hired to play the role of the President after the real one suffers from a stroke.  This kind of humor mixed with traditional Japanese filmmaking and storytelling produces a sort of dry irony throughout the movie.  Although the film takes itself very seriously, it is easy to laugh at the implausibility of the situations depicted.Summary see it. "},{"Title":"Magic","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  The plot is not simple, it is subtle. While watching Kagemusha your subconscious receives more information through photography, actor expressions and simple situations than from story-line.Nakadai's acting is spell-bounding, the scene where he portrays the 'sad look' of the impersonated one is, to me, one of cinema's most fascinating character shots. Oh man! How much can you convey with one look!I would like to read more comments describing individual scenes of Kagemusha, it is there where this movie greatness resides. "},{"Title":"A Technical Masterpiece but story lacking","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This picture is a technical masterpiece, the photography is amazing, the battles scenes are dark and powerful. Akira is fantastic with the technical aspects of the picture.  The beautiful sun to the dark battles, it's simply amazing. The beautiful red sky, I could go on and on.Unfortuantely, I couldn't connect with the story. I found myself yawning at times. There are moments when the picture seems to lose meaning, the editing seemed delibrate but I didn't connect with it. The acting was fine but maybe a little stiff.Technically, this film is a masterpiece but the story and characters didn't always work for me. It's a film that must be revisited in the future. "},{"Title":"The most disappointing Kurosawa film, but not his worst","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Beautiful in its colorful cinematography, epic in scope and creative in terms of The Mountain's clan's motto's symbolism. Lacking in everything else.Kagemusha was partially financed by George Lucas and Francis Ford Coppola and was the most expensive Japanese motion picture at the time (record later beaten by Ran), with filming locations being scattered all across Japan. Apparently Kurosawa thought of Kagemusha as a dress rehearsal for Ran, and it shows why. Unlike Ran's, Kagemusha's characters were uninteresting in comparison. While the majority of the characters in Ran were badly developed, some did stick out as charismatic and Kagemusha has none of those types of characters. The plot was horribly boring, notable for two of Kurosawa's running flaws; the confusing/uninteresting beginning and the overly stretched out narrative. Despite having some vague humor, the film is completely emotionally sterile and offers very little in terms of anything except for the visuals. Even the music, while good, is unfit to a samurai film. The losing one's identity undertone is presented horribly, and the final message thus remains undercooked and badly put out. Even the dream sequence, refreshed from Kurosawa's Drunken Angel (complete with a cheesy dramatic awakening) doesn't do anything except showcase some marvelous color photography. The final battle isn't even shown, which is very disappointing because it turns out all that build up was for nothing.5,5/10 "},{"Title":"Does Kurosawa really need colour ?","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" After noticing this film for several years, I finally bought its DVD.Rather than impressing me, the colourful Japanese costume fashion show was more of a distraction. Similarly, albeit more watchable, is the the unabashed display of colour in all its assaulting splendor. There is nothing that Kurosawa does best that he has not already done in black and white, beautifully.Kurosawa is a great master of capturing motion on the screen (as Ozu is the great master in capturing stillness on the screen). The many (perhaps even too many) magnificent scenes in Kagemusha of thundering steeds are indeed spectacular. But he had already done better - think of the scene in Sanjuro (1962) constructed with a series of rapidly cut shots each with a young samurai running swiftly in the street, at various directions. The whole series takes a few seconds but the momentum generated is immense.Underneath its glossy, dazzling visual extravaganza, Kagemusha fortunately still offers all the things you look for and expect from Kurosawa &#150; intense drama, easy sense of humour, a deep feeling for human nature &#150; both good and bad, masterful storytelling. But sadly, Kagemusha concludes with a chilling sense of despair, reflecting perhaps a sense of hardened cynicism. I'll take Akahige (Red Beard) (1965) any day. "},{"Title":"A BIG, worthwhile film","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Kagemusha (1980) Directed by Akira Kurosawa. This is a SWEEPING Historical Epic about warlords of Japan in the 16th century. It has all the glamour and hugeness of a Hollywood production, but with goals of a more serious nature. A petty thief is found, just prior to execution, so identical in appearance to the Clan ruler, his life is spared in the name of service to them. Look-alikes were used as protection (targets) and double-duty (stand-ins) - as they have been ever since. Things go wrong, and many adjustments are suddenly necessary within the Clan, the family, and even the enemy camps. All the lessons are monumental, archetypal, Shakespearian, Greek. Perhaps occasionally long (at least for an American with little knowledge of ancient Japanese history), many of the scenes are powerful, beautiful, and horrific. I am NOT a fan of split-tinted filters for special sky effects, and at times the classic acting style of Japan is stylized beyond character credibility, but overall, this is a BIG film, and worth the 160 minute viewing. "},{"Title":"Lord of  War","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Francis Ford Coppola and George Lucas made an inestimable service when, desolated with the fight of master Akira Kurosawa to raise funds for a new movie, persuaded Fox to join in. Thanks to these few extra bucks, cinema earned a masterpiece. In feudal Japan, the lord of war Shingen dies in a delicate moment for his clan, that is deeply dived into a profound power dispute. Is arranged then, a double to take Shingen's place - a cheap thief. In an arc gorgeously drawn, Kurosawa shows how, little by little, he becomes Shingen. Here it is not the lord that makes the war. It is the war that makes the lord. "}{"Title":"a MUST own masterpiece","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  We want it in DVD format.  This piece is a crown of a collection, should be released in crystal clean format.  Kurosawa had painted the dying horse images himself before shooting the movie that is why it looks so perfect. I think  some American guys are not used to non-English foreign movies, that is why they can not connect to the story. I, myself, was stunned from the first frame till the end. "},{"Title":"Another Kurosawa Masterpiece.","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I consider myself a big fan of Kurosawa, though I haven't yet seen all his films.  Thus, if he made c**p, I'm not yet aware of it.  As far as I'm concerned, Kurosawa was an untouchable genius in his field, and for my money was the Japanese Kubrick.Kagemusha is another samurai story, this one being about identity and death. Gloriously filmed sequences increasingly border on dreamlike vignettes, like the battles in the third act the Double and Shingen's brother sit atop a hill looking into a blood-red curtain of smoke that is intermittently shocked with blue gunfire.  Absolutely stunning, the film truly predicts the direction Kurosawa would move in his final years to the ethereal, heavy-handed whimsy of RAN, A RHAPSODY IN AUGUST, and DREAMS.And the final sequence, in which the Double crosses a field of dead men and horses in a single-handed attack on the armed enemy, is one of Kurosawa's greatest achievements.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"What a great film!","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Dear Readers, To make sure his empire lives on, the lord of the Takeda clan, Shingen, hires a simple thief to impersonate him. Unfortunately, things get ugly when Shingen is assassinated by a sniper and the Thief must replace him unwillingly. While he pulls off the job successfully, Shingen's brother and his brutal generals are in total control. Defying his orders, Shingen's son complicates things by trying to start war with Oda Nobunaga, his rival. The Thief is finally exposed before the entire court and is exiled, but redeems himself in a battle against Nobunaga, sacrificing his life attempting to save the now-destroyed Takeda clans's banner.Kagemusha, which I just bought recently, is amazing. I had high hopes for this movie and I was not disappointed. Kurosawa has firmly proved that he is truly the greatest director of all time with this film, though Ran and The Seven Samurai prove it also. The guy who plays Kagemusha and Shingen is amazing. He plays a simple thief who truly wants to help the clan continue to survive. The generals are all arrogant yet wise men who realize the Thief is their only hope for survival against the wrath of Nobunaga and his massive army.For those of us who are utter Kurosawa nuts, like me, then you know that Kurosawa called Kagemusha his 'Dress Rehearsal' for Ran. Believe me, it is. Kagemusha is a true masterpiece and personally, I think it's quite underrated. The imagery and colors are beautiful, just like a Kurosawa film should be.Now if only Kurosawa had somehow managed to Toshiro Mifune in here. That would be perfect.Signed, The Constant DVD Collector "},{"Title":"An Essay On Color And Layering","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Perhaps this isn't quite one of Kurosawa's absolute triumphs, but there are definite pieces that are essential viewing.In particular, there is the layered color composition. The dusty soldiers in the foreground, with the army marching from right to left in the middle of the shot against the low sun and blood red sky...the 'offering of sake to the lake god' and the layers of observers...the decimation of Wind, Fire and Forest...visual feasts, all, with the elements stacked a good three layers deep (and sometimes more).The 'story' is really about the triumph of Western storytelling over traditional forms - Shakespeare over Noh theater, Catholic benediction over indigenous faith, even red wine over sake...but especially Western muskets over cavalry, lances and Sun Tzu's war philosophies.The viewer detects strong self-reference in the craft Kurosawa as a 'thief' of ideas hired to play another character, within an sustained illusion, then cast out by the elites when his usefulness expires. "},{"Title":"Very pleasantly surprised","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Kagemusha is Akira Kurosawa's late color masterpiece about a Japanese Emperor (Tatsuya Nakadai) who employs a thief to be his double (sort of like one of Saddam Hussein's!). Kurosawa chooses the back-end of the 16th century as his setting, using realistic historical events as a backdrop to the action.I was unfamiliar with the work of Akira Kurosawa but am now quite interested in seeing more of his films (I confess to having never watched Seven Samurai, Ran, Yojimbo, Rashomon, etc.).Kagemusha did not disappoint me. I love the epic nature of the film and in particular its stunning contrast of color - Kurosawa was still experimenting with the possibilities of color in this film and the opening sequence - a messenger zooming past hordes of painted Samurai - is a good example of the starkness he brings to the project.The acting is all very good, I couldn't understand the Japanese, but you know a performance is excellent when the actor manages to evoke feelings from the viewer even when he or she cannot understand the dialect.The direction is solid with the action sequences well staged, the battles convincing and extravagant. The orange blood is a nice touch to the film as well, more proof that Kurosawa was really getting a kick out of color film.To close my review out I'd like to say that Kagemusha is now available on DVD as part of the Criterion Collection, offered for the first time in its full 180-minute glory. I will not pretend to be a Kurosawa or international cinema expert, however I will say that the Criterion DVD is so comprehensive that I feel I know his work more now than I would have if I had just seen this film on television. Criterion has once again proved why they are the best DVD company out there, presenting a crisp transfer and great extras, as well as a beautiful inside pamphlet with Kurosawa's original artwork. In a time when all the companies such as WB and Fox are becoming cheaper and not even inserting pamphlets anymore, Criterion aims for the best.So if you have not seen Kagemusha before, please do yourself a favor and rent (or buy) the Criterion version, and do not just rent the VHS. It's a film I'd highly recommend to anyone, especially those who seem to think Japanese cinema in particular just involves cheesy kung-fu fighting. "},{"Title":"Brilliant on Scales Large and Small","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" KAGEMUSHA is a film I've liked better each time I've watched it. Having just viewed the latest Criterion DVD release, I found myself so captivated that I could not help but give it my highest rating. I'd grown so accustomed to the washed out colours of older prints that I felt like I was watching a different movie altogether - that is until the final unmistakable 45 minutes, which were burned into my memory on the first viewing. As others have commented, the director's use of colour and light is simply stunning.Watching the film again also helped crystallize in my mind another pacing element director Kurosawa seems to have completely made his own the balance between dialogue heavy scenes that drive the characters and offer exposition for the story, and those scenes that are visually driven. In KAGEMUSHA in particular, I saw how these two scene styles are completely divided. There is almost no dialogue whatsoever in a visually driven scene (I would be tempted to call these action scenes); these are all about light, colour, movement, and (unlike modern convention and certain film executive's fears that all must be verbally explained) use little or no dialogue to communicate what we see so clearly played out. Both types tell the story with delicate pacing and great depth - perhaps too much for many moviegoers used to a faster pace and more shallow characters (that's not a slight - it's just what we're all used to these days, myself included).Ultimately it is this balance of dialogue and vision that gives the film such power. I'm probably in the minority, but I actually enjoy this film more than RAN, although both to me are similar in some ways, and yet unique in film as a whole. I was trying to think of weak points in the film, but I simply couldn't. To me it's 3 hours of near-perfect cinema.Director Kurosawa has made a few of my favorite films, including HIGH AND LOW (more correctly translated Heaven and Hell), RED BEARD, and IKIRU. KAGEMUSHA now joins that list, and should have long ago if not for my mistaking bad film prints for lack of visual quality - shame on me. I will also mention that fans of movies with dream sequences (is that a sub-genre?) should not miss the one here. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Too much preparation","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Kagemusha was to be a come-back film for Kurosawa in Japan, being the first film he made in his homeland in a decade. His last box-office success was Red Beard in 1965 which was followed by a derailed Runaway Train, a fiasco in his involvement with Tora!Tora!Tora!, and a devastating financial and personal loss from Dodes'kaden which culminated in his attempt at Suicide.The Soviet Union hired him for a film of his choice, and he made the under-appreciated Dersu Uzala which brought him some acclaim, but little of the film-making opportunities he desperately needed.His next film project was to be Ran, but he decided to make the more Japanese-friendly Kagemusha first. Backing proved to be difficult,and he toured internationally for several years with a series of paintings he made of the proposed film. Fortunately, this came to the attention of Coppola and Lucas who got the backing he needed to begin filming.His first choice in the lead role was Shintaro Katsu, whose most famous role was as the blind swordsman Zatoichi, and who was also in serious need of a career boost. However, two great egos clashed on the first day of shooting, and Katsu either quit or was fired (depending on who's telling the story!) Several people urged Kurosawa to get Mifune to play the part of the double, but even after 15 years of estrangement, Kurosawa refused to even consider him. He went immediately to Nakadai, and rearranged the production schedule around Nakadai's previous commitments.Herein lie the films' problems A star who is miscast in a role written specifically with Katsu in mind, and everything pretty much storyboarded and prepared mentally years ahead of time at the expense of freshness and spontaneity.Kagemusha ends up being a somewhat cold film and needs more than one viewing to warm up to it. The first time I saw it, I was a bit put off, but many of the scenes stuck in my mind and haunted me. This may not be Kurosawa's last GREAT film, but it may be his last GOOD one. Bravo to Criterion for restoring the 20 minutes of footage that Kurosawa himself cut out for the film's international release this may not be a true directors cut, but at least there is a complete dream sequence and the great Takasi Shimura's last screen appearance. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films of all time","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This is a brilliant film about illusion, honor and faith. Thematically, I think this is a stronger film than Ran (Yes, I know Ran is based on Shakespeare), and some scenes in it are so haunting and chilling they stick on your mind for a long time (particularly the dream sequence *shudder*). Also features one of the most powerful climaxes ever. Definitely one of my top 30 films ever made. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I've found a Kurosawa movie that I don't like.","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This movie was a big disappointment for me. As a huge Kurosawa fan I bought this on DVD and couldn't wait to see it. But this is by no means a masterpiece or one of Kurosawas best.I feel that some people who are calling it a masterpiece are only saying that because of who made it.One of The Emperor's strong points was pacing but this movie drags. There are far too many pointless scenes. 1 minute 30 seconds of soldiers marching? In his earlier work he would have cut that down to 10 seconds and conveyed the same emotions.We never get close to the Shadow Warrior so when he starts to fail we don't feel sorry for him. The other characters are forgettable and the script is pretty flat although it does shine in some places.One of the biggest disappointments is the battle scenes or lack of them. Even the end battle is poor.Kurosawas' use of colour is great and some scenes really stand out, especially the opening shots of the messenger running through the castle. But it's not enough.It could have been a great movie but we end up with a bit of a forgettable mess. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I am a big fan of Akira Kurosawa, and it has to be said that even Kagemusha, the worst Kurosawa film I have seen so far, is miles ahead of most current Hollywood cinema. But overall, this is something of a disappointment. Although the story itself is not bad, and it is all filmed majestically, the editing and pace of the movie is far too slow. The full version is almost three hours long, when the American version is way too long at only 2.5 hours. This really is the only gripe about the film, and if it were shorter it would be worthy of an 8 or 9 out of ten. As it is, this is not recommended unless you have a lot of patience. "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Watching Akira Kurosawa's three hour long epic color film (his third) from 1980, Kagumusha (The Shadow Warrior) reminded me of the historical plays of William Shakespeare. While more famed for adapting the dramas of Shakespeare (Ran from King Lear, The Bad Sleep Well from Hamlet, The Hidden Fortress from Macbeth), Kurosawa's long film reminds me more of the detailed histories, where a single character is less important than the whole milieu (as well as being a more epic version of the old The Prince And The Pauper fable). And he succeeds very well at it. While the overall film is a bit too slow paced to be considered great, there is no doubt that it is an intricate work that abounds with astonishing color imagery, and is suffused in details that the screenplay by Kurosawa and Masato Ide slip in very subtly.The best example of this is that even though the average viewer will know next to nothing of Japanese feudal history (what little I knew came from mostly old Japanese films), specific details are not needed because the themes and characterizations are so universal. It won the Palm D'Or at the Cannes Film Festival, and was seen as a comeback film for Kurosawa, after a mostly forgettable decade (the 1970s) of sporadic film work.The actual story of the film is rather simple, the feudal lord of a clan that hopes to unite Japan in 1573, Shingen Takeda (Tatsuya Nakadai), is assassinated by a rival clan. However, since this takes place at night, the wounded lord has his generals prepare a double to take his place, should he die, and orders them to keep up the pretense for three years. We never see the actual shot, only hear it, and then see it in a re-enactment for the warlord, Ieyasu Tokugawa (Masayuki Yui), who ordered the assassination. The double is a thief, Kagemusha, played by the same actor, who during the opening six minutes of the film, before the credits, mocks the feudal lord and his brother as hypocrites for condemning him, a petty thief. He says they are mass murderers. The lord spares his doppelganger, the first of a number of fortuities in this story, loosely based upon real events. Nakadai is splendid in both roles. Usually, such dual roles are phoned in, but one can sense the difference in the two characters, even long after Shingen is dead&#133;.All in all, Kagemusha is a very good film, with some great scenes and moments. Unfortunately, its plot drags weigh it down just enough that it falls below some of his true masterpieces, like Seven Samurai, Ikiru, and The Bad Sleep Well. Yet, even if it is not Kurosawa at his best, like Shakespeare in second rate mode, it is still far superior to all but the very best of lesser filmmakers. Yet, in Kagemusha, as in few other films of quality, it is the very lack of specificity about its people and events- where such details float behind the presentation, throughout the film, then swiftly come together to make sense late in the work, that allows it to have such a lasting impact, narratively, just as its switch between surrealistic color sets and realistic location shots similarly recapitulates the viewers' disorientation, then realization that something very interesting and different has happened. That simply does not happen in Hollywood films, and rarely occurs in any films, at all. It also shows why critics such as Stephen Prince often do a disservice to the viewers in their commentaries on films, and miss the very elements that make a film work or not. Fortunately, such defects do not affect the great artists whose works are disserviced by such lesser minds. "},{"Title":"A Shadow","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I am slowly wading through the huge backlog of Kurosawa Akira films that I have accumulated over the last few years. Last week I watched Rashomon for the second time and now I have finally watched the three hour long epic Kagemusha. I am glad I had to watch it for a class because three hours is quite a chunk of time. However, Kagemusha is quite a beautiful and entertaining film threaded with humor and sadness so its three hour time does not seem quite as long as it is.Opening with one long static shot, the viewer is presented with three men who practically look identical sporting the same kimono, hair style, and beard. We soon learn that the center figure is the warlord Takeda Shingen, the man on the left is his brother Nobukado, and the man on the right is a thief who was saved by Nobukado from being crucified because of his uncanny resemblance to Shingen. Nobukado desires to make the thief into a kagemusha, , shadow warrior, like himself so he can act as a double for Shingen. Shingen is against the idea at first, but is soon impressed by a loud outburst from the thief so he allows the man to be trained as his double.On the verge of achieving his dream of overtaking Kyoto and keeping his enemies Oda Nobunaga and Tokugawa Ieyasu at bay, Shingen leaves the safety of his abode to listen to the flute played by an enemy with the confines of a blockaded castle. However, Shingen is shot and subsequently dies. Yet before he passes away he tells his men to keep his death for a secret for three years. With no other option available the ranking generals of Shingen's army keep their lord's death a secret and force the thief to play the role of Shingen. However, this is easier said that done&#133; Considered by critics and fans alike to be one of Kurosawa's most powerful, if more formulaic films, Kagemusha delves into the recesses of history and asks the questions what happened to Shingen? Why did he fail when he was so close to victory? However, this is only a small part of the films appeal. It, like many other Kurosawa films, shows how modernity, in this film rifles, impend on a culture. A great film that can be enjoyed at a number of levels, Kagemusha is a film to be watched not only by those who enjoy Kurosawa or samurai films, but by those who enjoy long epic films as well. "},{"Title":"Kagemusha - The Double","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Only for a director of Kurosawa' caliber could Kagemusha serve as a dress rehearsal for more serious fare like Ran! Like Ran, Kagemusha is set in 15th-16th century Japan and deals with Lords, Kings and succession battles. Where Ran was based on Shakespeares King Lear, Kagemusha is based (however loosely) on historic fact.Certainly Kagemusha does not have the exquisite battle scenes of Ran, but it holds up well to its more illustrious successor. The compositions are lovely, starting from the opening frame with Lord Shingen, his brother and petty thief Kageumsha. The colors are beautiful and this is one of the best examples of color photography.There is an emotional core to the movie as well - much stronger than Ran perhaps. When Kagemusha is thrown out in the rain is particularly affecting. The process by which he moves from being a moral-less man who considers Lord Shingen to be a killer of hundreds and robber of domains to eventually aspiring to serve the dead Lord with fierce loyalty is beautifully done.Kurosawa is one of the all-time great directors. Although Rashomon and some of his earlier B&W films are his best, Kagemusha and Ran stand out in the later part of his career as unmissable epics. "},{"Title":"the dress rehearsal that makes wonders on its own","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" It took a couple of times for me to really take everything in with Akira Kurosawa's Kagemusha. The first time around I got about as engrossed as possible with the visuals, but at the same time got confused with some of the historical-side stories in the film. Which clan attacks who, which clan will dominate, who's flag is who's? But I did know the central story of Kagemusha, the shadow warrior, who is made by the (hidden) late Lord Shingen's advisers into the Lord himself to fool his enemies and even everyone else around him, was worth telling. So on the second time around as the story wasn't as much of the issue I watched the film to really get more into it, as it is a three-hour epic (Kurosawa's second longest film, minus the unseen cut of the Idiot), It's not necessarily a dense film though, which adds to the appeal of it- each scene has enough nuance and irony to cut into the impending tragedy that looms over the Takeda clan.It's been said, most of all by Kurosawa himself, that this film was a dress rehearsal for his late masterpiece Ran. Ran is the more artistically overwhelming and incredible film, but Kagemusha on its own two feet is still a staggering achievement for a director with many great films. And he pushes ahead from his 70's films as his third color film, taking from his impressive storyboards (you can see the reprints in the Criterion DVD package), creating scene after scene where colors are heightened and returned and made precisely for specific moods and settings of the scenes. Him and Bergman are the first directors I can think of who were able to move from expressive black and white films into color and still make the personal style of certain scenes challenging and powerful.Take the scene when Kagemusha is having the dream, surrounded in a sort of field of different colors and smoke, and the armored samurai pursues him. But the greatest sequence in the film, one that does go on par with the best sequence in Ran (the burning of the castle), is the final climactic battle-turned-slaughter. It's ironic that for a director synonymous with the samurai drama that he doesn't show any contact from the bullets to the charging samurai on horseback. It's all in the aftermath, the horses in slow-motion in the last throws of life, and body after body strewn with blood. Following this with Kagemusha's final stand as he runs madly through the field towards his end, it all marks as one of the supreme set-pieces ever done depicting the horror of sacrifice and futility of war. It's not one of the easier Kurosawa films in some ways, but it does contain really strong performances, as a fine interpretation of history. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Stunning!","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This fantastic Kurosawa effort finds a lowly social outcast playing double to a great and beloved warlord. The director's scene composition is wonderful and his use of color is absolutely stunning. The opening scene of the warlord, his brother, and the double, or Kagamusha (Shadow Warrior) offers a clinic on compositional excellence and acting nuance. In this scene also lies embedded one of the films minor (and seemingly unavoidable) problems a difficulty in telling the characters apart.As can be seen from my high rating of the film, this review is not by any means a pan of the movie. However, I would like to examine the few fine points that prevented it from receiving that tenth star.As stated above, there is a difficulty, at least for these American eyes, of telling who is who on screen, making the story hard to follow.Further, it is never explained as to WHY Lord Shingen wants his death kept secret (and the double used) for three years. The three years is not long enough for his heir to reach maturity. Nor is it adequate to educate his passed-over son to be a wise regent.In the end, it is not apparent as to why the Takeda engage in an ultimate battle with the most idiotic and suicidal attack plan possible.On a minor note, the camera dwells too long on the death throes of cavalry horses.All in all, a great feast for the eyes and test of the perception of the viewer. The story is at once empty and timeless, with a premise that holds promise for other treatments. Perhaps this is why I also love Moon Over Parador "},{"Title":"Is there a more beautiful film than this?","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Stunning in its visual beauty, there are moments in this film so perfectly realized that when I FIRST saw it, I had to stop my machine, back up the tape and watch them again!The story itself is superb, a common thief is a perfect double for a warrior king, saved from the gallows to act as a stand in to confuse enemy troops. The dual role of thief/warrior king shows exactly how an actor's mind works, in creating two completely different and separate characters. "},{"Title":"The U.K. DVD release has lost 27 minutes of runtime - Only 152 minutes","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Great, great film; but I will be returning my copy of the DVD because it has lost 27 minutes of footage.  This is not the version that I have seen before with all the wonderful pace Kurosawa draws into the film.The DVD is butchered and not worth watching, wait for the full version when ever that may be; but the wait will be worth it.Runtime of the butchered version is 152 minutes Runtime of the full version is 179 minutes.I hope this helps. "},{"Title":"Flat-out Masterpiece","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  One of the truly finest grand operas of the silver screen and all of history itself. Spectacle is not reduced to simple violence.  There is great emotion and depth of purpose behind each battle.  The battle is for survival, the human spirit.  How can a spear win over a gun?Color, majesty, conflict, imagination, unmatched composition, genius.The face of the imposter, no words spoken, is one of the greatest achievements in acting history. So very much said. Words pale.One wish  One day they will invent SUBTITLES that are NOT superimposed on the image, but placed somewhere directly below the frame.  Maybe with the advent of Wide Screen TVs, this might develop one day.I say THIS because EACH FRAME of this movie, is a work of art, a masterpiece of cinema.  We should not be subjected to have these works tainted by the mere reason of own language differences.ALL THAT SAID   Thank you, Akira.  For bringing us your genius and for respecting the intelligence of your audiences.Is there a score possible over a 10? "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  A grand spectacle.  Powerful plot.  Memorable scenes.  It doesn't get any better than this.I've seen this movie 3 times and it keeps getting better, each time.I enjoyed this much more than Ran.   "},{"Title":"Incredible... This is a true masterpiece!!","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Few filmmakers can capture a moment as well as Kurosawa. Some of the richest scenes ever filmed are showcased in this very film, and to have a better understanding of the flick I would recommend a short course in Japanese history. Don't hesitate... Watch this masterpiece today!!! "}{"Title":"Stunning Photography","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This is a long, leisurely movie, albeit one with some furious and exciting battle scenes, that suffers from the difficulty an American audience has in trying to keep straight who all the characters are and who is doing what to whom. BUT . . . you don't need to follow it all that closely to appreciate the stunning photography and color Kurosawa brings to this movie. Long tracking shots that are crisp from near foreground to deep background are populated with brilliantly colored soldiers, banners, skies. This is as good as it gets in an epic. Even when you have no idea of what's happening you can't take your eyes off the screen. You'll probably need to watch it twice to get the story straight and when you do you'll probably find it a bit obvious and predictable. Doesn't matter. Watch it so you can say you've seen one of the most visually beautiful movies ever. "},{"Title":"Great Sixteenth-Century Samurai Epic Of Doppelganger Warlord","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" In sixteenth-century Japan, feudal warlord Shingen Takeda is besieging Kyoto when he is mortally wounded by a sniper. Ordering his army to flee home, he dies en route, but requests that Kagemusha, a thief who looks exactly like him, impersonate him for three years to fool his enemies. Kagemusha takes on the role, but can he convince everyone, and what effect will his new-found position have on him ?For a movie which - in typical Kurosawa style - is a lament on the futility of war ending with the hero floating away face down in a river, this is a happy story. This is because it was a triumphant return to form for this great Japanese director; after the dismal critical and commercial failure of Dodes'ka-den (which prompted him to attempt suicide) and the very obscure Dersu Uzala, Kagemusha is a masterful samurai epic, brilliantly made, sumptuously produced, very well acted and great entertainment. It's a sort of cross between Alexandre Dumas Sr's The Man In The Iron Mask and Kurosawa's earlier Throne Of Blood, with a terrific main theme. Kagemusha, the pretend-Lord, is a petty thief, with no grasp of court politics or the horrors of battle, but he is not without courage, kind-heartedness and humour. We share his affection for the heir-in-waiting child, his terror whilst watching a bloody siege unfold and his misery when he is exposed as a charlatan and ostracised. Nakadai is terrific in the dual role of Kagemusa / Shingen, with great support from Yamazaki as Nobukado, his adviser. Visually, the film is outstanding, with trademark use of natural elements; wind, rain, dust, clouds, sunsets (the shot of Yamazaki leading the retreat with the crimson sky behind him is just stunning). My one criticism of the film would be that the last two reels, after Kagemusha's expulsion, are a little unnecessary and overly familiar in their grand tragedy - however, they do contain an amazing battle scene with a unique technique of shooting suicidal charges with no reverse-angle shots of the carnage until the battle is over. Some have dismissed this film as a sort of practice run for Kurosawa's subsequent masterpiece, Ran, but don't believe it. Ran is a better movie - deeper, more complex, more visually dazzling - but Kagemusha is a superb epic historical intrigue, and a rousing redemption in the career of one of the world's greatest directors. Francis Coppola and George Lucas helped to fund and secure the film's US release, where it was titled The Shadow Warrior. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Definitely not the greatest of Kurosawa's movies, but one of the best. It does not have the philosophical depth of Ran or the poetic touch of Rashomon, but as a movie that shows the principle of Samurai loyalty and has a bit of a satirical note, I think it is one of the great ones. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  The first time I rented this movie, I didn't quite understand it. I rented it again and it blew me away. Akira Kurosawa is a masterful director who can combine story, art, history, and emotions that can relate to present day. Very few directors can do that. The acting is superb, and so is the dialogue. The story is set in 18th century Japan, with the war between the three warlords Takeda, Tokugawa, and Oda. Takeda is shot and later dies. But his soldiers found him a double, a kagemusha, who was about to be sent to death for stealing looks exactly like him. The kagemusha goes through heavy and painful emotional training, forcing himself to have the same posture and voice as the late lord. The story then leads into the war between the warlords and finally, then end shot of the film has so much symbolism, imagery and thought-provoking ideas. the battle scenes are exquisitely filmed, but that's not the main key here. Watch for the emotions. This is a true masterpiece, but not as good as Kurosawa's following epic, Ran. "},{"Title":"Very Good Film","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I don't speak Japanese so I'm commenting only on the subtitles.  It appeared to me there was a sly subplot of the European influence in Japan.  The priests giving the warriors their blessing, the European red wine, and the guns, which I assumed were provided by the Europeans to the winning side. Kurasowa was saying Japan, in Shingen, was lost to the Europeans when Japan left the mountain, Japan, and engaged the European guns.  Perhaps a play on Pearl Harbor. "},{"Title":"Kurosawa's return to the samurai film","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Five years after Dersu Uzala more hard times began to fall on Kurosawa. He couldn't find funding from any studio and that's when two of his greatest admirers came to his aid. None other than George Lucas and Francis Ford Coppola. The two helped him make Kagemusha.Kagemusha is another beautiful epic film set in feudal Japan. Shingen Takeda (Tatsuya Nakadai) is a powerful warlord who has many doubles that he uses during battles in order to give the opposing armies a sense that he is all powerful, always there watching over his men. Suddenly the real Shingen is killed and a new double is sent in to replace him. Unfortunately this new double is nothing but a thief and knows nothing about being a warlord. Soon more problems arise around trying to conceal his identity and a decision must be made.Kagemusha marked Kurosawa's return to the genre of film that he helped shape, the samurai film "},{"Title":"Best Akira Kurosawa out there","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Best Akira Kurosawa out there, if you like Ran, you will like this too... "},{"Title":"soul searching","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" this movie has the no 1 tearjerker scene . The movie opens with a thief and wino who has been saved from crucifixion as he may be useful as a double for the king (shingen) who kept the country safe from enemies . but when the king got killed by a sniper shot,the double must play the king for 3 years for the safety of the country . Will he accept the offer a new chance to live a respected life . as the movie proceeds we see Shingen's (the double) is searching for the meaning of his life and searching for his identity in a journey full of passion and love . but this didn't last long as soon he find a meaning for his life , it became meaningless again. a story of loyalty ,braveness,sacrifce and patriotism. a great movie. "},{"Title":"A little lost on DVD","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Sometimes movies just have to be seen on the big screen, not on DVD - that is my big disappointment with this great epic. I've no doubt it would be so much greater if I'd seen it originally.But this cannot take away from what is by any standards a great movie. Like so much late Kurosawa, it isn't flawless - for a long movie it doesn't always have full narrative coherence, and some characters are undeveloped. It would have been nice to have more of a back story to the shadow warrior. Was he really just a thief, or was there more to him than that? A few hints are given in the opening scene, but not much more.However, as a demonstration of what an epic movie should be, nobody can beat Kurosawa. Just think what he could have done if he had the technology Zhang Yimou uses! "},{"Title":"Kurosawa in color!","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I have to admit, I'm a natural fan of Akira Kurosawa; seeing a film of his in color is simply amazing. With color, Kurosawa had the ability to create imagery and crafty art that was vivid and beautiful; good enough to tell a story through his images.After saying that, master filmmaker Kurosawa's tale is about a thief (Tatsuya Nakadai) who is hired as the role of the king of the Takeda clan, after the king is killed. The film follows his personal, inner struggles as maintaining the role of a king, which is demonstrated very well by Mr. Nakadai. One of the best lines he delivers is I'm not a puppet! there are countless others as well, revealing his pains from living a life of bitterness and misery, into a life of luxury and comfort.During his reign, other major clans decide an all-out war against one another, which causes the peace to falter in the lands of feudal Japan, and puts this thief to the test as being a rightful ruler. Additional to this, the director explores the change from old traditions and customs to modernization (premonitions of the Last Samurai), in which leads to the downfall of the old clans, and into the rise of the new clans.Once again, Kurosawa has created another astounding film that explores philosophy, reality vs. illusion, war, and ambivalence. the supply of Japanese actors were all great, specifically with Tatsuya Nakadai. The set-decoration and costumes were beautiful, the cinematography is vivid with color, and the music score is both haunting and triumphant.However, the pace of the film was a roller-coaster. In some places it gets fast and in others it drags. Another thing to note is that the action sequences in the film are relatively weak. The battles were long, but were mainly off-camera or implied, lacking the excitement and action needed for a real battle scene. Particulalry with the ending battle. There are hundreds of extras on horse and foot charging towards an infantry line, and the camera pans away from the battle, and all there is, is gunfire and screaming. And in a siege, again, off-camera, and the way it is filmed, it looked rather hokey, showing the actors and fighters on a sound stage rather than a battle field.Maybe I'm just used to his action films like Seven Samurai or even Ran, but his battles were feeble compared to his past films. This was a let-down to some degree, but this was still a decent film. Because of this, I rate it a ***1/2 out of **** It's not his best, but a creative piece of work! "}{"Title":"A wonderful return for a fi master","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" A samurai warlord stares at his exact double, a recently captured petty thief. Before long, the warlord is assassinated. In order to hide this new weak link, the warlord's advisors hire the thief as a substitute. What follows is in unforgettable study of power-thirst and the folly of war. This is KAGEMUSHA, the comeback film for master film-maker Akira Kurosawa.In the late 1970's George Lucas, and Francis Coppola, fresh from conquering Hollywood with their films, watched in dismay as the Japanese film industry regarded Akira Kurosawa as an unmarketable relic. Kurosawa, who bought the Japanese film industry worldwide recognition with his 1950 film RASHOMON, was now being turned away by every Japanese studio for his latest film project. Both Lucas and Coppola borrowed furiously from Kurosawa films (STAR WARS is almost a remake of THE HIDDEN FORTRESS and SEVEN SAMURAI) Coppola's THE GODFATHER has numerous Kurosawa-styled moments. Lucas and Coppola came to the rescue with international distribution deals. This resulted in KAGEMUSHA, Kurosawa's long-planned samurai epic, becoming a reality. During KAGEMUSHA's Development Hell period, Kurosawa made over 200 color drawings of key scenes in the film. The resulting film is a marvel of color usage, shot composition, and character blocking. Tatsuya Nakadai, a veteran of Kurosawa's films (he's the gun-happy punk in YOJIMBO and the cool Tokyo detective in HIGH AND LOW) is both the ill-fated warlord and the mangy thief. With two character arcs to deal with, Nakadai helps to keep the film pulsating. "},{"Title":"The Master Shifts to Color","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Kurosawa is most often - and perhaps unfairly - synonymous to many people of dynamic samurai films. People think of Seven Samurai, Yojimbo, or the different but contemporary Rashomon. They think of movement, of Toshiro Mifune bursting out of the screen. And they imagine it all in black and white.To stay focused on this is to ignore many gems in the Kurosawa crown at your peril, and it also means maintaining unreasonable expectations when exploring some of his films. Also, while previously overlooked works have been reassessed as masterpieces since (especially High and Low), Kagemusha, the master's first chambara epic in color, usually gets short-changed, viewed as best as a dress- rehearsal for Ran, his final masterpiece. It's time to rectify the situation.Kagemusha - The Shadow Warrior - is the story of a lowly thief enlisted to serve as warlord Shingen Takeda's double. When Takeda is mortally wounded, his lieutenants keep it a secret and train the double to stand in his place, eventually at great emotional cost to our nameless hero.Kurosawa's career peaked with Redbeard. Not that that was his finest film, but it marked the peak of his financial and creative powers, and the height of his popularity in Japan. It was followed by a painful decade in the half in an artistic wilderness, caused by an unhappy first foray into color filmmaking, Dodeskaden, which was rejected by critics and audiences alike. After that came Russian tone- poem Dersu Uzala. Unable to get financing for his next project, Kurosawa buried himself in painted storyboards of the great film he would never make, until Francis Ford Coppola and George Lucas swept in, forcing Fox to put up funds for this project sight unseen. The long prep time is keenly felt upon seeing the finished film. Where Seven Samurai and even Redbeard were kinetic and fluid, Kagemusha feels very designed, static and artificial, which perfectly complements the story it tells, and its themes of social rigidity and artifice. Toshiro Mifune is nowhere to be seen either, replaced by a very different presence Tatsuya Nakadai. Kurosawa had first intended to use Katsu - famous for the Zatoichi series - but his controlled environment had no room for that comedian's freewheeling style, and old collaborator Nakadai swept in to carry the film on his able shoulders.The result is a beautiful film to behold, less visually alluring than Ran but more touching and human. Though it has its unforgettable images - a blinding, back-lit procession of retreating soldiers; riderless horses rolling among corpses in the battlefield; a surreal dream sequence - it is the smaller moments that stand out the double trying to convince Shingen's concubines, his tender moments with Shingen's grandson, Daisuke Ryu's surprisingly likable antagonist Nobunaga... It is not the instantly thrilling comeback many had expected, but it is undoubtedly the work of a true master firing on all creative cylinders, and well worth watching more than once. "},{"Title":"Masterful puppetry","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  A masterful and moving drama of the used, those who use and the circumstances under which people are made to be useful puppets.  Deft use of color and pageantry in feudal Japan.   "},{"Title":"On Identity","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I enjoyed this particular Kurosawa film because it prompted me to think about identity a great deal.  The question of who we are, and why we are here underscores much we encounter in art...This film doesn't presume to answer such questions, but beautifully illustrates one facet of a complex question.  The interactions between the numerous characters doesn't deviate from our expectations and understandings of the characters' roles.  As these roles change, however, we are left to ask ourselves about what the deciding factor is.  I think this film's brilliance is beyond my ability to convey it.  A must see for anyone that likes to think when they watch a movie. "},{"Title":"Impressive in many aspects, but some flaws left me disappointed","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Firstly, let me say that I didn't watch this movie for action or watching battle scenes. Visually mesmerizing, acting is powerful, story editing is exceptional, but Kagemusha bugged me because of its unsatisfying battle scenes owing to weird editing and vision which contradicts the big master Kurosawa. What I see is people for example critics don't accept this, a kind of pseudo intellectualism? I am respectful for Kurosawa, but I can't tell you lie. I didn't like this movie. It might sound intolerable to them, but the battle scenes ruined the movie for me, otherwise, it would have been one of the best Kurosawa movies like Ran. I have never become one of the people who see all Kurosawa movies as masterpiece, give 10 out of 10 to all of those. As for Kagemusha, we know that Steven Spielberg and George Lucas supported Kurosawa financially for this project. Kurosawa shows very long preparation scenes for the battle, we see the battlefield in detail, great visuals, he prepares us for the battle, we wait, wait, wait, but then nothing happens, to be more precise the war takes place, but we can't see it exactly. Artificial lights, fog, it is like a theater, great images, but we are left unsatisfied and somehow, this becomes frustrating as the film goes. Later, again warriors prepare for another battle, we prepare us for the big battle, we wait, wait, then the same thing happens. There is an introduction, no development, but conclusion. Especially the last war is unbelievable. I just can't get it. Why? However, his fans interpret this as Kurosawa preferred that way which is great! Sorry, but this must be pseudo intellectualism. And there is another odd fact, as said, Steven Spielberg and George Lucas supported him financially, but it looks like they didn't? A film critic wrote that Kagemusha gives us a lecture about how war scenes should be made. Well, it is funny, I think the exact opposite! Sorry, but clearly this is a conscious manipulation. Kagemusha is a must see and a great drama, but it is not impressive like some other Kurosawa movies. "},{"Title":"Not a great film, poor characterization, very poor dialog","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Make no mistake, I am a huge fan of the director Akira Kurosawa. His great films (Seven Samurai, Dersu Uzala, Rashamon) are the finest films in the history of film making. However, this film does not rank with them.Kagemusha tells a true story set near the end of Japan's feudal period (around 1580). The story is that a clan leader (Shingin) was such a superior general that even though his clan was outnumbered, they could not be defeated while he lived. Knowing this, his close advisors concealed his death for three years, placing a shadow warrior or double in his place. However, the situation did not last and when the ruse was discovered, the clan's army was destroyed in battle.Problems with the film most importantly, the main character (the double) fails to express himself. The actor, in my opinion, fails to convey any worthwhile qualities, either by word or deed, such that we should care about his situation. I personally think Toshiro Mifune would have been a huge addition to the film. The combination of poor dialog and poor acting removes the very heart from the film. He was weak when he should have been strong, he was silent when he should have spoken.Another huge problem with the film was the editing. There are many pointless scenes of military units marching up hills and down, this way and that. Visually the marching men have some flair, but it is totally meaningless and lacks any dramatic value. The comparison to Seven Samurai is harsh and unfavorable to Kagemusha. In the earlier film, each action made perfect sense, there was not a wasted shot in the whole movie. In Kagemusha, by contrast, at least 15 minutes of marching soldiers serves no purpose.Perhaps Kurosawa was trying to tell a deeper story, about how life is random, how you are thrown into situations for which you are not trained and there is no good way out. As as story, I'll take The Seven Samurai any day.  "},{"Title":"6/10 - Weakest Kurosawa film I've seen yet","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  The pacing of this film is awful.  There are a large number of scenes which I felt were 2 or 3 times as long as they needed to be.  The musical score was also awful and didn't seem to convey the proper mood.I saw the shorter version.  Someone commented that the longer version was better... maybe it is, but it seemed like there wasn't enough story to fill up 2 hrs 40 mins, much less 3 hours.The only reason it gets a rating of 6 is due to Kurosawa's visuals. "},{"Title":"2/10","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This is one of the most overrated films I have ever seen. The only reason anyone thinks this is a good movie, is because its foreign. One person gave it a 9/10, even though, in their own words, it lack content and the plot was hard to follow. THEN HOW THE HELL IS IT A 9. There were a couple of engaging shots, but most of the camera angles were the same, and lacking creativity. So, lets be honest with ourselves and give this movie the rating it deserves. 2/10. "},{"Title":"Not very interesting...","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I have understand Kurosawa is a great director who has made some masterpieces in his lifetime.  However, I fail to see the masterpiece in Kagemusha.The story is very bland, and most of it revolves around a thief who has taken the position of a great Lord, due to the Lord's death.  That could be an interesting scenario, but for some reason, it does not work in this film could it be because the entire film pays too much attention to that?  I don't know what this movie does wrong, but for a first time viewing, it is not the first to pick from Kurosawa's work.  It seems a bit boring, perhaps.  Maybe I am missing something, but this film lacks originality, plot, and the stunning sequences most Akira fans are used to.  The film is not as visually stunning as some of his others, and could have included more interesting shots.Why should we make such a big deal out of a lookalike?  Big woop.  "},{"Title":"Not the masterpiece I expected...","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" but maybe I don't get it...!? Usually I am a fan of epic stories but in this case the cinematography drove me crazy... I could not focus on the story and the characters cause in a lot of scenes the camera showed something completely different from what interested me at that point! ...and I mean not only visual interest (eye candy) also psychological in terms of characters reactions etc. To me this epic had never an epic feel. I felt almost suppressed while watching cause the camera seemed to stay in medium long shots all the time and each frame seemed packed!! I always felt forced to lock at the detail of the action that was in the frame when I really wished to see what was going on from a greater distance!! I was longing for a long or panorama shot for more than 2 hours... not even the final battle when the action opens up was a relief... "}]