[{"Title":"Glorious trainwreck of a film","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"47 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I urge everyone to buy a bottle of booze and see this movie immediately.If only for the Construction Worker's song I love you to death in which girls ride atop giant pistons and sprinkle glitter all over his jeans.  Or maybe the Leatherman's rousing version of Danny Boy atop a table in a Board Room.  Or, maybe the gigantic musical busby berkley dance numbers with added onion skin rainbow graphics of naked men jumping into swimming pools. Or, maybe the worlds most bizarre milk commercial starring the Village People singing about how a milkshake goes with your sandwich too.Be warned though, the songs are kind of decent.  Maybe even better than decent.  And theres a great performance by the otherwise mediocre Ritchie Family. Seriously, i love this movie.  Everyone i have shown it to has remembered it, and maybe hates me for it.  But its definitely an original. "},{"Title":"The duality of 1970's Village People's popularity collides","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  The Village people started as a band who was for the Gay community. Then, something else happened. Teenagers started to like them, but on a totally different level of the disco music and costume theatrics.When it came time to make a movie, which audience do you try to satisfy?Well, I guess Alan Carr thought you could satisfy them both.The result is one of the most incredibly bizarre, unintentionally funny musicals ever made. One that tried to balance Family friendly and Gay friendly to help VP's duel followings to come and enjoy.But even my naive, young self who saw this movie when it first came out could sense that... something was amiss in the village )I mean, the YMCA sequence has quick, almost subliminal cuts of a bunch of guys in the shower, one slapping a towel on the others butt (swear to God!) in between loving, slow motion shots of buff oiled athletic guys and an all male sychronized swimming team scene.Hmmm....That was a bit sledgehammer, even for me back then.Then, I watched it more recently and found a gay movie that was in denialYou have a movie that never says the G word but has an incredibly effeminate man with TIGHT gold shorts come in and Juggle Flaming fire batons.The Indian,Felipe Rose, has that nice, smooth look and wears cut off jeans and a headress and when he prances around, makes noise like a wind chime tinkling.The Leather man, Glenn Hughes (rest in peace)sounds pretty effeminate.The Construction worker, David Hodo, has a musical number where he tries to escape from a bunch of adoring women...Then there is Lulu, who seems to be female... mostly, but she reminds me of a drag queen.Which begs a question? How come almost all the Homo imagery here is for males. How come the lesbians get left out?And how come a lot of this movie is looped. Even a lot of stage shot stuff seems to have been redubbed in post production. It made me think I was watching a forign movie sometimes.Ahhh well, you'll have a lot of fun with this. You'll be in disbelief that the thinly disguised homoerotic undertones went over the heads of the powers that be. Perhaps they were too busy watching Valerie Perrine stick out.Bad movie fans will be in their glory too. It's not everyday that a big budget movie like this is so hilariously and ineptly executed.And hang on to your hats boys and girls, that great video company Anchor Bay has bought the rights to this movie and it will be on DVD in April 2002. Hopefully it will be a special edition, with a widescreen transfer and 5.1 remix and I'll be one of the first to get it.I still like the Village People and love this campy, bizarre, collosal misfire of a movie. "},{"Title":"So horrible that it's GREAT","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" This movie is amazing!! Rarely in the history of mankind have we seen a movie so incredibly awful that it becomes a must-see film. And, interestingly enough, this film is one of four from 1979-1980 that I have reviewed that all fall into this same category. To what do we owe this honor? Well, 1979-1980, for those of you who are blessed to be too young to remember it, was time of the last gasp of disco AND the short-lived roller-disco craze. And, all four horrible movies I strongly recommend are so bad, so stupid, so over-the-top bad that they are truly must-see films for bad movie fans. So here is my list of the unholy 4--XANADU, ROLLER BOOGIE, THE APPLE and CAN'T STOP THE MUSIC. All four are chock full of disco as well as crappy dialog and minimal production values. My vote for most awful of these is the sci-fi, disco, religious epic THE APPLE, but any of the four is strongly recommended for a good laugh! Now, for the specifics on CAN'T STOP THE MUSIC--which, when you watch it you may want to re-name CAN'T STOP THE RETCHING. Back in 1980, the least well-kept secret in America was the fact that the Village People were gay. Believe it or not, many Americans who loved their music lived in complete denial that these were six gay men from Greenwich Village. Well, all doubt and ambiguity is erased in this film! While a few times in the movie, the ultra-horny character, Lulu, makes very clumsy passes at these guys, the long, over-the-top and strongly homo-erotic music videos within the movie make it obvious these men were quite gay--and this is especially true of their rendition of YMCA--which looks sort of like a gay version of Heaven. In fact, the campiness of the movie is sort of like a combination of Liberace with gay disco--with the most flamboyant and silly sets and costumes you'll see outside of a gay pride march. BUT, despite the singing being so incredibly overdone and campy, it actually works in some cases as you'll probably find yourself tapping your feet and getting into the songs--or at least some of them. They are BAD, yes, but still kinda fun at the same time. The final song, CAN'T STOP THE MUSIC, initially is very catchy as well, but goes on and on and on and on until you are nearly ready to go berserk! So, if the music is strange but not THAT bad, why did I give the movie a 2? Well, that's because when they are not singing, the members of The Village People have very little to say and absolutely no charisma because they are not actors. So, they fill in this gap by having real actors(?) do almost all the dialog. And, for the most part, they assembled the absolute worst actors Hollywood had to offer!! So, the main problem with the movie rests not on the Village People but on everything else about the movie!! To help illustrate HOW bad the acting is, one of the big stars for the movie is a very young and obnoxious Steve Guttenburg! He is assisted by the pleasantly built but incredibly bland Valerie Perrine and the ultra-wooden Bruce Jenner!!! This movie, in fact, single-handedly ruined Jenner's bid to become a serious actor, as he had all the personality and chemistry of Mr. Potatohead.Now, so far this movie offers us one music video after another (many with very gay visuals that will make a few uncomfortable but most just laugh), horrible acting and dialog, a dopey story and wretched direction by Nancy Walker (yes, the Bounty commercial woman). And, when you put them all together you have a movie that is even worse than a sum of all its parts--so bad, that you'll most likely laugh yourself silly and have great time making fun of the ineptness of the film. Call some friends and make this the party film you all won't soon forget! "},{"Title":"Funniest P*O*S in History","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This is the best bad movie of all time. Ofcourse that means Steve Guttenberg and disco music are in it. I saw this once, ten years ago and will never ever forget it. The construction worker of the Village People does a musical number about milk. The film was directed by the late Nancy Walker of quicker picker upper fame. Bruce Jenner stars. The bizzarre factoids surrounding this film never quit. Whoever can watch this and not repeatedly laugh out loud needs to check their pulse. I fear my compulsion to buy the dvd. God help me, the howling indian. Classic badness.  "},{"Title":"Why should anybody want to ?","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I went to see this film almost the very first day it opened and along with Fame it is a recall mechanism for the start of an optimistic decade which like the acting in this film dive-bombed.The music and dancing however are of an almost Buzz Berkeley standard and they still bring most houses down.It really does not matter that the script makes no sense or that Guttenberg wants to forget he ever made the film, or that Jenner remained not the right type of male legs and torso-the stars are the wonderful Village People.They kick start the action with the song YMCA and we owe it to them to see this incredible routine in the swimming pool.They were all ready for the Eighties, shame that it didn't quite live up to everyone's hopes, but you will still find people who know a routine when they play old singles of YMCA. It's an electrifying trackand I'm not even gay. People were plain rude about Allen Carr...he had made Grease... he had every right to make what he liked... come hell or Fire Island. "},{"Title":"Can't Stop 21 Years Later, Still Disco Cinema's All-time Champion!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  How many times have they examined, reconfigured and grumbled at Allan Carr's Can't Stop the Music? I have often wondered this because let's face it, if indeed this is one of the best bad movies ever made, then, let me go on record as saying that of the three classic disco movies of the early 80s --- the other two being Xanadu and Thank God It's Friday  --- this one, directed by the Bounty lady herself, Nancy Walker --- holds up against the ravages of time because of its basic premise it is nothing less than the story, as presented through songs and film fantasy, of the origins of the Village People. Particularly, the prime mover of the saga (indeed, its true hero) is Jack Morell, played by Steve Gutenberg. This one-time record store cashier is in love with beautiful, retired fashion model Samantha Simmons, played by Valerie Perrine. Eventually, Sam gets her heart stolen by attorney Ron White, played by Bruce Jenner. It is the odyssey of Jack, Sam and Ron to bring together six men from the diverse subcultures comprising Lower Manhattan's Greenwich Village to form an unusual singing group called the Village People. Before long, their adventure culminates in the Vilage People's first-ever live concert performance, in San Francisco. How is it, I wonder, that after 21 years we still think of this particular film as the ultimate nail in the coffin of Disco? Frankly, I would like to see this film done proper widescreen justice on AMC. And as some of you, my two most favorite moments in the film are here the re-mixed YMCA and the always awesome Milkshake. Milkshake is especially tattooed in my brain because it was the last major original song written and produced by the Village People's founding threesome Jacques Morali, Henri Belolo and Victor Willis. Jacques having long since died of AIDS, and Allan Carr himself having succumbed to prostate cancer, we will never know how much of the magic of Can't Stop is, and yet is not, the accepted truth. One thing's for sure Can't Stop the Music is the last great effort by six awesome guys to make disco the safest music on the Planet. Well, that's my salute to Can't Stop the Music. And now, if you'll excuse me, I have to go do the Shake (do the Shake), do the Shaaaaaaake (do the Shake), do the Milkshake, the Milkshake (do the Shake)!    "},{"Title":"The Best Bad Movie Ever!","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" This movie is unlike anything I have ever seen. It is awful in every sense.Bad writing, acting, and man, you wanna talk about god awful editing! But when I first saw it on late night TV I could not believe my eyes. Its so bad its good. The whole thing is so happy, so carefree, and so 70's. Even though Steve Guttenberg's character tries to say the Village People are THE sound of 80's. Yeah, right. This is pure 70's. Back before all the nonsense we have to deal with these days with drugs and sex. The 70's and this movie were all about sex, drugs and rock and roll. And watch at the beginning in the record store scene where all the customers are standing in line to buy Electric Light Orchestra's disco classic album Discovery. Long live the Village People! "},{"Title":"Very Camp!","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This film is pure camp from start to finish. All during the late 70's people of theGay persuasion wondered how the Village People, with such an obvious gay subtext, could be accepted as such popular main stream rock heros. Well, when this film came out in 1980, the straight and gay world generally said Whew, something stinks. This film, with its then very popular stars, the Village People, Guttenberg, Perrine, and, yes, Bruce Jenner, bombed big time at the box office. Now, nearly a quarter of a century later, I saw this film at a friends and I must say, the sexual innuendoes, the absurd plot lines, the hysterical cameos of Tammy Grimes, and the outrageous music videos of the People themselves had me rolling on the floor. Very Funny! This may have bombed back then because the straights finally saw how queer it was and the gays were embarrassed at how silly it was. Also, one remembers that shortly before this film hit wide release in 1981, the Gay Cancer showed up in New York and L.A. Suddenly Gay was not so funny. Whatever the reason it did not make a hit back then...it should be seen now for its very entertaining smaltz and great, but where else can you see a young and luscious Valerie Perrine and a hot and studly Bruce Jenner in SHORT SHORTS dancing in a YMCA with the Village People. Oh the Humanity  "},{"Title":"Someone please stop the music...","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Boy, where to start? My memory might fail me, but how about Steve Gutenberg rollerskating down the streets of New York, dancing to his transistor radio and wearing his corduroy OP short shorts and an Izod shirt with the collar flipped up? The mirroring camera tricks are sophomoric and silly, and the entire sequence sets the tone for the implausible film that follows. I wouldn't be surprised if that scene took months to film as Gutenberg was probably beaten up a multitude of times and they needed to splice together bits and pieces of footage. It isn't exactly Rocky running through the warehouse district of Philly, is it? No... No it's not. How about the brilliant decision to cast Bruce Jenner, fresh off the crowd-pleasing performance on a box of Wheaties? The best moments of the film are of the Village People following closely behind Jenner in his bare midriff t-shirts with cozy little smiles on their faces. Not even Jenner's classic method acting style was enough to help the rest of the cast rise to the ankle-level material here. I seem to recall a scene where they decide on a name for the band... Hey... We're all from the Village, so why not The Village... PEOPLE? Then the Village Person dressed as the Indian chief showed his approval by employing the classic Indian war call; hooting while popping his hand over his mouth. I nearly fell out of my chair.And what about the fellow who comes to the band try-outs with the flaming batons? I think there was a message in there somewhere...This film is hysterical for a million different reasons and therefore, a complete failure. Surely a must-see in order to provide acute awareness of the bad taste high-water mark. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable musical comedy","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Who would have guessed at the time that the Village People would have had a greater impact on American society than 25 years of punk rock? One viewing of Can't Stop the Music will remind you of the massive sea change in American attitudes toward homosexuality since 1980. Though no one had the nerve to say the 'g' or 'h' words in this film, the site of the People singing 'Liberation'--and the other more subtle hints laced throughout this film--must surely be considered revolutionary. While the straight characters in the film--Perrine, Jenner, and Guttenberg--are plastic and dull, the People themselves represented the diversity, energy, and excitement of the Village scene. The late Glenn Hughes is particularly impressive, showcasing vocal range (Danny Boy!) and comic timing (Leathermen don't get nervous!). First rate entertainment, even if the People don't perform In the Navy or Go West.  "}{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  No-one ever claimed this movie was Citizen Kane.  But not every movie has to be though.  And for sheer mindlessness and fun this movie has few peers.  And talk about a once-in-a-lifetime cast.  This is definitely the most eclectic group of people  ever seen this side of an Ed Wood film.  To say this movie was one of the final nails in disco's coffin is grossly unfair.  By the time this movie hit theatres in the summer of 1980 disco was pretty much history anyway, so it's more a victim of bad timing than anything else.  It could be argued that this movie plays better when under the influence of booze or some other controlled substance.  Could be.  But whatever state you're in it's a helluva lot of fun.  It's mindless, has pretty good production values and the music is not as bad as you may have been led to believe.  Someone should definitely put this movie in a time capsule, because it reflects its era probably better than any movie ever made.  A definite must-have on your guilty pleasures list. "},{"Title":"great..","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Sorry but l think this is a great movie, why do people have to have a film that has a deep story line, this is just a great musical, with great numbers, big sets, and it`s fun fun fun..all the way...see it with no pre-conceived ideas, and just enjoy it.... "},{"Title":"The only movie I've seen twice in a theater","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I'm a regular customer of a local movie theater that shows old films, and six years ago they screened Can't Stop the Music - I went to see it, and found it an absolute hoot in campy humor! No-holds-barred, super-fast direction, flashy sets and special effects, glitzy musical numbers (the YMCA scene is awe-inducing!) and actors that really looked like they had a lot of fun cooking the whole thing up! It was the best cinematic experience I ever had. Never once did I glance at my watch, which for me is rather amazing. After gobbling up the whole enchilada, I started wishing I could find a copy of it somewhere. Alas, I still haven't.A few months ago, the same theater showed the film again. I usually don't see a movie twice in a theater, but my memory needed refreshment, and my soul some cheering up. I went, and had just as much fun as I did the first time.What's most amazing about CSTM is that although the director (whom I recognize as the deaf-and-dumb maid in the equally enjoyable Murder By Death) makes the actors rush through their lines and behave like over-energized hyperactive brats, and narrates the story so fast there's not even time to develop moments of crisis that last longer than a few seconds, the movie actually clocks in at two hours! Be grateful to the director and the screenwriters - a third hour would just have been asking too much of the audience.CSTM contains some of the most pointless attempts at comedy I've ever seen, and probably ever will see (Bobo Lewis's bread woman - um, huh??), and the only clever line I found was uttered by Perrine when she says bye to Paul Sand's Steve the Record Producer - it's made up almost entirely of song titles. But the actors' eagerness makes up for the lame humor, and salvages even the scenes where Jenner has to make a complete fool of himself (the trouser incident and everything that follows).I fear that if I ever find CSTM on video or DVD, the small screen will terribly banalize the film, but I won't care. But all you out there - watch the film on the big screen if you get the chance!  "},{"Title":"can't stop the music but give it your best shot","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  There is no doubt this film is a joy to watch. The reasons for this may vary from viewer to viewer, but chief among them for me is the sheer, exuberant awfulness of it. How could you not enjoy seeing Bruce Jenner metamorphose from button-down business type to overage crop-topped de-facto podium dancer? And him apparently unaware of how odd he looks in it? Any film that has a gravel-voiced Tammy Grimes poncing around in outfits rejected by Phyllis Diller as being too much can't be all bad. Among so many highlights - the 'I Love You To Death' sequence, where David Hodo understandably runs away from a bevy of carnivorous performance artists in red satin pillowcases (which raises the point how come no-one on-screen mentions the word 'gay' when everything everyone does all the time in this film screams the word? Take for instance the walrus-moustached Village Person who, white-knuckled before the Big Show whimpers 'Leathermen don't get nervous', eliciting the catty aside from passing Construction Worker 'Oh yes they do'). Steve Guttenberg recovered from this false start to make the seminal Police Academy saga, and the Village People did what they do best for a few more years. A smash hit in Australia (and, I think, Iceland), this overlooked film deserves a reappraisal.  "},{"Title":"cant stop the music","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" i saw this film on TV, i'm sure it wasn't in the cinemas at least i didn't notice it. the start was so funny i did fall off the couch and laugh so much i got a stitch...then the film settled down so to speak.it was hilarious, couldn't tell though whether it was supposed to be serious or a national lampoon style take on the groups life. other films on pop groups (beatles , spice girls etc) i guess you knew where they were coming from, but this was different..steve guttenberg perhaps he just needed the money...I bought it when it came out on VHS solely due to it being so awful it was good. i have tried to lend it to people but no one of my friends are interested...if it comes out on DVD i won't get that even if it is the directors cut...unless there is some really good out-takes. whatever someone says i do recommend people to see the film, but strap yourself into your chair and let someone else keep the remote so you cannot stop the film until the end ! "},{"Title":"You can get enough of the village people.","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  High camp, but unwatchable.  Even for a die hard disco fan this movie is terrible. Bruce Jenner, the Village People, and a sign of the encroaching 80's - Steve Guttenberg all dance their way through this jive turkey.  The best number is the musical sequence for YMCA in an actual YMCA.  "},{"Title":"You were expecting Tosca?","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  It's entirely unpretentious and succeeds in presenting a bunch of pleasant people who produce enjoyable music.  This is a  crime? "},{"Title":"Please stop the music already!","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" This movie was bad in 1980. It is worst now! Talk about not aging well. There is a good reason it flopped so badly during initial release bad story, bad acting, bad cast. But on a positive note, it does have a few catchy tunes such as YMCA, Magic Night and Can't Stop the Music. Too bad disco was over by the time it reached the screen.Producer Alan Carr actually thought he had another monster hit like Grease. Nothing could be further from the truth. One is almost embarrassed to watch this mess. It actually makes Xanadu look like high they thinking? Bruce Jenner moves like cardboard and seems uneasy during this entire exercise. Valarie Perrine added another film to her list of flops. Steve Guttenberg is horrible beyond words. The movie is suppose to be the story of how the group The Village People got together. But that was deemed a little too gay so we have this love story going between Valarie and Bruce. The Village People get very little screen time which is a blessing. It is humorous to see the ultra gay Village People with their girl friends in several of the scenes.Stay away. Don't say I didn't warn you! "},{"Title":"I have a contrary history of the movie compared to what is written","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" This movie was backed by the company that I worked for. They talk about 10 million used to promote it----10 million perhaps of other peoples money not there's Ill bet. When the movie came out Allen Carr contacted us (Fotomat in St Louis) and misrepresented the movie to the point we backed it and we paid for the advertising to promote it---we backed it up to the point we saw we viewed the movie. How did it ever get a PG rating. After my knowledge of the fibbing on the promotion I would have to doubt the rest of the claims made by the movie itself. It really was the worst I had ever seen and my boss, A deacon at his church, was almost kicked out of the church when the members all showed up for the grand opening. Should be titled Should Stop the Music "},{"Title":"A train wreck, but quite a hilarious one at that","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I think Xanadu is marginally worse, but that isn't saying much. Can't Stop the Music is a train wreck of a film, however like Xanadu I can't help laughing at the awfulness of it all. The music is quite decent I admit. But I cannot say the same for the rest of the film. The filming and choreography are unimaginative and messy, the story line is irrelevant, the dialogue is the epitome of unintentional cheesiness and the direction is absolutely wretched.Not to mention I had difficulty caring about any of the characters, and the acting fares little better. Tammy Grimes and June Havoc bring some much-needed kitsch to the proceedings, but we also have an unbearably obnoxious Steve Guttenberg, a bland Valerie Perrine and a wooden Bruce Jenner. The film is also overlong, and drags badly. So overall, while it was a train wreck and a chore to sit through mostly, there was some camp but somewhat entertaining value. 1/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"So bad it's good - really good","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" There really are some pieces of entertainment which are so bad that they are thoroughly enjoyable. This movie is an example of this to be placed in a time capsule to illustrate this for future generations.Look at the facts it has the Village People portrayed as a group of straight young men, of diverse occupations, who are united as a musical group; Bruce Jenner is presented as an actor in a lead role; Bruce and the others work-out with the People at the gym (YMCA); Valerie Perrine is the lead female (her claim to fame is being the first woman to show her nipples on television, 30+ years ago); Steve Guttenberg and Paul Sand represent the most prominent actor and comic presence, respectively, the producers obtained for the film; and, there is the added presence of the long-in-tooth Tammy Grimes, the longer-in-tooth Barbara Rush, and the longest-in-tooth June Havoc to the cast. Call it campy, strange, weird, weak, laughable - or whatever other adjective(s) you can conjure - it is so bad it's thoroughly engrossing and entertaining. And there is something about watching the Village People act, cavort and sing, and listening to their music, which does nothing but add further to this fascination - and their acting makes Ed Wood seem like Olivier (but like all else here, so bad it's you-know-what). "},{"Title":"It's all about following your dreams...","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" This film is one-of-a-kind, guaranteed to take your mind off your troubles. To me, it's an eighties version of the Busby Berkeley musical. And after you've watched it a few times, see if you don't find yourself singing Sound of the City or Do The Milk Shake. The cast is an amazing and bizarre combination of actors and entertainers never to be duplicated. Where else can you see Barbara Rush, Bruce Jenner, and Mrs. Sammy Davis, Jr. all on the same screen? There are some things I do find disturbing, however, such as how unnatural the heterosexuality seems in the club scenes. And the musical fantasy number in which the construction worker sings I Love You To Death never fails to remind me that the AIDS epidemic came of age during the disco years. But 'Can't Stop The Music' captures a special time in American culture and as such deserves our notice. Say what you will about this movie, but it is entertaining. And isn't that what movies are supposed to be about? "},{"Title":"There is merit in EVERYTHING.","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I am proud to say Can't Stop the Music definitely has merit and is one of my favorite movies of all time for so many reasons.  First of all, it loosely depicts the story of how VILLAGE PEOPLE developed through love and support of friends and family.  Village People and their music are so widely loved, identifiable, and preserved by their own magnitude.  Almost everyone has done YMCA with their arms SOME time at SOME event, or dressed up like one of them (or all 6) for Halloween or played in the yard as the different characters. If you at least know who they are, this movie must be intriguing to you hopefully. In terms of the writing of the movie, it took me a few watches to realize it, but the script is very clever and has some GEMS in there (Jack's front door with Samantha and Samantha at Marrakesh Records' office) but you have to listen carefully.  The script is tantamount, however, to the production numbers involved in the movie.  It's VILLAGE PEOPLE!!!!  It's Village People MUSIC!!!  The musical numbers vary in location from studio sets to the outdoors, but I must tell you all this little hint watch for the musical number that is the commercial for the American Dairy Association.  It will literally blow your mind.  The year at the time was 1981, and the musical numbers' sets were replete with long legged skinny models with wet, glossy lipstick applied perfectly, and that I don't care what you're thinking attitude. Village People's supporting cast include Bruce Jenner, Tammy Grimes, whose rendition of Samantha's boss Sydney is PRICELESS. ALtovise Davis, who was married to Sammy Davis Jr., also appears as a friend, roadie, good time gal. The movie, however, would not be complete without the main lady Valerie Perrine who plays Samantha Simpson, manager of Village People.  First of all, she's stunning.  I could watch her for 10 hours, let alone 2. Secondly, she HAD FUN on the picture.  You could tell everyone was having fun during the making of that movie.  I believe she is the driving force in the picture. Now, I understand this movie did not win any Oscars.  That fact is unfortunate.  Yes, the plot is not political, financial, legal, or has even a little resonance with most of the American public.  However, this movie is about organizing your dreams and dovetailing the right elements to produce a group that took a nation by storm.  These characters do it playfully, colorfully, and with little caution to idiosyncracy.  Sounds like my kind of movie. "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  But seriously, folks...you'd be hard-pressed to find  a worse musical than this (unless you count The  Apple from 1980, which seems, unfortunately, to  have disappeared from the earth), but its wretched  excesses are simply a delight for turkey  afficianados!! Most delightful in this throw-back to bright & sunny 30's screwball comedy-musicals -- especially for gay  audiences -- is the hilarious attempt to pass off  The Village People as STRAIGHT!! Too bad director  Nancy Walker and producer Allan Carr have other  ideas (unintentionally?) the homo-eroticism runs rampant! Check outthe YMCA number, or the awesome Do the Milkshake number, and LOVE those skin-tight short-shorts that  EVERY male in this movie sports. Valerie Perrine  does a few topless shots in a hot tub full of men,  but it's quite obvious they couldn't give a damn. And witness what may very well be the worst  supporting performance in a top-line film (yeah,  yeah, I know top-line??? Remember, this WAS a  big-budget movie!), provided by Marilyn Sokol, who  leers, sneers, flails her arms, rolls her eyes,  contorts her mouth and thrusts her hips out in a  truly pathetic attempt at what is either lust or  comic relief; she is truly an embarassment. Ace  sportsman Bruce Jenner, on the other hand, is  amazingly enept at conveying even the most basic of  emotions, and spits out his lines as if he's in a  rush to escape this movie. Nearly as bad is Tammy  Grimes, whose one-liners, meant to establish her  as a Class-A bitch of unmistakable wit, leave one  slack-jawed in disbelief; worse is her major scene  involving a long-nailed finger stuck in the rotary  dial of a phone in a booth. Do not be mistaken THIS MOVIE IS AWFUL!!! However, you'd be a FOOL to pass  up this chance to see Hollywood 'comedies' at their  very worst! Rating 9 stars   "},{"Title":"now the Retirement Village People","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" What is it about Australia and campy musicals? I see the IMDb lists the gross for this film as just $2m...well let me tell you all, about $1,999,990 came from Australia. In 1980 this film was a gigantic box office smash and ran for 6 months! The Village People came here for the Gala Premiere at the beautiful (lost) Paramount Theatre in George St Sydney (and then to the rest of the country) and the entire population went to see it. I kid you not...it literally ran months everywhere across Australia. Parents took their kids to see it over and over....until XANADU came out...then we all went to that 55 times as well. Last night, March 8th 2005, I saw the Village People in person, In Sydney, at an indoor concrete arena, as the support act to CHER who is touring here on a some endless farewell tour. What a demented double act! There were 12,000 other idiots in the audience (most over 50) all chanting YMCA etc to music....The Village People's tired act of high school level warbling and tinny disco (they sang to a tape!!!!) and limp 'moves' can only be described as..well...flaccid. They played for 25 minutes in a gargly medley of all the horrible songs from this film, so loved and memorised by seemingly every Australian. At one encore (don't ask) the cowboy (not the one in the film either, dunno where HE was) admitted they had been together 28 years but had toured Australia 33 times. That sort of says it all, doesn't it! Anyway they are all so old now, and so exhausted, they need to call themselves The Retirement Village People. Felipe Rose, the Indian, is SO overweight he just looked like Ernest Borgnine with turkey feathers. The Cop and The Army dude were the right ones so was and the Construction Worker who had vocal 'parkinsons'. So I watched the DVD again (every home here has one) and roared with shuddering delight at the glitzy awfulness of it all. On TV now they repeat some Gym scenes over the nudity in the shower scenes but the DVD is there for all to see. Steve Guttenberg is like Mickey Mouse after 15 cups of coffee. Unforgettable, as was the concert. "},{"Title":"AAAAAAIIIIIIEEEEEE!!!!!!","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Oh, GOD, this movie is so painfully, excrutiatingly, mind-numbingly BAD, I want a copy for my personal collection!  I've never been the biggest fan of disco--though I do have a few records in my collection--and didn't really miss it when it died the first time around, but this movie had to have been the proverbial nail in the coffin.  I've nicknamed it Please Stop the Music because that final song during the concert has permanently embedded itself into my psyche and won't let go!  Ouch!  Anyway, the old saying goes that a film is only as good as its (CHOOSE ONE  director, writer, cast), and this one had all three strikes against it.  No matter how hard you try to look away, you can't help but look on in horror as it continues.  Be prepared to laugh yourself silly over the unintentional humor, the stiff acting, and the convoluted HEY KIDS!  LET'S PUT ON A SHOW! storyline. "},{"Title":"Can't Stop Smiling","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Trust me this movie is whack, but I couldn't help but grinning and dancing a bit by the film's end.The musical formation of The Village People was a crazy mesh of many different characters (and I mean oddball crazy people) and absolutely offensive stereotypes. But, gosh darn it, I liked them anyways.I am somewhat unfamiliar with The Village People with the exception of said stereotypes and at least three songs I grew up with and, yeah, danced to&#x85;even in public. But, I knew of them and actually got to see them preform at a State Fair when they opened for a favorite band of mine growing up The Monkees. They performed well, from what budget they were allotted on a State Fair stage and only opening for another band.But, I digress. What captured me during this crazy movie was the positivity. Well, the jokes, too. Some of the jokes actually did work and the characters including Miss Tesch-mac-her! and Commercial Agent Channing were a ton of fun to watch. Despite all the looney and completely unrealistic occurrences and coincidences, everyone remained so positive like they really wanted to perform and be here. (It's been reported that might not have been the case, but they could've fooled me.) Additionally, some of the music and segments did get me moving. Admittedly, I watched this for a bad-movie podcast called How Did This Get Made?, since they covered it recently. And I did think it was a complete mess at first &#x96; even stopping it about half-way through and giving up on it until the next day. But, the more I think about it, I unabashedly enjoyed it. Helps there was full-frontal male nudity in it even with a PG rating. Um, I digress, again. The movie is supposed to be a loose description of how the band, The Village People and its creative genius (Mom's words) got started. It's pure fantasy and simply can't be taken seriously.It's just for fun and if you liked The Village People and the many more actors in here, it's worth the trip.***Final thoughts I really only had two disappointments. One they didn't sing my favorite Village People song Macho Man. Come to think of it, In The Navy was also not performed and though I like that song, too, Macho Man can stick in my head all day. And two Bruce/Caitlyn Jenner. He was simply not fun to watch. His character was all-over the place and a total buzz-kill. Yes, he was meant to be at first, but then he grew to be one of the gang and suddenly he was back to being a dick, so to speak. "},{"Title":"You can't stop the music, but you'll want to stop this movie","Date":"30 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Take a flash-in-the-pan disco act, an unknown Steve Gutenberg on amphetamines, and Rhoda's mom in the director's chair and what do you get? A recipe for disaster that everyone saw coming except Allan Carr.Can't Stop the Music is another one of those can't-miss ideas that failed horribly and from the cheap and corny opening credits, it's easy to see why.Most of the acting is horrible; the standouts being Steve Gutenberg, Caitlyn Jenner (as Bruce), Marilyn Sokol, and Felipe Rose (the VP's Indian), but for entirely different reasons. Forgotten camp icons Tammy Grimes, Barbara Rush, and June Havoc dress and act so silly that you could recast them with drag queens and nobody would notice. Valerie Perrine, the female lead, gets lost in the shuffle.Gutenberg's performance is morbidly fascinating, especially when compared with his most famous roles. He plays Village People founder Jacques Morali (Americanized to Jack Morell here) as a hyperactive flake with delusions of grandeur who can't hold a job or sit still for five seconds yet is inexplicably allowed to stay rent-free with fashion model gal pal Samantha (Perrine).Jenner and Rose give hopelessly wooden performances. While Rose seems game, his delivery is flat, his expression rarely changes, and every ten minutes or so he gives this badly dubbed Indian call that's like nails on a chalkboard. Jenner appropriately plays stuffed shirt tax lawyer Ron White and looks visibly uncomfortable. The other Village People aren't much better, but Rose gets the most screen time so we get subjected to more of his acting. Up next is Marilyn Sokol. While she isn't as bad, the script gives her lame entendres that even Mae West would find distasteful. Also someone should have advised her to wear a wig or change her hairstyle because she bears an uncanny resemblance to Tim Curry from Rocky Horror. Every time she came on screen I expected her to break out into Sweet Transvestite when I wasn't cringing at her sleazy one-liners.The movie's biggest failure is lack of lasting conflict. Every obstacle seems to be resolved in less than two minutes usually by introducing a character who just happens to have the solution. Altovise Davis serves as a walking deus-ex-machina, bringing in two of the future Village People off the street and wandering in and out of scenes like a fever dream. Perrine finds the others on an ice cream run and she also conveniently dated a record exec. Ron White's mother announces out of nowhere she can give the VP their big break in San Francisco when said record executive rebuffs them. When money gets tight, Perrine signs on to do a commercial. The whole movie is like this, which makes its two-hour runtime seem like an eternity.The script is also packed with failed humor. The movie thinks, among other things, that getting your finger stuck in a rotary dial, dropping a contact lens into a pan of lasagna, and dropping said scalding hot lasagna in someone's lap is funny. It also throws in a pointless humor scene where Grimes and a random woman attack each other with a loaf of bread just so the director can have a cameo.For a movie supposedly dealing with the music business, it knows surprisingly little about it. Jack can easily compose fully-produced demos with a complete string section despite using a keyboard and headphones. He also thinks DJing an original song one night will lead to instant stardom. He records the VP's first demo in his backyard. The VP perform choreography in full costume in a studio session while recording their parts at the same time! Even non-musical people are bound to notice it's so bad.Nancy Walker is a lousy director, and it's never more obvious than in the filming of the VP's concert finale. It starts with an all-female opening act that alternates from filming them fifty feet away to pointing the camera up the ladies' skirts. The VP get the same medium and wide shots mixed with closeups that cut out half the group. While Ray Simpson does his solo parts, the camera either focuses on the others or films him from behind. Is it any surprise she never directed again? Finally we come to the undeniable gay subtext. The movie tries to have it both ways, hiding it for middle America while pandering to VP's gay fanbase at the same time and the results are perplexing and often hilarious. Jack is weirdly asexual unlike his real-life homosexual counterpart and the VP are filmed flirting with female groupies and Sokol. Perrine flashes her boobs in the YMCA hot tub scene but given Walker's clumsy directing, it's hard to tell if this was deliberate.For the fanbase, Jenner wears a crop-top and Daisy Dukes for no reason at all in the lead up to the infamous YMCA sequence where young, muscular men are lovingly filmed swimming in speedos, wrestling, and baring their backsides, and occasional fronts, in the shower. The song Liberation is unapologetically a gay pride anthem. While comparatively tame, the fantasy song I Love You to Death also takes on a disturbing tone considering the upcoming AIDS epidemic.The music is fairly solid if a little formulaic. Morali reliably cranks out catchy disco tunes, though VP classics Macho Man and In the Navy are sadly absent. The only misses were the stuttering Samantha and I Love You to Death due to being uninspired, repetitive, and sung horribly.You have to wonder how anyone thought this would be a success. Disco was dead and even if it weren't, this movie is too shoddily made to be taken seriously. Nevertheless it makes an interesting time capsule for a bygone era and just how much you could push the boundaries of a PG film back in the day. "},{"Title":"This movie wasn't macho, man. It was just plain bad.","Date":"5 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I really don't like this film, because it didn't do the musical group, Village People, any justice. The movie delivers an unbalance, vague resemblance pseudo-story of the Village People's formation, rather than their actual story. I can't blame them, too much on it, since the real-life band creator, Jacques Morali & lead singer, Victor Willis weren't willing to pitch in, with this film production. I don't blame them, after all, the production for this film, was full of reports of cast members getting injury, tension between actors and the director, and last, but not least, complicated film locations, due to adjacent protests by gay activists over the 1980's film Cruising. There was no way, Morali and Willis was going to do this film. So, it makes kinda sense that they had to do a lot of rewrites; but why, did they, went way overboard on the certain things. A good example is the use of nudity. This really shock me, because the movie was supposed to be rated PG. So, why is there scenes of male & female full-frontal nudity!? Who bright idea was to rate, this movie PG? I guess, they thought, the film was a cartoon, due to the over the top cartoony humor, the film has. They really went overboard with this. Honestly, what does filler scenes like an old granny mugger or a woman stuck in a phone booth, has to do with the Village People!? Don't get me wrong, I like the fact that the movie directed by Nancy Walker tries to funny, but most of the jokes really fall flat, because how stupid & childish, they were. Honestly, if their music wasn't there, this movie would be nearly unwatchable. It's their disco and dance music that make this movie, somewhat entertaining. Sadly, some of their instant classics are somewhat missing. Two of the band's three biggest hits In the Navy and Macho Man did not appear in the film. I was really disappointed, by that. At least, the band, biggest hit, 'Y.M.C.A was feature. Still, I could had done, without any of the other mediocre minor hits songs like 'Milkshake', 'Magic Night' and 'Can't Stop the Music'. Their song, 'Liberation was a great tune, but really feels, out of place, without the pacing of the film. I really didn't like, the film, use of other artist songs, such as New York - The Sound of the City & 'Samantha by David London. Nor did, I like that the movie is giving free-advertisement for Jacques Morali's other band, the Ritchie Family, by featuring their songs, Sophistication & Give Me a Break. Surprising, for a movie that features the Village People, it doesn't show much of them at all. Instead, the movie focus more on how the group was made by a struggling composer, Jack Morrel AKA Jacques Morali (Steve Guttenberg), with his friend, former supermodel Samantha Simpson (Valerie Perrine) & her on & off, boyfriend, Ron White (Bruce Jenner). These three have more screen time, than any member of the band. I get that, the movie didn't want the Village People try to act, too much, so they wouldn't make complete fools of themselves, but gees, Valerie Perrine, Steve Guttenberg and expressively, Bruce Jenner, are not great actors. They all, pretty bad! Not only that, their characters are written, horrible. Steve Guttenberg's character comes across as a smug businessman. Valerie Perrine's character is just sex bait. Last is Olympian Gold Medalist, Bruce Jenner's character, who comes across as a minor character that shouldn't even be there. He rarely does anything, besides being the victim to a bunch of awkward slapstick gags and wince about it. 124 minutes is wasted on these characters, and by the end of the film, you still, don't know, much about the Village People, since coming in. The movie's pacing is also overwhelming. Lots of long takes, and general emptiness makes it a hard watch. Most of the musical numbers didn't look fabulous and crisp, due to the picture quality in the prints that the early 1980s had. Lots of key scenes look way too discolored & grainy. Another problem is the movie was film, without thinking of using any widescreen aspect ratio. There is a lot of bad framing, throughout the film. With a budget of around $20 million, you would think the picture quality would be, better, but half of the budget was spent on a lavish world-wide dinner parties and a Baskin Robbins promotion, during the biggest Disco backlash in history. Really bad judgment call right there. So, it was no surprised that, Can't Stop the Music, the most expensive musical at the time, bomb at the box office. It became so notorious bad that the Razzies was created, just for it, to win Worst Picture of that year. Even members of the Village People, Policeman (Ray Simpson), Construction Worker (David Hodo), Indian (Felipe Rose), Cowboy (Randy Jones), Leatherman (the late Glenn Hughes), and the soldier (Alex Briley), have stated in interviews that they dislike this movie, because, how much they were wasted. Also, the fact that the movie has them, playing heterosexuals fantasy roles, despite their influence in gay male subculture. The only true heterosexuals members, was biker, Glenn Hughes and replacement lead singer, Ray Simpson who took over for Victor Willis, as the Cop gimmick. Nonetheless, there is still a lot of gay imagery here to create a gay cult following and it did. As much, as I kinda like Disco and the Village People; Overall I really can't defend this movie. Thank goodness, this movie musical got stopped before it made a sequel! It was just plain awful. "},{"Title":"A poke in the eye with a disco stick","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Today, October 28 2014, is Bruce Jenner's 65th birthday. One wonders what he'd say to his 31 year old self if he could travel back in time? Please turn down Can't Stop the Music! Stay on the Wheaties box! Alas, we shall never know, but one thing's for certain, Bruce did appear in this shiny disco ball and we're all better for it, 34 years later.CSTM remains the final nail in the coffin of what we call disco. Released too late to fully cash in on the ebbing national dance craze, this astoundingly bad movie hit every wrong note and cemented itself in memory as a wreck the size of the Titanic. So, what's really it's appeal all these years later? THE VILLAGE PEOPLE. Three little words that finally showed all the good folks in the heartland what was going on in NYC's Christopher Street area. Ostensibly a biopic of how the People got together, the plethora of wooden acting and gay denial is so thick you could cut it with a knife. What was once refused is now revered, camp has triumphed, and the People became a national treasure. No one in their right mind who finally sees this unintentionally hilarious mess can believe that the G word is never spoken. Despite being a near-documentary about life in the gay district, everyone is presented as heterosexual. Perhaps someone living under a rock in North Dakota believed this, but no one else did. Today, the clues and innuendos are all out there ( pun intended) and we can enjoy the gloriously horrendous acting by everyone on screen. Of course, YMCA went on to become as well known as the national anthem, played at every wedding reception since the song first appeared. Of note here areThe auditions for the new singing group. Featuring Leatherman Glen Hughes belting out Danny Boy in full leather drag while standing on a corporate boardroom table. He gets the job, while the real star of the audition, Mr.Flaming Baton twirler is sent packing. Hughes, who has since passed away, has the movie's best line. When he arrives for the audition in his leathers, Valerine Perrine asks what he does for a living. He tells her he's a ticket taker on a toll highway. When she replies Do all ticket takers dress that way?, he snaps Only the HOT ONES! Construction worker David Hodo is given a weird solo song called I Love You To Death. He gyrates around a number of women who throw red glitter on him. Seeing as how AIDS would present itself in the gay community not too distantly after this movie was released, this song takes on a whole new meaning that no one could have foreseen.Bruce Jenner in a crop top taking the gang to a place for young men. Steven Guttenberg rollerskating through New York and not getting mugged.Director Nancy Walker, Rhoda's mother and Bounty paper towel hawker never directed another movie. Sad, seeing the genius she brought to CSTM.The all-white versions of the People's street drag while they do the Milkshake.Fun Fact Despite the events depicted in CSTM, music man Jacques Morali resorted to advertising in the want ads of the Village Voice to find singers for a new group. After stating was was needed by applicants, the ad ended must have mustache. That pretty much described every man wandering Christopher Street at the time.Just try to not to sing along while watching! Oh, by the way, the Cop Victor Willis was the only straight man in the lineup. He was briefly married to Phylicia Allen (who became Phylicia Rashad The Cosby Show) and left the People because he allegedly didn't like the image of the group. You can't stop the music. Really. "}{"Title":"I barely remember this thing...","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Yet I'm reviewing it anyway. I saw it on HBO airing, and can't remember too much about it. Valerie Perrine was a hot commodity coming off of her stint in Superman, and I'm guessing the producers wanted to see if she could be a draw at the box office as a star. She gave it her all, but she's not leading lady material, and the production wasn't that sterling in the first place. It was more or less a dud of a bomb. There were crowds on opening weekend, but word of mouth carried the day for the great disco flick that almost was.Perrine teams up with the Village People for a disco romp. I can't think of much else to add. If you were into 70s disco (a French creation no less), then you might want to check this film out. But don't say I didn't warn you.Watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Should Somebody Stop The Music?","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Producer Allan Carr tries to cash in on the late-'70s disco boom with Can't Stop the Music -- a film of such Brobdingnagian banality that it almost in itself stopped the disco movement cold. Comedienne Nancy Walker directed this musical chronicle, purporting to relate the legend of the formation of the disco group The Village People. It is a pseudo-biography of disco's Village People which bears only a vague resemblance to the actual story of the group's formation.Valerie Perrine is Samantha Simpson, a helpful ex-model who attempts to get her roommate, Jack Morrell's (played by Steve Guttenberg), songwriting career off the ground by assembling a motley group of her Greenwich Village friends,The Village People themselves,together to cut a demo tape of Jack's ditties. All Samantha has to do is charm the square lawyer Ron White,played by Bruce Jenner,in order to get him to listen to The Village People's scintillating disco strains.This movie was simply going nowhere for it was all singing and all dancing.But the cast involved like Steve Gutenberg,Valerine Perrine and Bruce Jenner cannot sing,dance and act.Also,the Village People were simply left to be montages rather than characters.What also was going against them was that people were no longer into the disco bandwagon and they are going on into the New Wave bandwagon.Although the music was enjoyable for it presents The Village People hits like Can't Stop The Music and YMCA,the story was just full of cheese,uneven acting,awkward scenes and corny jokes.The the decline of the Village People's popularity was attributed to the original singer,Victor Willis,leaving the group but I suppose that this movie being a box office flop and the several Razzies nomination like Worst Picture and Worst Original Song,could also be reasons behind that. But despite of it,one would not find it not enjoyable especially if one is simply to reminisce disco music and great Village People hits. "},{"Title":"The movie musical that takes 'bad' right up to eleven!","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Yes, 10 stars. I know when I'm beaten. This movie is just as bad as everyone says, but it has one thing going for it. It doesn't care. You can say what you like about bad scriptwriting, acting and direction, but this thing is just going to damn well party down, no matter what you think. Gay? 'CSTM!' is so 'festive' that the DVD should come wrapped in a pair of gold lame shorts (although there's Valerie Perrine and those remarkably sexy dancers in the outlandish 'Milk Shake' sequence to unashamedly ogle). 'Bad'? Think 'Plan 9 From Outer Space' bad. In other words, if you appreciate 'good' movies (and a beer or two) then you'll definitely enjoy this total affront to all things 'good' (and 'tasteful'). There's something wrong everywhere you look; watch out for such choice moments as the 'recording session' held in Valerie Perrine's back yard. Most musicians and producers prefer purpose-built soundproof recording studios, but not these guys. I've been a musician for over 30 years and every few minutes had me doing another face-palm. The songs (e.g. 'Magic Nights', 'Milk Shake' etcetera) mostly sound like they were written on the back of a beer coaster after an all-nighter, and the crazed 'audition' sequence has to be seen to be believed. You don't have to know anything about music to have fun with this movie (although it certainly helps); there's plenty for everyone. How about the insanely amateur camera angles covering the big San Francisco concert at the end? When you're not staring directly up the wildly gyrating Ritchie Family's skirts (and their song goes on for an utterly ridiculous time), you're looking at five of the six Village People on the stage. That's after seeing them arrive on stage in spectacularly excitement-stifling middle distance. Look, I genuinely could go on for several pages listing stuff like this, but you're better off witnessing it for yourself. Imagine a 1940s screwball comedy put through a concrete mixer and brought to fruition by well-intentioned Martians with a less-than-firm grip on Earth culture circa 1980 and you're there. You can't stop the music; it'll run you down and leave you in stitches. "},{"Title":"To me, Can't Stop the Music does fit the so-bad-it's-good category","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Well, after 30 years of pretty much avoiding this movie that got so many bad reviews and was such a bomb at the box office, I finally managed to watch Can't Stop the Music on a DVD that I borrowed from the library several days ago. Man, what an ultra cheesy movie this was! Where to start...Steve Guttenberg getting the multiple-image treatment when roller skating on the streets of N.Y., a couple of audition scenes like when that guy singing Macho Man starts stripping as he shows off his muscled body or that other guy twirling a couple of flaming batons just before it sets the water sprinklers, Bruce Jenner getting hot food dropped on his lap which gets both Steve and Valerie Perrine taking his pants off, and that whole bizarre Y.M.C.A number...there's plenty more but I think you get the drift. There's also some funny and some very unfunny moments galore here though it's interesting seeing such accomplished character actors like Jack Weston, Barbara Rush, Tammy Grimes, Paul Sand, and especially June Havoc as Guttenberg's mother do what they can with the material. Actually, while I mentioned that the Y.M.C.A number was pretty bizarre, it also provided some energy along with many of the other ones that made many of the just talking scenes just so monotonous or pointless in comparison. In summation, Can't Stop the Music was a mess that first-and-only-time director Nancy Walker couldn't fix and it must have knocked screenwriter Bronte Woodard and his co-writing partner and producer Allan Carr down a notch after their big success with Grease two years before though Carr wouldn't really decline in power until that really awful production number involving Snow White and Rob Lowe at the 1989 Academy Awards. That said, the cheesiness did contribute to the fun I had watching this and I may watch this again if I so desired. Certainly, some scenes with Ms. Perrine would make it worth my while again...P.S. Once again, I have to acknowledge someone involved here that's from my birthtown of Chicago, Ill. This time it's Mr. Carr. And one more thing A critic back in the day said, By 2010, this movie will become 1980's The Gang's All Here. Now, considering that picture had such icons as Busby Berkeley and Carmen Miranda, I don't think the comparison's apt. They both have similar camp value, however. "},{"Title":"It's A Magic Night! There's Magic In The Music!","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" oh it's a magic night! there's magic in the music! there certainly is. wherever there is music there is always magic. you can't stop the music. just try. somewhere or another some new form or style will come from somewhere.time to face it folks. bad movie or good movie, most people really love 'Can't Stop The Music'. i mean it's just so GAY-tastic you've got to smile. everyone i've ever known who has seen this movie, always manages a smile or a chuckle when i bring it up. i can't stop smiling and laughing even when i just think about this flick.i did think a lot of this was pretty bad cinema, writing, acting, and oh those disco numbers like 'Milkshake' and 'I Love you to Death'. the whole movie and most of the songs are full of one clich after another. the result, however, is never boring and always hilarious to the extreme. i even like two of the songs, 'Magic Night' and the title song. i think those two are really quite good. although i must admit the repetitive dance number 'I Love You To Death', was not only bizarre, it made me want to plug my ears and start screaming. also the 'YMCA' music number will turn anybody gay just by association.does anyone really believe the geriatric comedian Nancy Walker really directed this? i'm sure Alan Carr is the real culprit behind a lot of this. when i was young i saw the making of this movie on a select movie channel, and Walker just sat in a director's chair looking kind of befuddled. i'm sure she was just a friend he gave a paycheck to. nice of him though.it is amazing to note how unscathed Valerie Perrine comes out of this. she's a great actress and a real cutie, so you never tire or form a negative opinion of her through out this movie. can't say the same about Bruce Jenner and Steve Guttenberg. Guttenberg is cloying and annoying (that rhymed), and Bruce Jenner sashaying around in a pair of sassy short shorts, is well, kind of gay and more than a little embarrassing since Jenner is a straight actor. i'm sure he spent years after making this movie telling people I AM NOT GAY.sometimes it seems that today's younger audience has no sense of humor about bad movies. mostly the people who can laugh and have fun during a bad film seem to be largely 'baby boomer' types. younger people just get so serious about their entertainment.but good movie or bad movie, who knows? we all seem to love it for some weird reason. just keep smiling, laughing, and never stop the music. who knows, maybe they will play 'I Love You To Death' at our funerals. "},{"Title":"This is the 80s ... You going to see things that you've never seen before","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Is funny to talk good about a movie that for much people is actually bad, that is the reason of why talk about Can't Stop the Music is funny.Cant Stop the Music is a semi - biographical musical of Disco famous group The Village People, and when i talk about the biographical is because there some facts that actually happen to build the group, only that the film put some fictitious characters for give reason to some funny situations. So, the story is about a Steve Guttenber who wants to bring his music to the world and be famous, and how with the help of a Valerie Perrine (Bob Fosse's Lenny) get men with good voice - You know who are they - for build a group and in this way be famous. This was the plot of Cant Stop the Music, one of the first 80s musical (Of course, with Xanadu).The movie win big of fame, but not as the Big and Great musical of the 80s, only as This movie is bad than ...  and that kind of things. And is undoubtedly, Cant Stop the Music is one of the cheesy musicals of the 80s, for not saying THE cheesy. Anyway, this is cheesy funny film, that i think that don't deserves the fame that have for some reasons Maybe, even if you like Village People don't going to love the film, but if the supposed problems that have doesn't care to you, and you love Village People, you going to fall in love with this film. And, for being a musical in the 80s, times very hard for the Musical genre, this film have great and dazzlings choreography for each song. Besides, for a plot, yes, the things seems to be a fast unworried script, where well, it seems that don't much happens, and some of the problems not are the interesting, for much, thing, but that's part of all the fun. This is a easy and funny movie, but never unworried.There's another point that nobody ignores and even, blame this film, and is about the gay subtext. Unless this bother you, the time of this movie was 1980 and the musical was about The Village People, now, is not a secret that this music impact in a lot of gay discos in San Francisco, the most shocked public by this music (In spite that the YMCA is very well known even between straight guys) was gay community. Even some of the Village People moved in the gay ambient (Felipe Rose, for example, was the first of the rest of integrates who begin the group, of course not alone. However, he was found it in a gay disco as a waiter, but this waiter have an Indian costume), and the costumes that their put it on, represents, i guess, all the worldwide masculinity symbols and are a kind of spoof of critic about machismo (Sorry if i'm wrong with that). So, with all these characteristics, How you can expect a film without that certain elements? They said in production notes that the movie have to be made of something straight. However, we see some scenes like the famous YMCA scene where a lot of hunks playing between them naked in the shower and even dance in a choreography for the exercises. So, this thing is don't bad, look it in this way, it was inevitable, it was them.There is another thing to understand the movie moods and this is explain thanks to the character of Valerie Perrine, Samantha, who told us a thing that is actually truth This is the 80s ... Your going to see things that you've never seen before ... Well, Cant Stop the Music is one of that things, but it was the newly born 80s. It was the 80s of joy, before, no much much time before, but before anyway of the born of the doom of AIDS. Cant Stop the Music is actually that, the happy newly born 80s.Cant Stop the Music is not so successful but really exciting and funny musical, really good and to pass good times, because, no matter in what time you born, Cant Stop the Music is like a time capsule that take you to an optimistic and happy 80s anytime you want.*Sorry for the mistakes...well, if there any. "},{"Title":"The voting is unanimous","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Can't Stop the Music is the definitive guilty pleasure, a film you love to hate!  After Alan Carr hit the stratosphere with Grease, he was hoping lightning would strike twice.  Unfortunately, he missed the mark entirely.  He made the mistake of playing it safe and trying to make a family musical.  If he didn't try to hide the gay theme, and if he would've used some major supporting talent, this might have been a minor classic.  Let's be honest, Bruce Jenner is not an actor by any stretch of the imagination, nor was Nancy Walker a film director.  Carr should've tried to incorporate some of his Grease cast and crew.  For example, cast Jeff Conaway (Kinicki) instead of Bruce Jenner.  He did go the nostalgic Hollywood route as he did in Grease (with Eve Arden and Joan Blondell) by including minor roles for Barbara Rush and June Havoc, who were both a joy to see on film once more.  Finally, a golden opportunity was missed at the end of the film when the entire cast is on stage.  A classic campy ending would have been to have June Havoc (Gypsy Rose Lee's real life sister) step to the edge of the stage and yell out the gay crowd, Hello everyone, my name is June!  What's yours?!!  I agree that American Movie Classics or VH-1 should show Can't Stop the Music just for fun. But it has to be in its original widescreen format, and with full stereo surround sound!  What a hoot! "},{"Title":"You Must Watch This!!!!","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This musical is pure viewing pleasure. I love bad movies and disco tunes, and since this combines the two, I have found it to be a slice of heaven. Steve Guttenburg rocks the world, and Bruce Jenner makes it supreme! I am sad to say that Bruce hasn't done many flicks, but if I made one, my dream cast would be him, Vanna White, Traci Lords, Tonya Harding, and Neil Diamond. But I digress, back to the movie. I seriously think that every human on Earth has a right and a duty to see this movie. "},{"Title":"so so so so so so so so veeeerrrrrryyyyy bad!","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Whenever this movie is on, I simply cannot turn the channel, so wretched it is! I think the thing that I love about it the most is the fact that the band's(and I use that term VERY loosely,) target audience seems to be lonely, middle aged women. All throughout the movie, those are the people that are helping them along the way and they are the ones who are joining them onstage for their dance numbers. Now I realize that the disco movement in music was a very safe form of artistic expression. I mean, you wouldn't find women such as this helping out the Dead Boys or Ramones. I am also sure that since the director, Nancy walker, was a middle aged woman herself, she probably reasoned that she was hip and therefore all women of this age were just as much into the disco scene as she was. The other thing that I found just astounding was the totally unrealistic portrayal of the music industry. One moment these guys are practicing in a makeshift, backyard set-up with car speakers for a PA system, the next they are in the recording studio. Not only are they in said studio but, wow, there just happens to be pre-recorded music for them to sing to for these original compositions. I know that lightening does occasionally strike and a smalltime band is discovered and launched into their careers very quickly. But for this to happen to the Village Persons after practicing a total number of...hmmmm...how many times according to the movie? Oh yea.....ONCE? Well, all I can say is realism must not have been a priority for Ms. Walker.There are also a few things that are just downright irritating about this movie though...the first being the fact that Steve Gutenberg has a smile that NEVER leaves his face! OK, a person that is THAT happy ALL the time was just, well, annoying. The 2nd is the fact that there is a man that dresses in a Native American headdress wherever he goes...and this is before the Village Persons came together as a band. As a Native American myself I was a little put off by that...and I am not the type to get upset over such trivialities either. For instance, I don't get upset about the Cleveland Indians logo or the Washington Redskins name. But a man who wears that garb as a meaningless costume is a bit much. Finally, Bruce Jenner's acting is well beyond bad. I got a chill every time he appeared on the screen because I knew that I was going to feel embarrassed FOR him, on his behalf! Where as other people yell at their televisions when their sports team is doing badly, I was screaming for him to EMOTE, REACT, or merely LOOSTEN UP! It was simply painful!For pure, unadulterated and wide-eyed terrible movie watching pleasure, you simply cant beat this film! It has everything required for such label simplistic and unconvincing plot, acting so bad that wood and ham are embarrassed to be compared to the cast, atrocious dialog - both in writing and in it's delivery, and, sadly, direction that has no ambitions of being the least bit complex or challenging. It is like watching a movie through a very long, very fast viewmaster, but without the 3-D stereo vision! "},{"Title":"Big Yawn","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Can't Stop the Music from director Nancy Walker, and writers Allan Carr and Bronte Woodard, was nothing but a pure vehicle for the rising stars of disco, the Village People. Though I guess that's hardly a profound statement.The catchy tunes and flashy numbers are now corny and hopelessly outdated. And of course nobody, not Steven Gutenberg, Valerie Perrine and especially not the band, can act their way out of a wet paper bag.All a bit of a yawn. The title song and Y.M.C.A. are still pretty groovy however.Saturday, January 17, 1998 - Video "}{"Title":"An unfortunately untimely good time","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" One has to admit objectively that if you ignore the highly fictionalized plot, the script and the acting, there's a lot of fun to be had in 'CAN'T STOP THE MUSIC. The supposed story of hit disco group The Village people (blatantly, satirically Hollywood cleaned up) was laughed off the screen when it first came out for picturing one of the most obviously successful (and successfully obvious) gay singing groups as having been brought together by their (literal) girlfriends.Yeah, right....and yet, there is all that music. It's actually pretty darned good in a disco ball meets Busby Berkley fashion.Producer Alan Carr, who effectively captured the cartoon style of the Broadway hit GREASE in a smash cartoon of a movie, gave Broadway, movie and TV comedienne Nancy Walker a chance to direct her first big budget Hollywood film in a day (not yet passed) when the number of major women directors could be counted on one hand - with several fingers left over. Sadly, the commercial fate of the film Carr wanted set the cause of women directors back another decade or two. The producer wanted a cartoon - it had worked with GREASE - and Walker gave him one - presumably trying to satirize the old movie bios (remember the factually ludicrous but musically satisfying NIGHT AND DAY or 'TILL THE CLOUDS ROLL BY?). They ignored the well known and reported facts of The Village People and expected their music to carry the film. Had they caught the peak of the group's vogue it might have worked, but the wave had already crested and the Post-Stonewall audience was ready to demand TRUTH, not obviously silly Hollywood myth.The only real ongoing sin of CAN'T STOP THE MUSIC is the continuing involvement of its lead, the presumably straight but 8trying to be enlightened Steve Guttenberg, in gay associated projects which he has managed to clean up with an almost CAN'T STOP THE MUSIC-like, arguably homophobic, distortion. Note how when the play P.S. YOUR CAT IS DEAD (a flawed but enjoyable novel and play by CHORUS LINE writer James Kirkwood about a supposedly straight actor who finds a gay burglar in his apartment on New year's Eve and ultimately reaches an improbable rapprochement with him) that had a modest Broadway run and a successful life in stock was finally filmed in 2002 with Guttenberg in the lead and directing, he managed to leach almost every visage of legitimate gay threat or edge out of the actual staging! It became another dishonest cartoon and lost most of the target audience which was eagerly anticipating it.In both CAN'T STOP THE MUSIC and P.S...., it just doesn't work when straight or closeted film makers try to play with trendy gay themes but can't bring themselves to do so honestly. It's also a recipe for commercial disaster on projects that could have offered so much honest entertainment for modern open audiences.What a pity. There's still a LOT of fun to be had here, but you do have to ignore a lot to get to it. "},{"Title":"Can't Stop The Music","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Valerie Perrine and The Village People party to a disco beat. Disco records are among the greatest ever made. The incessant beat, bass runs, the positive attitude and the sex! There is no pain in disco! The Village People perform Y.M.C.A. This is Village as in Greenwich Village in New York. They are an unforgettable group composed of a construction worker, GI, leatherman, cop, cowboy and an Indian. Their soundtrack pulsates Samantha, Milkshake, I Love You To Death. The dance sequences were filmed at Studio 54. Valerie was a Las Vegas showgirl having a good time in the post-Vietnam/Watergate era. She had a great body. The freedom of the disco years in legendary. "},{"Title":"Fabtastic....","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I had a bad copy of this musical once and l lent it to someone and never got it back, l have been lucky enough to be able to buy this from the States and wow....never mind what others say, this is the tops, it`s a great film, good musical numbers, and a good cast enjoying themselves...To many films of this type try to take themselves to serious but all concerned are really enjoying making the film, and it shows on screen.Some great musical numbers, big productions numbers, and altogether a great film...watch it and enjoy "},{"Title":"A Surreal Car Wreck on a Road of Broken Dreams","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Watching Can't Stop the Music is somewhat akin to the experience of passing a twisted wrecked car on the side of the road, the passengers thrown about on the asphalt, moaning in agony.All you can do is shake your head in disbelief and ask, Why?Why did Bruce Jenner appear in this film?  Did he really want to end his career in the entertainment biz?  Did he get another agent after this role?Why is Steve Guttenburg in this movie?  Why does his musical numbers turn into a quasi-Dr. Pepper commercial?Why did talented character actress Nancy Walker direct this movie?Why does the Leatherman sing Danny Boy?Why does everyone in the film NOT know that the Village People are gay?I can't decide which is more surreal or painful  -- watching Can't Stop the Music or Xanadu or realizing that there are people who actually enjoy these two films. "},{"Title":"Disco will never die as long as this flick exists!","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" The criteria for the crappiest movies of all time have a tendency to fall under the inflated snobbery of those who drink the AFI's Kool-Aid. The main question you must ask after any movie is Was I entertained? After watching this movie, you will respond with an enthusiastic YES!There is no pretense that this flick will rival Schindler's List or Gone With The Wind, but that is not the goal of this movie. Can't Stop The Music is a silly vehicle meant to suspend reality for an hour and a half. What plot there is simply pushes the viewer from one bouncy tune to the next. Reality has no place in this pseudo bio-pic, but it really doesn't matter as the origin of the Village People is all colored smoke and glitter adorned mirrors anyway.Make no mistake that this monster reflects it's creator (Jacques Morali) and his overwhelmingly alternative lifestyle point of view. The film flows with a child-like quality born of an optimism that was promised yet never surfaced in the 80's.This is the definition of escapist celluloid. Go watch it! "},{"Title":"A Stunning Atrocity","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Make sure you've taken all of your medications before seeing this one.Some of the worst ideas, scripting, characters, music, and on and on.The whole was certainly greater than the sum of its parts.  Considering the parts include the Village People, Alan Carr, Nancy Walker, Valerie Perrine, and Bruce Jenner, that says a lot.When given the choice, watch Sgt. Pepper or Xanadu instead.Absolutely horrible.  The only highlight moment is watching Steve Guttenberg dance like a chimpanzee during the finale. "},{"Title":"Stop the Music.  Please.  Seriously.","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Wow.  Words just don't do this movie justice.  It's like a bunch of other movies exploded and landed on your TV screen.  This movie is so bad, they could make a movie about this movie.  I mean this will really blow your mind.  But whatever you do, don't spend money on it.  It seems pretty obvious that everyone involved knew that they were making a bad movie... too bad nobody remembered to tell Bruce Jenner. "},{"Title":"Tedious would be excessive praise","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  It's hard to believe that  a movie about the formation of the Village People does not even rise to the level of camp. It takes an hour and a quarter to get to a recognizable song (YMCA). Bad as is the skating songwriter Steve Guttenberg makes of Jacques Morali, what makes the movie so tedious is centering it on the romance between a supposedly hip Valerie Perrine and an uptight tax attorney played by Bruce Jenner.The YMCA number is bearable, though inferior to most music videos. The other three numbers (including the finale title song) are ineptly filmed Las Vegas productions. Tammy Grimes is almost amusing as a vampy advertising executive; June Havoc is a ridiculous parody of a doting mother. The only redeeming feature is the high-kicking Indian (Felipe Rose)in a Plains Indian head-dress flitting about in New York City.  "},{"Title":"So bad it's BAD!!!","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Fictional tale of how the Village People got together. An annoying man (Steve Guttenberg) and his sexy roommate (Valerie Perrine) try to sell his music and get a group together. Hilarious complications ensure.This is just a plain disaster. It fails almost completely. Nancy Walker may have seem a weird choice for the director but she had directed some TV shows and she was very comfortable with gay men (for instance, her and Montgomery Clift were the best of friends). The studio obviously wanted a director who would be comfortable with the gay subtext AND keep it PG! Well...she DID try!It all starts out great with Guttenberg skating around NYC, a good song on the soundtrack and nice use of multi-screens. Then it quickly falls apart. The dialogue is truly atrocious (the actors deserve credit for saying their lines with a straight face); there are the horrendous 70s styles and fashions; dreadfully unfunny comedy; trying to sell the Village People as a straight group--come ON!; Felipe's bird call gets annoying after EIGHT renditions and totally unneeded romance between Perrine and Bruce Jenner! Also WAY too long (2 hours). However there ARE some good things about this.The songs aren't bad and the production numbers are certainly elaborate; there's a nice sequence with Perrine recruiting 3 of the Village People; a beautiful rendition of Danny Boy; a truly hysterical song and dance number about MILK!!!!; and the YMCA number. It comes in too late (over an hour in) but it's just great--full of action, hunky men and frequent glimpses of full frontal male nudity! Also female (Perrine in the whirl pool). The acting wavers Guttenberg is WAY too hyper--I kept wanting to throw a few Valium in his mouth. Poor Valerie Perrine! She went from Lenny to THIS??? She's a wonderful actress and certainly beautiful and she REALLY tries--but the script is terrible. Bruce Jenner--don't get me started. Just one word comes to mind--hopeless. Tammy Grimes and June Havoc overact and underact and are just horrid. Worst of all is Marilyn Sokol as Lulu--she looks like Tim Curry from The Rocky Horror Picture Show and is truly astounding (I mean that in a bad way). You just watch her attempts at acting and comedy in utter disbelief.The main problem with this movie is they tried to whitewash the Village People. They were a big GAY group--that's totally ignored here. There IS a big gay subtext though. However by the time this movie came out, the Village People were old news and disco was dead. And the script needed a serious rewrite. Some people think this so bad that it's good. Production numbers aside I was bored silly with an occasional stupid line or performance to pick me up. Sadly this is just a dull, bad movie. Still--I DO love the YMCA number)) "},{"Title":"Geriatric meets Disco...","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Ex-model in Greenwich Village helps put together a music act that turns out to be novelty disco-ers The Village People. This movie is a novelty as directed by Nancy Walker (of all people), it's a hoary, old-fashioned, let's put on a show! extravaganza done up in polyester and gold chains. By the time it was released, the Village People were already pass, and the film looked like a dated relic only a year or so later. Is anything good in this film? Yes, Valerie Perrine is good. Her character and most of her dialogue are trite, but the nonchalant, wiseass-yet-sunny manner of her delivery nearly saves the day. Perrine, not a trained actress, does as much for this part as anybody possibly could, and she looks great to boot. Athlete Bruce Jenner is amiable as an uptight square who gets involved (he has lines like, your friends a little far out for me!) and Marilyn Sokol does a sex-obsessed best friend bit that gets some laughs, but hyped-up Steve Guttenberg is nerve-wracking and The Village People (each dressed as a separate gay fantasy figure) are mediocre in both acting and music. * from **** "}{"Title":"Campy bit of disco fluff","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" This campy bit of disco fluff is widely considered to be the milkshake-lubed slippery slope that guided the Village People's 15.5 minutes of bizarro-world fame to a less-than-dignified crash landing. In the lead role is a miraculously flame-retardant Steve Guttenberg, whose film career survived this discossault against all logic. The acting career of Bruce Jenner, whose ill-advised sashay through the village in shorty-shorts and a half-shirt will forever live in infamy? Not so much. Hindsight, as poor Bruce no-doubt laments to this day, is indeed a beyotch.What is perhaps most remarkable about this film (aside from the blizzard of blow that had to have been trucked in for the shoot) is that first-and-last-time director Nancy Walker - yes, THAT Nancy Walker - manages to create what is arguably the gayest film ever made, without ever actually broaching the subject. Indeed, the mind-bogglingly homo-erotic YMCA sequence alone has the power to elevate the legendary Walker to the loftiest of honorary homo heights. The sequence, which features all of the can't-even-act-it-away group trying to play it straight in a hot tub with a topless Valerie Perrine, is so queer that if one were to come across a crystalled pink leprechaun face down in a rainbow sling at a Montreal bathhouse, snorting poppers and greased halfway up his back in liquefied Crisco, you *might* be in the neighborhood.Rent, don't buy this DVD, and play with care around small animals, impressionable children, and bi-curious clergy. You can't say you weren't warned. "},{"Title":"pseudo-camp","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Camp movies should not be intentionally terrible.  To qualify as genuine camp, they should be intended as straightforward films of merit that went astray.  It's difficult for me to believe that the makers of CAN'T STOP THE MUSIC didn't know they were making a bad movie--and that much of it was made on purpose.  "},{"Title":"Whoa nelly, stop this film","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Steve Guttenberg is not really a major player these days, but I wonder how he managed to get as far as he did after appearing in this hammy musical about the Village People. Boy it stinks! And not quite enough to make it bearable. There's just too much naive optimism in it, as we follow the exciting story of the Village People's Genesis. In fact, it's sort of a sad testament to our repressive society that the main characters had to disguise the way-obvious fact of their homosexuality to attempt to appeal to a mainstream audience. I feel like declaring the Village People deserve more respect than this film allows them, but that sounds just plain wrong. A good film to watch while drunk with a lot of loud friends.  "},{"Title":"I had a very Gay good time!","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Can't Stop The Music was made in 1980 before AIDS & Safe Sex were ever heard of. Seems that every, and mean every male actor in this musical is Gay or acting Gay. Check it out muscular guys in super-cut off jeans, guys with skin tight bulging pants, hot-pants roller bladders, and on and on. The women are macho and the guys are prissy and sweet; all look like they are cruising the local Gay club or city park.This film is symbolic as the peak of Gay liberation and the sexual revolution. Who would have thought that with-in two short years it would all come crashing down. In a twist of fate, Al Pacino's film Cruising was made the same year depicting reckless sex as certain doom; unaware that the theme would turn out to be all so true, as AIDS slaughtered the cruising crowd.The Village People were at their best and the Leatherman singing Danny Boy was a classic. Valerie Perrine looked as beautiful as ever. All I can say is, watching Who Can't Stop The Music is a really Gay good time......LOL! "},{"Title":"My Time Is Now...","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This movie is horrible yet I can't stop watching it.  I make my friends watch it just so they can see how bad it is.  Steve Guttenberg thrusting his fist in the air over his new found freedom from being a shleper salesman while on roller skates is classic.  Tammy Grimes trapped in a phonebooth because her fingernail is stuck in the dial still cracks me up.  This is the best of the worst, you must see it to believe it.  I recently bought the DVD, I couldn't help myself. "},{"Title":"It Takes A Village to Make a Bad Movie","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  As a retro fan of the Village People, I was truly excited when I got a copy of Can't Stop The Music last year.  I had not seen it in a Theatre or on television, but always wanted to.  After viewing it, I was simply amazed at how high camp, bad acting, worse writing, and cusp edged disco ditties combined to make a wonderfully enjoyable viewing experience.  I have to agree that the attempt to ignore the VP's obvious homosexuality made for some strange cinematic moments.  Not to mention the inauspicious acting debut of Thespian of the Century Bruce Jenner.  The musical numbers, especially YMCA, Milk Shake, and I Love You To Death are especially fun.  And how can you possibly knock the heightened sense of optimism evoked when plan after situation after moment of crisis is instantly solved and executed, all with very big smiles and happy dialogue.  And if you really want to have some fun, watch for Steve Guttenburg's ever-changing package in the opening roller skating sequence.  Normally, I wouldn't notice this sort of thing, but a friend of mine pointed out that it grows and shrinks and moves and disappears and reappears all in the span of time of about 4 minutes (Mind you this is before Viagra!).  I once heard a local film reviewer say it takes as much time and effort to make a bad movie as it does a good one.  And it took a Village to make this so bad, you have to watch it just to see how it turns out flick.  If you're having some guests over, and if drinking will be involved, I highly recommend Can't Stop The Music. Sing YMCA and let the party begin!! "},{"Title":"BEYOND THE Excalibur SWORD","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" In order for The Side Bets during The Moose Hunt, The Black Bean Pygmies of The Troll Nation have been Gerbilling & Maggotting @ 10 Minutes Per Trespass within The Herpes Quarantine so that when The Peach Schnapps Drunk Couch Louses steal Fur Coats & Lead Crystal Decanters for Queen For A Day (M)/Bloody Boxer Shorts (F) as Ludington Magnet Middle School Failure To Graduate Dropout Students they can Match Up their thefts to their own Geranimal Clothing...Every Male Black Bean Pygmy who takes part in Denounce The Forty Ounce Tricycle Male Homosexual 40+ Hour Porn Film from The Lack of a High School Diploma Graduation will then be only perpetually born from his Young Country Wart Sister who is The Current Reason their own mother had to give birth to her own RAPIST...The Young Country Wart Sister will then only spouse this birth in a Natural Chimpanzee Compound Warted Environment and nothing else... "},{"Title":"One of the most awkward movies ever made...","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  You know those movies that make you want to change the channel or eject the tape when watching it, but you can't compel yourself to do it because you want to see how awful it will get?  This is the best example imaginable for that scenario.I watched this movie on television a while back.  I kept watching and cringing because it was so bad.  Unbelievably bad.  It kept getting worse as it was going along, too.  I would find myself laughing at points because I could not believe how bad it was.  The weird thing is that it is hard to even point out one specific thing that makes it a bad movie.  It has a general malaise of awful all over it.Perhaps I am being overly critical and harsh because I dislike musicals in general.  However, there are a few places that are beyond terrible by anyone's standards.  Scenes that people don't believe exist unless they saw it themselves.Oh my God; they are performing 'YMCA' in a YMCA.  Terrible. This scene that I am describing will go down in the annals of film history for being one of the most homo-erotic, yet non- pornographic, scenes ever captured on celluloid. If that interests you, by all means, check it out.I feel that everything that I have said may actually make people want to see this film. God forbid I deter anyone from watching garbage that they might find entertaining, if even for a few laughs. Entertaining?  To a remote few, perhaps.  Good?  Not in the least. Waste of time?  You bet.  But you must ask yourself something... would I rather be productive and do things with my life, or would I rather see slow- motion montages of men from the 70's bending over, lifting things, diving into pools and dancing while singing disco songs? ...Tough choice. "},{"Title":"YES...you can....","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" NOTE I could not watch beyond the opening credits so this review only applies to that very painful few minutes.Steve Guttenberg quits his job at a record store after his fascist boss informs him that he'll be needed to work an extra shift. Guttenberg straps on a pair of roller skates and begins to weave in and out of Manhattan traffic. The titles roll along with him. Alternating urges to laugh and vomit swirl in the viewer's mind as the names Valerie Perrine, Paul Sand, Tammy Grimes, Leigh Taylor Young and others appear. A full-on assault to the gag reflex ensues once the words Directed by Nancy Walker appears. And why does this film introduce Bruce Jenner...he was an Olympic hero by this time! Ghastly. YES, you CAN stop the music...shut this nightmare off or walk out of whatever unlucky theater may run this! Better yet, roller skate away...FAST! "},{"Title":"You can't stop the Village People!","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" From the late 1970s onwards, beginning in a little town called, I don't know, San Francisco, California (?), there were a few men; one dressed up as a police officer, one dressed up as an Indian, one dressed up as a construction worker, one dressed up as a cowboy, one dressed up as a leatherman, and one dressed up as a G.I. From that period on, they became an icon in music. We know songs like Y.M.C.A., Macho Man, and others. They made really exciting disco songs.Can't Stop The Music takes the well-known band and puts it into an enjoyable family movie. Enjoy it, and don't forget to wear that disco suit and platform shoes! "}{"Title":"Don't blame the Village People!","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  Sure this film is bad, and after the first hour it becomes more enjoyable to watch, but it's definitely not because of the Village People, who do just fine at what they are supposed to be doing, playing themselves. Thier music is great (although some of the new stuff for the film is sub-par) and if you are a fan, you'll get a kick out of seeing them sing on stage, perform in odd musical sequences, and bop around New York City.The timing of this flick was especially bad, but even that isn't anyone's fault. When the film was being made in 1979, disco was huge and The Village People were among the hottest groups in the country, playing multiple nights at arenas all over the world and selling millions of records. But when this film was released in 1980, disco was dead, and The Village People were has-beens. Instead of being cool, this film was laughed at when it was released. No one saw any of this coming.The big mystery to me is, how did Nancy Walker get the directing gig? Because this movie is directed absolutely horrible. She got the gig with a 20 million budget, starring one of the country's hottest groups (at the time of filming)? Who on Earth gave her the greenlight?You can tell right from the start that the film would have problems. The people who DID go to see it, did so because of The Village People, and the song at the start during the credits isn't even a Village People song, it's some crappy throwaway off the soundtrack! It plays while Steve Guttenburg rollerskates through NYC (this is all to show how wild and carefree NYC is) in a silly sequence. Even during this part there's a problem - Steve passes a manhole, and the camera goes for a closeup, and out pops the head of David Hodo, the VP construction worker! That's pretty cool, but even this little sequence got messed up somehow because there's an obvious edit in there!The acting, well it isn't so bad, even talentless Bruce Jenner isn't so bad, he gets bad when he actually tries to hard. Valerie Perrine is hot. Lulu looks like a cross between Paul Stanley and Tim Curry. And the VP aren't bad at all.The music - who was the genius that decided that the audience had to wait over an HOUR before a familiar Village People hit came on? Over an hour!! The first familiar one is YMCA, one of three tremendous smash hits for them, and that sequence is pretty decent and entertaining. The Milkshake isn't so bad either, way over the top with hot girls, although you have to wonder it is a looong TV commercial (what it was filmed for in the plot). The end concert sequence is good but way too short. Another one of their huge hits In The Navy is nowhere to be found, and the only mention of their other gigantic song, Macho Man, is when some dude in silly looking tights starts to sing it. Two of the Village People's biggest songs totally gone to waste.Really, the way the film is made is much worse than really anybody in the film. And the dubbing - there is SO MUCH post dubbing that it looks like an old Godzilla film sometimes, especially because you can hear the change in the audio track of the dub. This film is a huge mess - but it does have the Village People in it, so that's good enough to sit through it.Anchor Bay released a great DVD of this that gives the VP proper respect. To their credit, The Village People still tour all over the world and put on a hell of a show, blowing away all of today's boy bands. "},{"Title":"Mickey Rooney & Judy Garland go to Fire Island !!!","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  For all who love Bad Movies this is sheer bliss, never a dull moment & a must see. When I first saw this film in the theater (back in 1980 ) yes I was the one , I took it quite seriously , god was I ever that young , Now I can see it for what it is a big camp . The only thing missing is an Esther Williams water ballet, come to think of it , I think it does !!! "},{"Title":"Astonishingly Bad Movie","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" This film receives my vote for the worst movie of 1980, which is remarkable when you consider that Heaven's Gate and Saturn 3 were released the same year. The producers must have realized they had a turkey when the following ingredients were included The Village People, a novelty act that should have lasted 6 weeks; A disco theme, which was already out of date by the beginning of 1980; Bruce Jenner (self-explanatory); B-list Steve Guttenburg as the star of the film...well, I could go on. Gaudy (and unnecessary) production numbers, no real plot, rotten cinematography, poor acting, and just about everything else sink this film. The movie is interesting as a time capsule, but otherwise, forget it. "},{"Title":"Wow. Just...wow.","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  If there is a better movie that combines hilarity and pure crapiness so perfectly, I don't know what is. Can't Stop the Music is supposedly how the Village People (yes, the Village People) got started in the music world. But, from the looks of it, this story is highly exaggerated and not exactly your typical E! True Hollywood Story. Where do I start, honestly? The acting is horrible, the editing is atrocious, and just about every musical number (oh, did I mention this is a musical? Yeah, it's a musical) goes on for waaaaaaay too long. Sample songs include I Love You to Death, where the VP Policeman dances with chicks in red dresses who throw glitter, YMCA, where the viewer's eyebrows raise at the startling abundance of homo-erotic images (and this thing is rated PG??? HOW?!), and Do the Milkshake...which I'll leave for you guys to experience. But trust me, the last one is the best of the lot. The story unfolds in traditional musical style, with a romance thrown in for good measure and some false suspense, but none of it rings true. Other highlights include Lulu, who is supposedly played by a woman but looks like Tim Curry from The Rocky Horror Picture Show, STEVE GUTTENBERG (star of Cocoon, loads of Police Academy flicks and Three Men And A Little Lady), who can't act out of a paper bag here, and the acting skills of the Village People. I read on this site that the movie cost 20 million to make, but made about 2 million in theaters, and that doesn't surprise me in the least. It was also marketed as a family picture from what I hear, but there is nothing here that could label it as a family picture. The story would not appeal to kids, there's more than a few instances of cursing, and it's...how should I put this...really, REALLY gay. It's more than a little obvious that those who made the film were trying to make this point, but they stress it so much and wink to the viewers so many times it becomes pure parody. Oh look, a man doing gymnastics...in slooooow motion. Ohhhh yeah. Hey Phil, zoom in on his crotch will ya? Heh heh, I can't believe we're marketing this as a family picture. But in the end, you have to see this if you're into craptacular Hollywood because it will crack you up. 0/4 stars.  "},{"Title":"Please, Stop the Music!","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I remember this movie was really hyped when it was released, and bombed severely at the box-office in 1980.  It was not THAT BAD of a movie, but it was released during the height of the anti-disco era.  If it was released in 1977 or 1978 it would have probably done well.  Saturday Night Fever did - for the life of me, I can't understand.  This movie seems to operate at two speeds.  The plot seems to really drag, but the characters seem to be acting at warp speed!  Steve Guttenburg, Bruce Jenner & Valerie Perrine just seem to have too much energy.  The Village People tried to act, but I don't think anything could save this sinking ship.  From what I remember, Valerie, Steve & Bruce get some brilliant idea to promote a disco group from the Village.  That's about the premise of the plot, with lots of Village People music thrown in-maybe a little too much.  This movie, I think, would just appeal to diehard fans of the Village People and that's about it.  For fans of late '70s disco movies, Thank God It's Friday or Roller Boogie are a better bet. "},{"Title":"Please Stop!","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" Jaw-dropingly bad, on every conceivable level. Perhaps as a party film, where you can feed off the comments of others watching - this film has some potential; but, on its own, it is simply dire. Energy abounds (Steve Guttenberg appears to be ready to self-combust at any moment), but it is completely wasted on third rate schtick and incredibly awful dialog. The musical numbers have no sense of structure or style; and they all stink. If disco wasn't already pretty much dead, by the time of this film's release, this surely would have killed it. On DVD, Anchor Bay has given it a first-rate treatment (2.351 widescreen and 6.1 DTS ES Surround Sound!!) Not that it helps at all, the film is so poorly made. Although the film is loaded with homoerotic overtones, it couldn't possibly appeal to anyone, regardless of their sexual preference. NOT recommended! "},{"Title":"Please stop the production crew","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  You would think a quasi-autobiography of the Village People would be campy. But camp is supposed to be enjoyable and this movie will seriously challenge anybody who thinks they can look a bad movie in the eyes and laugh. Bruce Jenner's acting defies belief. And Steve Guttenberg and Valerie Perrine play each scene like they have cocaine I.V.s.Which is weirder? All of the Village People singing Y.M.C.A. in an actual Y.M.C.A. or the Leather Guy singing Danny Boy? It's not hard to believe that director Nancy Walker (Rhoda's mom of TV fame) never got another directing gig.  "},{"Title":"Can't Stop The Nausea","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  This movie is one (big) sad note signaling the end of the disco era.  If you (like me) enjoy watching tacky, bad movies, this one should hold you over for a while.  It's kind of like gawking at a bad car accident - it's grotesque and horrifying, but you can't seem to look away.  If you are truly a glutton for this kind of punishment, check out Mae Wests' 'Sextette', 'Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Cub Band', 'Breakin' II Electric Boogaloo' and 'Give My Regards To Broad Street'.  If those don't do you, then you're one sick puppy. "},{"Title":"Stunningly bad...but fun to watch","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I disagree that the movie is unwatchable. It's a lot like Plan Nine in that it's so horrible that it's a hoot to watch.This flick is generally one of the worst movies of modern times...pairing the Village People with macho athlete Bruce Jenner (what the hell is he doing as an actor) is only one of many jaw-dropping blunders.Watch for a surrealistic milk commercial featuring 8-10 year old boys in full Village People gear...complete with the S&M leather outfit. "},{"Title":"A nail in Disco's coffin","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  A stake through Disco's heart, this gawd-awful film has only one creative musical sequence which was purportedly filmed in a genuine YMCA facility and pieced together with some professional skill and polish.  The rest of the picture is an embarrassment, consisting of inept direction, inane writing, clumsy camera work, and REALLY bad acting. "}{"Title":"Kinda long, kinda boring, with a few good scenes","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  I actually bought this movie on VHS several years ago expecting a campy, entertaining treat. Well...ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ.The only things that I like in this movie where1. The Milkshake song dance sequence.2. Seeing heterosexual Bruce Jenner nonchalantly walk the streets of Greenwich Village with the Village People in Daisy Duke shorts and a tight, mid-riff baring T-shirt.For a movie that's rated PG, there is quite a bit of nudity, specifically in the YMCA number Valerie Perrine's topless shots in the hot tub and the naked men in the sauna and locker room. Also, could someone please explain to me why Altovise Davis'(Sammy Davis Jr's widow) character was dressed like a nun in one scene?I will admit though, it is an interesting piece of 70/80s pop culture cheese. If the film were a little shorter and maybe had more musical numbers, I probably would have enjoyed it more.  "},{"Title":"No! please stop the music i'm going to be sick","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" I wish i could review this garbage with one word gay but i can not so i will use several.I hate Disco i hate the village people and i hate this movie.I never saw this movie at the theater since i hated disco but who in the hell green-lit this thing i do not care how big the village idiots were why oh why is this piece of junk even got fans. And to have Steve Guttenberg star in this garbage is beyond me he must of really of needed a paycheck.As for the village idiots they alone get a 0 for being responsible for this junk getting into theaters.I am guessing only gays like this movie this is the worst piece of garbage i have ever seen it's beyond bad it's just bad. "},{"Title":"Studio 54 scenes???","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":" i have a question about this movie.was the two club scenes filmed inside of studio54.i was watching this movie late one night.she was talking to the club owner. when she asked him how's business he says its looking like a regular studio54.i found that crazy because once she got in,it really started looking like a regular studio54. Besides,it looks like it in the Indian dance scene.it also looks familiar in the Ritchie family/village people scene,the only difference is white lights in strobe lights.i was born in 1985.i have never been to studio54 but i have this sort obsession with the club.if any one knows about this. "},{"Title":"The Cinematic Equivalent of Overdosing on Amphetamines","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Musical","Review":"  So you've decided to rent this movie? I hope you've got a strongstomach. This movie has a very weird, high-speed, surreal quality that Ican't quite explain. Every scene is OVER... THE... TOP!!! Iguess the director asked the actors to be 100% UP!! throughoutthe entire movie. As a result, the cast buzzes from scene toscene as if they were late for an appointment, or as if therewas something wrong with the original print and every otherframe got left out.I can't say anything that others haven't already covered. Theperformances are uniformly bad, the musical numbers areembarrassing. Possibly some camp value, and you might enjoywatching it for the Oh my god!!! factor, for about 10 minutes.Then boredom will set in, and you'll reach for the remote.A fitting end to the Disco era. "}]